15-09-2020||World||UAE, Bahrain sign US-brokered diplomatic pacts with Israel||Declaring “the dawn of a new Middle East”, US President Donald Trump on Tuesday presided over the signing of historic diplomatic pacts between Israel and the Arab states of UAE and Bahrain, which he hopes will lead to a new order in the Middle East and cast him as a peacemaker ahead of the November 3 election. The deals, denounced by the Palestinians, make UAE and Bahrain the third and fourth Arab states to take such steps to normalise ties since Israel signed peace treaties with Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994.As the ceremony was underway at the White House lawn, two rockets were fired from the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip into Israel, the Israeli army said.The signing of the deals, called the Abraham Accords, capped a dramatic sequence of events when the UAE and Bahrain agreed to reverse decades of ill will towards Israel without a resolution of its decades-old dispute with the Palestinians.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu joined Emirati foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah Al Nahyan and Bahrain’s foreign minister Abdullatif Al Zayani for the signing ceremony.Meeting Netanyahu in the Oval Office earlier, Trump said, “We’ll have at least five or six countries coming along very quickly” to forge their own accords with Israel. But Trump did not name any of the nations involved in such talks.The agreements were signed in three languages: English, Arabic and Hebrew. Trump is expected to use the signing of the pacts to bolster his image at home to seek a second term, fending off a stiff challenge from Democratic candidate Joe Biden.“Together these agreements will serve as the foundation for a comprehensive peace across the entire region, something which nobody thought was possible, certainly not in this day and age, may be in many decades from now,” Trump said before the signing of the agreements.He added: “For generations, the people of the Middle East have been held back by old conflicts hostilities lies treacheries so many things held them back… These agreements prove that the nations of the region are breaking free from the failed approaches of the past.”(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-bahrain-sign-us-brokered-diplomatic-pacts-with-israel/story-n8tKsa9p3hm0MHEa3YVhyK.html
15-09-2020||World||Alexei Navalny says ‘amazing’ to breathe unaided, eyes Russia return||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny said Tuesday he was able to breathe unaided in his first public comments after his suspected poisoning, while his aide said he planned to return from Germany once recovered.“Hello, this is Navalny,” he wrote in a post on Instagram that has racked up more than 1 million “likes” in a few hours. Supporters saluted what they said was the 44-year-old’s return from the dead.Taking to social media for the first time after he fell seriously ill in Siberia on August 20, Navalny posted a picture, appearing with his wife and two children in the Berlin hospital where he was flown for treatment.Wearing a hospital gown and sitting up in bed, he looked gaunt and barely smiled, while his wife Yulia beamed next to him.The outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin collapsed on a flight from the Siberian city of Tomsk to Moscow after a trip to support opposition candidates in local elections.German experts say there is “unequivocal evidence” that Russia’s most prominent opposition figure was poisoned with Novichok, a potent nerve agent. Moscow has dismissed the findings, saying its doctors found no trace of poison.“Yesterday I was able to breathe on my own all day,” Navalny wrote.“It’s an amazing process and underestimated by many. I recommend it,” quipped Navalny, who has 1.8 million followers on Instagram.“I miss you,” he told his supporters.The anti-corruption campaigner’s suspected poisoning has sparked sharp condemnation from Western leaders, who have called for a thorough investigation and for those responsible to be brought to justice. Germany said Monday that French and Swedish labs had independently confirmed findings by doctors in Berlin that Navalny was poisoned with Novichok.‘Back from the dead’Navalny’s allies say the use of the banned chemical weapon means that only the Russian state could be responsible.Throughout the day, supporters greeted Navalny on social media. “Navalny has come back from the dead. He deserves to be Russia’s president,” one post said on Twitter. Navalny’s spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh said separately that the opposition leader planned to return to Russia.“No other option has ever been considered,” she told AFP.Russia has dismissed Germany’s findings, saying its doctors found no trace of poison when Navalny was first taken to hospital in Siberia. This week, Putin dismissed “unsubstantiated claims” over his critic’s illness.The director of Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service, Sergei Naryshkin, on Tuesday reiterated that Russian doctors had found no evidence that Navalny was poisoned.“Therefore, we have many questions for the German side,” Naryshkin told reporters.Medics in the Siberian city of Omsk had carried out robust tests and saved the opposition leader’s life, he said.He added that Russia had destroyed stockpiles of Novichok, a Soviet-designed nerve agent, and that allegations Russia stored the chemical weapon amounted to “disinformation”.Despite international calls for Russia to carry out a transparent investigation or risk sanctions, it has not opened a criminal probe.‘Navalny refuses Russia probe’Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia was ready to cooperate with German doctors, but that medics in Berlin had not yet shared Navalny’s test results.“For some reason, we haven’t received a response from our German counterparts,” Peskov said.The New York Times, citing German officials, said Navalny had refused to cooperate with a Russian request to investigate the case together with Germany. His spokeswoman Yarmysh declined to comment on the report.The case has heightened tensions between Russia and the West, and sharpened calls for Germany to abandon the nearly completed Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project.Navalny’s post came a day after his allies claimed symbolic victories in local elections held throughout Russia’s regions on Sunday, with opposition candidates claiming seats on city councils in Tomsk and Novosibirsk.Russia has been accused in the past of poisoning critics. Novichok was also used in the 2018 attack on former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the English city of Salisbury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-says-amazing-to-breathe-unaided-eyes-russia-return/story-ECcVjG5oYDrMFK8qbnIEiP.html
15-09-2020||World||Israel-Gulf normalisation moves follow years of failed diplomatic initiatives||Israel’s normalisation accords with Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates to be signed on Tuesday follow a history of peace efforts between Israel, the Palestinians and their Arab allies that have failed to overcome decades of distrust and violence. Most Arab nations have not recognised Israel or had formal diplomatic or economic relations with it because of what they regard as Israel’s thwarting of Palestinians’ aspirations for a state of their own.Here are the main Middle East peace initiatives undertaken since a 1967 war, when Israel captured the West Bank and East Jerusalem, the Sinai peninsula and the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights:1967 - U.N. Security Council Resolution 242After the Six-Day War, U.N. Security Council Resolution 242 calls for the “withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict” in return for all states in the area to respect one another’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence.The resolution is the foundation for many peace initiatives, but its imprecise phrasing - is the reference to all territories or just some? - has complicated efforts for decades.1978 - Camp David agreementIsrael’s Menachem Begin and Egypt’s Anwar Sadat agree on a framework for regional peace that calls for an Israeli withdrawal in stages from Egypt’s Sinai and a transitional Palestinian government in the West Bank and Gaza. 1979 - Israeli-Egyptian peace treatyThe first peace treaty between Israel and an Arab country sets out plans for a complete Israeli withdrawal from Sinai within three years. In 1981, Sadat was assassinated by Islamist revolutionaries opposed to the deal.1991 - Madrid summitRepresentatives of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) attend a peace conference. No agreements are reached but the scene is set for direct contacts.1994 - Israel-Jordan agreementJordan becomes the second Arab country to sign a peace treaty with Israel. But the treaty is unpopular and pro-Palestinian sentiment is widespread in Jordan.1993-1995 - Declaration of Principles/Oslo AccordsIsrael and the PLO hold secret talks in Norway that result in interim peace accords calling for the establishment of a Palestinian interim self-government and an elected council in the West Bank and Gaza for a five-year transitional period, Israeli troop withdrawals and negotiations on a permanent settlement. 2000 - Camp David summitU.S. President Bill Clinton convenes Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak at Camp David. They fail to agree. Another Palestinian uprising ensues.2002-2003 - Bush Declaration/Arab peace initiative/Road MapGeorge W. Bush becomes the first U.S. president to call for the creation of a Palestinian state, living side by side with Israel “in peace and security”.2002 - Saudi Arabia presents Arab League-endorsed peace plan for full Israeli withdrawal from occupied territory and Israel’s acceptance of a Palestinian state in return for normal relations with Arab countries. The United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia present their own road map to a permanent two-state solution to the conflict.2007 - Annapolis summitPalestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert fail to reach a deal at a U.S.-hosted summit. Olmert says later they were close to a deal but a graft investigation against him and a Gaza war in 2008 scupper any agreement.2009 - Netanyahu’s Bar-Ilan addressIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he would be prepared for a peace deal that includes the establishment of a demilitarised Palestinian state. He also sets another condition: Palestinian recognition of Israel as the “state of the Jewish people”.2013-2014 - Washington peace talks/negotiations collapseU.S. Secretary of State John Kerry coaxes Israelis and Palestinians to resume talks. They fail and are suspended in April 2014.June 2019 - Trump economic plan announcedPreliminary stage of Trump’s Mideast Plan launched in Bahrain by Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. He takes an “economy first” approach, calling for a $50 billion investment fund to boost the Palestinian and neighbouring Arab economies. Palestinian leaders dismiss it.2019Netanyahu says he intends to annex West Bank settlements, and much of the Jordan Valley if elected. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo effectively backs Israel’s claimed right to build Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank by abandoning a four-decade-old U.S. position that they were inconsistent with international law. Most countries still regard them as illegal.January 2020 - Trump unveils his full Mideast plan in Washington, alongside Netanyahu. It offered U.S. recognition for Israel’s sovereignty over its West Bank settlements and required Palestinians to meet difficult conditions for a state. Palestinians reject it as de facto annexation, saying it would leave them a fragmented “Swiss-cheese” state. Israel’s far-right settlers also reject the plan, opposing any form of Palestinian state.Aug. 13, 2020 - Trump announces surprise deal to normalise relations between Israel and the UAE. Emirati officials say the deal puts an end to West Bank annexation. But Netanyahu says it only meant Israel had agreed to “temporarily wait”.Sept. 11, 2020 - Bahrain struck an agreement to normalize relations with Israel, saying it would “increase stability, security, and prosperity in the region” in a joint statement with Israel and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-gulf-normalisation-moves-follow-years-of-failed-diplomatic-initiatives/story-QkatJtumdNoTcSJYg5E7KO.html
15-09-2020||World||India wins three elections to key UN bodies||India has scored a hat-trick of election wins at the United Nations ahead of the General Assembly’s 75th session, which will be held virtually due to Covid-19 pandemic.India beat China to win a four-year term on the UN’s Commission on the Status of Women (CWS), a prestigious wing of the world body’s Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). India also won a seat each, through endorsements, to two other ECOSOC bodies — the Committee for Programme and Coordination (CPC) and the Commission on Population and Development (CPD). Terms will begin 2021 when India will also start its two-year stint on the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member.“India wins seat in prestigious #ECOSOC body!” T S Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, announced in a tweet on Monday. “India elected Member of Commission on Status of Women #CSW. It’s a ringing endorsement of our commitment to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in all our endeavours.”Elections to the two other bodies were announced in a follow-up tweet by the K Nagaraj Naidu, the deputy permanent representative, on Tuesday. “India gets elected to three #ECOSOC bodies,” he wrote. India, Afghanistan and China were in the fray for the two seats to the CWS from the Asia-Pacific group. With all 54 members of the Economic and Social Council voting, Afghanistan and India were elected with 39 and 38 votes respectively. China ended with 27, one short of the cut-off tally of 28.Others who also went through were Argentina, Austria, Dominican Republic, Israel, Latvia, Nigeria, Turkey and Zambia.The CWS is the principal global intergovernmental body exclusively dedicated to the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women. It was established in June 1946 as a functional commission of the Economic and Social Council.The CPC is the main subsidiary organ of the ECOSOC and the UN’s General Assembly for planning, programming and coordination. The CPD describes itself as a functional commission that assists ECOSOC in the implementation of the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development.The General Assembly started its historic session on Tuesday, but the general debates, which are scheduled to start on September 22, will be held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. New York, where the UN is headquartered, was the hardest hit city anywhere in the world, though things are far better now.Leaders of member states will address the assembly through pre-recorded videos, which will be presented at the debate by their respective delegations. Other meetings of the world body will follow the same format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-wins-three-elections-to-key-un-bodies/story-KVeuBoVBNGlyLypVQ3q0xL.html
15-09-2020||World||Govt must change how economies work after pandemic, says OECD report||The Covid-19 pandemic requires societies to make critical choices about the kind of economies countries wish to rebuild, and change the way current levers of the economic structure works, a new report released on Tuesday has said.Commissioned by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and written by Sheffield University professor Michael Jacobs, it said the pandemic has raised serious challenges, coming on top of the financial crisis, climate change and inequalities of the last decade.Governments must change the way the economy works in the wake of the pandemic, said the report based on inputs by an international advisory group, calling on countries to go ‘beyond growth’ and radically reorient economic policy.The report warned that the dominant patterns of economic growth in OECD countries have generated ‘significant harms’ over recent decades – including rising inequality and catastrophic environmental degradation. It called for a paradigm shift in the way developed countries approach economic policy – so that instead of focusing on gross domestic product (GDP), they prioritise environmental sustainability, improving wellbeing, reducing inequality and strengthening economic resilience.These goals should be built into the structures of the economy from the outset, rather than hoped for as a by-product, or added after the event, it said. The report argued that this will require a new role for the state, with governments becoming more entrepreneurial, seeking to shape markets and steer the process of economic change, not simply correcting market failures. This “new kind of social contract” would transform the relationship between the state, business, civil society and citizens, said the report, titled ‘Beyond Growth: Towards a New Economic Approach’.Jacobs said: “The Covid-19 crisis needs to lead to a major reset in economic policy. Before the crisis, Western economies were already experiencing financial instability, environmental breakdown and rising inequality, so a return to the status quo would be disastrous.”“Just as in the 1940s and 1980s major economic crises led to paradigm shifts in economic thinking and policy, so today we need to rethink how we define and measure economic success. As governments spend unprecedented sums to rebuild their economies after the pandemic, they must look beyond growth alone to prioritise the needs of people and planet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/govt-must-change-how-economies-work-after-pandemic-says-oecd-report/story-ev83kwSZBCALUotJPPjBYP.html
15-09-2020||World||Japan PM Abe, Cabinet set to resign ahead of new leadership||Outgoing Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Cabinet are set to resign Wednesday morning, clearing the way for his successor to take over after parliamentary confirmation later in the day.Abe, Japan’s longest-serving prime minister, announced last month that he was stepping down because of health problems.Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, long seen as Abe’s right-hand man, was chosen Monday as the new head of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, virtually guaranteeing his election as prime minister in a parliamentary vote Wednesday because of the party’s majority.Suga, a self-made politician and the son of a strawberry grower in the northern prefecture of Akita, has stressed his background in promising to serve the interests of ordinary people and rural communities.He has said he will pursue Abe’s unfinished policies, and that his top priorities will be fighting the coronavirus and turning around an economy battered by the pandemic. He gained the support of party heavyweights and their followers early in the campaign on expectations he would continue Abe’s line.Suga has been a loyal supporter of Abe since Abe’s first stint as prime minister from 2006 to 2007. Abe’s tenure ended abruptly because of illness, and Suga helped him return as prime minister in 2012.Suga has praised Abe’s diplomacy and economic policies when asked about what he would like to accomplish as prime minister.Suga, who does not belong to any wing within the party and opposes factionalism, says he is a reformer who will break down vested interests and rules that hamper reforms. He says he will set up a new government agency to speed up Japan’s lagging digital transformation.Suga said he will appoint “reform-minded, hard-working people” to the new Cabinet, to be launched later Wednesday. Media reports say some key ministers, including Finance Minister Taro Aso, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Olympic Minister Seiko Hashimoto, will stay.Compared to his political prowess at home, Suga has hardly traveled overseas and his diplomatic skills are unknown, though he is largely expected to pursue Abe’s priorities.The new prime minister will inherit a range of challenges, including relations with China, which continues its assertive actions in the contested East China Sea, and what to do with the Tokyo Olympics, which were postponed to next summer due to the coronavirus. And he will have to establish a good relationship with whomever wins the U.S. presidential race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-pm-abe-cabinet-set-to-resign-ahead-of-new-leadership/story-urUu2FS1X6XePCrevYJYgO.html
15-09-2020||World||‘Unwanted references’: Pak rejects US-India statement asking it to act on terror||Pakistan rejected what it called “unwarranted references” against it in a joint US-India statement on terrorism, saying it was important that partner countries, a reference to US, should refrain from one-sided positions. The Pakistan foreign office was reacting to the statement at the end of the 17th meeting of the US-India Joint Working Group on Counter-terrorism and the third session of the Designations Dialogue held virtually on September 9-10. It had said India and the US “underlined the urgent need for Pakistan to take immediate, sustained, and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot.”“Our serious concerns and rejection of the unacceptable reference to Pakistan in the aforementioned joint statement have been conveyed to the US side,” the Pakistan foreign office said in a statement on Tuesday.It was important that “partner countries take an objective view of the issues of peace and security in South Asia,” it said. It also urged them to “refrain from endorsing positions that are one-sided and divorced from ground realities”.Claiming that Pakistan is a country “most affected by cross-border terrorism, sponsored and supported by India”, it said the world recognises Pakistan’s efforts, sacrifices and successes in the fight against terrorism.“Pakistan has repeatedly underlined that peace and stability in South Asia is threatened by the irresponsible policies and actions of the RSS-BJP regime in India — including towards its minorities, its state-terrorism in Indian occupied Kashmir, and its belligerence against Pakistan and other countries in the region,” said the statement.It urged the world to “reverse course and desist from playing a role detrimental to regional peace and stability”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unwanted-references-pak-rejects-us-india-statement-asking-it-to-act-on-terror/story-gceNm1p2SkdUmgwYx47SrL.html
15-09-2020||World||After UAE and Bahrain deals, is Saudi Arabia softening its stance on Israel?||When one of Saudi Arabia’s leading clerics called this month for Muslims to avoid “passionate emotions and fiery enthusiasm” towards Jews, it was a marked change in tone for someone who has shed tears preaching about Palestine in the past.The sermon by Abdulrahman al-Sudais, imam of the Grand Mosque in Mecca, broadcast on Saudi state television on Sept. 5, came three weeks after the United Arab Emirates agreed a historic deal to normalise relations with Israel and days before the Gulf state of Bahrain, a close Saudi ally, followed suit.Sudais, who in past sermons prayed for Palestinians to have victory over the “invader and aggressor” Jews, spoke about how the Prophet Mohammad was good to his Jewish neighbour and argued the best way to persuade Jews to convert to Islam was to “treat them well”.While Saudi Arabia is not expected to follow the example of its Gulf allies any time soon, Sudais’ remarks could be a clue to how the kingdom approaches the sensitive subject of warming to Israel - a once inconceivable prospect. Appointed by the king, he is one of the country’s most influential figures, reflecting the views of its conservative religious establishment as well as the Royal Court. The dramatic agreements with the UAE and Bahrain were a coup for Israel and U.S. President Donald Trump who is portraying himself as a peacemaker ahead of November elections. But the big diplomatic prize for an Israel deal would be Saudi Arabia, whose king is the Custodian of Islam’s holiest sites, and rules the world’s largest oil exporter. Marc Owen Jones, an academic from the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies at the University of Exeter, said the UAE and Bahrain’s normalization has allowed Saudi Arabia to test public opinion, but a formal deal with Israel would be a “large task” for the kingdom. “Giving the Saudis a ‘nudge’ via an influential imam is obviously one step in trying to test the public reaction and to encourage the notion of normalisation,” Jones added.In Washington, a State Department official said the United States was encouraged by warming ties between Israel and Gulf Arab countries, viewed this trend as a positive development and “we are engaging to build on it.”There was no immediate response to a request by Reuters for comment from the Saudi government’s media office. Sudais’ plea to shun intense feelings is a far cry from his past when he wept dozens of times while praying for Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque - Islam’s third-holiest site.The Sept. 5 sermon drew a mixed reaction, with some Saudis defending him as simply communicating the teachings of Islam. Others on Twitter, mostly Saudis abroad and apparently critical of the government, called it “the normalisation sermon”.Ali al-Suliman, one of several Saudis interviewed at one of Riyadh’s malls by Reuters TV, said in reaction to the Bahrain deal that normalisation with Israel by other Gulf states or in the wider Middle East was hard to get used to, as “Israel is an occupying nation and drove Palestinians out of their homes”. MUTUAL FEAR OF IRANSaudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the kingdom’s de-facto ruler often referred to as MbS, has promised to promote interfaith dialogue as part of his domestic reform. The young prince previously stated that Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land on condition of a peace agreement that assures stability for all sides. Saudi Arabia and Israel’s mutual fear of Iran may be a key driver for the development of ties.There have been other signs that Saudi Arabia, one of the most influential countries in the Middle East, is preparing its people to eventually warm to Israel. A period drama, “Umm Haroun” that aired during Ramadan in April on Saudi-controlled MBC television, a time when viewership typically spikes, centred around the trials of a Jewish midwife. The fictional series was about a multi-religious community in an unspecified Gulf Arab state in the 1930s to 1950s. The show drew criticism from the Palestinian Hamas group, saying it portrayed Jews in a sympathetic light. At the time, MBC said that the show was the top-rated Gulf drama in Saudi Arabia in Ramadan. The show’s writers, both Bahraini, told Reuters it had no political message. But experts and diplomats said it was another indication of shifting public discourse on Israel.Earlier this year, Mohammed al-Aissa, a former Saudi minister and the general secretary of the Muslim World League, visited Auschwitz. In June, he took part in a conference organised by the American Jewish Committee, where he called for a world without “Islamophobia and anti-Semitism”. “Certainly, MbS is intent on moderating state-sanctioned messages shared by the clerical establishment and part of that will likely work towards justifying any future deal with Israel, which would have seemed unthinkable before,” said Neil Quilliam, associate fellow with Chatham House.ISOLATED PALESTINIANS Normalisation between the UAE, Bahrain and Israel, which will be signed at the White House on Tuesday, has further isolated the Palestinians.Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam, has not directly addressed Israel’s deals with the UAE and Bahrain, but said it remains committed to peace on the basis of the long-standing Arab Peace Initiative. How, or whether, the kingdom would seek to exchange normalisation for a deal on those terms remains unclear.That initiative offers normalised ties in return for a statehood deal with the Palestinians and full Israeli withdrawal from territories captured in the 1967 Middle East war.However, in another eye-catching gesture of goodwill, the kingdom has allowed Israel-UAE flights to use its airspace. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, who has a close relationship with MbS, praised the move last week.A diplomat in the Gulf said that for Saudi Arabia, the issue is more related to what he called its religious position as the leader of the Muslim world, and that a formal deal with Israel would take time and is unlikely to happen while King Salman is still in power.“Any normalisation by Saudi will open doors for Iran, Qatar and Turkey to call for internationalising the two holy mosques,” he said, referring to periodic calls by critics of Riyadh to have Mecca and Medina placed under international supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-uae-and-bahrain-deals-is-saudi-arabia-softening-its-stance-on-israel/story-C1k4HJRS7pEOD4wd9DwloK.html
15-09-2020||World||In Donald Trump clash, TikTok founder takes page from ‘Art of the Deal’||Zhang Yiming, founder of TikTok-parent company ByteDance Ltd., is showing Donald Trump he knows something about dealmaking too.In his proposal to partner with Oracle Corp. to address US security concerns about the hit video app, the Chinese entrepreneur is offering Trump something the president has already declared unacceptable. The question now is whether Trump rejects the proposal, acquiesces or, perhaps most likely for the man behind the ‘Art of the Deal,’ opens negotiations for a compromise.For months, the president has said that TikTok must be sold to an American owner -- or shut down. What Zhang has proposed instead is a partnership with Oracle that would allow ByteDance to retain ownership of the business, while the US software giant becomes its “trusted technology provider” to protect user data.Final details are in flux, but ByteDance’s venture investors may also take equity stakes in the TikTok business. It’s also possible the Chinese parent will try to keep full ownership of the unit, according to one person familiar with the discussions.China hawks quickly declared the offer dead on arrival. Senator Josh Hawley, a Republican from Missouri, wrote a letter to the US Treasury Secretary saying that the administration should “promptly reject” the partnership and press the Chinese parent to work out a “more acceptable solution.”Zhang’s opening gambit may simply be aimed at buying himself more time as he tries to survive the clash of the world’s two superpowers. He is starting from a tough stance to open negotiations and avoid an immediate TikTok shutdown. It’s a lesson that could have been taken directly from Trump’s memoir on his days in real estate.“The worst thing you can possibly do in a deal is seem desperate to make it,” the president wrote in his best-selling autobiography with Tony Schwartz. “That makes the other guy smell blood, and then you’re dead.”Zhang is offering a few things likely to resonate with Trump. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Monday ByteDance’s proposal would create 20,000 jobs and bring to the US the headquarters for “TikTok Global,” presumably the video app’s entire international operation. Trump has made bringing jobs to the country a cornerstone of his campaign as he heads toward November’s presidential election.Zhang has also aligned himself with Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison, a fervent supporter of the president who appears to have his trust. That alliance may persuade Trump to accept a deal from Oracle he wouldn’t from another company.“Oracle is a great company,” Trump said in August. “I think its owner is a tremendous guy. He’s a tremendous person. I think that Oracle would be certainly somebody that could handle it.”It’s not clear whether the Oracle deal includes a payment to the federal government -- a fee that Trump has insisted on for weeks. That demand has baffled policy experts, but it may improve ByteDance’s odds of approval, if included.Trump has made TikTok the central example of his campaign to get tough on China. He signed an executive order that bans the app in the US on Sept. 20, and, in addition, ruled that ByteDance must sell the video app’s US assets by mid-November under an order from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US, or CFIUS.Heading into the last weekend of August, Zhang had been leaning toward a proposal from Microsoft Corp., where he had briefly worked. The agreement called for a full buyout of TikTok US by the software giant and partner Walmart Inc.But the Chinese government intervened at the last minute with a new set of restrictions on the export of artificial intelligence technologies, including those used in the app. Beijing insisted its regulators must also approve any asset sales by ByteDance.China’s move was seen by several people involved in the talks as an effort to give Zhang more leverage. He couldn’t give away too much to the Trump administration or Beijing wouldn’t sign off.Instead, Zhang turned to Ellison and Oracle. Best known for its corporate software, the Redwood City, Calif.-based company has a growing cloud computing business that could be used to host videos and strong technical capabilities for securing user data. Ellison is also known for his fierce combativeness. When Hewlett Packard fired its CEO for an alleged inappropriate relationship, Ellison called it -- publicly -- “the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple board fired Steve Jobs.”What Zhang and Ellison crafted is nothing like the deal that the Trump administration had anticipated. Instead of buying the business outright, Oracle would make an investment in a newly restructured TikTok, people familiar with the proposal said. At least two shareholders in TikTok’s Chinese parent company, General Atlantic and Sequoia Capital, would take stakes in the new business, said one of the people, all of whom asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t finalized.“Based on the information that we have at the moment about the Oracle deal, I can’t say that I’m hugely reassured,” Fergus Ryan, an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, told Bloomberg Television. “ByteDance is essentially under the thumb of the Chinese Communist Party.”Yet Mnuchin made it sound like the proposal is worthy of serious consideration.“We need to make sure that the code is, one, secure, Americans’ data is secure, phones are secure, and we’ll be looking to have discussions with Oracle over the next few days with our technical team,” Mnuchin told CNBC during an interview early Monday.Even if TikTok’s data is stored by Oracle in the US, ByteDance could keep some control over the app’s algorithms, the computer code behind what the service uses to pick and choose which videos are shown to which users. If TikTok’s algorithms remain in the hands of ByteDance, they run the risk of being manipulated by Beijing.“The CCP has enormous leverage over this company and that means it would be trivially easy for the CCP to force ByteDance to very subtly nudge up or promote content that would be preferential to one presidential candidate, for instance,” said Ryan.Ultimately, Zhang circled back to proposing a transaction similar to what he originally offered to address American scrutiny. ByteDance had been willing to set up a global headquarters for TikTok with a separate board, although he always wanted keep his ownership.Perhaps in the end, the Chinese entrepreneur decided he could live with the dire consequences of a ban. Trump may be able to shutter TikTok in the US, but Zhang would maintain full ownership elsewhere -- and perhaps return to the country in the future if the political environment changes.It’s a mindset Trump may be able to comprehend.“It’s been said that I believe in the power of positive thinking. In fact, I believe in the power of negative thinking,” the president wrote in his book. “If you plan for the worst— if you can live with the worst— the good will always take care of itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-donald-trump-clash-tiktok-founder-takes-page-from-art-of-the-deal/story-GFFnaqQjS2eLs6XRL3QLcP.html
15-09-2020||World||Trump accuses Biden of taking performance-enhancing substance: Report||President Donald Trump, in his latest shredding of political niceties, suggested Tuesday that his Democratic opponent Joe Biden has taken drugs to improve his performance in debates.The Republican, who is well behind in the polls, initially insinuated during a Fox News interview that “something was strange” with what he saw as Biden’s improvement during the Democratic primary season debates.Early on, when there were multiple Democratic candidates lined up on stage, Biden was “a disaster” and “grossly incompetent,” Trump said. But at a later debate where Biden was one-on-one with leftist rival Bernie Sanders, “he was OK.”Trump told Fox he didn’t want to say what he thought was the reason for the improvement.Seconds later, he did.“He’s taking something or you know, gives him some clarity, or whatever,” he said.Trump repeated his demand that Biden should undergo a drug test before their first of three presidential debates scheduled for September 29.“I would take one too,” he said.Trump, 74, has for months tried to persuade voters that Biden, 77, is suffering from mental decline.The former businessman cites Biden’s penchant for gaffes -- which some believe to be linked to the Democrat’s lifelong struggle with stuttering -- and his reluctance to face unscripted questioning from reporters.Trump -- who takes questions from reporters almost daily but is known for his own frequently garbled and baffling statements -- said, “Joe is lost. We can’t have a president that is mentally lost.”Trump told Fox that, with attacks from the Democrat side gaining intensity, he will now “take the gloves off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-accuses-biden-of-taking-performance-enhancing-substance-report/story-k6qaHKkEBBaMQsyPbSjejM.html
15-09-2020||World||UK Covid deaths are down, but fears of a second wave grow||After figuring among the worst affected countries earlier this year, the UK is now presenting a mixed picture on Covid-19. In the week ending September 4, it registered the lowest fatalities in the last four months, but new cases are rising, with experts seeing a second wave.The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said on Tuesday that of all deaths registered in the Week 36 of the year, 78 mentioned Covid-19 on the death certificates, which is “the lowest number of deaths in the last 25 weeks”, accounting for 1% of all deaths in England and Wales.The ONS figures relate to deaths in all settings, not only in hospitals, and are based on cause mentioned in death certificates. The Department of Health’s figures relate to cases and deaths in hospitals and care homes.According to the department’s figures as of Monday evening, the country-wide death figure is 41,637, with 371,125 overall number of cases tested positive. The day-rise tally was 2,621, prompting concern over rising numbers after day-cases in the hundreds in July and August.There is also growing concern over the inability of many across the country to have tests, with several people told to reach test centres far from their homes. There are instances of health professionals unable to get tests, affecting their ability to work in hospitals.John Bell, Regius professor of medicine at Oxford University and a government adviser on life sciences, told BBC: “I think what’s going wrong is the second wave…A month ago, they had spare capacity in testing – significant spare capacity – but I think what has been underestimated was the speed at which the second wave would arrive”.“So, I think they are definitely behind the curve in terms of getting the necessary tests for what we need today”.Priti Patel, home secretary, regretted the inability of people to get tests, but said: “Tests are available, you’ve heard me say, particularly in local lockdown areas, I’ve seen this myself, I’ve seen the teams that have been working on this”.“Mobile testing is going in, capacity is going into local areas where lockdowns have been undertaken and are taking place. I think it is wrong to say tests are not available, new book-in slots are being made available every single day, mobile testing units are being made available”.As of September 9, there were 793 deaths of patients categorised as ‘Indian’ in hospitals - the highest among ethnic minorities, who account for 13 per cent of deaths in England.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-covid-deaths-are-down-but-fears-of-a-second-wave-grow/story-OHqWe7X0bd6p2oFM0YiPPI.html
15-09-2020||World||Trump says he wanted to kill Syria’s Assad after earlier denying it||US President Donald Trump said he wanted to assassinate Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad, contradicting his earlier denial that he’d sought to kill him.“I would have rather taken him out,” Trump said Tuesday on Fox News. “I had him all set, Mattis didn’t want to do it.”Trump said on Fox News Tuesday that he doesn’t regret his decision not to move forward with the killing, but faulted former Defense Secretary James James Mattis. The former defense secretary, who left the administration in January 2019, has been critical of Trump.“To me he was a terrible general, he was a bad leader,” Trump said of Mattis.A book written by Journalist Bob Woodward in 2018 said Trump urged Mattis to come up with a plan to kill Assad, but that the then-Defense secretary did not go along with the president’s demands. That came after a chemical attack on civilians in 2017 that was blamed on the Syrian government.After the book was released, Trump denied that he’d sought Assad’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-wanted-to-kill-syria-s-assad-after-earlier-denying-it/story-KBajiAUn5uYY9hRQmlqCdJ.html
15-09-2020||World||Millions of students return to class in Pakistan after 6-month Covid break||Millions of students returned to class on Tuesday as Pakistan reopened some higher education institutions, ending a six-month-long break due to the Coronavirus pandemic.In the first phase, all higher education institutions - from class IX to XII and above - resumed classes from Tuesday, the education ministry announced.Secondary schools will reopen in the second phase and primary schools will resume in the third phase.Masks are mandatory for all students and teachers, according to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government.The administration must ensure the availability of sanitisers at the gate, the government’s guidelines said.There will be no morning assembly and the temperature of the students will be checked before entering the classrooms.In addition, students must ensure a safe distance between chairs in classrooms. Federal education minister Shafqat Mehmood, during a visit to a college in Islamabad’s G-6/3 area, hailed the reopening of schools amid the pandemic. He was hopeful that SOPs will be implemented and warned that institutions that do not follow the government’s guidelines will be closed for non-compliance.Pakistan had closed schools in March when the government enforced a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.Authorities lifted curbs on most businesses in May, but schools remained closed across the country.On Tuesday, Pakistan reported six new deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, one of the lowest number tolls in more than five months. Pakistan has reported 302,424 infections and 6,389 deaths since the pandemic began.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-students-return-to-class-in-pakistan-after-6-month-covid-break/story-uv64wIhEC5lRn6kAbKKyVK.html
15-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine latest updates: Bill Gates sees key role for India, AstraZeneca US trials on hold||Race to find a vaccine for the novel coronavirus continues even as the pandemic has wreaked havoc across the world. While India has thus far reported a total of over 4.9 million cases of the disease, as per Union health ministry data, globally, there have been over 29 million cases of the disease thus far, as per worldometers.As various possible vaccines are trialled across the world, and people hope for a breakthrough, US businessman and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates on Tuesday called India a leading vaccine producer, adding India’s cooperation is needed to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) expressed apprehension there won’t be enough vaccine for everyone in the world before 2024-end.Here are the latest developments in Covid-19 vaccine trials:• Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates on Tuesday expressed hope for a large-scale Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India next year. “All of us want to get a vaccine out in India as fast as we can, once we know that its very effective and very safe.• Poonawalla, whose SII is in partnership with five international firms-including AstraZeneca and Novovax-to develop a vaccine, said world will need around 15 billion doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, if it is a two-dose vaccine.• AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trials have been put on hold in the US till at least midweek, pending a US investigation into a serious side effect in Britain, sources familiar with developments said. • The World Health Organisation (WHO), meanwhile, praised AstraZeneca’s decision to halt its Covid-19 vaccine trials, saying safety is always critical, crucial and has been looked at by AstraZeneca ‘in an appropriate manner.’• A Chinese official said vaccine may be available for public use in the country in November 2020. China currently has four vaccines in final stage of clinical trials, of which at least three have been offered for emergency use.• Over 300 volunteers were inoculated during the post-registration trials of Russia’s CovidD-19 vaccine, dubbed Sputnik V, with 14% reporting ‘minor complaints.’(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-latest-updates-bill-gates-sees-key-role-for-india-astrazeneca-us-trials-on-hold/story-bMq5POVyRGjKgioOqsuwDO.html
15-09-2020||World||‘Herd immunity can’t end the pandemic…a vaccine is critical’: Bill Gates||A vaccine is critical to end the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and India’s pharmaceutical industry and will play a major role because of its ability to manufacture high-quality vaccines at affordable prices, said Bill Gates, Microsoft co-founder and co-chair of The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) in an email interview to HT.The BMGF’s fourth annual Goalkeepers Report released on Tuesday said social and economic impacts of the pandemic have reinforced inequities and derailed 20 years of progress toward the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals that aim to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and fix climate change by 2030.Economic damage from Covid-19 is reinforcing inequalities, and extreme poverty has increased by 7%. The International Monetary Fund projections say that despite the US$18 trillion economic stimulus spent around the world, the global economy will lose US$12 trillion or more by the end of 2021, which is the biggest global GDP loss since the end of World War II.Are vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) likely to provide long-lasting protection? It’s too soon to make predictions about how long protection might last. At this point, we don’t have enough data on the duration of antibody and T-cell response to the disease itself, let alone to the various vaccine candidates. Many of the vaccine trials underway should start to report efficacy data in the next few months, which will start to provide answers to these critical questions. The good news is that there is a large portfolio of vaccines in testing, each with a different approach. This gives the greatest possible chance to develop effective vaccines.Also Read: India likely to play key role in manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine: Bill GatesWhat role can India’s pharmaceutical and vaccine producers play in stopping Covid-19? They can and will play a major role, because they have the ability to manufacture high-quality vaccines at scale for affordable prices. One great example is the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures more vaccines than any other company in the world. Our foundation and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, recently announced funding to the Serum Institute to help it ramp up manufacturing capacity so it can produce up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine for low- and middle-income countries in 2021. Serum has agreed to price its vaccines at no more than $3 per dose. Serum is just one company in a very dynamic sector that can support the Covid-19 response. Prior to Covid-19, our foundation has worked extensively with other innovative Indian companies, including Bharat Biotech and BioE, to support them as they develop and deliver safe and effective vaccines for India and for the world. Can Covid-19 end without a vaccine? Is herd immunity possible without a vaccine? When people refer to a herd immunity strategy to manage the pandemic, there are two issues they’re not addressing. The first is that letting people get sick until most are immune and the disease no longer spreads easily will lead to many millions of deaths. The second is that herd immunity is always temporary, because children are born without immunity, and eventually there will be enough susceptible people that the disease can start spreading easily again. For both reasons, a vaccine is critical. It will save lives now and protect future generations from re-living this experience. Also Read: Covid-19 has set global health progress back decades: Gates FoundationSeveral rich countries have pre-ordered millions of doses of vaccines. Does that mean poor and marginalised people will get vaccinated last? How are BMGF and partners ensuring equitable access to vaccines? We are working with many partners on several different fronts to prevent that from happening. One of the key partners is Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which has 20 years of experience helping low-income countries immunise their people. Gavi is helping support Serum Institute in the deal I just mentioned, and it’s one of the main partners in an initiative called COVAX, which brings countries together to pool investments in developing, manufacturing, and delivering vaccines equitably around the world. So far, about 80 countries have made commitments to the COVAX Facility, so momentum is building. In the next month, one of our priorities is to help raise the money that’s needed to ensure that vaccines don’t just go to the highest bidder. Have we had partnerships for a health response at this scale ever before? Is this the future? That’s one of the big tests of this historical moment. Will we see new models of collaboration emerge to meet this new kind of crisis—or will countries turn inward and try to fight a global problem with national interventions? The root cause of everything that’s happening is a virus that doesn’t recognise borders. Borders matter less and less to the global economy, too. While policies that stop at borders may help citizens of a given country cope with the symptoms of the crisis, they won’t stop it. Every country will benefit when all countries work together on solutions. Hopefully, this crisis helps the world understand that and act accordingly. What is the role of technology and data in the Covid-19 response? It would be hard to overstate the importance of data. Right now, while we’re waiting for treatments and vaccines and have to rely on non-pharmaceutical interventions like contract-tracing, quarantine, and social distancing to contain the disease, we need to know with precision how it is spreading. The more countries know about who is at risk, the more likely they are to be able to devise strategies to keep case numbers low. When new treatments and vaccines become available, data will be critical in helping the world determine how those new tools are changing the patterns of disease. As we learn more about Covid-19, we will get better at fighting it—but only if we have access to the data we need to put those lessons to use. You have been saying the world is not prepared for the next pandemic since the H1N1 in 2009. Are we better prepared now? We know a lot more now about what it will take to be fully prepared. We’ve seen examples of partners working in new ways that will help keep the next pandemic from doing as much damage as this one. For example, scientific researchers are collaborating to invent more new solutions, faster. Global health organisations are building innovative partnerships to coordinate their responses. But we will need to watch carefully over the next several years to see whether the world follows through to institutionalise all this new knowledge and these new capabilities. That will mean investing enough in a permanent infrastructure of pandemic preparedness and response that we’re never caught flat-footed again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/herd-immunity-can-t-end-the-pandemic-a-vaccine-is-critical-bill-gates/story-Dqnv2LW5JipoN7yZm7HPsO.html
15-09-2020||World||Kamala Harris sends ‘game on’ signal to donors sitting on their wallets||Kamala Harris’s arrival on the Democratic presidential ticket has helped prompt an historic outpouring of contributions, bringing in women donors, Californians and others who had avoided donating to the Biden campaign until they saw his running-mate pick.The pace and magnitude of the mostly virtual fundraising for the Biden-Harris ticket far eclipse what she accomplished during her own presidential run last year and has thrust her into a highly visible role among small-dollar and big-dollar donors, starting with the Democratic bastions in Hollywood and Silicon Valley.Harris was named Democratic nominee Joe Biden’s running mate on August 11. That month, the Biden campaign and the Democratic National Committee set a record for monthly campaign fundraising with an intake of $364.5 million. Some $48 million alone came in the first two days after Biden announced Harris’s selection.The California senator headlined a fundraiser Monday evening with 2016 Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and comedian Amy Poehler that brought in $6 million from 100,000 people with an average donation of $30, Clinton announced. That compares to the $6.3 million that Biden brought in the first 24 hours of his presidential run, when interest was very high.Last week, entertainer Billy Porter and Indian-American television host Padma Lakshmi helped Harris bring in $3 million.“Vice President Biden has never been the strongest fundraiser in Washington,” said Cooper Teboe, a Democratic fundraising strategist in Silicon Valley. “He spent his time in the Senate taking the train home to Delaware every night to be a father to his kids instead of sitting in his office making phone calls, and never fostered the kind of donor relationships many politicians do.”“Senator Harris has been courting supporters and making friends for the better part of two decades. Her nomination was a signal to her Rolodex that it’s game on.”Harris has kept up a torrid pace of virtual fundraisers, holding as many as three a day.“There are a lot of people who were waiting to see who Biden picked,” said California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis, a Democrat and longtime Harris supporter who has co-chaired three online events in recent weeks raising more than $11 million for the Biden campaign. “Once she was chosen, it unleashed a cascade of excitement and support for the ticket. Everyone stood up and started clamoring for events.”The fresh influx of campaign contributions speaks to Democratic donors’ enthusiasm for the symbolic significance of Harris’s appointment as vice-presidential nominee, the first Black and Indian-American woman to appear on a major-party presidential ticket.“Kamala was absolutely the right choice for this moment,” said Stacy Mason, executive director of Electing Women Bay Area. “She has a proven track record, and I think in this moment of reckoning in our country, the choice to pick a Black woman was necessary. I think he had no choice.”For the Hollywood-Silicon Valley corridor, it also helps, donors say, that she’s the first Democratic candidate from California on a presidential ticket in the modern political era, just when the state is being ravaged by climate-change driven wildfires.Some big Democratic donors sat on the sidelines until Harris was in. Among those giving for the first time to the ticket now are: Actor George Clooney and his wife, human rights lawyer Amal Clooney; Trisha Cardoso, the former communications head for Showtime Networks; Laura Shell, wife of NBC Universal Media Chief Executive Officer Jeff Shell; and director Lee Daniels, Federal Election Commission filings show. All have attended virtual fundraisers with Harris.Professional fundraisers say her network from three successful statewide races was holding back on giving to the Biden campaign as donors waited to see whether Biden would choose a woman -- and a woman of color they know -- as his running mate.The network of female donors Harris who are now contributing to Biden’s presidential effort includes television producer Dayna Bochco, Esprit Holdings co-founder Susie Tompkins Buell and Seagram heiress Ellen Bronfman Hauptman.“This moment means the world to women in the technology industry,” Teboe said. “They know she understands the nuances of tech and how Silicon Valley can maintain its lead in the innovation economy against China.”Electing Women Bay Area hosted a Sept. 1 fundraiser with a minimum donation of $1,000 per person that took in $1.25 million, more than twice its goal. Of the 55 hosts and co-hosts who were part of the event, 37 had donated to Harris before for state races.Recent fundraisers that featured Harris or Harris and Biden together included a Sept. 8 Bay Area event that raised more than $3 million; an Aug. 26 event in Los Angeles with Lakshmi that raised more than $5 million; and a June 9 event that raised more than $3 million, before Harris was named to the ticket.Though the Trump campaign doesn’t release figures, Vice President Mike Pence’s events typically bring in between $1 million and $1.25 million, according to a GOP fundraiser who asked not to be named because he doesn’t speak for the party.Harris’s fundraising network extends beyond California to alumnae of historically Black colleges, her own Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, and other Black sororities and fraternities. Members of the “Divine Nine,” the historically Black Greek letter fraternities and sororities, poured in donations to Biden’s campaign in amounts corresponding to the year each group was founded after Harris was picked.Gaynell Hendricks, an Alpha Kappa Alpha member who attended a Harris fundraiser during her presidential run, gave money to Biden’s campaign the day the pick was announced. “When she was his choice, that’s certainly energized us.”Female donors, in particular, were dismayed that none of the women running for president last year emerged with the nomination – and were ready to open their wallets after Biden, as he pledged to do, chose a female running mate.“There was a fairly widespread, profound, I would call it grief, after Elizabeth Warren withdrew,” said Steve Phillips, a longtime San Francisco fundraiser and host of the podcast Democracy in Color. “That accrues to Kamala’s benefit now. Donors are saying, yes, we should a have a woman, yes we should have a person of color. That’s the country I want to live in. Now that she is a historic choice for vice president, it taps back to that Obama thing and people wanting to be part of making that history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-sends-game-on-signal-to-donors-sitting-on-their-wallets/story-42n6WeD1GwEbr3HcncRCUP.html
15-09-2020||World||Boat capsizes near Libya, 24 migrants presumed dead, says UN||The UN migration agency said Tuesday that a boat carrying migrants bound for Europe capsized in the Mediterranean Sea off Libya, leaving at least two dozen people drowned or missing and presumed dead, the latest shipwreck off the North African country.Safa Msehli, a spokesperson for the International Organization for Migration, told The Associated Press that Libya’s coast guard intercepted three boats on Monday, and one of them had capsized.She said the coast guard retrieved two bodies, and survivors reported 22 others were missing and presumed dead.At least 45 survivors on the three boats were returned to the shore. All migrants were men, with a majority from Egypt and Morocco, she said.“This new tragedy signals yet again the need for increased search and rescue capacity in the Mediterranean. Instead, we are seeing restrictions on NGOs and long, unnecessary stand-offs,” Msehli said.The shipwreck was the latest maritime disaster involving migrants seeking a better life in Europe.In August, a boat carrying dozens of migrants capsized leaving at least 45 people drowned or missing and presumed dead, marking the largest number of fatalities in a single shipwreck off the coast of the North African country.Libya, which descended into chaos following the 2011 uprising that toppled and killed longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi, has emerged as a major transit point for African and Arab migrants fleeing war and poverty to Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boat-capsizes-near-libya-24-migrants-presumed-dead-says-un/story-e5hlZHarunPeAkfy33QHtN.html
15-09-2020||World||US to rejoin Paris climate deal if Democrats voted to power: Joe Biden||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has pledged to rejoin the historic Paris Agreement on climate change, if elected to power in the November presidential election, and set new standards towards reducing carbon emissions.Claiming that the 2015 Paris climate deal puts an “unfair economic burden” on Americans, president Donald Trump’s administration notified the United Nations in November last year that the US would withdraw from the agreement. The notification begins a one-year process of exiting the global climate change accord, culminating the day after the 2020 US election on November 3.“While he (President Donald Trump) turned against our allies, I’ll bring us back into the Paris Agreement. I will put us back in the business of leading the world on climate change and I will challenge every other country to up the ante on climate commitments,” Biden said in a major policy speech on climate change.“Where he reverses the Obama-Biden fuel efficiency standards, he picks big oil. He picks in big oil companies over American workers, even when the automobile industry agreed,” he said in his address from Delaware.Biden is challenging Trump, a Republican, in the November 3 US presidential election. Trump, who has made withdrawing from the climate agreement one of his election campaign pledges, has said the deal “punished” the US and would cost millions of American jobs.However, Trump has also indicated he was open to another climate deal “on terms that are fair to the United States”.The Paris accord committed the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures below 2C above pre-industrial levels and attempting to limit them even more, to a 1.5C rise. The decision by the US - one of the world’s biggest emitters of greenhouse gases - has led to condemnation from environmentalists and expressions of regret from world leaders.Biden said, if elected, he will not only bring the standards back, but will also set new ambitious ones that American workers are ready to meet.“I’ll also see American workers building and installing 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations along our newly engaged infrastructure programs and highways all across the country. I see American consumers switching to electric vehicles through rebates and initiatives,” he said.“Not only that, the United States owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles and we’re going to harness the purchasing power of our federal government to make sure we’re buying electric vehicles that are made and sourced by union workers right here in the United States of America. And together, this will mean more than a million new jobs in the American auto industry,” he asserted.Biden said he will put the US on a path to achieve a carbon pollution free electricity sector by 2035 that no future president can come along and turn back.Transforming the electrical sector power to produce power without carbon pollution will be the greatest spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the 21st century, not to mention the positive benefits to health and the environment, he argued.“We need to get to work right away. We’ll need scientists at the national labs and land grant universities, historic black colleges and universities to improve and innovate technologies needed to generate, store, and transmit this clean electric. We need engineers to design and workers to manufacture these new products,” he said.Asserting that climate change is the existential challenge that’s going to determine America’s future as a country, Biden said that like the pandemic, dealing with climate change is a global crisis, and that requires American leadership.“It requires a president for all Americans. So, as the fires rage out West on this day, our prayers remain with everyone under the ash. I know it’s hard to see the sun rise believing today will be a better day than yesterday. Americans face this historic inflection point, a time of real peril but also a time of extraordinary possibilities,” he said. PTI LKJ ABH AKJ AKJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-rejoin-paris-climate-deal-if-democrats-voted-to-power-joe-biden/story-2bsf8Uj1gDboGhEIZx7zbL.html
15-09-2020||World||YouTube rolls out ‘YouTube Shorts’ in India||YouTube has rolled out a new short-form video creator called YouTube Shorts in India and this has been done to give competition to Chinese video-sharing application TikTok.As per a report in the Verge, Shorts will allow people to make 15-second videos and it can be set to music as well.“Music for these videos will be available through in-product music picker feature. The picker currently has 100,000s of tracks, and we’re working with music artists, labels, and publishers to make more of their content available to continue expanding our catalogue,” a YouTube spokesperson told the Verge.In trying to attract the maximum number of people, there will be a new “create” icon spot and it will appear prominently in the app. The “create” icon has rolled out with the Shorts beta on Android, and there are plans to bring the icon to iOS devices soon.It is not known as to when Shorts will appear for other countries such as the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-rolls-out-youtube-shorts-in-india/story-9nlUXMXYhMJeH2wL9Ba6PK.html
15-09-2020||World||China locks down city on Myanmar border after fresh Covid-19 cases emerge||China has locked down a city on the border with Myanmar and ordered all its residents to be tested for Covid-19 after a number of people infected with the coronavirus illegally entered the city from the neighbouring country.Official media reported that “wartime” anti-epidemic measures have been put in place in Ruili city with over 200,000 people in southwest China’s Yunnan province after three coronavirus infections were detected.All Ruili residents have been directed to stay indoors as local authorities are expected to start mass nucleic acid tests for them.Screening for illegal immigrants from Myanmar will be carried out in communities, shops, restaurants and construction sites.Transport connections have been snapped and residents have been ordered not to leave the city until further notice. Outsiders are not being allowed inside city limits. Trade and businesses, except those dealing in essential services such as pharmacies and food markets, have been closed.The infections travelled from Myanmar and Chinese authorities would “crack down on illegal immigrants”, local officials said late on Monday.Besides Ruili, at least eight border prefectures and 25 border counties in the province should enter wartime status immediately, enhancing anti-epidemic measures and border management to prevent imported cases, local officials were quoted as saying by official media.Chinese media reports said authorities were mobilising residents to report “any illegal border crossings in a timely manner, stating that assistance in any form, including the provision of shelter for illegal trespassers, is strictly prohibited”.News agency AFP quoted Yang Bianqiang, vice mayor of Ruili, as saying that the city would repatriate those who cannot verify their time of arrival into China, referring to people who “have no fixed residence and have no fixed place to work”.Beijing had shut a border crossing with Myanmar in April after infighting in the country had spilled over into a Chinese province.Myanmar is a vital part of China’s Belt and Road Initiative. It was the last country that Chinese President Xi Jinping had visited, in the third week of January, before the Covid-19 outbreak all but shut international travel out of China.China has largely controlled the Covid-19 pandemic in the country except a number of localised outbreaks, including in Beijing, in recent months.The coronavirus first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan last year, before triggering the pandemic and affecting economies around the world.As of Monday, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland reached 85,202. Altogether, 80,426 people have been discharged and 4,634 have died from the disease on the mainland, the national health commission said in its daily update on Tuesday.Eight new imported Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday, taking the total number of imported infections to 2,653.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-locks-down-city-on-myanmar-border-after-fresh-covid-19-cases-emerge/story-cEH32zc9GI2uFJrdxY6J3I.html
15-09-2020||World||15 scientists launch critique of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine data||A group of scientists sent a formal letter to the Lancet on Monday outlining doubts about the accuracy of early data on Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, one of the authors said, adding further fuel to a dispute surrounding the “Sputnik-V” shot.Fifteen scientists from five countries signed the letter presenting their concerns to the international medical journal, Enrico Bucci, biologist adjunct professor at Philadelphia’s Temple University, told Reuters.Reuters did not see the contents of the letter. The move nonetheless highlights growing concern among scientists about the safety and efficacy of the Sputnik-V vaccine, which the government approved for use before completing full human trials.The official letter came days after a larger group of scientists - including the 15 - signed an open letter to the Lancet’s editor, published on Bucci’s personal blog, after the journal published the early-stage trial results from Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute.They said they found patterns in the Phase I/II data, which was peer-reviewed in the journal, that looked “highly unlikely”, with multiple participants reporting identical antibody levels.The Gamaleya Institute did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the formal letter sent on Monday.Last week the institute rejected the critique contained in the open letter, which was initially signed by 26 scientists but now has 38 signatories.“The published results are authentic and accurate and were examined by five reviewers at The Lancet,” Denis Logunov, a deputy director at the institute, said in a statement.He said his institute submitted the entire body of raw data on the trial results to The Lancet.The Lancet said it had invited the authors of the Russian vaccine study to respond to the questions raised in the open letter by Bucci.“We continue to follow the situation closely,” it added.Alexey Kuznetsov, Russian assistant health minister, told the Interfax news agency on Sept. 10 that the Gamaleya Institute had already sent detailed answers to the Lancet’s editor.‘RESULTS ARE PLAUSIBLE’Bucci said the blog published last week had drawn wide international support.“We started with about a dozen of us and now we have reached three times the signatures, with colleagues from the United States, Switzerland, Australia, India, Russia, Great Britain, Japan, Germany, Canada,” Bucci said.He said the formal letter to the Lancet was signed only by 15 scientists with expertise in virology, immunology, pharmaceutical development, research integrity and statistical analysis. Most were Italian, but they also included scientists from Sweden, Britain, the United States and Japan, he added.“The journal’s editor wrote asking us to send him our points of objections and inviting the authors of Russian vaccine’s study to respond to our points,” said Bucci.Naor Bar-Zeev, deputy director at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, who peer-reviewed the Russian data, last week defended his analysis of the research following the publication of the blog.“The results are plausible, and not very different to those seen with other AdV vectored products,” he said.The researchers had provided more detail than was needed for the review and responded to his questions “intelligently and in a matter-of-fact and confident but understated manner”.The results of the Russian Phase I/II trials, which involved 76 participants and was conducted in June-July, were published in the Lancet on Sept. 4. They showed that participants developed a positive immune response and no serious side effects, the study’s authors said.A Phase III trial, involving 40,000 participants, was launched on Aug. 26. Around 31,000 people have already subscribed to take part, Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/15-scientists-launch-critique-of-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-data/story-Du3QR2O6YDOeusOurrKsxK.html
15-09-2020||World||China coronavirus vaccine may be ready for public in November: Official||Coronavirus vaccines being developed in China may be ready for use by the general public as early as November, an official with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said.China has four Covid-19 vaccines in the final stage of clinical trials. At least three of those have already been offered to essential workers under an emergency use programme launched in July.Phase 3 clinical trials were proceeding smoothly and the vaccines could be ready for the general public in November or December, CDC chief biosafety expert Guizhen Wu said in an interview with state TV late on Monday.Wu, who said she has experienced no abnormal symptoms in recent months after taking an experimental vaccine herself in April, did not specify which vaccines she was referring to. A unit of state pharmaceutical giant China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) and U.S.-listed Sinovac Biotech are developing the three vaccines under the state’s emergency use programme. A fourth Covid-19 vaccine being developed by CanSino Biologics was approved for use by the Chinese military in June. Sinopharm said in July that its vaccine could be ready for public use by the end of this year after the conclusion of Phase 3 trials.Global vaccine makers are racing to develop an effective vaccine against the virus which has killed more than 925,000 people. Leading Western vaccine makers pledged earlier this month to uphold scientific study standards and reject any political pressure to rush the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-coronavirus-vaccine-may-be-ready-for-public-in-november-official/story-1DzVCBrdOwleJXxuw0wvyI.html
15-09-2020||World||US presidential election: Harris, Clinton rake up USD6 million in fundraiser, make fun of Trump||Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris, the Democrat’s vice-presidential nominee, and its 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton raked up over USD 6 million at a fundraiser during which the two made fun of US President Donald Trump.“I’ve never seen him laugh,” Clinton said during the virtual event.“I’ve never, ever seen him make fun of himself. Certainly not his hairdo — you know, that’s, something I’m quite experienced. It is really telling that part of the cruelty and the indifference, and just the plain meanness that we see on a regular basis from him, is in part because he has no sense of humour. And, you know, he loves putting people down, not lifting them up,” Clinton said.“I totally agree with you, Hillary,” Harris said of Trump’s personality.“There is nothing joyful about him. There is nothing about him that inspires joy,” Harris said.“And it’s such a shame, really. I mean on one level you just have to feel like, you know, oh, everyone should have something in their lives that gives them the ability to smile a genuine smile,” she said.At the top of the fundraiser, Clinton said the event raised more than USD6 million from more than 100,000 people. She said the average donation was less than USD30.When Clinton was asked what advice she has for Harris ahead of next month’s debate with Vice President Mike Pence, she said Pence will try to somehow subtly undercut Harris.“You know, try to say ‘well you know that’s not the way it’s done,’ or ‘that’s not what we expect or that’s not what we believe,’ trying to somehow put her in the box of, ‘you know, the inexperienced woman candidate.’ And she’s not going to stand for that and she’s not going to put up with it, and she has to modulate her responses because we know there still is a double standard alive and well when it comes to women in politics,” Clinton said.“So, she’s got to be firm, and effective in rebutting any implication that comes from the other side. But to do it in a way that doesn’t, you know, scare or alienate voters. So, it’s a process that she will master during preparation,” said the former secretary of state.The fundraiser was hosted by Maya Khabira Rudolph, an American actress, comedian, singer, and voice actress and Amy Meredith Poehler, an American actress, comedian, writer, producer, and director.“This election is about more than what we’re voting against. It’s also about what we’re voting for a brighter future for all Americans. We know we can’t just go back to the way things were before Donald Trump as Joe says we need to build back better,” Rudolph said.In her remarks, Clinton talked about the wildfires out West in California, Oregon and Washington and the people “suffering so dramatically” from families who lost loved ones and property to those dealing with dangerous air quality levels.“I’m just grateful that today Joe Biden delivered a compelling powerful speech about climate change because we all know that it is driving the intensity of these fires and we have to deal with it, along with our pandemic,” Clinton said.“The ongoing moral reckoning with racism and violence, you know, what we’re up against, but I don’t think the current incumbent of the White House seems to know or more importantly, to care.“The Woodward tapes are stunning,” Clinton said. “We’ve heard tapes of presidents before, but we’ve never heard a president who deliberately kept information from the American people that could have saved lives and misery,” she said.“So, we need a president and a vice president who will show the kind of compassion determination and leadership. That is so desperately missing and needed right now,” Clinton said.Calling Clinton “absolutely extraordinary,” Harris said the former secretary of state has always been a model of what it means to have leadership that puts the country ahead of everything else.“You have been someone who has been a role model to so many of us as women. My mother said often to my sister Maya and me, ‘You may be the first to do many things make sure you’re not the last’, and you have always been that person who not only has broken so many glass ceilings as you have said shattering all of those, those shards that may fall. You, you do it was such grace and you always do it in a way that is about creating a path for others to follow,” she said.“The thing about breaking barriers, you know, some people might think breaking barriers means you start on one side of the barrier and you just show up on the other side of the barrier,” Harris said.“But that’s not what happens, I’m breaking barriers involves breaking things. And when you break things. sometimes you get cut. It’s painful. It’s worth it every single time. But it is not without an extraordinary amount of courage and effort, and Hillary you have broken so many barriers and have shown America, its potential,” Harris said. PTI LKJ ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/harris-clinton-rake-up-usd6-million-in-fundraiser-make-fun-of-trump/story-WTK0GVcOeWFozr3qw2b64N.html
15-09-2020||World||Researchers trial inhaled versions of Oxford and Imperial Covid-19 vaccine candidates||Inhaled versions of Covid-19 vaccine candidates developed by Oxford University and Imperial College will be trialled to see if they deliver a localised immune response in the respiratory tract, British researchers said on Monday.The Oxford and Imperial vaccines are both being tested in trials through intramuscular injection, but scientists from Imperial said that vaccines delivered via inhalation could potentially deliver a more specialised response.Chris Chiu, of Imperial’s Department of Infectious Disease, said there was evidence that flu vaccines delivered by nasal spray could protect against and reduce transmission of the disease.“We are keen to explore if this may also be the case for SARS-CoV-2 and whether delivering Covid-19 vaccines to the respiratory tract is safe and produces an effective immune response,” he said in a statement.Trials of the Oxford vaccine, which has been licensed to AstraZeneca, resumed at the weekend after safety watchdogs gave it the go-ahead. Late-stage trials had been paused after study subject fell in Britain.“We have already shown that (Oxford vaccine) ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (AZD1222) is safe and induces strong immune responses after intramuscular injection,” said Sarah Gilbert of the University of Oxford.“Delivering the vaccine to the respiratory tract instead may be a good approach to inducing immune responses in the best place to enable a rapid response after exposure to airborne virus.”Imperial’s vaccine is also in clinical trials, although at an earlier stage.The new trials of the vaccines will see volunteers receive aerosolised vaccines through a nebulizer, delivering the vaccine as airborne droplets through a mouthpiece. A total of 30 people will be recruited to the trials.Previous studies suggest that lower doses might be required than in intramuscular injections to give protection, the Imperial researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/researchers-trial-inhaled-versions-of-oxford-and-imperial-covid-19-vaccine-candidates/story-xVFN8vM58YRrhkV7dnQA7J.html
15-09-2020||World||Imran Khan proposes chemical castration, public hanging of rapists||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has called for a full-fledged crackdown on rapists and other sex offenders in the country, proposing chemical castration for those found guilty in rape cases to ensure they don’t become repeat offenders. He has also called for a national register that can keep track of sex offenders.On Monday, Khan told a regional TV news channel that he feels chemical castration of rapists is urgently needed or at least the culprits should be made to forcefully undergo surgery so that they don’t commit sexual crimes in future. The Pakistan prime minister argued the case for a grading system for rapes and sexual assault cases along the lines of the standard first, second and third-degree classification in place for murder cases.Khan, who was speaking on a recent incident of gang-rape in Lahore that sparked nationwide outrage, said, “Those who are in first degree, they should be castrated and operated upon to disable them from repeating such crimes.”He proposed setting up a three-pronged strategy to deal with rapes and other sexual abuse cases, starting with the registration of sex offenders and paedophiles.Another step, Khan said, to deal with rapists and child sex abusers, was to hand them exemplary punishments. He called for hanging them in public as punishment for scarring the lives of the victims and their families. The Pakistan PM said it wasn’t possible for the administration to know exactly how many rape cases occur across the country, adding that such crimes were routinely under-reported.However, on the topic of public hanging of rapists, Khan said his government believes that such a form of punishment was unlikely to be accepted by the global community, and could even jeopardise the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) that is extended to Pakistan by the European Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-proposes-chemical-castration-public-hanging-of-rapists/story-CL5tDD8m3N8kJBPPfoFzNJ.html
15-09-2020||World||US pulls back from broad import bans for cotton, tomatoes from China’s Xinjiang||The Trump administration on Monday shelved plans for a broad import ban on cotton and tomato products from China’s Xinjiang region while announcing narrower bans on products from five specific entities.Department of Homeland Security (DHS) acting Deputy Secretary Kenneth Cuccinelli said the new “Withhold Release Orders” (WROs) on cotton, textiles, apparel, hair products and computer parts are aimed at combating China’s use of forced labor by detained Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang. He told reporters on a conference call that the administration was conducting more legal analysis of the region-wide import bans.Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials told Reuters last week that they had prepared the broader bans on cotton, cotton textiles and tomatoes, among China’s biggest commodity exports, along with the orders announced on Monday.CBP acting Commissioner Mark Morgan said on Monday the agency’s investigations into the region-wide orders were continuing. Two people familiar with the Trump administration’s internal deliberations said that concerns about the broad orders and their effect on supply chains were raised by officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. China also had agreed to buy increased quantities of U.S. cotton under the countries’ Phase 1 trade deal, which could be put at risk by a U.S. ban on imports from China’s dominant cotton-producing region. But Cuccinelli said it was legal concerns, not trade, that prompted the need for more study of the region-wide import bans.“We want to make sure that when we do get challenged - and we assume that we will be challenged, legally - that we will prevail and none of the goods we would ultimately would seize under such a WRO would be shaken loose and released into the United States,” he said. The Withhold Release Orders allow U.S. Customs and Border Protection to detain shipments based on suspicion of forced-labor involvement under long-standing U.S. laws to combat human trafficking, child labor and other human rights abuses. Shippers can send the products to other countries or seek to prove that they are not produced with forced labor.DHS said the block on products from Xinjiang entering the United States applied to all products made with labor from the Lop County No. 4 Vocational Skills Education and Training Center; hair products from the Lop County Hair Product Industrial Park; apparel produced by Yili Zhuowan Garment Manufacturing and Baoding LYSZD Trade and Business Co; Cotton produced and processed by Xinjiang Junggar Cotton and Linen Co Ltd; and computer parts made by Hefei Bitland Information Technology Co Ltd.Neither Xinjiang Junggar nor Baoding LYSZD were aware of the orders when asked on Tuesday. Yili Zhuowan declined to comment.The U.S.-based group Worker Rights Consortium said this year that Yili Zhuowan had made gloves for French brand Lacoste that appeared to have been sewn at a factory where ethnic minority people faced forced ideological and behavioral re-education. Lacoste said it had halted shipments from that factory after those allegations, media reported.A China-based cotton trader said the new orders should “largely be discounted” as they impacted only a few, small suppliers. However, he said any expansion of the ban to make it regional would be bad for business.“It will disrupt supply chains and contribute to a worsening situation between the U.S. and China and less trust,” he said. President Donald Trump’s administration is ratcheting up pressure on China over its treatment of Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang, where the United Nations cites credible reports as saying 1 million Muslims held in camps have been put to work.The Chinese embassy in Washington referred to past Chinese foreign ministry statements rejecting allegations of forced labor in Xinjiang and criticizing the United States for meddling in China’s internal affairs in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-pulls-back-from-broad-import-bans-for-cotton-tomatoes-from-china-s-xinjiang/story-5DkmM4zxb0u5AKVjXTwovI.html
15-09-2020||World||Donald Trump vows ‘1,000 times greater’ response to any Iran attack||US President Donald Trump on Monday vowed that any attack by Iran would be met with a response “1,000 times greater in magnitude,” after reports that Iran planned to avenge the killing of top general Qasem Soleimani.A US media report, quoting unnamed officials, said that an alleged Iranian plot to assassinate the US ambassador to South Africa was planned before the presidential election in November.“According to press reports, Iran may be planning an assassination, or other attack, against the United States in retaliation for the killing of terrorist leader Soleimani,” Trump tweeted.“Any attack by Iran, in any form, against the United States will be met with an attack on Iran that will be 1,000 times greater in magnitude!”Relations between Washington and Tehran have been tense since the Iranian revolution, and have spiralled since Trump unilaterally pulled out of a landmark international nuclear deal with Iran in May 2018.In January, a US drone strike killed Soleimani in Baghdad, and Washington is pushing to extend an arms embargo on Iran that starts to progressively expire in October as well as reimposing UN sanctions on the Islamic republic.- Iran denies plot -Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday declined to comment directly on the reported threat to Lana Marks, the US ambassador to South Africa who is a close ally of Trump.But Pompeo told Fox News that “the Islamic Republic of Iran has engaged in assassination efforts all across the world. They have assassinated people in Europe and in other parts of the world. We take these... allegations seriously.“We make very clear to the Islamic Republic of Iran that this kind of activity -- attacking any American any place at any time, whether it’s an American diplomat, an ambassador, or one of our service members -- is completely unacceptable.”The Iranian foreign ministry spokesman on Monday dismissed the report of an assassination plot as “baseless” and part of “repetitive and rotten methods to create an anti-Iranian atmosphere on the international stage.”The Iranian navy last week said it drove off American aircraft that flew close to an area where military exercises were underway near the Strait of Hormuz.The military said three US aircraft were detected by Iran’s air force radars after they entered the country’s air defence identification zone.In June last year, a US RQ-4 drone was shot down by Iran after allegedly violating Iranian airspace -- a claim the US has denied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-vows-1-000-times-greater-response-to-any-iran-attack/story-1T7XtY892z8RFSbAF2lTkK.html
15-09-2020||World||California wildfires: Donald Trump questions climate crisis, Joe Biden calls him ‘climate arsonist’||As Donald Trump on Monday toured parts of California that have been ravaged by wildfires and then reiterated his scepticism of climate change, Joe Biden, his Democratic challenger for the White House race, slammed the US president, calling him a “climate arsonist”.Trump visited California, one of 10 states where wildfires have burnt down nearly 5 million acres of land, killed dozens of people and displaced millions, after weeks of criticism of his indifference towards the crisis and after blaming it on negligent forest management practices.Local officials of Democrat-ruled California accepted the importance of forest management during their interactions with the US president, but argued that climate change should be accepted as having played a role in the devastating West Coast fires.“It’ll start getting cooler, you just watch,” the American president said dismissively after a short presentation by a California official who argued that climate change should be recognised as the real cause of the fires.The state official then told the US president, “I wish science agreed with you,” to which Trump responded, saying, “I don’t think science knows, actually.”The exchange of words went viral on social media as yet another instance of climate crisis denial by the US president. Trump had been downplaying the climate crisis right from his pre-presidency days, when he had claimed that climate change was a hoax fanned by China to slow down the growth of industrialised countries.Since taking office in January 2017, Trump has pulled the US out of the Paris Accord, claiming it had given India and China a sweeter deal, and has decidedly rolled back all clean air and water orders issued by his predecessor, Barack Obama.“Donald Trump’s climate denial may not have caused these fires, record floods and record hurricanes,” former vice-president Biden said in a speech in Wilmington, Delaware, tying the catastrophic natural events to the climate crisis. “But if he gets a second term, these hellish events will become more common, more devastating and more deadly.”Bided added, “If you give a climate arsonist four more years in the White House, why would anyone be surprised if we have more of America ablaze?”The Democratic presidential candidate promised to take the US back to the Paris Accord that Obama as president had brokered with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, leaders of the world’s top polluters after America.“While he (Trump) turns us against our allies, I will bring us back into the Paris Agreement, Biden said. “I will put us back in the business of leading the world on climate change. And I will challenge everyone to up the ante on their climate commitments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-wildfires-donald-trump-questions-climate-crisis-joe-biden-calls-him-climate-arsonist/story-GnipyHggJQLYfG3ZWfaKkK.html
15-09-2020||World||Covid-19 has set global health progress back decades: Gates Foundation||The knock-on effects of the coronavirus pandemic have halted and reversed global health progress, setting it back 25 years and exposing millions to the risk of deadly disease and poverty, a report by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation warned on Tuesday.Because of Covid-19, extreme poverty has increased by 7%, and routine vaccine coverage - a good proxy measure for how health systems are functioning - is dropping to levels last seen in the 1990s, the report said.“It’s a huge setback,” Bill Gates, co-chair of the Foundation and a leading philanthropic funder of global health and development, told a media briefing on the report’s findings.The Foundation’s Goalkeepers report, which tracks progress on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of reducing poverty and improving health, found that in the past year, by nearly every indicator, the world has regressed.Alongside dropping rates of routine immunisation, which the report described as “setting the world back about 25 years in 25 weeks”, rising levels of poverty and economic damage from the pandemic are reinforcing inequalities, it said.It found that the pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on women, racial and ethnic minority communities and people living in extreme poverty.“After 20 consecutive years of declines in extreme poverty, we’ve now seen a reversal,” said Mark Suzman, chief executive of the Gates Foundation, in an interview with Reuters. “We’ve had nearly 40 million people thrown back into extreme poverty. That’s well over a million a week since the virus hit.”The report cited International Monetary Fund projections that, despite the $18 trillion dollars already spent on trying to stimulate economies around the world, the global economy will lose $12 trillion or more by the end of 2021 - the biggest global GDP loss since the end of World War Two.While the scene is “bleak” right now, Gates said he was confident the world would emerge from the pandemic and resume progress towards the goals on improving global health.“Whether is takes us two years, or even three, we do believe that we’ll overcome this and get back on track,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-has-set-global-health-progress-back-decades-gates-foundation/story-NDZtxU4wziRaQk9tOECHSP.html
15-09-2020||World||Oracle confirms it is part of proposal for TikTok||Oracle Corp confirmed on Monday that it was part of a proposal made by TikTok-parent ByteDance to the U.S. government to become a technology partner for the Chinese firm.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said earlier in the day that the Trump administration received a proposal from Oracle over the weekend to make Chinese-owned short video app TikTok a U.S.-headquartered company and will review the plan this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oracle-confirms-it-is-part-of-proposal-for-tiktok/story-7oiMy5bjG8MWfsCnlLPHlO.html
15-09-2020||World||Kamala Harris says thought immediately of her mother when Joe Biden made the VP call||Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris said she thought of her mother “immediately” when former vice president Joe Biden offered her to be his running mate on the Democratic ticket for the November presidential elections.Trailblazer Harris, 55, has scripted history in the American political system by becoming the first black, first African-American and Indian-American to be a vice presidential candidate for a major political party. Her mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris migrated to the US as a 19-year-old young graduate from India in 1957 for higher studies.In multiple interviews, Harris has reflected on the profound impact her mother, a renowned cancer specialist, had on where she is now. “I thought immediately of my mother and what she must be thinking as she looks down on us,” Harris said in response to a question during a fund raiser.“What was it like to get that Zoom call from Joe Biden (last month),” she was asked.Harris recounted how she and her team got a call that Biden wanted to talk and then got another call where she was told Biden wanted to do a zoom call. She described how she went in “our little makeshift office” and then when the call started Biden immediately asked her to join the ticket.After referring to her mother, Harris also described how husband Doug Emhoff’s ear was on the door outside the room listening in on the call. Eventually Jill Biden and Emhoff joined the call with Biden and Harris.When asked how she will present her and Biden’s vision for the first 100 days, Harris said the first thing is to “get the virus under control.” “Specifically, we will create a pandemic board that will oversee testing. So that’s about distribution, it’s about testing is happening in an efficient manner. It’s also about making sure we are investing in the tests that are most relevant in the tests that we are trying to accomplish, so for example rapid testing,” she said.Harris went on to tick off economic relief through a series of executive orders “to strengthen buy American rules so that tax payer dollars support American products and supply chains.” “Again, day one, re-enter the Paris Climate agreements,” Harris said. She pointed to California, Oregon and Washington and said “all of this is predictable.” She continued “Reengage our NATO allies. And this is again a real strength of Joe’s. He has the experience based on a long history of being in the Senate and being a leader on foreign affairs and then of course eight years of being vice president.” Harris said that she will send a bill to congress immediately creating a pathway to citizenship for our dreamers and the 11 million undocumented immigrants” Harris said. She said the administration would push a bill to “deal with systemic racism.” “People are marching in the streets. Minnesota of course are experiencing this and there are reforms that are important that can be put in place so we can do things like ban carotid chokeholds, which of course would’ve saved the life of George Floyd,” she said.A Biden-Harris administration would also introduce a national standard for use of force and national police standard oversight commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-says-thought-immediately-of-her-mother-when-joe-biden-made-the-vp-call/story-z0oFxciYHAy7Bhy4M7GDuI.html
15-09-2020||World||UAE announces emergency approval for use of Covid-19 vaccine||The United Arab Emirates on Monday granted emergency approval for use of a coronavirus vaccine, six weeks after human trials in the Gulf Arab state started.A phase III trial of a Covid-19 inactivated vaccine developed by Chinese state-owned pharmaceutical company Sinopham began in the UAE in July and is yet to be completed.“The vaccine will be available to our first line of defense heroes who are at the highest risk of contracting the virus,” said the National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority in a tweet.The announcement comes amid a surge in new Covid-19 cases in the UAE, which reported 1,007 cases on Saturday, its highest since the start of the pandemic. There were 777 new cases on Monday.Emergency use of the vaccine, which is still being tested, was granted after a set criteria and after it had been tested on 31,000 volunteers, it said.Mild and expected side effects occurred but there have been no severe side effects, the agency said without specifying. It added a thousand people suffering from chronic diseases who took part saw no complications.Sinopharm secured approval for the trial in late June. The experimental vaccine passed Phases I and II of clinical trials with 100% of volunteers generating antibodies after two doses in 28 days, an Abu Dhabi government statement said in July.According to the Centers for Disease Control, inactivated vaccines - made with either inactivated (killed) viruses or with a protein from the virus - are well known and have been used against diseases such as influenza and measles.Russia in August become the first country in the world to grant regulatory approval to a coronavirus vaccine, after less than two months of human testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-announces-emergency-approval-for-use-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-V56vi9mMHhYXG6XVO0xnxK.html
15-09-2020||World||Donald Trump defies coronavirus rules as ‘peaceful protest’ rallies grow||President Donald Trump is running as the “law and order” candidate. But that hasn’t stopped him and his campaign from openly defying state emergency orders and flouting his own administration’s coronavirus guidelines as he holds ever-growing rallies in battleground states.Democratic governors and local leaders have urged the president to reconsider the events, warning that he’s putting lives at risk. But they have largely not tried to block the gatherings of thousands of people, which Trump and his team deem “peaceful protests” protected by the First Amendment.“If you can join tens of thousands of people protesting in the streets, gamble in a casino, or burn down small businesses in riots, you can gather peacefully under the 1st Amendment to hear from the President of the United States,” Tim Murtaugh, a Trump campaign spokesperson, said in a statement.Trump’s refusal to abide by health guidelines — even those crafted by his own administration — underscores the extent to which he believes projecting an image of normalcy is vital to winning in November, even as the country approaches 200,000 deaths from Covid-19.Trump has tried to use this summer’s mass protests over racial injustice and police misconduct as cover for his rallies, making the case that, if demonstrators can gather en masse, so can his supporters. So far, Democratic governors have declined to stand in his way, refusing to become a foil to Trump and feed into his narrative that liberals are trying to deny Republicans their First Amendment rights.Trump’s campaign insisted that it takes appropriate health precautions, including handing out masks and hand sanitizer and checking the temperatures of rallygoers.But images of thousands of maskless supporters standing shoulder to shoulder remain jarring in a country where sports are still played in empty arenas and concerts have been largely banned. That’s especially true for those who have lost loved ones or spent months isolating at home and worry that rallies will further spread infection, undermining hard-fought progress. An indoor rally that Trump held in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in June was blamed for a surge of virus infections there.Trump held an indoor rally at the Xtreme Manufacturing facility in Henderson, Nevada, on Sunday night. The state restricts gatherings to 50 people — based on White House reopening guidelines —- but thousands of supporters packed into the warehouse space nonetheless. Relatively few people wore masks.“This is an insult to every Nevadan who has followed the directives, made sacrifices, and put their neighbors before themselves,” said Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak, a Democrat.The city of Henderson on Monday announced that it was fining Xtreme Manufacturing $3,000. Sisolak slammed the rally as “shameful, dangerous and irresponsible.” But it does not appear the governor would try to prevent a replay. If Trump returns to the state for another rally, said COVID-19 response director Caleb Cage, state officials will continue to encourage his campaign to follow state law and directives.In some other states, the rallies are legal. In North Carolina, an order signed by Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper limits outdoor gatherings to 50 people and mandates masks in public, but “activities constituting the exercise of First Amendment rights” are exempt.The state’s top public health official, Dr. Mandy Cohen, played down calls for stricter enforcement last week as she criticized Trump for holding a rally at the Winston-Salem airport, where thousands of supporters crammed together without masks.“This isn’t really about mandates and enforcement. It’s about leadership,” Cohen told reporters.“By using the First Amendment exemption for mass gatherings under the governor’s executive order in this way, they’re making it much harder for North Carolina to get our children back in school and people back to work safely,” said Dory MacMillan, a spokesperson for Cooper.In Michigan, political speech is exempt from Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer’s order limiting the size of outdoor gatherings. And while Whitmer’s office issued a memo saying people engaging in First Amendment activities still must adhere to social distancing measures, the state hasn’t moved to enforce the rules at Trump’s rallies or during protests.“We hope the president would care enough about his supporters and their friends and families that he would encourage social distancing and mask wearing,” said Ryan Jarvi, a spokesperson for Democratic Attorney General Dana Nessel.Nevada is one state where Trump has encountered resistance. His campaign had originally planned to hold a pair of rallies over the weekend in Las Vegas and Reno, but those plans were scuttled after the Reno-Tahoe Airport Authority warned one of the hosts that the rally would violate the governor’s restrictions and the terms of the company’s lease. Trump’s campaign immediately moved to blame Sisolak for the pushback, but the governor’s office insisted it had had no involvement.Trump told the Las Vegas Review-Journal in an interview Sunday that “he did not believe he was subject” to the order and blamed Sisolak for forcing him to abandon plans for the outdoors rallies.“They canceled six different sites because the governor wouldn’t let it happen, all external sites,” the president said. The campaign did not respond to questions about what sites they had tried.Upcoming rallies in Wisconsin on Thursday and Minnesota on Friday will be held in open-air airplane hangars, and neither state caps attendance on outdoor events, even though Covid-19 cases have been surging in Wisconsin.Ashley Mukasa, a spokesperson for Winnebago County Health Department, said the county doesn’t have any local ordinances that would allow it to issue or enforce local health orders. However, the agency briefed Trump’s advance team about the statewide mask mandate, she said.“They wanted to avoid breaking any laws,” Mukasa said.In Minnesota, where Democratic Gov. Tim Walz has long been reluctant to spar publicly with Trump, the virus order exempts anything that would limit “the movement of federal officials in Minnesota while acting in their official capacity.” Beltrami County’s public health director, Cynthia Borgen, said the state’s health department had decided the president’s visit would fall under that exemption — even though he will be there to campaign.For one activist from the state, Trump’s co-opting of the term peaceful protest represents “a new low.”“His actions are a mockery of legitimate peaceful protests that have been happening in Minnesota and around the country regarding our stances against police violence and brutality,” said Nekima Levy Armstrong, a civil rights lawyer and former president of the Minneapolis NAACP.Trump on Monday again drew hundreds of supporters to an indoor event in Phoenix that his campaign advertised as a “Latinos for Trump roundtable,” limiting scrutiny, but that had the feel of something different.“This is supposed to be a roundtable, but it looks like a rally,” he told the crowd.Most in the audience did not wear masks, though tables filled with hundreds of unused masks were at the entrance to the event.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, has consistently refused to criticize Trump for holding large gatherings in the state, including a packed campaign event at a Phoenix church in June, when Arizona was seeing a surge in coronavirus cases.“The constitutional rights of Arizonans are going to be protected,” Ducey said. “They’ve been protected the entire time. They’re nonnegotiable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-defies-coronavirus-rules-as-peaceful-protest-rallies-grow/story-Jx5rAjZ8STgGTbQZmCpNiP.html
15-09-2020||World||Justin Trudeau worried about uptick in coronavirus cases in Canada||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warned Monday that Canada was “not out of the woods” with the coronavirus, urging citizens to be vigilant amid an uptick in virus cases nationwide.The country recorded more than 1,300 cases over the weekend -- a level not seen since early summer.On Monday, Quebec and Ontario provinces, the most populous in Canada and the hardest-hit by the pandemic, confirmed nearly 600 cases.“One of the things we’re seeing is, with numbers rising across the country, we are not out of the woods,” Trudeau told a press conference in Ottawa.He said the resumption of classes and the reopening of the Canadian economy, meaning more people are back to work, had led to an increase in case numbers.“The last thing anyone wants is to go into this fall in a lockdown similar to this spring. And the way we can prevent that is by remaining vigilant,” Trudeau said, reiterating the importance of wearing masks and practicing social distancing.Ontario Premier Doug Ford sounded a warning, saying: “Let me be crystal clear every option is on the table, we will take every step necessary including further shutdowns.”On Saturday, Quebec became the first Canadian province to fine people for refusing to wear face coverings in enclosed public spaces. The fines run from CAN$400-6,000 (US$303-4,550).That did not prevent a crowd of several thousand people from protesting against mask wearing in Montreal on Saturday.As of Monday, Canada had registered more than 137,000 coronavirus cases since mid-March. More than 9,200 people have died as a result of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-worried-about-uptick-in-coronavirus-cases-in-canada/story-xv0C67FNq8vCo8qThfo9AN.html
15-09-2020||World||Trump says Europe has more ‘explosive’ trees than California||Donald Trump and California state officials sparred over whether climate change is contributing to out-of-control wildfires across the West, after the president insisted that poor forest management drives the conflagrations.Wade Crowfoot, the secretary of California’s Natural Resources Agency, told Trump in a meeting in Sacramento on Monday that a warming climate is making the state’s fires worse.“We want to work with you to really recognize the changing climate and what it means to our forests, and actually work together with that science,” Crowfoot told the president. “The science is going to be key. If we ignore that science and sort of put our head in the sand and think it’s all about vegetation management, we’re not going to succeed together protecting Californians.”Trump responded: “It’ll start getting cooler, you just watch.”“I wish science agreed with you,” Crowfoot said.“I don’t think science knows, actually,” Trump responded.Trump flew into Sacramento after a weekend campaign swing through Nevada in order to discuss the fires with California officials including Governor Gavin Newsom. More than 5 million acres have been burned across the West this season, killing dozens of people and ruining air quality from California to Washington.Newsom on Friday argued that flawed forest management practices of the past can’t explain the state’s worsening fire seasons. California has been stepping up its use of controlled burns to thin out vegetation and has accelerated cutting fire breaks around vulnerable communities, he said.But the recent drought and a tree-killing beetle infestation, both of which Newsom tied to climate change, have killed more than 150 million trees across the state, leaving ample fuel for fires.“I’m not going to suggest for a second that the forest management practices in the state of California over a century-plus have been ideal,” Newsom said Friday in Butte County, surrounded by scorched trees. “But that’s one point. It’s not the point.”The president has frequently criticized California’s Democratic leaders for, in his view, failing to adequately manage the state’s forests to reduce fire risk.About 57% of California forests are land owned and managed by federal agencies, according to the University of California. Newsom said Monday that just 3% of the state’s forests are on land managed by the state government.In August, Newsom’s administration reached an agreement with the U.S. Forest Service to jointly reduce fire risk on at least 500,000 acres of public lands each year.Trump claimed before the meeting that an unnamed European leader told him his country has more explosive trees than California, before disputing state officials who said climate change was contributing to out-of-control West Coast wildfires.“I was talking to the head of a major country and he said, ‘We are a forest nation. We consider ourselves a forest nation.’ This was in Europe. I said, ‘That’s a beautiful term,”’ Trump told reporters after landing in Sacramento.“He said, ‘We have trees that are far more explosive’ -- explosive in terms of fire -- but ‘we have trees that are far more explosive than they have in California, and we don’t have any problem.’”Trump said that “I think a lot of things are possible” in response to a question about whether climate change is driving the western wildfires, which have consumed more than 5 million acres, killing dozens of people and ruining air quality on the West Coast.“With regard to the forest, when trees fall down, after a short period of time -- about 18 months -- they become very dry. They become really like a matchstick,” Trump said. “And they get up; you know, there’s no more water pouring through, and they become very, very -- they just explode. They can explode.”“Also leaves,” he added, “when you have years of leaves, dried leaves, on the ground, it just sends it up. It’s really a fuel for a fire. So they have to do something about it.”He said the state should cut more firebreaks through its forests, again comparing California to European forests that he said are better managed.“They also have to do cuts. I mean, people don’t like to do cuts but they have to do cuts,” he said. “So if you do have a fire and it gets away, you’ll have a 50-yard cut in between so it won’t be able to catch in the other side.“They don’t do that,” he said of California. “If you go to other countries, you go to Austria, you go to Finland, you go to many different countries and they don’t have problems.”After taking office, Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord negotiated by President Barack Obama, calling it unfair. On Monday, he suggested the U.S. shouldn’t undertake efforts to mitigate climate change because other countries can’t be trusted to follow suit.“Is India going to change its ways? And China going to change its ways? And Russia -- is Russia going to change its ways?” he said. “You know, so, you have a lot of countries that are going to have to change because they make up -- we’re just a small speck.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-europe-has-more-explosive-trees-than-california/story-2Pyv7tHsJGhlQf6fYontSN.html
15-09-2020||World||Russian opposition leader Navalny’s health condition improves||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who the West says was poisoned allegedly with a Novichok nerve agent, is regaining mobility and able to leave his bed, the Berlin hospital treating him said on Monday.The improvement in his condition came as two European laboratories corroborated the findings that the Soviet-era military grade nerve agent was used on the Kremlin critic, prompting French President Emmanuel Macron to demand President Vladimir Putin to shed light on the “attempted murder”.Hitting back at doubts raised by Russia about the German investigation, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said Berlin had asked France and Sweden “for an independent review of the German evidence on the basis of new samples from Navalny”.“The results of this review at specialised laboratories in France and Sweden are now available and confirm the German evidence” of the use of the banned weapons-grade substance,” Seibert said.The results prompted Macron to tell the Russian president in telephone talks that it was “imperative that all light be shed, without delay, on the circumstances of this attempted murder and who is responsible”, the French presidency said in a statement.Putin fired back that the claims remained “unsubstantiated accusations based on nothing against the Russian side”. In an interview with the RTVI television network on Monday, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov accused the West of going “beyond all the limits of decency and reasonableness”.“Our Western partners look at us arrogantly, but we too have the right to doubt their claims of professionalism,” he said.Germany was still waiting for the outcome of a separate evaluation by the OPCW global chemical weapons watchdog, Seibert said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-opposition-leader-navalny-s-health-condition-improves/story-ajPtDRecmiK0TdkXcEP7oJ.html
15-09-2020||World||Daily cases top 300k; Covid-19 lockdown back in Israel||As the number of new coronavirus infections reported daily reached a record high, crossing 300,000, the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday warned that Europe will face a rising death toll in October and November.Israel, among countries battling a new spike, announced a three-week national lockdown starting Friday when people will not be allowed more than 500 metres from their homes. The announcement has sparked a wave of anger. The WHO reported 307,930 new daily global infections on Sunday, a record since the pandemic began in China late last year, as total cases topped 29 million. “It’s going to get tougher. In October, November, we are going to see more mortality,” WHO Europe director Hans Kluge said. “We are by no means out of the woods,” the UN health agency’s chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a meeting of WHO Europe’s 55 members that began on Monday. A Vatican spokesman meanwhile said Pope Francis was being “constantly monitored” after having met with a cardinal who later tested positive. In Greece, 14 refugees tested positive for the virus after thousands of them were left without shelter after a massive fire in the Moria camp on Lesbos island.Britain, France, Austria and the Czech Republic also reported spikes. S’pore gives out devices to trace coronavirusSingapore began handing out pocket-sized coronavirus contact-tracing devices to residents on Monday, part of a planned nationwide rollout. The box-shaped tokens use Bluetooth signals to record nearby devices and store encrypted data of a users’ close contacts.If users test positive, the devices have to be handed over to the authorities to extract the data on other people they have potentially exposed to the virus.In a report, the Global Preparedness Monitoring Board, an independent body created by the WHO and the World Bank, said the world is doing far too little to prepare for future, possibly even more damaging pandemics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daily-cases-top-300k-covid-19-lockdown-back-in-israel/story-AkYAYTNBoJwP9Ifd21bjPM.html
15-09-2020||World||Fight and talk: Facing negotiations, Taliban almost took key Afghan city||Khan Agha has endured years of violence in Kunduz, but it was the Taliban’s attack on the strategic city in northeastern Afghanistan, as the government and insurgents were preparing for historic peace talks, that unnerved him.“Like me, the majority of Kunduz residents are living in fear,” Agha, a 46-year-old driver, told Reuters. “Looking at what’s going on, anything could happen at any time.”The Taliban offensive, encircling and almost seizing Kunduz late last month, came just weeks before the Kabul government sat down with their sworn enemies in Doha on Saturday to start historic talks aimed at ending 19 years of war that has killed and wounded more than 100,000 civilians.The opening ceremony for the talks in the Qatari capital, replete with calls for peace from US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in a grand hotel and a host of dignitaries on video link urging a ceasefire, contrasted sharply with the recent violence on the ground in Kunduz.Just hours after those talks started, Taliban and Afghan government forces clashed across Afghanistan, officials said, underscoring the uphill challenge of ending the long war. The most intense of those clashes on Saturday were in Kunduz, where Taliban again jostled with security forces for control of key highways, and the Afghan military deployed air and artillery strikes.Agha, stranded outside the city of 270,000 for four days during last month’s larger attack and unable to reach his family on his way back from a delivery, has since stockpiled three months’ worth of food in his small home.A Reuters examination of the little-reported August offensive - the worst since 2015, when Kunduz briefly fell to the Taliban - shows how the insurgents have recently raised pressure on this strategic urban centre, a gateway in the north to mineral-rich provinces and to central Asia, and a hub for transportation and drug-smuggling.The Taliban deny the Kunduz attack, saying their fighters only attacked bases in retaliation for troops firing on nearby areas.“From the start of the year we never had plans of large attacks on any big city for one reason, and that is the peace process,” said Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid. “Attacking large cities can damage this process.”Though it ultimately failed, the brazen attempt to take a strategic urban centre and the continuing pressure shows the Taliban are pursuing a fight-and-talk strategy, largely ignoring the international pleas to temper the violence and agree on a ceasefire.“The scale of ambition to expand territorial control has not ebbed,” said a senior Western diplomat. “They want their fighters to stay active on the ground - it is a key concern ahead of talks as primary trust and confidence-building depends on a reduction in violence.”The Taliban’s muscular action comes just as the United States rapidly draws down its troops in Afghanistan, in line with President Donald Trump’s promises to end America’s longest war. A February pact between Washington and the Taliban set May 2021 as the date for the final pullout, subject to certain security guarantees. US troop numbers are expected to fall to 4,500 by November from over 100,000 in 2011. Battleground to negotiating table “A serious Taliban attack on Kunduz City breaks with the U.S.-Taliban agreement, at least in spirit, and sends an ominous signal ahead of intra-Afghan negotiations,” said Elizabeth Threlkeld, deputy director of the South Asia program at the Washington-based Stimson Center.The US Embassy in Kabul did not comment.The Taliban, after gradually tightening their grip on rural areas encircling Kunduz, conducted its offensive from Aug. 20 to 26, seizing several checkpoints and two bases on arterial roads into the city, spreading fear that the militants would seize control, three provincial council members said.“They got enough close to the city that their small arms could easily reach the police headquarters and governor’s compound,” said council member Assadullah Saadat.Fighting displaced more than 60,000 people, according the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.Now that the government and Taliban are sitting down for peace talks, after months of delays, officials say a top priority is negotiating a comprehensive ceasefire, which the Afghan government has requested several times but the Taliban has rejected.“Their military capacity represents a threat to the Afghan government, and they are likely to continue launching attacks over the coming months as negotiations kick off,” Threlkeld said.Afghan forces pushed Taliban fighters back with several airstrikes, said defence ministry spokesman Fawad Aman. On one of the heaviest days of fighting, 34 Taliban members were killed and 24 wounded, he said.More than 100 Taliban members were killed 100 were wounded, said a local council member.Though the immediate threat to the city was over, local security force members told Reuters the area remained under pressure.Abdul, who asked that his full name not be used, said that in his seven years in the Afghan security forces in some of the toughest regions, he had not encountered the pressure he found in Kunduz where his unit was under constant fire and their vehicles could not be left in the open for even a few hours without attracting rockets.“There is a common theory here: the more gain on the battleground, the bigger the share on the negotiating table,” he said. “I have experienced the worst time of my whole life here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fight-and-talk-facing-negotiations-taliban-almost-took-key-afghan-city/story-HE92VqGnEwTavwDdf51o0K.html
15-09-2020||World||Donald Trump arrives in California for wildfires briefing||President Donald Trump arrived Monday in California to be briefed on wildfires engulfing swaths of the US West.The quick stop during a three-day reelection campaign swing was the first time Trump has visited California since the devastating blazes began.Minutes earlier, Democratic challenger Joe Biden branded Trump a “climate arsonist” whose policies are contributing to evermore powerful natural disasters.On arrival in McClellan Park, near Sacramento in central California, Trump repeated his argument that the ever-growing danger from wildfires in places like California, Oregon and Washington is due to insufficient maintenance of forest areas to make them less combustible.“There has to be strong forest management,” he said.“With regard to the forests, when trees fall down after a short period of time, about 18 months, they become very dry. They become really like a match stick,” he said. “They just explode.”Trump immediately went into a meeting with California Governor Gavin Newsom, who has strongly argued that the fires are driven mostly by global warming.Newsom acknowledged that “we have not done justice on our forest management,” though he pointed out that more than half of the land in California is under federal, not state control.But he said the overwhelming cause of the problem is far bigger.“The hots are getting hotter, the dries are getting drier,” he said. “We submit the science is in and observed evidence is self-evident: that climate change is real and that is exacerbating this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-arrives-in-california-for-wildfires-briefing/story-wEC5TVYWvaVadkW4IOXrXM.html
15-09-2020||World||Documentary on Wuhan makes its presence felt at TIFF||In a year ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic, it is perhaps fitting that the first major full-length feature documentary examining the outbreak is set in Wuhan, the Chinese city that was the first epicentre of the international crisis. 76 Days, a 93-minute film that shows powerful footage of the chaos and panic inside Wuhan in the initial days of the outbreak when the unknown virus had just begun to wreak havoc, had its world premiere at the ongoing Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). The documentary spans the period from January 23 to April 8 this year when Wuhan, a city of 11 million people in Hubei province, was placed under a lockdown following the coronavirus outbreak.The film was made by Hao Wu, a New York-based Chinese director, who collaborated with two China-based reporters as co-directors – Weixi Chen and another associate identified only as “Anonymous”.With the Chinese government reportedly trying to conceal its failure to have warned the world of the onset of the snowballing health crisis, the film’s creators requested the first viewers at the TIFF to “refrain from discussing identifying details contained in the film” so as to “avoid any potential government interference with the film, and with the filmmakers in China, before the film’s wider release”. The film’s production notes say, “China is imposing strict controls over the narrative of its Covid-19 response, and the footage contained in this film is unprecedented in its access.”The film shows doctors, nurses and paramedics striving to control a torrent of patients pouring into hospitals even as health authorities seek to downplay the outbreak with repeated calls of: “Don’t panic.” The documentary starts with the wailing of a woman who wants to see her dead father’s corpse once last time, and shows a box in which ID cards and phones of the dead are placed.Hao, the filmmaker, recalled spending the Chinese New Year holidays in Shanghai as “a panic was setting in all over China”, adding, “It became increasingly clear that the local government had lied and suppressed whistleblowers to conceal the outbreak. It also became apparent that the situation was dire in Wuhan - people were dying, hospitals were overwhelmed, and medical personnel did not have adequate protection, so they too were getting sick and dying. The country was angry. I was angry.”The filmmaker’s teammates filmed in four hospitals and shared the raw footage online with Hao, who then took it forward.The film that was eventually put together underlines human suffering at the hands of a deadly and unknown virus as well as the heroism of medical personnel struggling to save lives in a dystopian backdrop of an escalating health crisis.The TIFF’s artistic director Cameron Bailey described the film as “urgent, powerful filmmaking”.Hao said his team members “risked their own lives to film in the hospitals, especially when the danger of the coronavirus was little understood in the early days of the Wuhan lockdown”. Hao’s co-directors entered the containment zone donning protective gear that resembled space suits. At one point, they feared for their safety and the project had to be halted when China began cracking down on non-official information being released from the country. However, after Wuhan’s lockdown was lifted, they were persuaded to return to ground zero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/documentary-on-wuhan-makes-its-presence-felt-at-tiff/story-Mgb8eAhLX1R7AEOSqpWQwN.html
15-09-2020||World||kiyExcited Melania Trump looks forward to India visit, celebrating close ties||US First Lady Melania Trump on Wednesday joined the growing excitement in anticipation of her trip to India with President Donald Trump saying they were both “excited” about it and looked forward to “celebrate” close ties between the two countries.The US President and the First Lady are scheduled to arrive in India on February 24 for a two-day visit, for the first US presidential visit in five years. Though their schedules have not been released yet, they are expected to first visit Ahmedabad where the US president will address a rally with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is expecting “millions” of people to show up. Their next stop will be New Delhi and then they will leave for home with a brief stopover in Agra.“Thank you @narendramodi for the kind invitation,” the first lady wrote in a tweet, with a retweet of Prime Minister Modi’s post from Wednesday promising them a “memorable welcome”. She added, “Looking forward to visiting Ahmedabad & New Dehli (a typo, she meant Delhi) later this month. @POTUS & I are excited for the trip & to celebrate the close ties between the #USA & #India.”ALSO WATCH | ‘PM Modi is a friend of mine, a great gentleman’: Donald Trump ahead of India visitIt could not be immediately ascertained if this will be Melania Trump’s first visit to India. But she has met the prime minister before, during his June visit to the White House for his first meeting with the president. The First Lady had hosted a small reception for the Indian delegation and the president’s top aides. The president has been to India before, at least once that could be confirmed. He visited Mumbai in 2014 as a businessman for the launch of the Trump Tower with local business partners. The Trump Organization’s overseas operations are the largest in India, with 16 properties, according to The Washington Post, all dating to before Trump election to the White House.The president had cut himself from his business organisation, which is run by his two sons Donald Trump Jr and Eric Trump, after his election to the White House and has not visited India since.His eldest daughter Ivanka Trump, who is an adviser to the president, visited India in November 2017,where she shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Ivanka led the US delegation to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. The delegation is a US initiative that had traveled out for the first time. The president’s eldest son Trump Jr visited in February 2018 on a business trip. He visited four cities, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Kolkata where the Trump Organisation has businesses. The trip had raised eyebrows in the United States for expenses incurred on a private, business visit by the US government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/excited-melania-trump-looks-forward-to-india-visit-celebrating-close-ties/story-VPUONhaz8DjnLtizJljRUO.html
15-09-2020||World||254 die in a day in China as ‘war time’ measures put in place for Covid-19, top Hubei official sacked||On a day of rapid developments, China sacked the top leadership of Hubei, the central Chinese province at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak hours after the worst-hit region reported at least 254 new deaths on Wednesday, the highest death toll recorded for a day since the epidemic began.The jump in numbers was recorded as a district in central Hubei province implemented “wartime control measures” for the next 14 days, including the full closure of all buildings, the first time during the virus outbreak.“The order, applying to a district in the city of Shiyan, says only those who are fighting the epidemic are allowed to leave their homes, as of Thursday. All residential areas are being manned around the clock,” the state media report says.ALSO WATCH | Coronavirus scare: Separating facts from fictionHubei, and its capital city, Wuhan also reported nearly 15,152 new cases of the disease, which is now officially known as Covid-19.With the sharp jump in the number of the infected, nearly 60,000 are now sickened by the disease in China.In the biggest political fallout of the escalating outbreak, Ying Yong, mayor of Shanghai, was appointed Communist Party of China (CPC) chief of Hubei province replacing Jiang Chaoliang, official news agency, Xinhua reported on Thursday.“Ying was also appointed as a member and Standing Committee member of the CPC Hubei Provincial Committee, it said.Jiang Chaoliang will no longer hold the office,” the brief statement from the CPC added.“Ying, 62, a native of Zhejiang province in eastern China, began his career in 1976 and has rich working experience in Chinese political and legal affairs, including in the public security bureau and the courts. He became Shanghai mayor in early 2017,” the report said.On the sharp rise in the number of new cases, the Hubei health commission said the number of new cases “…included 13,332 clinically diagnosed cases, which have been seen as confirmed cases from Thursday”.It brought the total confirmed cases in the hard-hit province to 48,206.Clinically diagnosed cases are unique to Hubei statistically. The inclusion of those cases drives the surge in the number of new confirmed cases.“Any suspected cases with pneumonia-related computerised tomography (CT) scan results are counted as clinically diagnosed cases,” according to the latest version of the diagnosis and treatment scheme released by China’s national health commission (NHC).The provincial health commission said the diagnosis criteria revision has been made to give those who have been clinically diagnosed the timely standard treatment of confirmed cases to further improve the treatment success rate.“The province also saw 3,441 patients discharged from hospital after recovery as of Wednesday. Among the 33,693 hospitalised patients, 5,647 were still in severe condition and another 1,437 in critical condition,” official media reported.Outside China, at least 25 countries have reported cnfirmed cases and several nations including India have evacuated their citizens from Hubei where tens of millions remain under a lockdown with severe restrictions.Two deaths have been recorded outside mainland China - one in Hong Kong and one in the Philippines.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned the virus poses a “grave threat” to the world, with chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, saying the virus could have “more powerful consequences than any terrorist action”.The Financial Times, quoting local media sources, reported Son Loi, a village in northern Vietnam about 40 kilometre north-west of Hanoi, has been put on lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“Vietnamese state-controlled media reported on the move on Thursday, one of the first such instances of an entire residential area being sealed off outside China to prevent transmission of the disease,” the FT report said.The VNExpress said that Vin Phuc province, where Son Loi is located, had “locked down” the commune for 14 days because seven people had contracted the coronavirus.Vin Phuc province accounts for the majority of Vietnam’s 15 confirmed coronavirus cases to date, the FT report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/254-die-in-a-day-in-china-as-war-time-measures-put-in-place-for-covid-19-top-hubei-official-sacked/story-5gAnGMcTHakHnFyRale8sJ.html
