16-09-2020||World||Greece: 4 Afghans charged with arson for fire at Lesbos camp||Four Afghan migrants were formally charged with arson Wednesday for their alleged involvement in fires that destroyed most of a large refugee camp on Greece’s eastern island of Lesbos, authorities said.The men, who have not been named, were led to a court on the island and later returned to police detention after being given three days to prepare their testimony.The fires swept through the overcrowded camp at Moria on two nights last week, prompting more than 12,000 migrants and refugees to flee. Nobody was hurt. Most of them remain without shelter, camped on a roadside near the gutted camp.Two other migrants allegedly involved in setting the fires are minors who are being held by police on the Greek mainland but have not been formally charged. They were among around 400 unaccompanied minors from Moria who were flown to the mainland after the fires.The Greek government maintains that the fires at Moria were set deliberately by migrants protesting confinement after the site was locked down due to an outbreak of Covid-19.Athens on Tuesday urged the European Union to jointly run new refugee camps on Greece’s eastern islands as part of an overhaul of the EU’s migration policies.“The images of the Moria camp are a painful reminder of the need for Europe to come together,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Wednesday during her state of the union address.“Everybody has to step up here and take responsibility – and the commission will do just that,” von der Leyen told lawmakers at the European Parliament, adding that the commission was working on a plan for a new camp on the island.“But I want to be clear: if we step up, then I expect all (EU) member states to step up, too. Migration is a European challenge ,and all of Europe must do its part,” she said.Greek army personnel have been building a new camp on the island, using tents for emergency housing for asylum-seekers left homeless by the fire. But many are reluctant to go to a new facility they fear could end up like the squalid Moria camp.The U.N. refugee agency’s representative in Greece, Philippe Leclerc, said about 1,100 people, mostly those considered vulnerable, had been housed at the new site by Wednesday afternoon, but that up to 8,000 could be accommodated. Leclerc encouraged more of the Moria camp’s former residents to move there.Greek officials have said they could forcibly remove people from the road near the burned-out camp where they have been sleeping rough and take them to the camp if people refuse to go.Leclerc noted that relocation to other European countries would only be for “a limited number of persons, in particular the unaccompanied children and some more vulnerable individuals.”Several European countries have pledged to take in some of the unaccompanied minors who were staying in Moria.“We asked for the support of other European countries to continue assisting Greece, which is hosting...more than 100,000 asylum-seekers and refugees,” Leclerc said.He stressed violence was not a solution for migrants and refugees to get off the island.“Despair is understandable, but it cannot justify the violence,” Leclerc said. “Violence...and burning will not provide any solution. We need (a) peaceful, orderly way of getting people out of Lesbos gradually. And this is what we are supporting,.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greece-4-afghans-charged-with-arson-for-fire-at-lesbos-camp/story-FjB8x5ZrtKtMB67WQGDkCN.html
16-09-2020||World||He’s 91 and worth billions. Now Jimmy Pattison is hunting deals||Canadian billionaire Jimmy Pattison says his phone won’t stop ringing. There’s nothing like a global crisis to drive deals to those with cash.“We’re looking today at opportunities like we’ve never had before,” Pattison said in an interview Monday via video conference from Vancouver. “We’ve never been in better shape to invest. The question now is, where do we feel comfortable?”Sometimes dubbed Canada’s Warren Buffett, the 91-year-old Pattison has a view of the pandemic’s impact that few can match. He presides over an empire that operates in some 85 countries spanning an array of industries: supermarkets, lumber, fisheries, disposable packaging, theme parks, auto dealers and more. Last year, the closely held Jim Pattison Group Inc. had C$10.9 billion ($8.3 billion) in revenue and employed 48,000 people.Pattison said he has been contacted by a number of private companies, some of them “significant” in size, that need money because of Covid-19 and the recession. He won’t speculate on where he’ll do his next deal. But he is certain that some of the economic changes wrought by the pandemic will be lasting. Airlines are out, downtown hotels face a difficult road back and the restaurant industry will never be the same, Pattison said.Among his own companies, the hardest hit have been tourism-related stalwarts like Ripley Entertainment Inc., which typically hosted 15 million visitors annually at its museums and aquariums, and the Canadian franchise of Great Wolf Lodge, a chain of indoor water parks.“I can tell you one thing -- there’s never been anything like this in the history of the world,” said Pattison, who grew up in western Canada during the Great Depression. “Going forward, it’s certainly going to affect what we buy.”Before the pandemic, “I’d have put 100% of our money into a Great Wolf Lodge, but I wouldn’t today.” The coronavirus isn’t a one-time risk either, he said. “It can happen again.”Climate FocusPattison, Canada’s fifth-richest person, built his empire from a single, loss-making Vancouver car dealership he acquired in 1961. His fortune today is worth about $6.7 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. In his office hangs a framed photo of Pattison and Buffett with a message scribbled across the top by the head of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: “To a man who’s built a business as interesting as Berkshire’s.”Pattison sits in a conference room at his 18th-floor headquarters in a tower that typically looks onto Vancouver’s pristine harbor and craggy, forest-draped mountains beyond. Recently, that view has been obscured by a sickly gray haze. Smoke from forest fires raging along the U.S. West Coast has been drifting north, at times making Vancouver No. 1 on the list of cities with the world’s most polluted air.“We have got to focus on the environment, the environment, the environment,” Pattison said. “Anything that is negative, in my opinion, to do with the environment is going out of business sooner or later.”It’s a remarkable shift in Pattison’s preoccupations. When interviewed by Bloomberg in 2018 over the course of two days, he never once mentioned climate change.But the signs have become impossible to ignore. Exploding pine beetle populations are decimating the province’s lumber industry, with major impacts on companies such as Vancouver-based Canfor Corp., of which Pattison holds 51%. The 700 boats his fishing business owns are finding it harder to catch fish in some places as oceans get warmer.“It is absolutely the number one thing that we have on our list when we’re looking at buying something -- how does that affect the environment,” Pattison said.Yet that conviction wavers when it comes to Westshore Terminals Investment Corp., the largest coal loading facility on the west coast of the Americas.“If people want to buy the coal -- we’re not selling the coal, we’re a service department, if you like, shipping it -- that’s not our decision,” he said, acknowledging it’s a cash cow with a shrinking life span. “There will be a day, in my opinion, when there will be no thermal coal going out of that terminal.”In the meantime, the former used car salesman is getting familiar with the trappings of the new energy economy. He spent last weekend test driving a Toyota hydrogen car around southwestern British Columbia.“All I’ve driven is engines all my life and so when you get something that’s this smooth and fast and goes like a dart and quiet,” he trails off, marveling. “Boy, I never drove anything nicer.”Succession PlanLike most, the coronavirus has changed Pattison’s daily life in unexpected ways. He values face-to-face interaction so much that he drives across part of Canada every year to visit his supermarkets and auto dealerships in person. Today, he estimates 70% of the desks at Pattison Group’s headquarters are empty and he’s wondering how to plan that annual road trip when communities fearful of the virus don’t welcome out-of-town license plates.“I’ll go as soon as I think they won’t throw tomatoes at me,” he said.Yet some things remain constant. Pattison still comes into his headquarters every day, as does Maureen Chant, his executive assistant for the past 57 years. He’s still acquiring car dealerships -- four more in the last 120 days.Pattison, who turns 92 on Oct. 1, talks matter-of-factly about his group’s succession plan, which he reviews and updates every quarter.“If I don’t make it to dinner tonight, we’re all set to go,” he said. He has lined up the directors, the management team, a role for a foundation, as well as the next chief executive officer.“There’s got to be one boss,” he said. Who will it be? “You’ll find out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/he-s-91-and-worth-billions-now-jimmy-pattison-is-hunting-deals/story-6BEeaGqqlUVfXnGsM5QzIK.html
16-09-2020||World||Daily 90 minutes must to learn about Kim Jong Un: North Korea’s new order||Pre-school children must spend 90 minutes a day to learn about North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, North Korea’s new curriculum says. According to reports, the new diktat has come from Kim Yo Jong, Kim Jong Un’s sister. Seoul-based Daily NK has reported that the new diktat on ‘Greatness Education’ was introduced on August 25. It is aimed at “cultivating loyalty and trust toward North Korea’s leadership”. Previously, pre-school children had to attend only 30 minutes class on Kim Jong Un.The new curriculum reportedly tells preschoolers that when Kim Jong Un was just five years old, he was a bright child who “rode a yacht, did target practice, and liked to read”.Kim Yo Jong has become the de facto second-in-command in North Korea, South Korea’s intelligence agency has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daily-90-minutes-must-to-learn-about-kim-jong-un-north-korea-s-new-order/story-CXFEzs1zfcM8slcsUAVf4I.html
16-09-2020||World||After Senate defeats, Pak govt passes all FATF-linked bills via joint session||After a series of defeats in Senate, Pakistan government on Wednesday pushed all pending legislations on terror financing linked to FATF compliance through a joint session of parliament amid loud protests and a walkout by Opposition members.The Imran Khan government’s desperate move is part of efforts to get Pakistan out of the Financial Action Task Force’s ‘grey list’ and to prevent it from going further down to a ‘black list’. The global watchdog on terror financing and money laundering is set to review Pakistan’s compliance in October. FATF put Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action by the end of 2019, but the deadline was extended due to the coronavirus pandemic. The joint session of parliament was convened just hours after the Senate rejected the Anti-Terrorism (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020 in a 34-31 vote, a day after it was passed by the lower house, National Assembly.That was the third legislation rejected by the 104-member upper house in the past one month. The bill aimed to give powers to investigators to conduct undercover operations, intercept communications and access computer systems. It sought the insertion of Section 19-C in the Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA) relating to application of investigation techniques. At the joint session, all outstanding FATF-linked bills were moved by Advisor to the Prime Minister on Parliamentary Affairs Babar Awan. This included The Islamabad Capital Territory Waqf Properties Bill, 2020, The Anti-Money Laundering (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, and The Anti-Terrorism (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020.Prime Minister Khan was present in the house in a rare appearance to show his support for the passage of the bills. The Islamabad Capital Territory Waqf Properties Bill, 2020 is aimed at proper management, supervision, and administration of waqf properties in the territorial limits of the country’s capital. The Anti-Money Laundering (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 is aimed at streamlining the existing anti-money laundering law in line with international standards prescribed by FATF. As the session started, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari sought Speaker Asad Qaiser’s permission to address the floor. But the request was denied, prompting many opposition leaders including Leader of the Opposition Shehbaz Sharif of PML-N to walk out. Pakistan has to meet a 27-point action plan to escape getting blacklisted by FATF as a non-compliant nation.Last month, Khan’s government enacted several laws and designated over 100 people as terrorists, in its efforts to evade the possible blacklisting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-senate-defeats-pak-govt-passes-fatf-linked-bills-via-joint-session/story-S9ep7yUFGKW17ZLzKOWM6M.html
16-09-2020||World||Belarusian police say officers’ personal data leaked online||The Belarusian police said on Wednesday that the personal data of 300 of its officers had been leaked online since the opposition began trying to expose the identities of members of the security forces involved in cracking down on mass protests.Unrest since an Aug. 9 election marred by vote-rigging allegations has tested the loyalty of the security forces and their backing has become critical to president Alexander Lukashenko’s chances of clinging onto power.During regular protests by tens of thousands of people over more than five weeks, some protesters have tried to physically unmask members of the security forces on the streets.On Wednesday, Andrei Parshin, a senior security official at the interior ministry, said 43 criminal cases had been opened against people who he said had threatened police, the Belta state news agency reported.“The data of about 300 police officers for the period from Aug. 9th have ended up online. More than 250 officers and their family members were subjected to pressure,” he was quoted as saying.Lukashenko denies rigging his landslide victory in last month’s election. Many prominent opposition figures have since either been jailed or fled. (Reporting by Tom Balmforth and Maria Kiselyova Editing by Mark Trevelyan and Peter Graff)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarusian-police-say-officers-personal-data-leaked-online/story-OPqwQTt5x60slI4bVGqe4H.html
16-09-2020||World||US outlines sweeping plan to provide free Covid-19 vaccines||The federal government outlined a sweeping plan Wednesday to make vaccines for Covid-19 available for free to all Americans, even as polls show a strong undercurrent of skepticism rippling across the land.In a report to Congress and an accompanying “playbook” for states and localities, federal health agencies and the Defense Department sketched out complex plans for a vaccination campaign to begin gradually in January or possibly later this year, eventually ramping up to reach any American who wants a shot. The Pentagon is involved with the distribution of vaccines, but civilian health workers will be the ones giving shots.The campaign is “much larger in scope and complexity than seasonal influenza or other previous outbreak-related vaccination responses,” said the playbook for states from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Among the highlights:— For most vaccines, people will need two doses, 21 to 28 days apart. Double-dose vaccines will have to come from the same drugmaker. There could be several vaccines from different manufacturers approved and available.— Vaccination of the U.S. population won’t be a sprint but a marathon. Initially there may be a limited supply of vaccines available, and the focus will be on protecting health workers, other essential employees, and people in vulnerable groups. CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, the National Academy of Medicine, and other organizations are working on priorities for the first phase. A second and third phase would expand vaccination to the entire country.— The vaccine itself will be free of charge, and patients won’t be charged out of pocket for the administration of shots, thanks to billions of dollars in taxpayer funding approved by Congress and allocated by the Trump administration.— States and local communities will need to devise precise plans for receiving and locally distributing vaccines, some of which will require special handling such as refrigeration or freezing. States and cities have a month to submit plans.Some of the broad components of the federal plan have already been discussed, but Wednesday’s reports attempt to put the key details into a comprehensive framework. Distribution is happening under the umbrella of Operation Warp Speed, a White House-backed initiative to have millions of doses ready to ship once a vaccine is given what’s expected to be an emergency use approval by the Food and Drug Administration. Several formulations are undergoing final trials.But the whole enterprise is facing public skepticism. Only about half of Americans said they’d get vaccinated in an Associated Press poll taken in May. Of those who wouldn’t get vaccinated, the overwhelming majority said they were worried about safety. To effectively protect the nation from the coronavirus, experts say upwards of 70% of Americans must either be vaccinated or have their own immunity from fighting off COVID-19.Since the poll, questions have only mounted about whether the government is trying to rush COVID-19 treatments and vaccines to help President Donald Trump’s reelection chances.Before the Republican National Convention in August, the FDA granted authorization for treatment of COVID-19 patients with plasma from people who have recovered, even though some government scientists were not convinced the clinical evidence was sufficiently strong. And last week it was reported that Michael Caputo, a Health and Human Services Department political appointee, tried to gain editorial control over a weekly scientific publication from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.As public confidence in core health agencies has taken a beating, Trump administration officials have been forced to play defense.“We are working closely with our state and local public health partners ... to ensure that Americans can receive the vaccine as soon as possible and vaccinate with confidence,” HHS Secretary Alex Azar said in a statement Wednesday. “Americans should know that the vaccine development process is being driven completely by science and the data.”That could be a tough sell. In the AP poll, 1 in 5 Americans said they would not get a coronavirus vaccine, and 31% said they were unsure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-outlines-sweeping-plan-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines/story-3sb9tpxC5sNyIyqlyP583L.html
16-09-2020||World||Pak Senate defeats yet another anti-terror bill linked to FATF compliance||Pakistan’s Senate on Wednesday defeated yet another bill that sought to empower agencies investigating terrorist operations, in compliance with the requirements for terror financing watchdog FATF. With this, the Upper House of parliament has voted against four out of seven legislations moved by the Imran Khan government to comply with the Financial Action Task Force. This is a setback to the government’s efforts to get Pakistan out of FATF’s ‘grey list’ and to prevent it from going further down to a ‘black list’.The defeated legislation would have given powers to investigators to conduct undercover operations, intercept communications and access computer systems. It sought the insertion of Section 19-C in the Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA) relating to application of investigation techniques. The amendment to the Anti-Terrorism Bill, 2020, was rejected a day after the National Assembly, the lower house, passed it. It received 34 votes against it , while 31 voted in favour in Senate, in a major embarrassment to Khan’s government.Last month, the 104-member Senate rejected the Anti-Money Laundering (Second Amendment) Bill and the Islamabad Capital Territory Waqf Properties Bill, both also related to FATF compliance, objecting to some of the provisions and linking its cooperation to retraction of remarks made by Leader of the House Dr Shahzad Waseem about certain leaders.Pakistan was placed under the FATF grey list in June 2018 after the global watchdog found deficiencies in Islamabad’s money laundering and terror financing laws.Last month, Khan’s government enacted laws and designated over 100 people as terrorists, in its desperate efforts to evade a possible blacklisting at the next FATF review meeting. The meeting, which was initially scheduled for June and got postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is now expected to be held in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-senate-defeats-yet-another-anti-terror-bill-linked-to-fatf-compliance/story-Stsa8NYilufGOEf1BYzpPL.html
16-09-2020||World||Hurricane Sally makes landfall on Alabama’s Gulf Coast||Hurricane Sally made landfall on Alabama’s Gulf Coast on Wednesday morning as a Category Two hurricane, spreading strong winds inland across southeastern Alabama and western Florida.Upon landfall, winds were clocked at 105 miles per hour (165 km per hour), able to cause extensive damage, according to the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale. The hurricane also poses the risk of “catastrophic and life-threatening” flooding along portions of the north-central Gulf Coast, the National Hurricane Center said in an advisory around 6 a.m. CDT (1100 GMT).The NHC earlier said the hurricane could bring more than 2 feet (60 cm) of rain to some areas as it creeps inland.Sally made landfall at Gulf Shores, Alabama, and was creeping toward the Alabama-Florida border at 3 mph (5 kph). Its winds and rains will stretch from Mississippi to the Florida Panhandle, the NHC said.In Dauphin Island, Alabama, winds sustained 81 mph (130 kph), while in Pensacola, Florida, winds were at 61 mph (98 kph), NHC said. In Mobile, Alabama, strong winds shook windows while trees and power lines swayed. Officials across the South had called on residents of low-lying areas to shelter away from the winds and rain. But for some, Hurricane Sally’s slow approach brought a chance to relive childhood memories of storms past, and to witness the power of nature first-hand. Thomas Harms braved the wind and rains on Tuesday to watch the waves crash into the Fairhope Municipal Pier, and reminisced about past storms. As a child, he went with his grandfather to see storms arrive, and he did the same on Tuesday for his son. “It kind of takes a little bit of the fear out of it and also help you understand the dangers of it too,” said Harms. “I’ve been kind of passing that on to my son in doing the same thing.”Others joined him on the pier to catch a glimpse of what was to come. “We were at home saying ‘we’re bored’, so I was like ‘how ‘bout we go to Fairhope and see how bad it is out there.’ As you see, it’s pretty bad,” said Warren Babb.Damage from Sally is expected to reach $2 billion to $3 billion, said Chuck Watson of Enki Research, which tracks tropical storms and models the cost of their damage. That estimate could rise if the heaviest rainfall happens over land, Watson said.Ports, schools and businesses were closed along the coast as Sally churned. As the storm track shifted east, ports along the Mississippi River were reopened to travel on Wednesday. But they were closed to vessel traffic from Biloxi, Mississippi, to Pascagoula, Florida.Energy companies also shut more than a quarter of US Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and gas production and some refiners halted or slowed operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-sally-makes-landfall-on-alabama-s-gulf-coast/story-UGWLjcOppiesfN8M6pmQYM.html
16-09-2020||World||For Covid fight, London mayor reaches out in Punjabi, Hindi, Bengali videos||London mayor Sadiq Khan has released videos in Punjabi, Hindi, Bengali, Urdu and other languages to highlight precautions against Covid-19, amid concerns that official guidance is not reaching south Asian communities in parts of Britain. The videos feature Khan, with deputy mayor Rajesh Agarwal joining in Hindi, along with others promoting the importance of face coverings, social distancing and regular handwashing. Due to lockdown curbs, major cultural and religious events have not been celebrated as they usually would through communal gatherings. London has several boroughs with large population of Indian and south Asian origin. Campaign group Doctors of the World UK and several organisations including the Greater London Authority had recently written to health secretary Matt Hancock over the lack of translation of updates to key advice in languages other than English.South Asians and other ethnic minorities have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, with the Boris Johnson government setting up an inquiry to find the reasons behind it. Latest figures in England show that 793 patients categorised as ‘Indian’ have died.South Asian Londoners are more likely to be employed as key workers in frontline health and service industry roles, and a recent study suggested that in hospital settings, people from South Asian backgrounds are 20% more likely than white people to die from Covid-19.The videos are part of Khan’s efforts to deal with the disproportionate impact of the virus on South Asian communities. He said: “From key workers on the frontline to families staying home, London’s South Asian communities have made extraordinary sacrifices to help stop the spread of this virus”.“We know that Covid-19 has disproportionately affected South Asian Londoners and yet, at a time when access to clear and accurate information is more important than ever, this government is failing them. A person’s ethnicity should never mean the difference between life and death”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-covid-fight-london-mayor-reaches-out-in-punjabi-hindi-bengali-videos/story-I8ALAItdQvw8EJ8Z6JlawL.html
16-09-2020||World||China again engages in blame game against India on border tensions||China claimed on Wednesday that it has been honouring agreements signed with India and is committed to maintaining peace in border areas, a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh said Beijing is not respecting the customary alignment of the boundary.Singh had told Parliament that China has engaged in massive mobilisation of troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), engaged in aggressive behaviour, and sought to unilaterally change the status quo, in contravention of existing border agreements and pacts.Responding to Singh’s statement, the Chinese foreign ministry again blamed New Delhi for the tensions, saying it is India which has breached agreements made to maintain tranquility along the disputed boundary.“For the Chinese side, we have been honouring the agreements signed between China and India. We are committed to peace and stability in the border area,” foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said when asked to comment on Singh’s statement. “We are committed to our sovereignty and territorial integrity. But China is not to blame for the current situation. It is the Indian side that has breached the agreements, first trespassed the territory first and fired shots to threaten the safety of the Chinese border troops first,” Wang said at the regular ministry briefing.“So, what is imperative is for the Indian side to address these mistakes to follow through the disengagement agreements and take concrete actions to ease up the situation on the ground,” Wang said, repeating Beijing’s stand on the months-long border standoff that’s plunged bilateral ties to the worst level in decades. India has already dismissed similar allegations made by China earlier, saying the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops were the first to provoke and not ready to disengage.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava clearly spelt out the Indian government’s position on the disengagement process earlier, saying the LAC “must be strictly respected and observed as this is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas.”“During the Moscow meeting the two foreign Ministers reached five point agreements on the border situation,” spokesperson Wang said, referring to the recent meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting of foreign ministers in Moscow.“We hope India will work with China to follow through on the agreement and also other previously reached agreements and put the border issue at an appropriate position in the bigger picture of China India relations,” he said.Wang added that China is ready to work with India to remain in dialogue and consultation through diplomatic channels, jointly ensure peace and tranquility of the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-again-engages-in-blame-game-against-india-on-border-tensions/story-QqZ1c8rAT3ZCUZeFIPsY7N.html
16-09-2020||World||After Beirut blast, a young surgeon finds new sense of duty||It was a night Dr. Bassam Osman says changed his life. At around 6 p.m. on Aug. 4, the 27-year-old surgical resident was about to leave his daily hospital shift. Then a massive explosion shook Beirut.The floodgates opened and hundreds of wounded poured into the American University of Beirut Medical Center, one of Lebanon’s best hospitals.The medical staff of around 100 doctors, nurses and aides juggled priorities and space in treating the torn-up and bloodied men, women and children. They sutured wounds by mobile phone lights when electricity conked out. The wounded kept streaming in because several other hospitals closer to the port were knocked out of service by the blast.Veteran doctors who had worked through Lebanon’s civil war said they’d never seen anything like it. In six hours, they used up a year and a half’s worth of emergency supplies.Osman ended up working the next 52 hours straight. He treated more than two dozen patients. He lost one.“There was no moment in my life where I felt more in touch with my own and my surrounding humanity,” Osman said of those 52 hours in a tweet afterward.Osman, at the beginning of his career, finds himself in a medical field far different from what he expected when he entered the profession.Lebanon’s health facilities were once considered among the region’s best. In a short time, they have been brought to near collapse, battered by Lebanon’s financial meltdown and a surge in coronavirus cases, then smashed by the Beirut explosion.But the blast has also given Osman a greater sense of duty. That day’s trauma, he says, forged a deeper emotional bond between doctors and patients, left with no one else to trust in a country where politicians and public institutions take no responsibility.The disaster, caused by explosive chemicals left untended for years at Beirut’s port, has stoked anger at Lebanon’s corrupt officials, who are also blamed for driving the country of 5 million into near bankruptcy. More than 190 people were killed in the explosion, thousands hurt, and tens of thousands of homes were wrecked.“Day by day, these (crises) are becoming our normal life,” Osman told the AP. “We are tired... It feels like one long marathon.”Harder days may be ahead, he feels.The blast exacerbated shortages in medical supplies caused by the financial crisis. Replacement supplies are not coming fast enough.In one of Osman’s recent operations, lack of supplies nearly turned a small but critical procedure into invasive surgery. Osman and the other surgeons didn’t have the right size balloon to expand the patient’s arteries and were about to open her chest, before they found a way to improvise a replacement.Medical facilities hit by the economic meltdown are laying off staff. More doctors are emigrating. Osman’s salary, denominated in Lebanese pounds, dropped in value from nearly $1,300 to just around $200 a month because of the local currency’s crash.It will cost nearly $30 million to repair health facilities damaged by the blast, the World Health Organization estimates. Eight hospitals and 20 clinics sustained partial or heavy structural damage. Two hospitals remain largely out of service. One, deemed totally unsafe, has to be leveled and rebuilt.The blast damaged the WHO’s main warehouse for medical supplies, destroying a shipment of Covid-19 protective equipment. It destroyed a Covid-19 isolation center used for migrant workers and vulnerable groups, and damaged centers for HIV and tuberculosis.The strained health system faces a coronavirus surge. Since the Aug. 4 blast, there has been a 220% increase in reported infections, according to the International Rescue Committee.Covid-19 patients are filling hospital and ICU beds. More than 25,000 confirmed cases have been reported, and 8% of all tests are coming back positive, according to the lead Covid-19 doctor Firas Abiad. More than 250 people have died. The number is expected to rise, with 115 patients in ICU, up from single digits before July.The increase is partly due to the explosion’s after-effects, including overcrowding in health facilities, displaced people sheltering with family and friends, and disrupted water networks and loss of hygiene items, said Christina Bethke, a WHO coordinator of the emergency response.Hit by the financial crisis, many cannot afford medical treatment. In the weeks preceding the explosion, Osman said he and his colleagues thought things had hit their worst when they saw people leaving the hospital because they couldn’t pay for admission.Then the blast came.Osman can’t forget the patient he lost that day.The young man came in with a hole in his heart and was whisked to the operating room. When the hole was closed, the team noticed bleeding in the abdomen and tended to that. But he also had a brain hemorrhage. In the chaos, the doctors had no time for imaging to detect it. The patient died.Osman knows only the first digits of his medical number: Patient AAA. He’s trying to find out his identity — at least his name, or where he was when the blast went off, or whether he has family looking for him.“I feel like I need to find closure for this operation, especially because we tried so hard,” he said.Since the blast, there is a new “intensity of emotion” between doctors and patients, Osman said.One woman reached out to Osman on social media, seeking advice for a plastic surgeon because her wounds were stitched badly on the day of the blast — not realizing he was the one who did the stitching.Osman admitted responsibility, saying the sutures were done under mobile phone lights. He invited her to return. She did, for coffee. He got to apologize in person, and she, in an Instagram post, thanked him for “putting her back together” and saving her life.Osman called it one of the most rewarding and heartwarming experiences.Another difference: Patients want to talk. Needing to unburden themselves, they talk about how they lost their homes, what happened to them in the blast, how they can’t afford treatment — “then they start talking about the whole situation in the country,” he said.“People can trust us, not only with their health but also their emotions ... I think the emotional injury is much more severe than the physical one,” he said.Osman said he welcomes it. “I try to make it personal with patients,” he said. “I’m not here just to do my job and leave.”Osman has two more years in his residency, then he plans to go on a fellowship abroad. He said that previously it was “a question mark” whether he would return to Lebanon when it was over.After the explosion, he is certain he will.“After I witnessed how much potential there is to give as a doctor in a country like Lebanon ... I realized that the question marks have all gone away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-beirut-blast-a-young-surgeon-finds-new-sense-of-duty/story-g6JJzks7hpLQbuhjbWMF4K.html
16-09-2020||World||EU chief calls for ‘European Health Union’ amid Covid-19 pandemic||The president of the European Commission urged EU members to build a stronger health union on Wednesday, promising a biomedical research agency and a global summit.In her first annual State of the European Union address, Ursula von der Leyen said the coronavirus pandemic had underlined the need for closer cooperation, stressing that people were “still suffering”. “For me, it is crystal clear -- we need to build a stronger European Health Union,” she said. “And we need to strengthen our crisis preparedness and management of cross-border health threats.”Addressing MEPs in the European Parliament, von der Leyen said her commission would try to reinforce the European Medicines Agency and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.And she announced the creation of a new agency for biomedical advanced research and development dubbed BARDA.She said she would work with Italy during its presidency of the G20 -- a grouping of the world’s richest countries -- to convene a global health summit next year to share the lessons of the coronavirus crisis.“This will show Europeans that our Union is there to protect all,” she said.Health policy remains the responsibility of EU member states and, while Brussels has tried to coordinate the bloc’s response to the epidemic, national lockdowns and border rules have varied widely.Von der Leyen, a doctor by training, also warned countries not to act selfishly when on vaccines, which are widely seen as the solution to end the crisis.“Vaccine nationalism puts lives at risk. Vaccine cooperation saves them,” she said.She also called for a reformed and strengthened World Health Organization “so that we can better prepare” for future pandemics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-chief-calls-for-european-health-union-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-kWAcOmgDIM1XpTs2uBlVgJ.html
16-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine: China, UAE report positive results in phase 3 trials | All you need to know||China reported some positive results on the phase 3 trial of a Covid-19 vaccine, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin has said. The UAE, which is part of the phase 3 trial of this Chinese vaccine, has reported positive results too.Several vaccine trials are underway at present. Here is all you need to know about this particular vaccine1. This vaccine is being developed by China National Phramaceutical Group (Sinopharm). It is a drug with an inactivated vaccine. 2. China has four Covid-19 vaccines at the final stage. 3. Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech (US listed) are developing three vaccines. The fourth one is being developed by CanSino Biologic. It was approved for use among Chinese military.4. The UAE has already conducted trials of this China-developed vaccine. The third phase started in July.5. Early this week, the UAE granted emergency approval for the use of this vaccine. It will be administered to frontline workers. 6. The UAE authorities said 31,000 volunteers, representing 125 nationalities have been administered the vaccine during the trial. Apart from mild side-effects, no severe illness has been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-china-uae-report-positive-results-in-phase-3-trials-all-you-need-to-know/story-uzQ0hMRk7wsADNpH6Mnh8L.html
16-09-2020||World||Russia to sell 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’ to India: Report||Russia’s sovereign wealth fund has agreed a deal to sell 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik-V, to a major listed pharmaceutical company in India, a source close to the deal said on Wednesday.Clinical trials of the Russian vaccine in India are expected to follow and to be held jointly with this firm, the source said. Both the trials and supply deal depend on domestic regulatory approval.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has already inked vaccine supply deals with Kazakhstan, Brazil and Mexico and has reached a manufacturing partnership agreement with India to produce 300 million doses of the Sputnik-V vaccine there.RDIF will announce the name of the Indian firm later on Wednesday, the source said.Russia has billed Sputnik-V as the first vaccine against coronavirus to be registered in the world. Large-scale trials, known as Phase III, involving at least 40,000 people, were launched in Russia on Aug. 26 but have yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-to-sell-100-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-to-india-report/story-JjevNC5aj6URg5rKGGlnjI.html
16-09-2020||World||End of Shinzo Abe era leaves Japan still searching for way forward||Among the challenges awaiting newly appointed Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga is the urgent challenge of how to keep the world’s third-largest economy growing as its population ages and shrinks.Yoshihide Suga, Abe’s former chief spokesman, was appointed prime minister on Wednesday after Abe resigned because of a chronic health problem. He has vowed to stick with the “Abenomics” playbook of cheap credit and stimulus spending, but has yet to articulate a vision for the future for a nation wary of the sweeping changes needed to keep the economy growing.Suga has so far talked mainly about issues that were initiatives a quarter century ago, such as deregulating phone carriers and boosting investment in rural areas, said Michael Cucek, an expert on Japanese politics at Temple Universty in Tokyo.Vision does not appear to be his strong point.“He knows how to get things done but seems dogmatic to the point of obtuseness on what those things should be,” Cucek said.It’s unclear that Suga, dubbed the “iron wall” for his resistance to answering reporters’ questions, has the charisma and political heft to sell to the public and business world the kinds of sweeping changes to tax codes and other policies that are needed to help the country break out of its slow decline.During Abe’s more than seven years in office, the central bank pumped tens of trillions of dollars, supporting a modest economic recovery that never gained the momentum needed to break out of the rut Japan has been in since its financial bubble burst in the early 1990s.Time is not on Suga’s side: Japan’s population has been falling for eight straight years and is projected to sink by about 40% by 2050.The trends are evident in Tokyo, but even more so in smaller cities like Mito, 100 kilometers (about 60 miles) north of the capital. Countless small mom and pop style shopfronts remain shuttered for good, many unoccupied. The same is true for many houses around the city engulfed by vegetation after the owners died or moved away.The aging of the country is even more apparent in Suga’s home region of Akita, where more than a third of the population is older than 65 and the population has fallen by more than a quarter since it peaked in the 1950s.The economic outlook was cloudy for most of last year, as tensions between the US and China disrupted trade and global growth slowed. In October, a sales tax hike, to 10% from 8%, dented spending by consumers and businesses. Now, the “Corona shock” has hammered drivers of recent growth such as tourism and exports: In April-June the economy contracted at its worst ever rate of about 28%.To prevent the economy from shrinking further, and bringing on lower incomes and deepening poverty, economists say the country needs to ramp up its productivity — the value it gets from the amount of labor and money invested — or to allow far more immigration than it has so far.Despite the stellar efficiency of a few big companies like Toyota Motor Corp., the latest data show Japan 21st in productivity among 36 major economies in the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, at about $47 per hour — between Slovenia and Slovakia — compared with about $75 per hour in the U.S. and more than $100 in Ireland, the world’s leader.Low productivity translates into poor quality jobs and low wages: Household average incomes have actually fallen over the past 20 years and Abenomics’ tax breaks and easy credit have not brought the wage hikes needed to entice consumers into splurging on big ticket items like cars and new homes.A chart of consumer spending in recent years resembles a seismometer, with a few big jolts from tax hikes but little change otherwise. Widening inequality due to stagnant incomes is stifling the consumer spending and investment needed to revive growth.“Abenomics deserves credit for many things. Stock prices rose, and company earnings have improved. That’s great. But individuals’ incomes have not increased, and that’s also a fact,” said Shigeru Ishiba, a former defense minister who lost to Suga in the LDP leadership vote.Abe’s vow to make Japan a nation where women “shine” has likewise barely nudged the gender equality barometer: By this measure the country is dead last in the OECD. The poverty rate for single-parent households, overwhelmingly headed by women, was more than 50% according to the most recent figure.“What we need to change is the economy,” Ishiba said in announcing his candidacy. “It has not provided enough support for low-income earners… The people’s voices have not been fully heard.”Suga’s background as the son of a strawberry farmer who worked to put himself through college has many in Japan thinking he might be more in touch with the problems of ordinary people than Abe and others politicians with elite backgrounds.More of a pragmatist than conservative ideologue Abe, Suga has pledged to “protect jobs and businesses.”While working as the chief government spokesman, Suga backed changes in visa policies to help along the tourism boom and increased competition among mobile phone carriers. He also favors reforming regional banks that are key to local economies.He has also signaled interest in raising the minimum wage, which rose by just 1 yen (less than 1 cent) this year to 902 yen (about $8.50) an hour.“Suganomics could include a much faster reorganization of the regional banking sector, higher immigration, and more aggressive hikes to the minimum wage,” said Tom Learmouth of Capital Economics. “That has the potential to lift productivity.”Policies in place for the past 60 years have encouraged Japanese to stick to setting up tiny companies — average number of workers 3.4 — that have little capacity or incentive to invest in new equipment, said David Atkinson, a former investment banker and government adviser.Businesses must grow in scale to afford to invest in advanced technology and increase their efficiency, Atkinson said in a recent web seminar held by the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.So despite its image as a cornucopia of advanced technology, from bullet trains to AI to robotics and new materials, Japan is one of the least efficient countries among developed nations, and productivity has not risen appreciably for a half-century, he said.Tackling that problem is politically tricky: Small businesses employ more than two-thirds of all Japanese, albeit inefficiently. But there’s little choice, Atkinson contends.“If you don’t increase productivity, the economy will implode,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-of-shinzo-abe-era-leaves-japan-still-searching-for-way-forward/story-wGbjW1WIOZfzyH6VnroB0L.html
16-09-2020||World||‘Heartiest congratulations’: PM Modi wishes new Japanese prime minister Yoshihide Suga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Yoshihide Suga, who was formally elected by the Japanese parliament as the country’s first new premier in almost eight years, succeeding the outgoing Shinzo Abe.“Heartiest congratulations to Yoshihide Suga on the appointment as prime minister of Japan. I look forward to jointly taking our Special Strategic and Global Partnership to new heights,” PM Modi tweeted. Heartiest congratulations to Excellency Yoshihide Suga on the appointment as Prime Minister of Japan @kantei. I look forward to jointly taking our Special Strategic and Global Partnership to new heights. @sugawitterEarlier, he had also posted a tweet in Japanese, congratulating the newly-appointed Japanese prime minister.日本国首相へのご就任を心よりお祝い申し上げます。閣下とともに印日特別戦略的グローバルパートナーシップをさらなる高みに到達させることを期待しています。@sugawitterSuga’s election as the new Japanese prime minister comes two days after he was elected as the leader of the country’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party on September 14. He succeeds Shinzo Abe, who served as prime minister for four terms and, on August 28, announced that he would be stepping down due to health issues.Abe leaves as Japan’s longest-serving prime minister.Suga, meanwhile, has been Japan’s longest-serving chief cabinet secretary as well as the minister for internal affairs and communications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heartiest-congratulations-pm-modi-wishes-new-japanese-prime-minister-yoshihide-suga/story-0609rbzo1PFjGp93TLfumM.html
16-09-2020||World||Most Indian Americans back Biden but Trump gains ground, says poll||A poll of Indian Americans has found that 66% of respondents favour Democrat Joe Biden for the presidential election in November, while President Donald Trump trails way behind at 28%.But Trump has made considerable headway, coming up from 16% in 2016, according to the Indiaspora-AAPI Data survey released on Tuesday.The poll also affirmed the growing clout of the Indian American community’s 1.8 million registered voters — 56% of them reported being contacted by Democrats and 48% by Republicans, compared to only 31% reached by any party in 2016.As a community with the highest earnings, Indian Americans are also “flexing their financial muscle” as the survey put it . A quarter of those polled said they had made donations to a candidate, political party or some other campaign body this year; $3 million anecdotally, with double-digit aspirations.A majority of Indian Americans, 54%, identified themselves Democrats while the second biggest group of 24% identified themselves as Independents and only 16% called themselves Republican, compared to 45%, 35% and 19% respectively in 2016.The most significant shift, or the beginning of it, was reflected in the numbers for the race for the White House. While Indian Americans’ support for Biden was an overwhelming at 66%, it was far lower than the 77% support for Hillary Clinton, then Democratic nominee, in 2016, and the brutal 84% that President Barak Obama got in the 2012 election.Trump, on the other hand, has gone up from 12% in 2016 to 28% , and could go up to 30% if he and Biden split up the 6% undecided respondents proportional to their current tallies.That should worry Democrats. “The Biden campaign has to be especially attentive” and should conduct a vigorous outreach to the community, said Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. Eventually, he added, these voters will “come home” to the Democratic Party because of their concerns about other issues, specially Covid-19.Neeraj Antani, a Republican member of the Ohio state legislature, attributed Trump’s expanding support among Indian Americans to the president’s outreach to the community, his visit to India in February and for standing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and neutrality on issues like Citizenship Amendment Act and the abrogation of Article 370 on the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, as opposed to Biden’s opposition to those issues.Biden campaign’s position on Article 370 and the CAA has indeed antagonised a section of Indian Americans and has led to talk that a Biden administration will be less friendly to India.The former vice-president has sought to address those concerns and assured the community that relations with India will be a “high priority” for his administration if elected. He promised that his administration will also prevent China from acting with “impunity” and show no tolerance for cross-border terrorism, putting Pakistan on notice. He also rolled out an expansive plan for Indian Americans, focusing on hate crimes and immigration.As part of its outreach to the community, the Trump campaign has released a video of clip from Howdy Modi and Namaste Trump events the president attended with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the US and India respectively, highlighting their relationship and support of the cheering crowds.The community is being wooed aggressively by both parties, as the survey findings showed — 56% reported being contacted by Democrats and 58% by Republicans compared to merely 31% by any party in 2016, far below then 44% for white voters and 42% for white voters.The reasons fairly simple. Trump won the 2016 election with narrow victory margins in key battleground states, which he can hold on to with the support of Indian Americans, or lose them if Democrats are able to persuade the community to vote for Biden, and in larger numbers.Indian Americans have the numbers that both Biden and Trump would want in these states. “Indian Americans are positioned to make a difference in several swing states that may be close in this election, such as Florida ( 87,000 ), Pennsylvania (61,000), Georgia (57,000), Michigan (45,000), and North Carolina (36,000), and perhaps even Texas, which has 160,000 Indian-American voters,” said Karthick Ramakrishnan, professor of public policy and political science at UC Riverside, and founder of AAPI Data.He added that a high turnout driven by Senator Kamala Harris’s “historic vice-presidential nomination” and the “highly publicised” Houston and Ahmedabad rallies that Trump and Modi held together “could make a huge difference in this election”.M R Rangaswami, founder of Indiaspora, said, “Given the Indian diaspora’s increasing political importance in the US, it’s no surprise they are being courted by both sides of the aisle.”He added: “It’s great that both major political parties have begun to realise just how critical it is to reach out to Indian Americans – our impact is only going to increase over time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-indian-americans-back-biden-but-trump-gains-ground-says-poll/story-Wj2ycVlEnd8M10X25mEZiK.html
16-09-2020||World||‘I never stopped learning from his wisdom’: Bill Gates shares heartfelt blog post after father’s death||Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates paid a heartfelt tribute to his father William Henry Gates II, who died on Monday in the United States. He was 94.In a blog post, Gates said his father lived a long and meaningful life and his passing away is a “tremendous loss for our family”.“I never stopped learning from his wisdom, kindness, and humility. Melinda and I owe him a special debt because his commitment to serving the community and the world helped inspire our own philanthropy,” Gates wrote in the blog post.“As I’ve said many times before, my dad was the real Bill Gates. He was all the things I strive to be,” he further said.Gates saw his middle child grow from a headstrong boy to one of the most admired business leaders of his generation who became the world’s second richest person, with a net worth of more than $123 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. When Bill Gates started giving away the billions he’d made as co-founder of Microsoft Corporation he turned to his father to advise his charitable foundation.“I never imagined that the frequently argumentative little boy I faced each night at dinner, the one eating my food and using my name, was to be my future employer,” Gates said in a 2003 speech to fellow members of Rotary International, a worldwide service organization.The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which his father helped set up, has committed more than $50 billion to expand childhood immunisation, eradicate polio, provide seeds to African farmers and improve American public schools, according to its website.The cause of Henry Gates’ death was Alzheimer’s disease, his family said in an announcement on Tuesday. He was born November 30, 1925, in Bremerton, Washington.In addition to his son, Bill, he is survived by his wife; his daughters, Kristianne Blake, who is known as Kristi, and Elizabeth MacPhee, who is known as Libby; and eight grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-never-stopped-learning-from-his-wisdom-bill-gates-shared-heartfelt-blog-post-after-father-s-death/story-g6DkeakLH6v6ugRHOPiIlO.html
16-09-2020||World||Yoshihide Suga elected as Japan’s new prime minister, will succeed Shinzo Abe||Japanese ruling party leader Yoshihide Suga was elected prime minister in a parliamentary vote Wednesday, becoming the country’s first new premier in nearly eight years.Suga’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party used its majority in the powerful lower house of parliament, which is empowered to pick the premier, to elect him to lead the world’s third largest economy as it tries to recover from the coronavirus pandemic. Following the vote, Suga is due to enter the Prime Minister’s Office as the new leader and name his cabinet later in the day.Suga’s appointment, two days after he was selected as LDP leader, brings the curtain down on outgoing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s record run of almost eight consecutive years in the country’s top job. The 71-year-old Suga, who previously served as Abe’s right-hand man, has pledged to keep in place his former boss’s flexible fiscal stance and ultra-easy monetary policy known as “Abenomics.”Any sign of a departure from Abenomics could send the yen surging and stocks sliding, triggering a re-evaluation of the outlook for the nation. The Topix index briefly fell when Abe announced on Aug. 28 his intent to resign, but quickly steadied itself since then, with market players seeing Suga as embracing continuity.In contrast with Abe’s rarefied political pedigree, Suga hails from a rural area in northern Japan and took a job in a cardboard box factory when he first moved to Tokyo. He worked his way through university, before starting his political career as a secretary to a politician. He was first elected to parliament in 1996.Suga’s home of Akita prefecture, where his family farmed strawberries, is one of the areas most affected by the economic malaise born of Japan’s shrinking and aging population.While Suga has pledged to pick reformers for his cabinet, Kyodo News and other media reports say he has already decided to retain key players Finance Minister Taro Aso and Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi. LDP Secretary General Toshihiro Nikai, a veteran political broker, will also stay in place under the new administration, the party announced Tuesday.The role of chief cabinet secretary -- which Suga held for a record term -- will be given to Katsunobu Kato, a former Finance Ministry bureaucrat who most recently served as health minister, according to public broadcaster NHK.Abe’s younger brother, Nobuo Kishi, will become defense minister, NHK reported, while current Defense Minister Taro Kono will take over as minister for administrative reform.Speculation about an early general election has simmered following a surge in support for the cabinet. Suga has repeatedly said it would be difficult to hold a vote while the coronavirus outbreak is still spreading. The power to dissolve parliament for a general election lies with the prime minister, and none need be held for another year.Suga has been outspoken on some specific issues, including the need for more competition among mobile phone providers to reduce costs for households. He has said Japan has too many regional financial institutions, and he is a strong proponent of introducing casino resorts to bolster tourism.While Suga has little direct experience in diplomacy, he has said that Japan’s alliance with the U.S. will remain the cornerstone of its foreign policy and that he wants to maintain stable ties with China, his country’s biggest trading partner.Local media, including national public broadcaster NHK and Kyodo News, have compiled lists of the likely lineup that will be announced in the afternoon. Here’s who they say will be in the cabinet:(Updates with lower house vote on Suga.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/yoshihide-suga-elected-as-japan-s-new-prime-minister/story-EQHB2zzVA8Pkxicdf4ci4J.html
16-09-2020||World||Japan’s PM Shinzo Abe resigns, clearing way for successor||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Cabinet resigned, clearing the way for his successor to take over after parliamentary confirmation later Wednesday.Abe, Japan’s longest-serving prime minister, announced last month that he was stepping down because of health problems.“I devoted my body and soul for the economic recovery and diplomacy to protect Japan’s national interest every single day since we returned to power,” Abe told reporters at the prime minister’s office before heading into his final Cabinet meeting. “During this time, I was able to tackle various challenges together with the people, and I’m proud of myself.”He said his health is improving thanks to treatment and that he, as a lawmaker, will support his successor-to-be, Yoshihide Suga, from now on. He also thanked the people for their understanding and strong support for the upcoming leadership under Suga.Suga, chief Cabinet secretary for Abe’s government and long seen as his right-hand man, was chosen Monday as the new head of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, virtually guaranteeing his election as prime minister in a parliamentary vote Wednesday because of the party’s majority.Suga, a self-made politician and the son of a strawberry grower in the northern prefecture of Akita, has stressed his background in promising to serve the interests of ordinary people and rural communities.He has said he will pursue Abe’s unfinished policies, and that his top priorities will be fighting the coronavirus and turning around an economy battered by the pandemic. He gained the support of party heavyweights and their followers early in the campaign on expectations he would continue Abe’s line.Suga has been a loyal supporter of Abe since Abe’s first stint as prime minister from 2006 to 2007. Abe’s tenure ended abruptly because of illness, and Suga helped him return as prime minister in 2012.Abe, 65, has ulcerative colitis and his current treatment requires IV injections. He said last month his condition has improved but, facing ongoing treatment and physical weakness, he decided to resign.Suga has praised Abe’s diplomacy and economic policies when asked about what he would like to accomplish as prime minister.Suga, who does not belong to any wing within the party and opposes factionalism, says he is a reformer who will break down vested interests and rules that hamper reforms. He says he will set up a new government agency to speed up Japan’s lagging digital transformation.In a reshuffle of the ruling party key posts, however, Suga evenly allocated top posts to key factions, a balancing act seen as a return of favor for their support in the leadership race.Suga said he will appoint “reform-minded, hard-working people” to the new Cabinet, to be launched later Wednesday. About half of the members in the Abe Cabinet are expected to be retained or shifted to different ministerial posts.Media reports say some key ministers, including Finance Minister Taro Aso, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi, Olympic Minister Seiko Hashimoto, and Environment Minister Shinjiro Koizumi, the son of former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, will stay. Abe’s younger brother, Nobuo Kishi, is reportedly tapped as defense minister, replacing Taro Kono who is expected be shifted to administrative reforms minister.Compared to his political prowess at home, Suga has hardly traveled overseas and his diplomatic skills are unknown, though he is largely expected to pursue Abe’s priorities.The new prime minister will inherit a range of challenges, including relations with China, which continues its assertive actions in the contested East China Sea, and what to do with the Tokyo Olympics, which were postponed to next summer due to the coronavirus. And he will have to establish a good relationship with whomever wins the U.S. presidential race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-pm-shinzo-abe-resigns-clearing-way-for-successor/story-Bp9YjAUMzNoDtYhhP8BT6O.html
16-09-2020||World||Donald Trump says coronavirus vaccine could be ready in a month||US President Donald Trump said Tuesday that a coronavirus vaccine may be available within a month -- an acceleration of even his own optimistic predictions -- but added that the pandemic could go away by itself.“We’re very close to having a vaccine,” he told a town hall question-and-answer session with voters in Pennsylvania aired on ABC News.“We’re within weeks of getting it you know -- could be three weeks, four weeks,” he said.Only hours earlier, speaking to Fox News, Trump had said a vaccine could come in “four weeks, it could be eight weeks.”Democrats have expressed concern that Trump is putting political pressure on government health regulators and scientists to approve a rushed vaccine in time to help turn around his uphill bid for reelection against challenger Joe Biden on November 3.Experts including top US government infectious diseases doctor Anthony Fauci say vaccine approval is more likely toward the end of the year.At the ABC town hall Trump was asked why he’d downplayed the gravity of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has now killed close to 200,000 people in the US.Trump replied by saying: “I didn’t downplay it. I actually, in many ways, I up-played it in terms of action.”But Trump himself told journalist Bob Woodward during taped interviews for the new book “Rage” -- published Tuesday -- that he had deliberately decided to “play it down” to avoid alarming Americans.- ‘Herd mentality’ -Returning to one of his most controversial views on the virus, that has ravaged the economy and which government scientists say will remain a danger for some time, Trump insisted “it is going to disappear.”“It would go away without the vaccine but it’s going to go away a lot faster with it,” he said.Challenged about how the virus would go away by itself, he said “you’ll develop like a herd mentality,” apparently meaning the concept of herd immunity, when enough people have developed resistance to the disease to effectively stop transmission.“It’s going to be herd developed and that’s going to happen. That will all happen but with a vaccine, I think it will go away very quickly. But I really believe we’re rounding the corner,” he said.The president, who is rarely seen wearing a mask in public and long refused to push Americans to adopt the habit, said “a lot of people don’t want to wear masks and people don’t think masks are good.”Asked what people he meant, Trump answered: “Waiters.”“They come over and they serve you and they have a mask,” he said. “I saw it the other day when they were serving me and they’re playing with the mask. I’m not blaming them. I’m just saying what happens: They’re playing with the mask. So the mask is over, and they’re touching it, and then they’re touching the plate, and that can’t be good.”Polls show that a majority of Americans disapprove of Trump’s handling of the health crisis.The latest NBC News|SurveyMonkey Weekly Tracking poll Tuesday found that 52 percent of adults do not trust Trump’s statements about an upcoming coronavirus vaccine, compared to 26 percent who do.sms/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-coronavirus-vaccine-could-be-ready-in-a-month/story-IU204nB219gtY5G8Pi4bcM.html
16-09-2020||World||US wildfires bring climate crisis to election campaign||The raging wildfires in the US West Coast have brought climate crisis to the forefront of the election campaign, with Democratic challenger Joe Biden attacking Republican President Donald Trump for his attitude towards the issue.While touring parts of California, Trump on Monday reiterated his scepticism of climate change, saying, “It’ll start getting cooler, you just watch.” He said many other countries have “more explosive trees, meaning they catch fire much easier”, but they don’t have problems like this. “I think this is more of a management situation,” he added. “When you get into climate change, well, is India going to change its ways? And is China going to change its ways? And Russia? Is Russia going to change its ways?” Trump questioned after landing in McLellan Park in California.Calling Trump a “climate arsonist”, Biden pledged to rejoin the historic Paris Agreement on climate change if elected in the November 3 presidential election. “If we have four more years of Trump’s climate denial, how many suburbs will be burned by wildfires? How many suburban neighbourhoods will have been flooded out?” he asked in a policy speech on climate change.“While he (Trump) turned against our allies, I’ll bring us back into the Paris Agreement. I will put us back in the business of leading the world on climate change, and I will challenge every other country to up the ante on climate commitments.” The Paris accord committed the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and attempting to limit them even more, to a 1.5C rise. The decision by the US, one of the world’s top emitters of greenhouse gases, to exit the pact had led to condemnation from environmentalists and world leaders.Biden said, “I’ll also see American workers building and installing 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations along our newly engaged infrastructure programmes and highways all across the country.”Wildfires in 10 states including California have burnt down nearly 5 million acres of land and killed dozens of people.Local officials of Democrat-ruled California accepted the importance of forest management but argued climate change should be accepted as having played a role in the fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-wildfires-bring-climate-crisis-to-election-campaign/story-SDTePtXOEn3gnhxnRvPTWP.html
16-09-2020||World||CDC study on Covid-19 in US shows greater toll on Black, Hispanic youth||A study by the United States’ Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has shown that a disproportionate percentage of Covid-19 deaths have been recorded among Black and Hispanic people younger than 21.The CDC reported that from February 12 through July 31, there were 121 deaths among people younger than the age of 21 in 27 states.These people, including non-Hispanic American Indian, accounted for about 75 per cent of the deaths in that age group, even though they represent 41 per cent of the US population aged under 21.The researchers looked at data from 47 of the 50 states.Deaths among children younger than one accounted for 10 per cent of the total, 20 per cent of the deaths were among one-to-nine-year olds, while those aged between 10 and 20 years accounted for the rest.The study appeared in the CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.The CDC on Tuesday reported 6,537,627 cases of the new coronavirus, an increase of 34,597 cases from its previous count, and said the number of deaths had risen by 387 to 194,092.Meanwhile, the number of fatalities linked to a wedding reception in Maine rose to seven on Tuesday. The reception held over the summer had violated state virus guidelines.The August wedding reception at the Big Moose Inn in Millinocket is linked to more than 175 confirmed cases of the virus, the Maine Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said on Tuesday.The virus cases stemming from the wedding have spanned hundreds of miles in a state that had largely controlled the spread of the coronavirus through the summer. Maine has reported less than 5,000 cases of the virus in total since March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-study-on-covid-19-in-us-shows-greater-toll-on-black-hispanic-youth/story-8A5pYFgB3HshrT8nDvECTM.html
16-09-2020||World||Fear of more coronavirus-like pandemics as land rights ‘under siege’||Governments’ failure to recognise the land rights of indigenous communities and their role in protecting biodiversity could lead to more coronavirus-like pandemics, researchers said on Tuesday.A study of more than 40 countries found many local people’s land claims were being ignored, amid increasing deforestation and wildlife exploitation, which may be contributing to a rise in diseases, like Covid-19, that pass from animals to humans.“Despite compelling evidence that indigenous peoples, local communities, and Afro-descendants protect most of the world’s remaining biodiversity, they are under siege from all sides,” said Andy White of the Rights and Resources Initiative (RRI).“Our work suggests the answer is to invest in the countries and communities that are ready to scale up land rights. Failure to do so puts at risk the health of the planet and all of its people,” White, the study’s co-author, said in a statement.The study by the RRI - an alliance of more than 150 organisations advocating for community land rights - comes ahead of a United Nations pledge expected to be agreed in 2021 to set aside 30% of the planet’s land and sea for conservation by 2030.Despite local people managing and protecting 50% of the area studied - which included Brazil, India, China, Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Indonesia - governments recognised only half of community land claims, RRI said.This needs to be addressed urgently, said researchers, as a growing number of zoonotic diseases – including Ebola, MERS, West Nile fever, Zika, SARS and Rift Valley fever – have recently jumped from animal hosts into the human population.The most dramatic example is the new coronavirus, which is believed to have emerged in a market in China last year after jumping the species barrier from the animal kingdom to infect humans. It has killed more than 930,000 people so far.Anthony Waldron, a conservation finance researcher based at Cambridge University, said securing indigenous peoples’ land rights was key to stemming the spread of such diseases.“If there is chaotic development in a forest where people and wildlife are coming more into contact with one another, then it’s only a matter of time before a virus jumps into the human population,” he told a virtual briefing.“If you don’t have defined land rights, you don’t know who owns what part and anyone can happily invade. If you have clearly defined land rights ... which indigenous groups can manage ... there is smaller risk those viruses can jump.”About 60% of known infectious diseases in humans and 75% of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic, largely due to the increased interaction between humans, animals and the environment, according to the United Nations.Most efforts to control zoonotic diseases have been reactive rather than proactive, said environmental experts, calling on governments to invest in public health, farm sustainability, end over-exploitation of wildlife and reduce climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fear-of-more-coronavirus-like-pandemics-as-land-rights-under-siege/story-tP5AUzzUkp6I8RG1RyegeM.html
16-09-2020||World||US broke trade rules by putting tariffs on China, finds WTO||The World Trade Organization found on Tuesday that the United States breached global trading rules by imposing multibillion-dollar tariffs in President Donald Trump’s trade war with China, a ruling that drew anger from Washington.The Trump administration says its tariffs imposed two years ago on more than $200 billion in Chinese goods were justified because China was stealing intellectual property and forcing US companies to transfer technology for access to China’s markets.But the WTO’s three-member panel said the US duties broke trading rules because they applied only to China and were above maximum rates agreed to by the United States. Washington had not then adequately explained why its measures were a justified exception, the panel concluded.“This panel report confirms what the Trump administration has been saying for four years: the WTO is completely inadequate to stop China’s harmful technology practices,” US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in response.China’s Commerce Ministry said Beijing supported the multilateral trading system and respected WTO rules and rulings, and hoped Washington would do the same.The decision will have little immediate effect on the US tariffs and is just the start of a legal process that could take years to play out, ultimately leading to the WTO approving retaliatory measures if it is upheld - moves that China has already taken on its own.The United States is likely to appeal Tuesday’s ruling. That would put the case into a legal void, however, because Washington has already blocked the appointment of judges to the WTO’s appellate body, preventing it from convening the minimum number required to hear cases.The WTO panel was aware it was stepping into hot water. It noted that it had looked only into the US measures and not China’s retaliation, which Washington has not challenged at the WTO.“The panel is very much aware of the wider context in which the WTO system currently operates, which is one reflecting a range of unprecedented global trade tensions,” the 66-page report concluded.‘Take stock’The panel recommended the United States bring its measures “into conformity with its obligations”, but also encouraged the two sides to work to resolve the overall dispute.“Time is available for the parties to take stock as proceedings evolve and further consider opportunities for mutually agreed and satisfactory solutions,” it said.During a two-year trade war with Beijing, Trump threatened tariffs on nearly all Chinese imports - more than $500 billion - before the two countries signed a “Phase 1” trade deal in January. Extra tariffs are still in place on some $370 billion worth of Chinese goods, and $62.16 billion in duties have been collected since July 2018, US Customs data https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/stats/trade show.Trump has described the WTO as “horrible” and biased towards China, often threatening to quit.As he left the White House for a campaign rally, Trump said he would “have to do something about the WTO because they’ve let China get away with murder.”He said he needed to take a closer look at the ruling, but added: “I’m not a big fan of the WTO - that I can tell you right now. Maybe they did us a big favor.”The decision could help fuel a Trump decision to leave the WTO or underpin US arguments for reforming the 25-year-old trade body, said Margaret Cekuta, a former USTR official who helped write a crucial report on China’s intellectual property abuses that preceded Trump’s tariffs.“It gives the administration ammo to say the WTO is out of date. If they can’t rule on intellectual property rights, then what is their position in the broader economy going forward?” said Cekuta, now a principal with the Capitol Counsel lobbying firm.Trump, critical of multilateral institutions, has already quit the U.N. cultural organisation UNESCO and plans to leave the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-broke-trade-rules-by-putting-tariffs-on-china-finds-wto/story-Fx86ho7pFB4W6uWrTzddbO.html
16-09-2020||World||In coronavirus vaccine race, China inoculates thousands before trials are completed||China is inoculating tens of thousands of its citizens with experimental coronavirus vaccines and attracting international interest in their development, despite expert concerns over the safety of drugs that have not completed standard testing.China launched a vaccine emergency use programme in July, offering three experimental shots developed by a unit of state pharmaceutical giant China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) and US-listed Sinovac Biotech. A fourth Covid-19 vaccine being developed by CanSino Biologics was approved for use by the Chinese military in June.Aiming to protect essential workers and reduce the likelihood of a resurgence, the vaccines are also grabbing attention in the global scramble by governments to secure supplies, potentially helping reframe China’s perceived role in the pandemic.Beijing has not released official data on the uptake in domestic targeted groups, which include medical, transport and food market workers.But China National Biotec Group (CNBG), the Sinopharm unit developing two of the emergency use vaccines, and Sinovac have confirmed that at least tens of thousands of people have been inoculated. Additionally, CNBG said it had given hundreds of thousands of doses; one of its vaccines requires an individual receive two or three shots to be inoculated.Beijing has engaged a public, top-down approach to endorse the experimental vaccines and foster community support. Among those lining up for shots early on were the chief executives of Sinovac and Sinopharm and the military’s research chief.The chief biosafety expert at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) revealed this week that she too had been injected in April as she announced the potential that at least some of the vaccines would be ready for public use as early as November.“So far, among the people who who were vaccinated, no one has been sick with the disease,” Guizhen Wu said on state TV. “So far, (the vaccination scheme) works very well. No side effect occurred.”Wu’s comments were broadly in line with comments by CNBG last week that none of tens of thousands of people who travelled to high-risk countries and regions after being vaccinated had been infected, and there was “no case of obvious adverse reaction”.SAFETY CONCERNSChina’s approach runs counter to that of many Western countries, where experts have warned against authorizing the emergency use of vaccines that have not completed testing, citing a lack of understanding about longer-term efficacy and potential side effects.Anna Durbin, a vaccine researcher at Johns Hopkins University, described China’s emergency use programme as “very problematic,” saying it was impossible to judge efficacy without a clinical trial standard control group.“You’re vaccinating people and you don’t know if it’s going to protect them,” Durbin told Reuters, adding recipients of the experimental vaccines could eschew other protective measures.Vaccine safety came into sharp focus last week when AstraZeneca Plc paused late-stage clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine, one of the most advanced in development.The company resumed British trials over the weekend after receiving the green light from safety watchdogs, and, along with other leading Western vaccine makers has pledged to uphold scientific study standards and reject any political pressure to rush the process.Russia is one of the few other countries to authorise the use of an experimental vaccine, making its own “Sputnik V” vaccine mandatory for certain groups including teachers. India is considering emergency authorization for a vaccine, particularly for the elderly and people in high-risk workplaces.FOREIGN BUYERSThe UAE authorized the emergency use of a Sinopharm vaccine this week, the first international emergency clearance for one of China’s vaccines, just six weeks after human trials began in the Gulf Arab state. UAE officials reported mild and expected side effects, but no severe side effects, during those trials.CanSino has been approached by several countries, a source familiar with the discussions told Reuters, adding the military’s approval helped attract foreign interest. The person declined to name the countries engaged in talks.CanSino, which has trials planned in Pakistan and Russia for the vaccine developed with China’s military research unit, did not respond to a request for comment.Zhang Yuntao, CNBG vice president told Reuters his company has received interest from foreign countries to buy about 500 million doses of its experimental vaccine.“China clearly wants to reorient that narrative in a way that it is viewed as a solution rather than a cause of the pandemic,” Yanzhong Huang, Senior Fellow for Global Health, Council on Foreign Relations, a U.S.-based think tank.“That narrative, ironically, may become more convincing when Trump’s America First approach denies many countries opportunities to access the US-made vaccines.”Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Monday vowed to prioritise China and Russia in his country’s global shopping for a vaccine, saying his government had already had talks with both. He said China was unlike other countries seeking a “reservation fee” or advance payment.“The one good thing about China is you do not have to beg, you do not have to plead,” Duterte said. “One thing wrong about the western countries; it’s all profit, profit, profit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-coronavirus-vaccine-race-china-inoculates-thousands-before-trials-are-completed/story-bwU5PrUfpYy946AFrfiE6M.html
16-09-2020||World||Novavax doubles aims for 2 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses with expanded India deal||U.S. drug developer Novavax Inc said on Tuesday it was doubling its potential Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing capacity to two billion doses annually under an agreement with Serum Institute of India, sending its shares up about 7%. In August, Novavax signed a deal with Serum Institute, the world’s largest producer of vaccines, to produce a minimum of one billion doses of its vaccine candidate, when approved, for low- and middle-income countries and India.As part of the expanded agreement, Serum Institute will also manufacture the antigen component of the vaccine, dubbed NVX‑CoV2373, which Novavax said will bring its manufacturing capacity to over two billion doses by mid-2021.Novavax’s vaccine is currently in mid-stage trials after an early-stage study showed it produced high levels of antibodies against the novel coronavirus. The company plans to begin late-stage trials in the third quarter. Last month, Novavax said it will supply 60 million doses of its coronavirus vaccine candidate to the UK beginning as early as the first quarter of 2021.The company is also preparing to deliver 100 million doses to the United States by January after it was awarded $1.6 billion for its potential vaccine, and has also signed supply agreements with Canada and Japan.Other drugmakers such as Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc have already begun large late-stage studies of their experimental vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/novavax-doubles-aims-for-2-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-with-expanded-india-deal/story-0YjPq6LsPg42mvkVuRjpJK.html
16-09-2020||World||Nepal wakes up to 6.0 magnitude earthquake, no damage reported||An earthquake of magnitude 6.0 on the Richter scale jolted central Nepal on Wednesday morning. The epicentre of the tremor has been recorded at Ramche of Sindhupalchok district which has already been ravaged by flood and landslide and earthquake of 2015.“An earthquake of magnitude 6.0 occurred around Ramche of Sindhupalchok district at 5:19 am,” the National Seismological Centre tweeted minutes after the tremors.The tremors were felt in the most eastern part of the country as well. “It is a continued aftershock of 2015’s earthquake,” Chief Seismologist of NSC Lok Bijay Adhikari confirmed to ANI over the phone.No damages have been reported yet from the epicentre of the earthquake.“Since the jolt was felt, we haven’t received any reports of damage or loss of human lives. We have already contacted all the wards inside the district to confirm if any mishap occurred or anybody needs any assistance. As of now, we haven’t received any information on the matter,” Rajan Adhikari, Superintendent of Police stationed at Sindhupalchowk, confirmed to ANI in a telephonic conversation.In 2015, nearly 10,000 people had lost their lives and thousands were injured when an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.9 Richter scale had struck the Himalayan nation. Sindhupalchok, one of the epicentres of the earthquake, had suffered the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-wakes-up-to-6-0-magnitude-earthquake-no-damage-reported/story-xvmRJXCxxklwdPXFUuUm3I.html
16-09-2020||World||Joe Biden courts Latino voters in 1st trip to Florida as nominee||Joe Biden made his first trip to Florida as the Democratic presidential nominee on Tuesday with an urgent mission to boost support among Latinos who could decide the election in one of the nation’s fiercest battleground states.“More than any other time, the Hispanic community, Latino community holds in the palm of their hand the destiny of this country,” Biden said during a Hispanic Heritage Month kickoff event in Kissimmee. “You can decide the direction of this country.”A win for Biden in Florida would dramatically narrow Trump’s path to reelection. But in a state where elections are often decided by a percentage point, there are mounting concerns that Biden may be slipping, particularly with the state’s influential Latino voters.An NBC-Marist poll released last week found Latinos in the state about evenly divided between Biden and Trump. Democrat Hillary Clinton led Trump by a 59% to 36% margin among Latinos in the same poll in 2016 — and Trump won Florida by about 1 percentage point.To regain lost ground, Biden made the case Tuesday night that he would be a better president for Hispanics than Trump, touting his commitment to immigration reform and a new plan to support Puerto Rico’s economy.“Donald Trump has failed the Hispanic community time and time again, and that’s not a secret,” Biden said. “Whether it’s in his heinous act of separating children from their families at our border, or his repeated attacks on Dreamers, or his neglect of the people of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, or his repeated failures to make sure essential workers have the personal protective equipment they need.”Still, Hispanic voters in Florida tend to be somewhat more Republican-leaning than Hispanic voters nationwide because of the state’s Cuban American population. Nationally, little public polling is available to measure the opinions of Latino voters this year and whether they differ from four years ago.But Democrats aren’t taking chances. Billionaire Mike Bloomberg has pledged to spend at least $100 million to defeat Trump in Florida.And by spending his day along the Interstate 4 corridor, Biden is devoting time to one of the most critical regions of the state. While Republicans typically post big numbers in the northern and southwestern parts of the state and Democrats are strong in coastal cities, campaigns typically battle it out for every vote in central Florida.Biden’s first event, in Tampa, focused on veterans and was aimed at pushing a potential opening with military voters, who broadly supported Trump in 2016 but are seen as potentially persuadable because of controversial remarks the president reportedly made mocking American war dead as “losers” and “suckers.” Trump has denied making the remarks, first reported through anonymous sources by The Atlantic, but many of the comments were later confirmed by The Associated Press.“Nowhere are his faults more glaring and more offensive, to me at least, than when it comes to his denigration of our service members, veterans, wounded warriors who have fallen,” Biden said. Speaking of his late son Beau, who served overseas as a Delaware Army National Guard member, Biden said, “He’s gone now, but he’s no sucker.”Biden spoke about his experience as vice president escorting military caskets home and working on military issues, and about his own commitments to strengthen the Department of Veterans Affairs and tackle the mental health crisis among veterans. And he attacked Trump for what he said were failed promises to veterans.“President Trump likes to say he passed VA Choice, but just like everything else he seems to say, it’s a figment of his imagination or a flat-out lie,” he said, referencing a program passed under the Obama administration that steers more patients to the private sector.Biden’s decision to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month in Kissimmee reflects a focus on the state’s rapidly growing Puerto Rican community. Many Puerto Ricans relocated to Florida after Hurricane Maria devastated the island in 2017.The campaign announced a new plan Tuesday focused on boosting Puerto Rico’s economy and helping the island recover from Maria. Biden would create a federal working group focused on aiding Puerto Rico in rebuilding and would forgive disaster relief loans to Puerto Rican towns, expand a food stamp program to residents, invest in Puerto Rico’s power and schooling infrastructure and health care services, and help alleviate the territory’s massive debt load.Biden expressed support for Puerto Rican statehood on Tuesday night, though he said the decision should be left up to the U.S. territory’s residents.Puerto Ricans may be more open to Biden than Cuban Americans concentrated in Miami are. Many of them are attuned to Trump’s message that the Democratic ticket would embrace socialism.Indeed, surrogates for the Trump campaign focused on Cuban immigrants during a call with reporters. Florida Lt. Gov. Jeanette Nunez, a Republican, accused Biden of trying to “feign interest in the Hispanic community” after “neglecting us.”She said a Biden presidency would, among other things, appease and enrich Cuba’s leadership at the expense of the people. Some foreign policy analysts, however, say the Trump administration’s tough economic restrictions on Cuba only contribute to the oppression of the Cuban people.Biden, who hasn’t been to Florida since last October, has struggled with Latinos in part because of the record-setting number of deportations when President Barack Obama was in the White House. Biden has apologized for that policy.But unlike his Democratic rival Bernie Sanders, who used strong support among Latinos to notch key primary victories in Nevada and California, Biden has refused to adopt the most liberal positions in his party — especially when it comes to calling for decriminalizing illegal crossings of the U.S.-Mexico border and halting all deportations indefinitely. He supports a 100-day moratorium on deportations.As for Trump, despite many of his anti-immigration policies, some Latino voters have responded positively to the president’s embrace of religious conservative positions and his warnings of protest-related violence and socialism. Trump also frequently visits his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and the president votes absentee in the state.As Biden campaigned in Florida, Sen. Kamala Harris made her first trip to her home state of California as his running mate. She toured wildfire damage in the small foothill community of Auberry, declaring that federal disaster aid is “not a partisan issue” in response to Trump’s threats to withhold aid from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-courts-latino-voters-in-1st-trip-to-florida-as-nominee/story-Z1PhbepMB4fuwnUWWkrHuK.html
16-09-2020||World||Oracle ‘very close’ to deal with TikTok, says Trump||President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he had heard Oracle Corp was very close to a deal over ByteDance’s TikTok, even as sources said the Chinese company was seeking to keep majority ownership of the popular short video app.Trump has ordered ByteDance to divest TikTok amid US concerns user data could be passed to China’s Communist Party government. He has threatened to ban TikTok in the United States as early as Sunday if ByteDance does not comply.Under ByteDance’s proposal, however, the Beijing-based company would keep a majority stake in TikTok’s global business and create headquarters for TikTok in the United States, the sources said. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Monday that ByteDance has also offered to create 20,000 US jobs with TikTok.Also read: What does a deal between TikTok and Oracle mean?Oracle would become ByteDance’s technology partner responsible for the management of TikTok’s data and take a minority stake in TikTok, the sources added.“I heard they are very close to a deal,” Trump said, adding his administration would be making a decision soon on whether to approve it, and that he was a fan of Oracle’s Chairman Larry Ellison.The ByteDance proposal calls for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), the US government panel that is overseeing the deal talks, to supervise how TikTok will be operated, one of the sources said.Mnuchin, who chairs CFIUS, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross were meeting at the White House on Tuesday to consider ByteDance’s proposal, two of the sources said.It is unclear whether Trump will approve ByteDance’s proposal, the sources said, requesting anonymity because the deliberations are confidential. The White House, ByteDance and Oracle did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Signing off on a deal for TikTok that would allow ByteDance to retain majority ownership would represent a U-turn for Trump and the US government agencies and departments that comprise CFIUS.Trump signed an executive order on Aug. 14 calling on ByteDance to divest TikTok in the United States.In its lawsuit against Trump’s previous executive order, dated Aug. 6, which calls on TikTok to be banned, the app said CFIUS had not identified any mitigation measures that would address the national security risks, despite TikTok proposing to bring in “trusted US technology partners,” as it has now branded Oracle.Some CFIUS experts said the deal’s approval would signal a major departure from the traditional national security reviews of deals driven by US civil servants. “Nothing about this transaction is usual. It appears to be in the hands of the politicians rather than the professional CFIUS staff,” said Paul Marquardt, a regulatory lawyer at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP. “What is extraordinary here is how public and political the process is, and the continuation of negotiations after the issuance of a divestiture order.”While TikTok is best known for dancing videos that go viral among teenagers, US officials have had concerns since last year about whether the personal information of its 100 million US users could be compromised under its Chinese owner.ByteDance’s plan calls for restrictions in its control of TikTok, the sources said. It asks CFIUS to agree to operational arrangements similar to those it put in place when it allowed SoftBank Group Corp to acquire US wireless carrier Sprint in 2013, according to the sources. These could include the US government approving board directors at TikTok, as well as its relationships with major vendors, the sources said.ByteDance is also hoping that Ellison’s fundraising for Trump, as well as Oracle Chief Executive Safra Catz’s backing of Trump’s transition team four years ago, will boost its chances, Reuters has reported.Deal does not envisage payment to US governmentByteDance’s top investors - General Atlantic, Sequoia Capital and Coatue Management LLC - have discussed taking minority stakes in TikTok, though their participation in the deal remains uncertain, one of the sources said.Also uncertain is Walmart Inc’s participation in the deal, after Microsoft Corp, which the retail giant had aligned with, was rejected by ByteDance.Walmart and the investment firms did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Trump said last month “a very substantial portion” of any proceeds ByteDance receives from selling a stake in TikTok should go to the US government “because we’re making it possible for this deal to happen.” ByteDance’s proposal, however, does not envision paying any such fee.China also got involved in the process last month, updating its export control rules to give it a say over the transfer of technology, such as TikTok’s recommendation algorithm, to a foreign buyer. Chinese officials have said ByteDance should not be coerced by the United States into a deal.Reuters reported last week that China’s government would rather see TikTok shut down in the United States than see it be part of a forced sale.The proposed deal with Oracle would not require ByteDance to apply to Chinese authorities for an export license for TikTok’s algorithm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oracle-very-close-to-deal-with-tiktok-says-trump/story-rCphFakA7QTVh5CSY8zjXI.html
16-09-2020||World||Shooting outside US court in Phoenix wounds security officer||A drive-by shooting wounded a court security officer Tuesday outside the federal courthouse in downtown Phoenix, authorities said.City police said the officer was taken to a hospital and is expected to recover. Police also released a photo of a silver sedan that was spotted leaving the area of the courthouse.The court security officer works for the US Marshals Service and was struck in their protective vest, said a law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the investigation publicly.Court security officers work under the direction of the US Marshals Service but generally are employed by private security companies.The shooting came after the weekend ambush of two Los Angeles County deputies who were sitting in their parked police vehicle when a man walked up to the passenger’s side and fired multiple rounds.The deputies were struck in the head and critically wounded but are expected to recover. The gunman hasn’t been captured and a motive has not been determined.In Phoenix, City Councilman Sal DiCiccio said in a statement that the security officer was shot in front of the Sandra Day O’Connor US Courthouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shooting-outside-us-court-in-phoenix-wounds-security-officer/story-yd8qiafXPdLWnJG6AWjJIP.html
16-09-2020||World||Poland seeks more flu vaccines amid shortage during Covid-19 pandemic||The Polish government is trying to secure more flu vaccines from international producers amid a national shortage fuelled by higher demand during the coronavirus pandemic, Poland’s health minister said Tuesday.Health Minister Adam Niedzielski said Poland generally has very low flu vaccinations rates and is seeing a vaccine shortage now because orders for this fall and winter were based on last year’s demand. He told Radio Zet that his ministry met Monday with key vaccine suppliers to explore the possibility of getting more vaccine shipments.During the last flu season, only about 1.5 million people, or 4% of Poland’s population of 38 million people, were vaccinated for the flu, he said. Some 100,000 vaccines went used.The low flu vaccination rates in Poland are the result of wide distrust in pharmaceutical companies and in vaccinations.During the swine flu outbreak 10 years ago, Poland was the only country worldwide to reject the vaccines over safety fears and distrust in drug companies. When that outbreak proved not as deadly as some initially feared, many Poles felt their government was vindicated.But fears of Covid-19 have created an unprecedented demand for flu vaccines. The Gazeta Wyborcza daily reported Tuesday that pharmacies across Poland are unable to meet demand and have created waiting lists for future deliveries.Tomasz Leleno, spokesman for the Polish Pharmacological Chamber, said he expects the situation to improve with new deliveries in late September and early October.Health experts are stressing that the seasonal flu vaccine is especially important this year because reducing the number of flu cases helps preserve medical resources for treating Covid-19 patients.“Both are respiratory illnesses and it’s likely that they would put a strain on the same parts of the health care system at the same time,” the health minister of Poland’s western neighbor, Germany, said Tuesday.Jens Spahn said Germany has ordered 26 million doses of vaccine for this flu season, a significant increase compared to the 18-19 million doses the country normally buys.“If we manage, together, to get the flu vaccination rate so high that all 26 million doses are actually used then I’d be a very happy health minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poland-seeks-more-flu-vaccines-amid-shortage-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-QwcvdmBQOpAuuk6DkAv6JJ.html
16-09-2020||World||Donald Trump’s aide apologises for video slamming Covid-19 scientists||A Trump health appointee who used his position to launch political attacks and is accused of trying to muzzle a government publication apologised Tuesday for a video in which he reportedly disparaged scientists battling the coronavirus and warned of violence after the elections.Michael Caputo, the top spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, apologised to his staff for the Facebook video, said an administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.The case of Caputo, a Trump loyalist and former New York political operative, has become the latest distraction for a White House still struggling to define its coronavirus response.He also can be heard on an HHS podcast asserting that Democrats don’t want a coronavirus vaccine in order to punish President Donald Trump.News reports alleged last week that his office tried to muzzle a scientific weekly published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Then on Monday came an account of a video on Caputo’s personal Facebook page in which he accused government scientists of conspiring against Trump and suggested “shooting” could break out after the election.Caputo was named the top HHS spokesman in April, during a tense period in relations between the White House and HHS Secretary Alex Azar.On a taxpayer-funded podcast earlier this summer he accused Democrats and the media of not wanting a coronavirus vaccine until after the elections in order to punish the president.“There are people in the United States government on the Democrats’ side ... (who) do not want a vaccine,” he said.“They don’t want a vaccine until November 4th,” he added, citing the day after the presidential election. It’s highly unusual to use an agency communications platform for such a blatantly political message.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOver the weekend, Caputo made headlines when Politico and The New York Times reported that his office had tried to gain control over a CDC publication known as the MMWR, or Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. In previous administrations, political appointees in the HHS secretary’s office maintained a hands-off policy with regard to the publication from CDC, which is under the department’s umbrella.The story took a strange turn on Monday, after the Times reported about a live video hosted by Caputo on his personal Facebook page. In it, Caputo reportedly accused government scientists of conspiring against Trump as part of a “resistance.”The message turned apocalyptic when Caputo reportedly predicted that Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden would refuse to concede defeat to Trump in the election, and violence would break out. The Associated Press was unable to independently view the video.HHS supported Caputo, with a statement that called him a “critical, integral part of the president’s coronavirus response, leading on public messaging as Americans need public health information to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic.”There was no immediate statement from the White House.Attempts to reach Caputo were unsuccessful.On Capitol Hill, Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., called on Azar to fire Caputo, accusing the spokesman of trying to interfere with CDC reports to the medical and scientific community, as well as the public at large. And Senate Minority leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., called on Azar himself to resign, citing interference with the CDC as one example of what he termed the administration’s failures.Officials at CDC have privately complained of recent efforts by political appointees at main HHS to try to edit or press for changes in the agency’s weekly MMWR publications, a go-to resource for public health professionals.“They have been trying to insert themselves into a lot, especially the MMWR, and they’re interested in editing it,” said a person outside the agency who spoke with insiders involved. The person providing the information spoke on condition of anonymity to describe private conversations.Also read: Donald Trump defies coronavirus rules as ‘peaceful protest’ rallies growMMWR articles are technical, but they reveal telling details. One published earlier this year noted that while Trump’s travel restrictions dramatically reduced travel from China in February, nothing was being done at that time to restrict travel from Italy and Europe, where the coronavirus was spreading widely and rapidly. Analysis of virus samples from hard-hit New York in March suggested it was introduced there from Europe and other parts of the US, the CDC article reported.Caputo is an unswerving Trump loyalist. His recent book, “The Ukraine Hoax,” claims the president’s “phony” impeachment was rooted in a vast conspiracy.His appointment at HHS was seen as an attempt by the White House to exert more control over Azar, whom other administration officials were trying to blame for the government’s slow response in the initial weeks of the pandemic.At HHS, he’s been closely affiliated with Operation Warp Speed, the government’s effort to have millions of doses of a Covid-19 vaccine ready for distribution as soon as one is approved by the Food and Drug Administration.Caputo interviewed Dr. Moncef Slaoui, a top outside adviser to the vaccine effort, on an HHS podcast July 31. Commiserating with Slaoui over news articles that were critical of the doctor, Caputo said:“There are people in the United States government on the Democrats side, we’ve seen these calls for all kinds of ethical stuff on you from the Democrats, they are calling for -- because they do not want a vaccine.“I know that’s hard to believe, but the people who are abusing you, and who are beating down Operation Warp Speed, and the incredible historic work that’s going on, they don’t want a vaccine until November 4th. I don’t want to talk about politics here, but November 3rd is an important day. They don’t want a vaccine now because of politics, sir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-aide-apologises-for-video-slamming-covid-19-scientists/story-KbJIYSz3VhltKIBosMJp0O.html
16-09-2020||World||UK hands over 3 stolen ancient idols to India||The British police on Tuesday handed over to India ancient idols of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita that were stolen from Tamil Nadu in 1978, as part of growing efforts to return artefacts of India’s cultural heritage from across the world.The handover ceremony at India House was attended by officials of the Metropolitan Police and remotely by Union minister for culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel from New Delhi, as well as officials in Chennai. The idols, being sent back to Tamil Nadu, were stolen from a temple built in the Vijayanagar period in the Nagapattinam district. They were voluntarily handed over to the police by an unidentified UK-based collector when informed that they were stolen property. Information from S Vijay Kumar of the India Pride Project helped trace and identify the idols, officials said.Patel said that only 13 antique items were returned to India between 1947 and 2014, but after that, more than 40 such antiquities have returned home. “Efforts are also on to return one idol from the British Museum”.Indian high commissioner Gaitri Kumar called it an “auspicious day” and thanked the police for their efforts to recover the idols. She recalled recent instances when idols stolen from India were recovered and repatriated to India by the mission.Detective chief inspector of the Metropolitan Police Tim Wright said: “The Metropolitan Police are proud to have been involved in the return of these Chola bronzes to India. Not only are they beautiful and historically significant, they are of course of religious importance, and therefore it is particularly gratifying that they are to be returned to the temple from which they were taken”. Indian officials said renewed impetus in recent years to the protection of India’s cultural heritage has led to coordinated action by various agencies, including the ministry of external affairs, Archaeological Survey of India and law enforcement agencies such as the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.Successful restitutions have taken place in recent years from various countries including Germany, France, Australia and the US, while work is ongoing on more such items. The high commission in London has so far repatriated the following idols:> The Bramha- Brahmani sculpture, stolen from the world heritage site Rani-Ki Vav, was returned to the Archaeological Survey of Inida in 2017. It has found a prominent place in the Purana Quila museum in Delhi.> On August 15, 2018 a 12th century bronze statue of Gautam Buddha was restituted to the high commission by the Metropolitan Police. > On August 15, 2019, two antiques – a 17th century bronze idol of Navanitha Krishna and a 2nd century limestone carved pillar motif were returned to the high commission by the US embassy in London.> On July 29, 2020, the Natesha Shiva statue stolen in 1998 from the Ghateshwar temple in Baroli, Rajasthan was repatriated to the ASI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-hands-over-3-stolen-ancient-idols-to-india/story-m1JlyLBQZYraMdFtGPHyIP.html
16-09-2020||World||Water shortages in US West likelier than previously thought||There’s a chance water levels in the two largest man-made reservoirs in the United States could dip to critically low levels by 2025, jeopardizing the steady flow of Colorado River water that more than 40 million people rely on in the American West.After a relatively dry summer, the US Bureau of Reclamation released models on Tuesday suggesting looming shortages in Lake Powell and Lake Mead — the reservoirs where Colorado River water is stored — are more likely than previously projected.Compared with an average year, only 55 per cent of Colorado River water is flowing from the Rocky Mountains down to Lake Powell on the Utah-Arizona line. Due to the below-average runoff, government scientists say the reservoirs are 12 per cent more likely to fall to critically low levels by 2025 than they projected in the spring.“This is a pretty significant increase over what was projected in April due to the declining runoff this year,” hydrologist Carly Jerla said.The forecast could complicate already-fraught negotiations between Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming and Mexico over future shares of the river that supplies their cities and farms. Those talks will draw up new agreements by 2026 over use of the river that’s under siege from climate change and prolonged drought.Some of urban and agricultural water users have been forced to conserve water to secure the river long term, but it remains overtapped. And as cities like Phoenix and Las Vegas keep growing, the region is only getting thirstier.“We know that warmer temperatures have contributed to the drought of the last 21 years, and we know that they have exacerbated it,” Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Brenda Burman said.Unlike the 24-month projections that the agency uses to allocate water to the seven states and Mexico, the models released Tuesday simulate various weather and usage patterns to help water users prepare for different scenarios.Scientists use what’s called the Colorado River Simulation System to project future levels of the two reservoirs. They employed “stress testing” techniques based on river flows since 1988 to determine potential shortages if drought conditions persist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/water-shortages-in-us-west-likelier-than-previously-thought/story-XYjMMAy4xj5B7Bzs9d6yfI.html
