17-09-2020||World||‘India’s strong approach towards Chinese aggression encouraging’: White House official||The US provided “strong and unambiguous support” to India during its current border crisis with China, which is engaged in increasingly aggressive behaviour throughout the Indo-Pacific even during the coronavirus pandemic, a senior White House official said on Thursday. From a bilateral perspective China’s recent actions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India has further reinforced the importance of the US-India strategic partnership, Lisa Curtis, the deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, said in a virtual panel discussion organised by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace think-tank.“Whether it was cutting off Vietnam’s access to its fishing waters, undermining Hong Kong self-rule, deploying military submarines to threaten Japan or contesting Indian territorial sovereignty along the LAC, Beijing has engaged in increasingly aggressive behaviour throughout the Indo-Pacific, even as the global community has grappled with coronavirus pandemic,” Curtis said. The crisis has strengthened America’s resolve to work towards building its relationship with India as a bulwark against Chinese aggression, she said during the discussion on research scholar Darshana Baruah’s recently released paper, “India in the Indo-Pacific: New Delhi’s Theater of Opportunity”. “Throughout the crisis, the US has provided strong and unambiguous support for India, and our cooperation has certainly grown closer. We are encouraged by India’s strong yet responsible approach to the Chinese aggression,” said Curtis, who is the Senior Director for South and Central Asia on the National Security Council (NSC) at the White House.“While always seeking to de-escalate through diplomatic means India also demonstrated military and economic resolve,” Curtis said as she asserted that the Indo-Pacific strategy, which was introduced in 2017 is designed to foster a stable free open and rules-based order. “This order is not only for the benefit of the US. It is for the benefit of all countries that pride their sovereignty and independence. The Indo-Pacific strategy, of course prioritises building relations between the US and India, because we view India as an emerging global power that shares our goals of ensuring this region remains peaceful, stable, and with the prospect of growing prosperity,” she said. America’s strategic partnership with India is really founded on shared commitments to freedom, democratic principles and the rule of law. It is based on a convergence of strategic interests, centred on promoting global security instability, she said. Noting that the Trump administration elevated the US relationship with India in ways not seen by any other administration, she said that the joint statement that was signed by President Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi following the former’s visit to India in February is testament to this administration’s commitment to building the vital partnership. Curtis said that the US has strengthened the QUAD mechanism among the leadership of the US, Japan, India and Australia. At the outset of the Trump administration the Quad was really not even officially meeting.“But starting in November 2017, we started regular dialogue of the QUAD at the Assistant Secretary Director General level. And by September 19, we had the quad meeting at the ministerial level for the first time ever. Additionally, President Trump has met twice in the trilateral format with Indian and Japan; first at the G-20 Buenos Aires in December, 2018, and then again in Osaka, at the G-20 in June 2019,” she said. Both the QUAD and trilateral formats are really important for strengthening the institutional support and fostering that multinational cooperation that will contribute to a free and open Indo-Pacific, Curtis said.“Such mechanisms help check Chinese aggression, and which has increased since the onset of the global pandemic,” she added.Tension in eastern Ladakh increased manifold following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed. The Chinese side too suffered casualties, but it is yet to give out the details. The situation deteriorated again after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30.China is also engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are vital to global trade.China claims almost all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims over the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-s-strong-approach-towards-chinese-aggression-encouraging-white-house-official/story-0LIINKtV9927LscGe20apO.html
17-09-2020||World||Brucellosis outbreak concerns authorities in China||Authorities of the city of Lanzhou in northwest China on Tuesday confirmed that several thousand people have tested positive for a bacterial disease brucellosis due to a leak caused by a biopharmaceutical company in 2019.According to CNN, people might have gotten infected by the disease either by consuming the contaminated food or by breathing in the bacteria. The Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute, situated in the Gansu province of China, in a press release said that it has set up a team to deal with the outbreak of brucellosis in the region. This disease happens when someone is in contact with livestock which is hosting the bacteria brucella.The Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute team headed by Secretary of the municipal party committee Li Rongcan and Zhang Weiwen, deputy secretary of the municipal party committee and mayor, the team will identify 11 public medical institutions to address the outbreak. The release said, “As of September 14, 2020, a total of 21,847 people were tested, 4646 were initially screened positive, and 3,245 were confirmed by the Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention; 3,159 health files were established; a total of 23,479 consultations were held; 9 on-site medical diagnosis and treatment lectures were held and distributed.”According to the team the outbreak resulted from the leakage of gas from the Lanzhou Biopharmaceutical Factory which also produces vaccine for the disease which infect animals primarily. “From July 24 to August 20, 2019, Lanzhou Biopharmaceutical Factory used expired disinfectants in the production of brucella vaccine causing incomplete sterilization of waste gas from production fermentation tanks, and the waste gas carrying bacteria-containing fermentation liquid formed bacteria-containing aerosols,” the statement said. The statement pointed out that due to wind flow humans came into contact with the bacteria. “During the production period, the main wind direction in the area was southeast. In the downwind direction, human body inhalation or mucosal contact produced positive antibodies, resulting in a positive Brucella antibody incident... This incident was accidental and exposure (was for) a short time.”According to CNN, several researchers working in the Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute had fallen ill first after being exposed to the virus. Heilongjiang province, which is situated in northeast China, also saw infections due to exposure to brucella. The United States’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says exposure to brucella can lead to Malta fever or Mediterranean fever. The symptoms are usually headaches, muscle pain, fever and fatigue. The CDC says that even though the symptoms might subside eventually, there is always a risk of some of these symptoms to become chronic and patients can develop arthritis or swelling in certain organs. Brucella outbreaks in China were on the decline since 1980s due to vaccine introduction as well as improved control measures but minor outbreaks have been reported over the past few decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brucellosis-outbreak-concerns-authorities-in-china/story-S8zJ7msgtckc0LjWcZ63TK.html
17-09-2020||World||Former model accuses Donald Trump of sexual assault||A former model has alleged she was sexually assaulted by Donald Trump, then a real estate magnate, two decades ago at his VIP box in the US Open stands in New York.“He just shoved his tongue down my throat and I was pushing him off,” Amy Dorris, the former model, told The Guardian in an interview. “And then that’s when his grip became tighter and his hands were very gropey and all over my butt, my breasts, my back, everything,” the British newspaper quoted her as saying.“I was in his grip, and I couldn’t get out of it,” she added. “I don’t know what you call that when you’re sticking your tongue just down someone’s throat. But I pushed it out with my teeth. I was pushing it. And I think I might have hurt his tongue.”Trump was 51 at the time and was married to his second wife Marla Maples. Dorris was 24.President Trump’s lawyers have denied the incident took place at all and raised several questions about her account, the news publication said. There would have been witnesses at such a public place as the US Open, they have said and asked why did she, who was there with her then boyfriend, continue to visit and meet Trump after the alleged incident and even sat with him at the memorial service for Gianni Versace.Dorris did not report the incident, which took place on September 5, 1997, to law enforcement, but she told a friend and her mother about it. She also spoke about it to other people and a therapist in the intervening years. The Guardian said it has corroborated her account with people she had confided in at the time.The former model, who is a mother of twin daughters and lives in Florida, has said that she did consider speaking out about the assault in 2016, when Trump was the Republican candidate for president. But she changed her mind because she feared she might end up harming her family.“Now I feel like my girls are about to turn 13 years old and I want them to know that you don’t let anybody do anything to you that you don’t want,” she has said. “And I’d rather be a role model. I want them to see that I didn’t stay quiet, that I stood up to somebody who did something that was unacceptable.”Dorris joins a long list of women who have accused Trump over the years of forcing himself on them, groping or sexually assaulting them. While Trump and his lawyers have strenuously dismissed those allegations, he has bragged about assaulting women and forcing himself on them, as he did on the infamous Access Hollywood tapes that nearly ended his campaign in October of 2016. E Jean Carroll, a columnist who has alleged that Trump raped her at a Manhattan department store decades ago, filed a defamation suit against the president in 2019 for accusing her of “totally lying” while rejecting her claims. The president is being defended by justice department lawyers in a very unusual move, starting early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-model-accuses-donald-trump-of-sexual-assault/story-rJY4DyHKLgOz43R7kxREdL.html
17-09-2020||World||Safety first, cautions WHO as 172 nations join Covid-19 vaccine distribution plan||Ahead of October 18 — the deadline to join Covax — an initiative to ensure fair distribution of Covid-19 vaccine — the World Health Organization said the race to develop Covid-19 vaccine should not lead to public fear. A total of 172 nations are now part of this global initiative. “We cannot risk having an effective vaccine for COVID-19 that people refuse because of the perception that it is unsafe. We already face challenges with vaccine acceptance for many proven vaccines,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.COVAX is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the World Health Organization. Out of these 172 nations, 92 are low and middle income economies , eligible to be supported by the Covax advance market commitment. The rest 80 are potentially self-financing countries.The United States is not part of Covax; it has entered into several agreements to procure vaccines. The safety warning from WHO in the backdrop of the brief pause in Astrazeneca’s trial is significant as the pharma company reported an illness in a participant, triggering fear about Oxford vaccine. However, the trial has resumed after the UK authorities gave a go-ahead.Serum Institute of India, which is part of Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine candidate trial, was asked to stop the process after concerns were raised. Now, the drug controller has given a go-ahead to SII to recruit for phase two and phase three trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/safety-first-cautions-who-as-172-nations-join-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-plan/story-oiwpUzhtqeTPpwUdpxGoTP.html
17-09-2020||World||Wuhan next-of-kin accuse China of blocking Covid lawsuits||Wuhan pensioner Zhong Hanneng endured every parent’s worst nightmare when coronavirus claimed her son in February, and -- alongside other bereaved relatives -- she wants to sue the local government she blames for his death.But they have had their lawsuits abruptly rejected, dozens of others face pressure from authorities not to file, and lawyers are being warned against helping them, according to people involved in the effort.The families accuse the Wuhan and Hubei provincial governments of concealing the outbreak when it first emerged there late last year, failing to alert the public, and bungling the response, allowing Covid-19 to explode out of control.It has killed nearly 3,900 in the city and over 900,000 globally so far.“They say the epidemic was a natural calamity. But these serious outcomes are man-made, and you need to find who’s to blame,” said Zhong, 67.“Our family is shattered. I can never be happy again.”At least five lawsuits have been filed with the Wuhan Intermediate Court, said Zhang Hai, whose elderly father died of the virus and who has emerged as a vocal advocate and spokesman for families of virus victims.Plaintiffs are each seeking around two million yuan ($295,000) in damages and a public apology.But the court has rejected suits on unspecified procedural grounds, said Yang Zhanqing, a veteran Chinese activist now in the US.Yang, who is coordinating two dozen lawyers in China who are secretly advising families, said the rejections have come via curt phone calls -- not through official written explanations, as legally required -- apparently to avoid a paper trail.Staff at the Wuhan court refused AFP requests for comment.- Stonewalling -The virus emerged in Wuhan last December but city authorities initially dragged their feet, pressuring whistle-blowing doctors to keep quiet.The Communist Party continues to downplay responsibility, even questioning whether the pathogen originated in China, while trumpeting its later success in suppressing domestic infections.It held a grand ceremony in Beijing last week, where President Xi Jinping declared the nation had passed an “extraordinary and historic test” through a swift and transparent response.But Zhong tells a different story.By late January, the contagion was spreading rapidly in Wuhan, but officials had still issued no citywide alarm.With the extended Lunar New Year festival approaching, Zhong and her son Peng Yi -- a 39-year-old primary schoolteacher -- happily shopped at jam-packed stores. Millions of others left Wuhan for the holiday, taking the infection global.“We had no idea the buses were full of the virus... So we went out every day. We didn’t even know about masks,” Zhong told AFP.On January 24, as Wuhan finally began locking down, she and Peng fell ill. She soon recovered, but he worsened.Fear gripped their household, which included Zhong’s husband, Peng’s wife, and his seven-year-old daughter.For the next two agonising weeks, they spent long hours in overwhelmed hospitals begging to get him admitted, but without a positive result -- and with testing kits scarce -- he was repeatedly turned away.Peng was finally hospitalised February 6.His family never saw him alive again. He died on a respirator two weeks later.“He must have been so scared, so unhappy, with no family around. I can’t imagine how sad he was,” said Zhong, breaking down repeatedly.“Did he call out ‘Mother’? ‘Father’? I don’t know.”- Never give up -Zhang Hai believes his father was infected at a Wuhan hospital during treatment for an unrelated ailment.He says authorities are waging a campaign to discredit him, suspending his social media accounts and circulating disinformation that the legal efforts are a scam to bilk families.Others also have reported official intimidation, and next-of-kin chat groups have been infiltrated by police, Zhang alleged, blaming Wuhan’s government.“They know if I succeed in filing a case, many other families will sue, too,” he said.Wuhan’s government did not respond to AFP’s requests for comment.Zhang said dozens of bereaved relatives have coalesced in chat groups, but most are fearful of taking action.With his initial suit in Wuhan rejected, Zhang filed recently with a higher, provincial-level court. Zhong, the elderly pensioner, plans the same.Yang, the US-based activist, believes it “very likely” the government will quietly meet some families’ demands eventually, though a public apology is inconceivable.Until then, Zhang intends to appeal all the way to China’s highest court in Beijing, regardless of the personal risks.“My father is my motivation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-next-of-kin-accuse-china-of-blocking-covid-lawsuits/story-G8O9pDK5uZK0y9upynjXNP.html
17-09-2020||World||Pak to make Gilgit Baltistan its 5th province despite India’s protests||Disregarding India’s strong protests, Pakistan is moving ahead with plans to make Gilgit Baltistan (GB) its fifth province, with a federal minister saying that elections in the region that New Delhi opposes will be held in November.Prime Minister Imran Khan will soon visit the region and make the formal announcement, Ali Amin Gandapur, Pakistan’s minister for Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan Affairs, told a delegation of journalists from the region in Islamabad on Wednesday.New Delhi had conveyed to Pakistan several times that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. In May, the external affairs ministry said Pakistan or its judiciary had no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it and rejected attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan-occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir. “Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” the ministry had said.Gandapur said the status of a full-fledged province with all constitutional rights is being planned for Gilgit-Baltistan and this will include representation in both houses of parliament. Gandapur said that elections in the region would be held in mid-November and distribution of party tickets to candidates would begin soon. New Delhi had protested Pakistan’s move to conduct elections in the region, which it considers an integral part of the country that had been illegally and forcibly occupied.“After consultation with all stakeholders, the federal government has decided in principle to give constitutional rights to Gilgit-Baltistan,” the minister said, adding, “Our government has decided to deliver on the promise it made to the people there.”After the grant of constitutional rights, the subsidy and tax exemption on wheat given to the region would not be withdrawn, he said. “Until the people there stand on their feet, they will continue to enjoy this facility.” The minister said deprivation of the people of Gilgit-Baltistan of 73 years would come to an end. Besides the constitutional rights and the provincial setup, the minister added, important steps were also being taken for the development of the region.Work on the Moqpondass Special Economic Zone would begin under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), while the government take steps to improve health, tourism, transport and education facilities, he said.The CPEC is the flagship project of Beijing’s ambitious multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). India has protested to China over the project as it is being laid through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.In 1999, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled that the people of Gilgit-Baltistan were citizens of Pakistan and directed the government to initiate appropriate administrative and legislative measures. In 2009, Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self Governance Order (GBESGO) was introduced according to which, the Northern Areas were renamed as Gilgit-Baltistan. The order gave it a province like status with no representation in parliament. In 2015, the government constituted a committee headed by Sartaj Aziz which proposed giving Gilgit-Baltistan the status of a province and in 2018 a new Gilgit-Baltistan order was introduced and all the powers of the Gilgit Baltistan Council were transferred to its assembly. The GBESGO of 2009 and the Gilgit Baltistan Order of 2018 were challenged in the Supreme Court of Pakistan which reconfirmed its earlier judgement that the people of Gilgit-Baltistan are citizens of Pakistan. The court also suggested that certain changes should be made to the presidential order issued by the present government and instructed the federal government to promulgate the modified Gilgit-Baltistan Reforms of 2019.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-to-make-gilgit-baltistan-its-5th-province-despite-india-s-protests/story-gesbC768MMMHss9MbL8QCM.html
17-09-2020||World||Will Covid-19 vaccine be ready by this year? Trump promises defy the lessons of pharmaceutical history||Every effort to develop a new medicine is like launching a ship across the ocean to hunt for riches. Over the years, we’ve improved the hulls and masts, the maps are better, the sailors more experienced. But even so, vessels get turned back or new lands are barren. And, sometimes, a squall takes down the boat and all her crew.The Trump administration has set sail on one of the most ambitious vaccine development efforts in history. Operation Warp Speed is likely to deliver a Covid-19 inoculation in a fraction of the years it would usually take. In doing, so it could save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and economies around the world.But the administration has also offered timelines for a vaccine that fly in the face of almost every experience in pharmaceutical history. On Tuesday night, President Donald Trump said a shot could be ready in three or four weeks. Then, on Wednesday, Paul Mango, deputy chief of staff for policy at the Department of Health and Human Services and one of the senior leaders of the Warp Speed program, said every American could be vaccinated by the end of March.Mango said that there are enough doses in production and that trials are moving at a speed so that “the combination of those two will permit us to vaccinate every American before the end of first quarter 2021.” A few hours later, White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said that “we do believe that it will be widely available by the end of” this year, though also referred to doses of the vaccine being production by then, as opposed to actually distributed. Mango’s and McEnany ’s remarks were contradicted by the head of the Centers for Disease Control Prevention, Director Robert Redfield, who told Congress Wednesday that it would likely take until late spring or the summer of next year for most Americans to have access to a vaccine. Other top U.S. health officials have said it’s not likely a vaccine will be ready until the end of the year, and that expanding access to the more than 300 million people living in the U.S. will take longer.“It would be aspirational to do that,” said Anthony Fauci, the head of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “But I think it’s more toward the middle to the end of the year that you can get people vaccinated. It depends on what the vaccine is.”The U.S. has launched many ships. Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc have headed out at a rapid clip. The early data look promising, and late-stage trials in tens of thousands of volunteers could produce a rapid answer.But to deploy a vaccine widely by early next year, it’s worth keeping in mind what has to go right:Even in vaccination efforts that the U.S. runs every year, it’s hard to meet the goal of wide uptake. For the 2017-2018 flu season, only 37% of Americans actually got a vaccine, according to the CDC. Many people get it at work, at school, at a drugstores or in hospitals --places that are largely closed or that many Americans are avoiding because of the pandemic.There are a few loosely understood rules of running a pharmaceutical company, outside the necessity of making a reasonable return for shareholders.A first rule is don’t kill anyone. A second one is to help people live longer, better lives. The third is not to get sued by securities regulators.It’s a simple set of goals that often runs into the brutal reality of drug development, often summed up by insiders with the oft-repeated pearl, “science is hard.” Every year, the pharmaceutical industry spends billions on failure. Drugs seem like miracles, then turn out to be a mirage. Much of the money companies invest in research goes toward projects that are stopped because they either don’t help people or might hurt them.The result is that most companies -- there are, of course, exceptions -- are conservative in their pronouncements. And some have been in preparing for a vaccine. Merck & Co. has been quietly betting that the first shot across the line won’t necessarily be the best, and that its experimental vaccine could top the early winners. Some form of vaccine is likely to be needed for years, as well, leaving plenty of room for incremental improvements like better protection, more durable immunity, and more certain safety.To that end, earlier this month, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine published a report summarizing expert recommendations for distributing a Covid-19 vaccine.On page 11, it cites a key lesson from past mass vaccination efforts: “Under-promise and over-deliver.”Having violated the first half of that advice, the best hope now is that the U.S. delivers on the second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-covid-19-vaccine-be-ready-by-this-year-donald-trump-promises-defy-the-lessons-of-pharmaceutical-history/story-8rUhMp8FHNXXf9tioB4uTJ.html
17-09-2020||World||‘Hope to see you soon’: Boris Johnson wishes Narendra Modi on 70th birthday||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Thursday extended his “very best wishes” to Narendra Modi on the latter’s 70th birthday, adding that he hoped to meet the Indian Prime Minister in the near future.Johnson, who has met Modi on several occasions, has been keen on signing a free trade agreement (FTA) with India after the UK’s exit from the European Union is completed on December 31. Initial talks in that direction have already begun.Johnson tweeted, “Very best wishes to my friend @narendramodi on his 70th birthday. I hope to see you soon.”The possibility of Johnson visiting India in 2020 had been discussed earlier this year, but the coronavirus pandemic has affected those plans. Only virtual interactions have been taking place between British and Indian ministers, largely on trade issues.Modi last visited London in April 2018 for a Commonwealth heads of government summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hope-to-see-you-soon-boris-johnson-wishes-narendra-modi-on-70th-birthday/story-AQXkYNm4eBQtEIHu3mjbIL.html
17-09-2020||World||ByteDance says China will have to approve its US TikTok deal||China will need to approve ByteDance’s proposed deal with Oracle Corp for its TikTok app, the Chinese company said on Thursday, indicating how its bid to stave off a ban in the United States could be further complicated. Oracle has submitted a proposal to the Trump administration that will allow it to become a technology partner in the TikTok app, as ByteDance hopes to head off a Trump order that it divest TikTok’s U.S. operations. The proposal envisages making TikTok Global a U.S.-headquartered company.But U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday raised questions about ByteDance’s plans to keep a majority stake in TikTok’s U.S. operations and said he did not favor the idea of the Chinese firm retaining control, after six Republican lawmakers urged him to reject the proposal.Trump has said he would ban TikTok in the United States as early as Sunday if ByteDance does not comply amid U.S. concerns that the company could pass user data to China’s Communist Party government.An outright sale of TikTok’s operations or technologies was not included in ByteDance’s proposal to the United States, Chinese state media reported on Thursday citing a separate statement from the company. ByteDance declined to comment when asked about this by Reuters.When asked about ByteDance’s comments regarding the need for China’s approval, the foreign ministry on Thursday urged the United States to respect the principles of the market economy and fair competition, and to stop politicising normal economic and trade cooperation. China late last month updated its export control rules to give it a say over the transfer of technology such as TikTok’s user recommendation algorithm to foreign buyers. Reuters has reported that the Oracle deal would not require ByteDance to apply to Chinese authorities for an export licence for TikTok’s algorithm.ByteDance and its founder Zhang Yiming have faced public criticism in China for seeming to give in to U.S. pressure after it was reported it was contemplating a sale of TikTok’s U.S. operations to Microsoft Corp. Some netizens said they would stop using Douyin, ByteDance’s Chinese version of TikTok. “ByteDance, as it works to find a solution to keep TikTok’s U.S. business alive, is walking a tightrope between the demands of the U.S. government on the one side and the expectations of both the Chinese government and public on the other,” said Mark Natkin, managing director at Marbridge Consulting. “It can’t afford to make any missteps along the way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bytedance-says-china-will-have-to-approve-its-us-tiktok-deal/story-WOBcZP1vncUtVLp2bs8TLI.html
17-09-2020||World||‘Encouraging separatist forces’: China strongly opposes US envoy’s visit to Taiwan||China on Thursday railed against a high-level visit to Taiwan by a US envoy, saying it will encourage “separatist forces” on the island. Foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told reporters “China strongly opposes” the visit by Under Secretary Keith Krach as it will “encourage the arrogant attitude of Taiwan independence separatist forces”.The US State Department says Krach was dispatched to Taipei to attend a memorial service for late president Lee Teng-hui on Saturday.But his visit to the island, which China claims as an indivisible part of the mainland, comes as the two superpowers eyeball each other over trade, tech dominance, security and human rights. Krach’s visit “seriously violates the One China Principle... and damages US-China relations and the peace and stability of the Taiwan strait”, Wang said, citing the view that the island is a part of its territory.He warned Beijing will provide “a necessary response”, without giving further details.Last month, US cabinet member and health chief Alex Azar visited to highlight Taiwan’s widely praised efforts to stop Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/encouraging-separatist-forces-china-strongly-opposes-us-envoy-s-visit-to-taiwan/story-8Hmj66jdRhP9rIg89JTsqK.html
17-09-2020||World||Donald Trump restrictions on H-1B visas survive early court fight||The Trump administration’s move to curtail H-1B visas widely used by foreign technology workers in the US survived an initial court challenge.President Donald Trump’s June 22 proclamation declaring foreign workers a risk to the US labor market amid the coronavirus pandemic triggered pushback from workers and business groups. An array of the nation’s biggest tech companies have warned that the policy will do “irreparable harm on businesses and the nation’s economy.”Also read: H-1B visa programme explained and what it means for IndiansBut in a ruling Wednesday, US District Judge Amit Mehta in Washington declined to bar the administration from imposing the visa restrictions while the legal challenge to them plays out.The case was brought by a group of 169 Indian nationals who recently went back to India after living in the US on work visas and are now attempting to return. They argued that the proclamation was “arbitrary and capricious” and called for the government to process their visa applications.Lawyers for the plaintiffs didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. But they said in a court filing that they will appeal.The president’s visa order freezes through the end of the year new H-1B and H-4 visas, widely used by technology workers and their families, as well as L visas for intracompany transfers and most J visas for work- and study-abroad programs.Also read: US freeze on H-1B visas to hit IT firms coping with travel curbs amid Covid-19 crisisThe ruling on Wednesday was the second time this month that Mehta has denied a request to suspend the proclamation. Just as he did in a Sept. 4 ruling in a related case involving a group of visa applicants, Mehta found that the Indian workers fell short of the high legal threshold for an order blocking the decree while the litigation proceeds.In both cases, the judge concluded the plaintiffs were not likely to succeed in showing that Trump exceeded his authority with the proclamation.A different federal judge in Oakland, California, is weighing another request to block the decree from business groups including the US Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-restrictions-on-h-1b-visas-survive-early-court-fight/story-8wCTnagi3XTesGEt3YqMqN.html
17-09-2020||World||Indo-Canadian director’s short film Strong Son has lasting impact at TIFF||It may be the shortest film at this year’s Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), spanning less than four minutes, but Strong Son is clearly leaving an everlasting impression on audiences, critics and organisers.The film, made by 34-year-old Indian-origin Sikh filmmaker Ian Bawa who is based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, has made it to the top-ten lists of publications such as Now Toronto and the New York-based Film Stage. It has also been featured by national broadcaster CBC.Ian Bawa’s film is about the relationship between a weightlifter and his father. Bodybuilder Mandeep Sodhi was cast as the weightlifter, while the father’s role was played by the director’s parent, Jagdeep Singh Bawa. The filmmaker said he managed to submit his work for this year’s Short Cuts section at the TIFF only because pandemic-related shutdowns gave him the time he needed “to sit down, edit it and shape it”. The raw footage, Ian Bawa said, had been lying with him since last year. “I just needed a project and I threw all my energy into this,” he said.He called his film “super personal” and born of “pure passion”, as it is based on his personal equation with his father, who had immigrated to Canada from India in the 1970s. TIFF programmer Lisa Haller described the short film as “an endearing portrait” of the father-son bond. The narrative of the film includes humour and thought-provoking elements, which come out prominently through the father’s voiceover, providing the cultural backdrop of the characters portrayed. In one scene, for instance, the father ruminates aloud, “My son is getting older and I’m worried that he’s spent too much time getting strong and not enough time settling down.”Ian Bawa insists that despite highlighting typical Indian family riffs, the theme of the film is universal and the work has stemmed partly from his own personal “insecurities”.This isn’t the first time Ian Bawa has been part of a work that premiered at the TIFF. He worked with three colleagues, who call themselves the Winnipeg Collective, on the 2016 film, Imitations. “This is a year everyone is going to remember and I’m part of the new world of film festivals,” the filmmaker said, underlining the novelty factor at this year’s Toronto event that was compelled to be conducted largely online due to coronavirus-related restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indo-canadian-director-s-short-film-strong-son-has-lasting-impact-at-tiff/story-KgpsqbpHKC9BtaZrNBUtMM.html
17-09-2020||World||Outrage, calls for probe as US nurse raises alarm over mass hysterectomies||A whistleblower complaint filed in the US has sparked calls for a federal probe after it was alleged that an Indian-descent gynecologist had conducted mass hysterectomies on immigrants without their full understanding and consent at a privately-run detention centre in the state of Georgia.The complaint, filed by an employee of the detention centre, did not identify him. But lawyers representing the victims have named the doctor as Mahendra Amin, according to US media reports.“We are aware of the whistleblower’s allegations as they relate to Dr Amin and we vehemently deny them,” said Scott Grubman, the doctor’s attorney, in a statement. “We look forward to all of the facts coming out and are confident that, once they do, Dr Amin will be cleared of any wrongdoing.”Amin, 68, is an obstetrics and gynecology specialist. Prism, the news website that first reported the whistleblower complaint, said he is based in Douglas, Georgia and is affiliated with Coffee Regional Medical Center, which has since removed references to Amin from its website. According to reports, Amin studied medicine at the Government Medical College of South Gujarat University in Surat, India, and also interned there at a hospital.On Wednesday, 173 Democratic members of the House of Representatives wrote to the US department of homeland security, demanding an investigation into the whistleblower’s complaint.Pramila Jayapal, Indian-American congresswoman who initiated the joint letter along with senior party leaders, said, “It appears that there may be at minimum 17 to 18 women who were subjected to unnecessary medical gynecological procedures from just this one doctor, often without appropriate consent or knowledge, and with the clear intention of sterilisation.”Dawn Wooten, a licensed nurse employed by Irwin County Detention Center (ICDC) operated by private prison company, LaSalle Corrections, had filed the whistleblower complaint through Project South, a non-profit, with the inspector general of the department of homeland security on Monday. Wooten’s complaint alleged the conduct of mass hysterectomies amid rampant disregard for Covid-19 guidelines and unsanitary conditions at the facility.Project South said it learnt about the hysterectomies in interviews with multiple inmates. One of them reportedly confirmed, “A lot of women here go through a hysterectomy.” Also, some women subjected to the procedure reportedly seemed “confused” why they were made to undergo it.Wooten’s account, in her own words, is chilling. “Everybody he sees has a hysterectomy, just about everybody. He’s even taken out the wrong ovary on a young lady,” Wooten reportedly said, recalling a particular case. “She (the victim) was supposed to get her left ovary removed because it had a cyst. He took out the right one. She was upset, she had to go back to take out the left ovary and she wound up with a total hysterectomy. “She wants children. So she has to go back home now and tell her husband that she can’t bear kids... she said she was not all the way out under anesthesia and heard him (the doctor) tell the nurse that he took out the wrong ovary.”The outrage sparked by the allegations was fuelled by a well-documented and alarming history of sterilisation of people of colour in the US aimed at preventing the rapid growth of their population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/outrage-calls-for-probe-as-us-nurse-raises-alarm-over-mass-hysterectomies/story-8RfZWLAybqJrkTv0qHKTRJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Barbados governor general calls to ‘leave colonial past behind,’ become full republic||Barbados should become a republic and leave its colonial past behind, a top official said on Wednesday, after the Caribbean island nation said it wants to remove Britain’s Queen Elizabeth as its head of state.A former British colony that gained independence in 1966, the nation of just under 300,000 has maintained a formal link with the British monarchy as have some other countries that were once part of the British empire.“The time has come to fully leave our colonial past behind,” said Barbados Governor General Sandra Mason, delivering a speech on behalf of the country’s Prime Minister Mia Mottley.Mottley won a landslide victory in 2018. “Barbadians want a Barbadian head of state. This is the ultimate statement of confidence in who we are and what we are capable of achieving,” Mason said. “Hence, Barbados will take the next logical step toward full sovereignty and become a republic by the time we celebrate our 55th anniversary of independence.”That anniversary will come in November 2021.But on the Caribbean island nation the suggestion has been met with skepticism. The idea of becoming a republic has been put forward by different governments over the past decades.More recently, there has been frustration with the government’s delay in removing colonial ea statues.The bronze statue of Admiral Lord Nelson, erected in 1813, still stands on Broad Street in the capital city of Bridgetown.It was scheduled for removal last month when different countries around the world started removing similar statues from public spaces as protests against racism grew. Roy R. Morris, press secretary to the prime minister of Barbados, said in response to Reuters questions that there was no particular trigger for the timing of a renewed push to become a republic other than fulfilling a longstanding promise by the island’s politicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/barbados-governor-general-calls-to-leave-colonial-past-behind-become-full-republic/story-aaGCyaX8q9QOpHUAluL2OJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Donald Trump disputes health officials, sees mass Covid-19 vaccinations soon||President Donald Trump is contradicting the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on the potential availability of a coronavirus vaccine to the general public and on mask wearing.Trump said Wednesday that a vaccine will be available as early as October and in mass distribution soon afterward — much sooner than was projected in congressional testimony earlier in the day by Dr. Robert Redfield.Also read: Covid-19: All you need to know about Donald Trump’s ‘National Vaccine Distribution Plan’Trump says Redfield “made a mistake” when he told lawmakers that any vaccine available in November or December would be in “very limited supply,” and reserved for first responders and people most vulnerable to Covid-19. Redfield estimated the shot wouldn’t be broadly available until the spring or summer of 2021.After Trump’s comments, CDC officials claimed Redfield thought he was answering a question about when vaccination of all Americans will be completed.Also read: Donald Trump’s town hall offered preview of debatesTrump also disagreed with Redfield about the effectiveness of protective masks, which Redfield had said could be even more helpful in combating the coronavirus than a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-disputes-health-officials-sees-mass-covid-19-vaccinations-soon/story-sf82SCZEO3byzxmcSLIeUJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Hurricane Sally kills 1, swamps US Gulf Coast with massive floods, ‘unreal’ rain||Hurricane Sally uprooted trees, flooded streets and cut power to hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses on Wednesday as it brought what the US National Hurricane Center called “historic and catastrophic” flooding to the Alabama-Florida coast.Sally, which made landfall early Wednesday near Gulf Shores, Alabama, as a Category 2 storm, was downgraded in the afternoon to a tropical storm as maximum sustained winds dropped to 70 miles per hour (113 kph).The storm is believed to have killed one person in Alabama. Also read: Hurricane Sally unleashes flooding near Florida-Alabama line, hundreds rescued“We had a body wash up, we believe it was hurricane related, but we have no definitive proof of that right now,” said Trent Johnson, a police lieutenant in Orange Beach, Ala. The person was local to the area, but has not yet been publicly identified, Johnson said. Some parts of the Gulf Coast had been inundated with more than 18 inches (46 cm) of rain over the previous 24 hours, with more precipitation expected as the storm’s winds slow further, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) said.The coastal community of Pensacola, Florida, suffered up to five feet of flooding, and travel was cut by damaged roads and bridges. More than 500,000 homes and businesses across the area were without power as the storm knocked over stately oak trees and tore power lines from poles. Several residents along the Alabama and Florida coasts said damage from the slow-moving storm caught them off guard.“Normally it goes away. But with this one it was first the anxiety of it coming and then when it finally came, it didn’t move,” said Preity Patel, 41, who has resided in a downtown Pensacola apartment for two years. “It was just constant rain and wind.”A section of the Pensacola Bay Bridge, known also as the “Three Mile Bridge,” is missing a “significant section,” Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said at a press conference. Also read: Hurricane Sally makes landfall on Alabama’s Gulf CoastThe storm was moving at a slow 5 mph pace toward the Alabama-Florida border but was predicted to pick up speed, the NHC said.“The rain is what stands out with this one: It’s unreal,” said Cavin Hollyhand, 50, who left his home on a barrier island and took shelter in Mobile, Alabama, where he viewed the damage on Wednesday. Some isolated areas could see up to 35 inches (89 cm) of rain before Sally is done, the NHC said.Upon landfall at Gulf Shores, Sally’s winds were clocked at 105 mph. Along the coast, piers were ripped away by the storm surge and winds. Alabama Governor Kay Ivey told residents not to go outside to check on damage unless necessary, and to stay away from live power lines and fallen trees.“We had strong winds for a long period of time,” said 38-year-old Grant Saltz as he took a break from clearing debris outside his Mobile restaurant. “Instead of a few hours we got it for 12 hours.”In Pensacola, where wind gusts were clocked at 77 mph at one point, images on social media showed major floods. One witness reported hailstorms in the city as well and the NHC warned of possible tornados.Pensacola police warned of high winds and urged residents not to drive around looking at damage.“We see lots of ‘lookers’ out,” the police department wrote on Twitter. “It’s slowing our progress down. Please stay at home!” Electrical crews from other states have arrived in Pensacola to aid in restoration efforts.“This year we’ve just got hurricane after hurricane,” said Matt Lane, 23, a member of a crew from New Hampshire Electric Coop, who arrived late Tuesday directly from Hurricane Laura recovery efforts in Texas. Sally is the 18th named storm in the Atlantic this year and the eighth of tropical storm or hurricane strength to hit the United States. There are currently three other named storms in the Atlantic, highlighting one of the most active Atlantic hurricane seasons on record.“We’ve only got one name left,” said Jim Foerster, chief meteorologist at DTN, an energy, agriculture and weather data provider, referencing the procedure to name storms and the prospect of running out of letters. “That’s going to happen here soon, Wilfred, and then we’ll be into the Greek alphabet.” Hurricanes have increased in their intensity and destructiveness since the 1980s as the climate has warmed, according to researchers at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Climate change is also a factor in the increasing frequency of record-breaking wildfires plaguing the western United States, scientists say.Damage from Sally is expected to reach $2 billion to $3 billion, said Chuck Watson of Enki Research, which tracks tropical storms and models the cost of their damage. That estimate could rise if the heaviest rainfall happens over land, Watson said. As the storm moved east and inland, ports on the western Gulf Coast were reopened to travel and energy companies were beginning to return crews to offshore oil platforms.Sally shut more than a quarter of US Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and gas production. Two coastal oil refiners halted or slowed operations, adding to existing outages from last month’s Hurricane Laura and pandemic-related demand losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-sally-kills-1-swamps-us-gulf-coast-with-massive-floods-unreal-rain/story-aELGCtUttqU1qQ8W3KAWrM.html
17-09-2020||World||Covid-19: All you need to know about Donald Trump’s ‘National Vaccine Distribution Plan’||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday announced his administration’s National Vaccine Distribution Plan to swifty deliver any eventual Covid-19 vaccine, free of cost, to all Americans. Making the announcement, President Trump called the initiative ‘the largest, fastest and most advanced vaccine distribution effort in American history by far.’With over 6.8 million coronavirus cases, the US is the worst-hit country in the world, as per worldometers.Here’s all you need to know about this plan:• The plan has been developed by the departments of Health and Human Services and Defense. Under it, states and localities are required to submit plans to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) by October 16.• Initially, there may be a limited supply of vaccine and the focus will be on protecting health workers, people in vulnerable groups and other essential employees.• Patients will require two doses, which will be given 21 to 28 days apart. Also, the vaccine will have to be from the same drug maker.• The vaccine is expected to be delivered swiftly, possibly within 24 hours, after an emergency use authorisation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).• The vaccine will be delivered under Operation Warp Speed, a White House initiative to have millions of doses ready to be shipped on receiving necessary approval.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-about-donald-trump-s-national-vaccine-distribution-plan/story-QNeyhL5QrPv3x4x6QOFvrI.html
17-09-2020||World||Top US science magazine backs Joe Biden for President||Even though Scientific American had never endorsed a US presidential candidate in the magazine’s 175-year history, its top editor has said there was little internal debate over a decision to back Democrat Joe Biden.Editor-in-Chief Laura Helmuth said President Donald Trump’s administration was much worse for the scientific community than the magazine had feared. The magazine’s endorsement was posted online on Tuesday, a day after Trump questioned the science of climate change in relation to the California wildfires. Helmuth said the timing was coincidental and the editorial was written during the past two months.Scientific American said that “the evidence and the science show that Donald Trump has basically damaged the United States and its people because he rejects evidence and science”.The editorial by senior editor Josh Fischman sharply condemned Trump for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic.The magazine criticised Trump for seeking cutbacks in scientific funding and hobbling the US response to climate change. Biden, the magazine said, “has a record of following the data and being guided by science”. There was no immediate reply to a request for comment from the Trump campaign. There’s been some pushback. Conservative columnist SE Cupp tweeted, “I do have mixed feelings on whether this is a good use of scientific clout.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-science-magazine-backs-joe-biden-for-president/story-wdKI7K6Y25cZ1VbDHV0zOP.html
17-09-2020||World||AstraZeneca’s trial illnesses may not be due to Covid-19 shot, says Oxford University||The adverse events that led to a pause in trials evaluating AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate may not have been associated with the vaccine itself, according to a document outlining participant information that was posted online by the Oxford University.Also read: Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca trial resumes after UK green lightEnrollment in the British drugmaker’s global trials of the vaccine, which it is developing with researchers at Oxford University, was paused on Sept. 6, after a participant in its U.K. trial had a serious side effect thought to be a rare spinal inflammatory disorder called transverse myelitis.Safety reviews were conducted when volunteers in the trials for testing the vaccine candidate, called AZD1222 or ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, developed unexplained neurological symptoms including changed sensation or limb weakness, and the study was paused while a safety review took place, according to the document. Also read: Suspension of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine trials showed fallacy of approach: RDIF CEO“After independent review, these illnesses were either considered unlikely to be associated with the vaccine or there was insufficient evidence to say for certain that the illnesses were or were not related to the vaccine,” the document said.The vaccine trials have resumed in Britain, Brazil and South Africa, but not yet in the United States.AstraZeneca and Oxford University did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-s-trial-illnesses-may-not-be-due-to-covid-19-shot-says-oxford-university/story-SKMy5TruOaEFCSQ14QqIGM.html
17-09-2020||World||Hurricane Sally unleashes flooding near Florida-Alabama line, hundreds rescued||Hurricane Sally lumbered ashore near the Florida-Alabama line with 105 mph (165 kph) winds and rain measured in feet, not inches, swamping homes and forcing the rescue of hundreds of people as it pushed inland for what could be a slow and disastrous drenching across the Deep South.Moving at an agonizing 3 mph, or about as fast as a person can walk, the storm made landfall at 4:45 a.m. local time Wednesday close to Gulf Shores, Alabama, about 30 miles from Pensacola. It accelerated to a light jog as it battered the Pensacola and Mobile, Alabama, metropolitan areas encompassing nearly 1 million people.It cast boats onto land or sank them at the dock, flattened palm trees, peeled away roofs, blew down signs and knocked out power to more than a half-million homes and businesses. A replica of Christopher Columbus’ ship the Nina that had been docked at the Pensacola waterfront was missing, police said.Sally tore loose a barge-mounted construction crane, which then smashed into the new Three Mile Bridge over Pensacola Bay, causing a section of the year-old span to collapse, authorities said. The storm also ripped away a large section of a fishing pier at Alabama’s Gulf State Park on the very day a ribbon-cutting had been scheduled following a USD 2.4 million renovation.By the afternoon, authorities in Escambia County, which includes Pensacola, said at least 377 people had been rescued from flooded areas. More than 40 people trapped by high water were brought to safety within a single hour, including a family of four found in a tree, Sheriff David Morgan said.Authorities in Pensacola said 200 National Guard members would arrive Thursday to help. Officials also announced a three-day dusk-to-dawn curfew in the county, where the storm turned some Pensacola streets into white-capped rivers for a time.By early afternoon, Sally had weakened into a tropical storm, with winds down to 70 mph (110 kph), but the worst may be yet to come, with heavy rain expected into Thursday as the storm pushes inland over Alabama and into Georgia. For much of the day, it was moving at just 5 mph (7 kph), concentrating the amount of rain dropped on any one place.Morgan estimated thousands more will need to flee rising waters in the coming days. County officials urged residents to rely on text messages for contacting family and friends to keep cellphone service open for 911 calls.“There are entire communities that we’re going to have to evacuate,” the sheriff said. “It’s going to be a tremendous operation over the next several days.” West of Pensacola, power poles leaned halfway over in Perdido Key, Florida, as Joe Mirable arrived at his real estate business to find the two-story building shattered, its contents scatted on the ground.Digging through the ruins, Mirable pointed out a binder labeled “Hurricane Action Plan.” “I think the professionals got this one wrong,” he said before the wind blew away his hat.More than 2 feet of rain (61 centimetres) was recorded near Naval Air Station Pensacola, and nearly 3 feet (1 metre) of water covered streets in downtown Pensacola, the National Weather Service reported.“It’s not common that you start measuring rainfall in feet,” said forecaster David Eversole. “Sally’s moving so slowly, so it just keeps pounding and pounding and pounding the area with tropical rain and just powerful winds. It’s just a nightmare.” It was the second hurricane to hit the Gulf Coast in less than three weeks and the latest blow in one of the busiest hurricane seasons ever recorded, so frenetic that forecasters have nearly run through the alphabet of storm names with 2 1/2 months still to go. At the start of the week, Sally was one of a record-tying five storms churning simultaneously in the Atlantic, strung out like charms on a bracelet.Like the wildfires raging on the West Coast, the onslaught of hurricanes has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing slower, rainier, more powerful and more destructive storms.An emergency crew rescued two people on Dauphin Island, Alabama, after the hurricane ripped the roof off their home and the rest of the house began to crumble.“As things started to peel off and fall apart, they got scared and called for assistance,” Mayor Jeff Collier said. He said no one was injured.In Orange Beach, Alabama, the wind blew out the walls in one corner of a condominium building, exposing the interiors of condos on at least five floors, video posted online showed. At least 50 people were rescued from flooded homes and taken to shelters, Mayor Tony Kennon said.“We got a few people that we just haven’t been able to get to because the water is so high,” Kennon said. “But they are safe in their homes. As soon as the water recedes, we will rescue them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-sally-unleashes-flooding-hundreds-rescued/story-KHJP1owhSVwcjEV5rZcxMJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Donald Trump’s town hall offered preview of debates||The coronavirus cannot be wished away. Real people kept it real. Preparation — and the moderator — matters.President Donald Trump’s town hall in front of undecided Pennsylvania voters offered an intriguing preview of how he may approach his first debate against Democratic nominee Joe Biden in two weeks.Tuesday night’s event on ABC featured predictable attack lines and vague promises of policy from Trump. But it also showcased, again, the president’s struggle to effectively defend his handling of the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed the lives of nearly 200,000 Americans.And while the president’s aides have been eager to shift focus off the virus, the town hall made clear that the campaign, now down to its final seven weeks, has remained a referendum on the president and the pandemic.Here are other takeaways from a night that served as a tantalizing opening act for the first general election debate on Sept. 29:DENIALISMMemorably, Trump said in February that the coronavirus would disappear “like a miracle.” His tone has not changed much seven months later.The president put himself at odds with some basic scientific facts about the virus, including being dismissive of his own Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s strong recommendation for Americans to use face masks.“There are people that don’t think masks are good,” Trump said, mentioning that waiters have struggled with their face coverings and did not like them.Trump also tried to counter his admission to journalist Bob Woodward that he had tried to “play it down” when discussing the threat of Covid-19 to Americans earlier this year. Although audio recordings of his comments have been released, Trump said: “Yeah, well, I didn’t downplay it. I actually, in many ways, I up-played it, in terms of action.”He also, again, offered little acknowledgment of the historical injustices targeted at Black Americans.“Well, I hope there’s not a race problem,” the president said.PREPARATION MATTERSTrump has largely eschewed formal preparation for his debates with Biden, telling aides and allies that he believes his day job sparring with journalists will suffice. And Trump backers saw much that they liked in Trump’s performance Tuesday evening, including an opportunity for the president to make a rare, if uneven, display of empathy.But, privately, some are worried that Trump will face the same fate as many of his predecessors, who tend to grow complacent in the White House and can become flustered when they face their general-election rival for the first time.While some have gently advised Trump to study up, the president has largely ignored their advice for now, leaving allies holding their breath for Sept. 29.Also read: Biden advisers stress importance of masks, staying outdoors to fight CovidLONG-PROMISED POLICY PLANS“We’re signing a health care plan within two weeks,” Trump said on July 19. It would be introduced “hopefully, prior to the end of the month,” he told reporters in early August.No such plan has materialized, and few expect one to arrive before the election.Trump’s unfulfilled promises came into sharp relief during the town hall as Trump insisted he had a plan – but refused to share its details or explain why he’d waited more than 3 1/2 years to unveil it.“I have it all ready, and it’s a much better plan for you – and it’s a much better plan,” he insisted.Trump made a similar promise when it came to immigration, another issue on which he has been promising action for months without details materializing.“So we are doing something with immigration that I think is going to be very strong because we want people to come into our country,” he said. “And in a very short time, we’re going to be announcing it. And I think it’s going to have quite an impact.”REAL PROBLEMS. REAL EMOTIONS.The questions from self-described undecided voters were often more pointed than what the president is used to receiving.There was a diabetic man who explained that he had to dodge people who don’t social distance or wear a mask, a prime feature of the president’s campaign events. “Why did you throw vulnerable people like me under the bus?” asked Paul Tubiana, of Bethlehem, who said he had voted for Trump in 2016.The president sometimes began his answers before the questioners were done speaking, something Ellesia Blaque, of Wyomissing, did not allow. She asked the president how people with preexisting health conditions who work hard can stay insured. “Please stop and let me finish my question, sir,” she sternly insisted.And Flora Cruceta offered a question on behalf of her late mother, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic who became a US citizen, asking, “What will you change to make more people, like me and like her, to become citizens and vote?Trump, who has worked to reduce legal and illegal immigration, promised another immigration plan that he said “actually will be popular for all.” He appeared to mishear her comment that her mother died of breast cancer and steered the conversation to the coronavirus and the prospect of a Covid-19 vaccine.MODERATORS MATTERABC News anchor George Stephanopoulos pushed back against some of Trump’s comments but didn’t always challenge the president’s misstatements.In answering a question about preexisting conditions, Trump said Democrats favor socialized medicine while his “strong” plan protects people with ailments they suffer before getting insurance.“Mr. President, I have to stop you there. ... No. 1, Joe Biden ran against Medicare for All in the primaries,” Stephanopoulos said.Stephanopoulos added that the Trump administration is trying to strike down the Obama administration’s health care law, which ensured coverage for people with preexisting conditions. He pointed out that Trump said in June 2019 that his health care plan would come out in two weeks and voters still haven’t seen it.On another pocketbook issue, Trump claimed that Biden “wants to raise everybody’s taxes.”Stephanopoulos went to the next question without noting that Biden has said no individual with taxable income of $400,000 or less would see a federal tax increase under his plans. Less than 2% of US households report that level of income.But, facing a moderator and not an opponent, Trump was able to often set the tone for the discussion. He displayed his tendency for meandering answers that don’t directly address the subject at hand.Despite pointed questions from voters about his record and some follow-ups about his misstatements, Trump barreled on and avoided the occasional outbursts that occur during his White House briefings.A debate in which Trump is face-to-face with Biden and has a strict time limit will be a different challenge entirely. For the first time, Trump will be placed on equal footing with Biden, making his preferred tactic of talking past difficult questions harder to pull off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-town-hall-offered-preview-of-debates/story-K71oN2H7yNM125sxLueSsM.html
17-09-2020||World||Indian who killed estranged partner in UK jailed for life||A UK court on Wednesday sentenced to life a 23-year-old man who arrived from India as a partner for a woman in the east Midlands town of Leicester, fell out with her and stabbed her to death on March 2.Jigukumar Sorthi was sentenced by the Leicester Crown Court to a minimum of 28 years in jail before being considered for parole after being found guilty of murder following a trial at last week. He stabbed Bhavini Pravin, 21, in her home, when he went there to speak to her, and after some time stabbed her multiple times.He soon left the address and less than two hours after the incident, approached a police officer and made admissions implicating himself in the stabbing. A post-mortem examination concluded that Pravin died as a result of multiple stab wounds.Her father, Pravin Babu, said in a statement after Sorthi’s conviction last week: “Our daughter was only 21 years old when she was murdered…When our Bhavini was born, we felt that all of our prayers had been answered. She was the ‘Laxmi’ of our family”.“Growing up, she gave us so much joy and purpose. She was our inspiration to better ourselves and to build a future. Soon after, our two sons, Krutesh and Yagnesh, were born. Even from a young age, Bhavini doted on her little brothers. We decided to move to England so that we could give our children a better future”.“As parents our aspirations were that our daughter would get a good education, pursue her childhood career choice of nursing, marry the man of her dreams, have a family and live happily ever after.“When Jigu became engaged to our daughter, we trusted him to cherish, love and look after her forever. She was so precious to us. We showed Jigu nothing but love and acceptance. We brought him to England to give him a better life. We supported him, housed him.“And how did Jigu return our kindness – he repaid us by killing our beloved Bhavini”.Detective inspector Kenny Henry of the Leicestershire police said after sentencing: “Bhavini was a young woman who had the rest of her life to look forward to. She was a gentle caring soul and came from a close and very private family”.“It is fair to say she was the apple of her parents’ eyes. Losing Bhavini so early in life and in such tragic circumstances continues to take its toll on her parents and brothers – their lives have been changed forever”.“To have lost their beloved daughter to someone who they trusted to take care of her is something they will never recover from. Being present during the trial was understandably difficult for the family and I must commend their bravery, courage and dignity throughout”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-who-killed-estranged-partner-in-uk-jailed-for-life/story-SlkmrTD1GlqNQdLuhQ5ppJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Madrid mulls targeted Covid-19 lockdowns as infections surge||The Madrid region, one of the worst hit by Covid-19 in Spain, is planning to announce restrictions on movement on Friday that could include targeted lockdowns in virus hotspots, a senior official said, as the country’s infections surged again.Madrid accounts for around one-third of active coronavirus cases in Spain, with a higher incidence in high-density and low-income neighbourhoods, mainly in the south of the capital.The health ministry registered on Wednesday 4,728 new infections in the last 24 hours, including 1,854 in Madrid. That was up from 3,022 cases reported on Tuesday and brings the cumulative tally to 614,360 - Western Europe’s highest. With 17 new deaths, Spain’s death toll has reached 30,243.Madrid also accounts for the highest proportion of hospital capacity occupied by Covid-19 patients, at 22%, way above Spain’s average of 8.5%.“There will be decisions focused on restricting mobility,” Antonio Zapatero, head of the Covid-19 response for the region, told reporters, adding the health department was considering locking down areas with the highest incidence of the virus.“There has been a relaxation of behaviour that we cannot afford,” he said, adding people were organising parties, drinking in the street and not respecting quarantine rules. Since restrictions on movement were lifted and mass testing began in late June, infections have risen in Spain from a few hundred a day to thousands. Deaths have also increased to 50-60 per day in the past two weeks from single digits in July.“Many people are doing whatever they feel like, so I do think we need to have more measures,” said Ines Diaz, a Madrid resident. The latest plan comes amid controversy in Spain over who is to blame for the increase in infections, with regions and the central government pointing fingers at each other.Adding to the tensions, Madrid’s regional chief Isabel Diaz Ayuso said earlier this week “the way of life of immigrants” was partly to blame for the surge, attracting huge criticism.“We condemn your words that promote a racist stigma on our communities”, non-profit association SOS Racismo Madrid said on Twitter, adding that migrants usually have more precarious jobs, underprivileged housing and are more exposed to the virus.Also controversial is the region’s estimate, which it included in a report published on Tuesday, that around 40% of the active infections concern “people born outside Spain”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/madrid-mulls-targeted-covid-19-lockdowns-as-infections-surge/story-j2f0Grhklq01eAr5y6dXXL.html
17-09-2020||World||Mike Pompeo insists United States to enforce ‘UN’ sanctions on Iran||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo insisted Wednesday the United States will enforce new ‘UN’ sanctions on Iran starting next week, despite overwhelming consensus that Washington is out of bounds.“The United States will do what it always does. It will do its share as part of its responsibilities to enable peace, this time in the Middle East,” Pompeo told a joint news conference with British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab.“We’ll do all the things we need to do to make sure that those sanctions are enforced,” he said.Pompeo last month headed to the United Nations to announce the “snapback” of sanctions under a 2015 Security Council resolution after failing to extend an embargo on conventional arms sales to Iran.Also read: Donald Trump vows ‘1,000 times greater’ response to any Iran attackThe resolution allows any participant in a nuclear accord with Iran negotiated under former president Barack Obama to reimpose sanctions, which would take effect one month afterward.President Donald Trump pulled out of the accord, which he has repeatedly denounced, but Pompeo argues that the United States remains a “participant” as it was listed in the 2015 resolution.The sanctions are authorized by a “valid UN Security Council resolution,” Pompeo said.Trump has already enforced sweeping unilateral US sanctions on Iran, inflicting a heavy toll in a bid to curb the clerical state’s regional influence.The United Nations has clearly said that it cannot proceed with the reimposition of UN sanctions, with 13 of the Security Council’s 15 nations objecting to the US move.European allies of the United States say that they support extending the arms embargo but want to preserve a diplomatic solution on the nuclear issue, which they see as more important.Playing down differences, Raab said of the nuclear accord: “We have always welcomed US and indeed any other efforts to broaden it.”“The means by which we get there, there may be shades of difference but we have handled them... constructively,” he said.The issue has come to a head less than two months before Trump seeks another term against Democrat Joe Biden, a supporter of the accord that curbed Iran’s nuclear program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-insists-united-states-to-enforce-un-sanctions-on-iran/story-d3DLT4Mc9eV5yDcOwFGFJJ.html
17-09-2020||World||Biden advisers stress importance of masks, staying outdoors to fight Covid||Advisers to Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden stressed the importance of universal mask use and avoiding indoor gatherings as much as possible as the best ways to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during a briefing Wednesday.“Every time we open indoor bars, indoor gyms, we see an uptick” in the number of cases, said Zeke Emanuel, the vice provost for global initiatives at the University of Pennsylvania.Biden is expected to speak about the progress on coronavirus vaccines after the briefing ends.The Trump administration released its coronavirus vaccine distribution strategy on Wednesday, with the goal of ensuring vaccines will be shipped to administration sites within 24 hours of approval from US regulators. The federal guidance issued to states comes as the White House is funding various vaccine candidates as part of Operation Warp Speed.As the Trump administration promises an immediate vaccine, Biden advisers expressed caution about the ability to distribute one quickly. Though hopeful about its prospects, David Kessler, the former head of the Food and Drug Administration, told Biden that Americans should not expect a rapid decline in cases before January if a vaccine becomes available because of “limited distribution” capacity.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBut top US health officials offered conflicting estimates Wednesday of when Americans should expect coronavirus vaccines to be widely available. Paul Mango, a deputy chief of staff at the Department of Health and Human Services, said every American should be able to get a shot by the end of March, while Robert Redfield, the director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, put it at late second quarter or third quarter of 2021.The development and distribution of a vaccine has become a political flash point in the presidential race, as President Donald Trump has promised a vaccine would be available “very soon” while Democrats and public health experts raise concerns about political interference in the process from the administration.Biden’s team has begun to plan for how his administration would oversee the complicated task of distributing a vaccine if he wins and a vaccine becomes available early in his term. His advisers are leveraging their relationships with officials in US government health agencies to monitor the administration’s progress.His advisers are primarily focused on working through the supply chain issues that will impede efforts to quickly vaccinate millions of people and end a pandemic that has killed more than 196,000 people and crashed the US economy into a recession.Experts say shrinking capacity on container ships and cargo aircraft, outdated technology to transport fragile vials of medicine and inadequate refrigeration are among the problems any administration will face in distributing the vaccine.Also read: AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in US remains on hold pending FDA reviewOne Biden adviser said the group is closely monitoring reports from experts on equitable distribution, particularly one from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The adviser said the group does not plan to publish recommendations before the election, but Biden advisers want to be prepared to start distribution as soon as a vaccine is ready.Though he has expressed concerns about Trump’s oversight of the vaccine, Biden has reiterated his desire for a safe one to be made available as quickly as possible.“If I could get a vaccine tomorrow I’d do it,” Biden told reporters last week. “If it cost me the election I’d do it. We need a vaccine and we need it now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-advisers-stress-importance-of-masks-staying-outdoors-to-fight-covid/story-l7rBwQxWYr5MjX6uIhMneN.html
17-09-2020||World||AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in US remains on hold pending FDA review||AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine study remains paused in the US pending a regulatory review of an incident in which a UK participant became ill, federal officials said.The British drugmaker and its partner, the University of Oxford, put research into the shot on hold last week after the volunteer suffered neurological symptoms. Trials resumed in the UK over the weekend, while researchers in South Africa also restarted tests, saying that an independent safety committee concluded that the event was unlikely to be related to the vaccination.Temporary pauses in clinical trials aren’t unusual. However, the reported event has heightened worry that the global campaign to find a Covid-19 vaccine is moving too quickly. AstraZeneca is among several drugmakers who have agreed to work with and supply shots to Operation Warp Speed, the Trump administration’s effort to expedite the development of an inoculation.Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, told CNN it’s probably just a matter of time before they restart in the US Moncef Slaoui, who is leading the Warp Speed initiative, said the trial would resume when independent safety monitors and the Food and Drug Administration determine it’s safe.“This pause while the adverse event is fully investigated means the science-based, data-driven process is working as it should,” he said in a statement.FDA’s ReviewFDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn said during an Instagram Live event that the agency is “going to do very significant work with the company to figure out if there’s a significant safety issue or not.”The trial went on pause worldwide last week while doctors looked into the illness of a phase 3 clinical trial participant who received the vaccine and became ill. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN Tuesday “it would be unusual to completely stop a trial on the basis of one single adverse event.”The Serum Institute of India has received Indian regulatory approval to resume local trials and intends to restart in the next day or two, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named because the regulator’s decision isn’t public.A representative for AstraZeneca declined to comment.Data from final-stage trials of the AstraZeneca vaccine are expected as soon as next month, and Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said last week the injection could still be available by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-in-us-remains-on-hold-pending-fda-review/story-kAtwS6xxBG6nOwqUeSaCEO.html
