20-09-2020||World||Trump averts TikTok ban in US with his ‘blessing’ for Oracle deal||President Donald Trump averted a ban on downloads and upgrades for American users of TikTok that was scheduled to go into effect on Sunday, saying he has given his “blessing” to a tentative deal in which US companies Oracle and Walmart will acquire a minority stake in the Chinese video-sharing app. “I can say that I have given the deal my blessing,” Trump told reporters announcing the deal, adding that he had “approved the deal in concept”.Oracle and Walmart will acquire 12.5% and 7.5% respectively in a new company, which will be incorporated possibly in Texas and will be called TikTok Global. ByteDance, the Chinese parent company will continue, to hold a stake in the new entity.But Oracle and Walmart said in a joint statement that the new entity will be majority-owned by American investors. Four American companies already own 60% of ByteDance.TikTok Global will be an independent American company, headquartered in the US, with four Americans out of the five-member Board of Directors, the companies added in their statement.The new entity will create more than 25,000 new jobs in the US and will pay more than $5 billion in new tax dollars to the US treasury, which, Trump said, will go towards funding education. “We’re going to be setting up a very large fund toward the education of American youth.”TikTok said it was “pleased” to confirm a deal had been reached to resolve the Trump administration’s “security concerns and settles questions around TikTok’s future in the US.”TikTok faced a ban on new downloads and upgrades for American users from Sunday night, along with WeChat, another Chinese social media app. The restriction on TikTok were extended by the commerce department, but the ban on downloads of WeChat and financial transactions will go into effect as scheduled.The Trump administration has said these Chinese companies pose a national security threat for the US.It argued that the Chinese government has access to data collected on American users and could use them to potentially “track the locations of federal employees and contractors, build dossiers of personal information for blackmail, and conduct corporate espionage”.With the new entity, data on Americans will be stored locally. “All the TikTok technology will be in possession of TikTok Global, and comply with US laws and privacy regulations. Data privacy for 100 million American TikTok users will be quickly established by moving all American data to Oracle’s Generation 2 Cloud data centres, the most secure cloud data centres in the world,” Oracle and Walmart said in their joint statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-averts-tiktok-ban-in-us-with-his-blessing-for-oracle-deal/story-4Xf5TFIeycFHdEvVNugrOK.html
20-09-2020||World||More than 2 dozen people, groups involved in Iran’s arms programs to be sanctioned: Report||The United States on Monday will sanction more than two dozen people and entities involved in Iran’s nuclear, missile and conventional arms programs, a senior US official said, putting teeth behind UN sanctions on Tehran that Washington argues have resumed despite the opposition of allies and adversaries.Speaking on condition of anonymity, the official said Iran could have enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon by the end of the year and that Tehran has resumed long-range missile cooperation with nuclear-armed North Korea. He did not provide detailed evidence regarding either assertion.The new sanctions fit into US President Donald Trump’s effort to limit Iran’s regional influence and come a week after US-brokered deals for the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to normalize ties with Israel, pacts that may coalesce a wider coalition against Iran while appealing to pro-Israel US voters ahead of the Nov. 3 election.The new sanctions also put European allies, China and Russia on notice that while their inclination may be to ignore the US drive to maintain the UN sanctions on Iran, companies based in their nations would feel the bite for violating them.A major part of the new US push is an executive order targeting those who buy or sell Iran conventional arms that was previously reported by Reuters and will also be unveiled by the Trump administration on Monday, the official said.The Trump administration suspects Iran of seeking nuclear weapons - something Tehran denies - and Monday’s punitive steps are the latest in a series seeking to stymie Iran’s atomic program, which US ally Israel views as an existential threat.“Iran is clearly doing everything it can to keep in existence a virtual turnkey capability to get back into the weaponization business at a moment’s notice should it choose to do so,” the US official told Reuters.The official argued Iran wants a nuclear weapons capability and the means to deliver it despite the 2015 deal that sought to prevent this by restraining Iran’s atomic program in return for access to the world market.In May 2018, Trump abandoned that agreement to the dismay of the other parties - Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia - and restored US sanctions that have crippled Iran’s economy.Iran, in turn, has gradually breached the central limits in that deal, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), including on the size of its stockpile of low-enriched uranium as well as the level of purity to which it was allowed to enrich uranium.“Because of Iran’s provocative nuclear escalation, it could have sufficient fissile material for a nuclear weapon by the end of this year,” the official said without elaborating except to say this was based on “the totality” of information available to the United States, including from the IAEA.The Vienna-based agency has said Iran only began significantly breaching the 2015 deal’s limits after the US withdrawal and it is still enriching uranium only up to 4.5%, well below the 20% it had achieved before that agreement, let alone the roughly 90% purity that is considered weapons-grade, suitable for an atomic bomb.“Iran and North Korea have resumed cooperation on a long-range missile project, including the transfer of critical parts,” he added, declining to say when such joint work first began, stopped, and then started again.Asked to comment on the impending new US sanctions and the US official’s other statements, a spokesman for Iran’s mission to the United Nations dismissed them as propaganda and said they would further isolate the United States. “The US’ ‘maximum pressure’ show, which includes new propaganda measures almost every week, has clearly failed miserably, and announcing new measures will not change this fact,” the mission’s spokesman, Alireza Miryousefi, told Reuters in an email. “The entire world understands that these are a part of (the) next US election campaign, and they are ignoring the US’ preposterous claims at the UN today. It will only make (the) US more isolated in world affairs,” he said.The White House declined comment in advance of Monday’s announcements.‘Snap back’ of UN sanctions?The US official confirmed Trump will issue an executive order that would allow the United States to punish those who buy or sell conventional arms to Iran with secondary sanctions, depriving them of access to the US market. The proximate cause for this US action is the impending expiration of a UN arms embargo on Iran and to warn foreign actors - US entities are already barred from such trade - that if they buy or sell arms to Iran they will face US sanctions.Under the 2015 nuclear deal the UN conventional arms embargo is set to expire on Oct. 18.The United States says it has triggered a “snap back,” or resumption, of virtually all UN sanctions on Iran, including the arms embargo, to come into effect at 8 p.m. on Saturday/0000 GMT on Sunday.Other parties to the nuclear deal and most UN Security Council members have said they do not believe the United States has the right to reimpose the UN sanctions and that the US move has no legal effect.On Friday, Britain, France and Germany told the Security Council that UN sanctions relief for Iran - agreed under the 2015 nuclear deal - would continue beyond Sunday, despite Washington’s assertion.In letters to the Security Council on Saturday, China’s UN Ambassador Zhang Jun and Russia’s UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia both described the US move as “illegitimate” and said the UN sanctions relief for Iran would continue.Also on Saturday, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres told the Security Council he cannot act on the US declaration that UN sanctions had been reimposed because it was not clear whether they had snapped back. “It is not for the Secretary-General to proceed as if no such uncertainty exists,” he said.Targets include Iran’s nuclear, missile, arms groupsThe new executive order will define conventional weapons broadly as any item with a potential military use, meaning it could cover such things as speed boats that Iran retrofits to harass vessels in international waters, the US official told Reuters.It would also apply to conventional circuit boards that can be used in ballistic missile guidance systems, he added.The more than two dozen targets to be hit with sanctions on Monday include those involved in Iran’s conventional arms, nuclear and missile programs, the official said, saying some of the targets are already sanctioned under other US programs.That could prompt criticism that the US move is redundant and designed for public relations purposes to look tough on Iran, a charge critics have made about past US sanctions actions.Among the targets will be Iran’s “most nefarious arms organizations,” about a dozen senior officials, scientists and experts from Iran’s nuclear complex, members of a procurement network that supplies military-grade dual-use goods for Iran’s missile program, and several senior officials involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program, the US official said.The official declined to name the targets, saying this would be made public on Monday, and stressed that the United States wants to deter foreign companies from dealing with them even if their governments believe this is legally permitted.“You might have a split in some countries where a foreign government may claim that the UN sanctions don’t snap back but their banks and companies will abide by US sanctions because they want to make sure they are not a future target,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-2-dozen-people-groups-involved-in-iran-s-arms-programs-to-be-sanctioned-report/story-mCpp35RhcEFy0LAOlsXvbL.html
20-09-2020||World||Ban on TikTok delayed in US as Trump approves Oracle’s bid||Donald Trump gave his blessing to Oracle Corp.’s bid for the American operations of TikTok, putting the popular video-sharing app on course to escape a US ban imposed as part of his pressure campaign against China.“I approved the deal in concept,” Trump told reporters Saturday as he left the White House for a campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina. “If they get it done, that’s great. If they don’t, that’s OK too.”The new company, which will be called TikTok Global, has agreed to funnel $5 billion in new tax dollars to the US and set up a new education fund, which Trump said would satisfy his demand that the government receive a payment from the deal. “They’re going to be setting up a very large fund,” he said. “That’s their contribution that I’ve been asking for.”Oracle plans to take a 12.5% stake in the new TikTok Global, while Walmart Inc. said it has tentatively agreed to buy 7.5% of the entity. Walmart’s Chief Executive Officer Doug McMillon will serve on TikTok Global’s board of directors, the retailer said in a statement. Four of the five board seats will be filled by Americans, according to the statement.TikTok’s Chinese owner ByteDance Ltd. is seeking a valuation of $60 billion for the app, according to a person familiar with the matter. Oracle and Walmart would pay a combined $12 billion for their stakes if they agree to that asking price. The final valuation had not been set as the parties worked out the equity structure and measures for data security, the person said. Terms are still in flux and the proposed valuation could still change.US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo characterized Bytedance’s proposed role as similar to a “passive shareholder.” The Chinese company would have “no decision-making authority, no ability to peer into” what the US company is doing, he said on Fox News’ “Sunday Morning Futures.”The TikTok deal was forced by a pair of bans Trump issued in August over concerns that ByteDance posed a national security risk, thrusting the video-sharing app into the center of the president’s confrontation with Beijing.Shortly after Trump signaled his approval, the Commerce Department on Saturday delayed by a week a ban that would have forced Apple Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google to pull the TikTok video app from their US app stores on Sunday.Trump is ramping up pressure on Chinese-owned apps in the weeks before the Nov. 3 presidential elections, citing national security concerns about the data US citizens provide to them and the potential for Beijing to use them for spying. The president is trailing his opponent Joe Biden in polls and has sought to portray himself as tougher on Beijing than the Democrat.TikTok said in a statement that it was “pleased that the proposal by TikTok, Oracle, and Walmart will resolve the security concerns of the US administration and settle questions around TikTok’s future in the US”The company confirmed Oracle will host all its US data and secure its computer systems. Oracle’s Generation 2 Cloud fully isolates running applications and responds to security threats autonomously, according to the statement, which eliminates the risk of foreign governments spying on American users or trying to influence them with disinformation.“Oracle will quickly deploy, rapidly scale, and operate TikTok systems in the Oracle Cloud,” said Oracle CEO Safra Catz in a statement. “We are a 100% confident in our ability to deliver a highly secure environment to TikTok and ensure data privacy to TikTok’s American users.”Oracle will get full access to review TikTok’s source code and updates to make sure there are no back doors used by the company’s Chinese parent to gather data or to spy on the video-sharing app’s 100 million American users, according to people familiar with the matter.‘Real’ FirewallThe deal, if approved, ensures “that no American’s data has any access to anyone in China that has any capacity to move this to a place we don’t want it,” Pompeo said.“We will ensure that that firewall is real, that the protection is serious, that the data resides in places that aren’t connected to the Chinese information system,” he said.TikTok Global, together with Oracle, SIG, General Atlantic, Sequoia, Walmart and Coatue will create an educational initiative to develop and deliver an online video curriculum driven by artificial intelligence, according to the statement.TikTok said it’s working with Walmart on a commercial partnership and said that it will take part in a TikTok Global financing round along with Oracle before an initial public offering in which the investors can take as much as a 20% cumulative stake in the company.TikTok Global will likely be headquartered in Texas and will hire “at least” 25,000 people, Trump said. TikTok will need to hire thousands of content moderators, engineers, and marketing staff that were previously located in China and around the world. The company will also pay more than $5 billion in new tax dollars to the Treasury, according to the statement.To sweeten the deal for Trump, TikTok promised to hire an additional 15,000 jobs, more than the 10,000 positions the company already pledged to fill earlier this year. It’s unclear if there’s a timeline to achieve that target, or guarantees that it will follow through. Facebook Inc., the largest US social media company, employed about 45,000 people in 2019, while Twitter Inc. employed only 4,900, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Proponents of the deal told the Trump administration that the new company would be controlled by American investors by counting the passive stakes of existing shareholders in TikTok’s Chinese parent, people familiar with the matter said. Although ByteDance will have an 80% stake in the new company, existing US investors hold a 40% stake in ByteDance. That tallies up to 53% ownership by US companies and investors -- although that doesn’t entail majority control or voter rights, the people said.TikTok Global, which will be an independent company, will hold an initial public offering in less than 12 months and the stock will be listed on a US exchange, according to the statement. After going public, US ownership of TikTok Global will increase and continue to grow over time, it added.While the Chinese government must now sign off on the transaction for it to go forward, as of earlier this week, ByteDance was growing increasingly confident that the proposal would pass muster with Chinese regulators, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.Early reaction from Chinese state media appeared positive. “This scheme is still unfair, but it avoids the worst result, that TikTok is shut down or sold to a US company completely,” wrote Hu Xijin, the influential editor in chief of China’s state-owned Global Times.Under the terms of the agreement reached early in the week, ByteDance would retain a majority of TikTok’s assets and control over the algorithm, with Oracle and other US investors taking minority stakes.Trump seemed to contradict that on Saturday. “It will have nothing to do with China, it’ll be totally secure, that’ll be part of the deal,” he said. “All of the control is Walmart and Oracle, two great American companies.”Trump spoke with Oracle Chairman Larry Ellison and Walmart’s McMillon on Friday, telling them he still expected the US government to receive a cash payment as part of the transaction, according to people familiar with the matter. They agreed to the educational donation as a way to satisfy Trump’s demand, one of the people said. ByteDance first heard about the $5 billion education fund from news reports, a company spokeswoman said.The deal came together last weekend, the result of high-level negotiations between ByteDance, Oracle and top Trump administration officials after ByteDance rejected a bid from Microsoft Corp. and Walmart to buy the US TikTok service outright.Beijing has signaled it would greenlight a deal as long as ByteDance doesn’t have to transfer the artificial intelligence algorithms that drive TikTok’s service, Bloomberg has reported.The Treasury Department said the deal is subject to a security agreement that requires approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US, or Cfius. The term sheet that’s been negotiated between Cfius and the companies will now have to be formalized in a document that details the mechanics for implementing the terms of the deal.That document would likely include requirements related to the establishment of the new company, arrangements governing its relationship with ByteDance, whether an IPO is part of the deal, whether ByteDance will have to divest its entire stake in the IPO and what would happen if for some reason the IPO doesn’t occur, said Aimen Mir, a lawyer at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and a former deputy assistant secretary for investment security at Treasury.In a video posted on TikTok with the caption #WeAreTikTok and we are here to stay, interim head of TikTok Vanessa Pappas thanked users for “sticking by us,” she said. “We’re here for the long run.” In the comments below, users said they were happy that the ongoing drama around the ban would subside. “This on and off situation is working on my nerves,” said @iamdavante, who has 4.1 million followers on the video app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ban-on-tiktok-delayed-in-us-as-trump-approves-oracle-s-bid/story-UZl7Vp4ozIqTvC93PSzl3M.html
20-09-2020||World||Paytm alleges arm-twisting by Google||Home grown digital financial services firm Paytm on Sunday charged internet giant Google of “arm-twisting” and forcing it to roll back a UPI cashback campaign which is legal in India. Google said that offering cashbacks and vouchers alone do not constitute a violation of Google Play gambling policies and in case of repeat violation its may even terminate Google Play developer accounts. Paytm in a blog alleged that Google Pay has been running similar cricket-based promotions “but a different set of rules apply to Google’s own apps”.Google had blocked Paytm on its Play store following a policy update on September 18, ahead of the IPL cricket tournament, to disallow apps that support any unregulated gambling but restored the mobile app after a few hours after it rolled back the campaign.Paytm said that it was forced to comply with Google’s mandate to remove the UPI cashback and scratch cards campaign to get re-listed on the Android Play Store.“Offering both is legal in India, and cashback was being given following all rules and regulations set by the government,” Paytm said.When contacted, a Google spokesperson said that offering cashbacks and vouchers alone do not constitute a violation of our Google Play gambling policies. The spokesperson said that last week Google reiterated Play Store gambling policies which bars online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting, “including daily fantasy sports in India”.“We enforce our policies very thoughtfully to provide a safe and secure experience for consumers, while also giving developers the platform and tools they need to build sustainable businesses. In the case of repeated policy violations, we may take more serious action which may include terminating Google Play Developer accounts. Our policies are applied and enforced on all developers consistently,” Google spokesperson said.Paytm said that its gaming subsidiary, Paytm First Games can conveniently do a paid promotion on Google-owned YouTube but it is not allowed to do the same advertisement on the Paytm app as per Google Policy.“We have been prompt and responsible in solving Google’s concerns and comply with their directions. Google’s recent action on the delisting of the Paytm app because of a UPI cashback campaign is unjustified. We reiterate that our cashback campaign was within guidelines, and there was no violation,” Paytm said.It added that as a country India should not beholden to such tech giants. The digital payments firm alleged that it was “arm-twisted” by the search engine major to comply with its biased app Play Store policies “that are meant to artificially create Google’s market dominance.” Paytm in the blog said that Google Pay has started its Tez Shots Campaign which clearly says, “Score Runs to earn assured rewards worth up to Rs 1 lakh” at the beginning of this cricket season itself.The Tez Shots participants who qualify for a lucky draw through which they get assured tickets up to Rs 1 lakh with any qualifying payment, Paytm said in a blog.“Presumably, such cashback campaigns of Google Pay are not in breach of play store policies, or maybe they are, but a different set of rules apply to Google’s own apps,” the digital payments firm said.Paytm said that it launched a campaign on September 11 where users could collect cricket stickers and scratch cards to earn UPI cashback.The offer was applicable on recharges, utility payments, UPI money transfers, and adding money to wallet and on September 18 at 11:30 AM, the company received the first email from Google Play Support informing that the Paytm Android app had been delisted.Vijay Shekhar Sharma-run digital payments firm alleged that it was not given any opportunity to respond to their concerns or put forth views.“We maintain that our promotional campaign was within guidelines, and there was no violation. It was also not related to gambling in any manner whatsoever,” Paytm added its blog.Paytm said the Google Play Support team had written to them on three occasions--on August 20, August 28 and on September 1, with some concerns on a separate matter of Paytm First Games’ promotion through the Paytm app for some alleged previous “policy violations”.“While we strenuously disagreed with the allegation that we are breaching the policy (and we disagree with the policy itself too), we immediately complied with the diktat that barred us from promoting our gaming subsidiary,” it stated in the blog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/paytm-alleges-arm-twisting-by-google/story-KpPzW4sJS4y4UVS92LGl0N.html
20-09-2020||World||Hong Kong bans Air India flights, says one-third of 23 new cases recently travelled from India||The Hong Kong government on Sunday suspended flights from Air India after a surge in the number of coronavius disease cases, according to local media reports.Many local outlets quoted Hong Kong’s department of health as saying the flights of Air India and Cathay Dragon have been suspended till October 3 after passengers aboard were found to be infected with Covid-19.Cathay Pacific said in a statement that five passengers from India who were on a Cathay Dragon flight between Kuala Lumpur and Hong Kong on September 18 tested positive for Covid-19, even after they submitted negative nucleic acid tests before their trip. The passengers were earlier on an India Express flight.Hong Kong recorded the highest number of new infections in almost a month. One-third of the 23 new cases were in people who had recently travelled from India, according to the Centre for Health Protection. Only four local infections were reported.Hong Kong had banned flights operated by Air India in August too. These flights were part of the Vande Bharat Mission.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to travel restrictions in wake of Covid-19 pandemic.A passenger from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if he or she has a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey, according to the rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July.Air India Express flights were suspended for 24 hours on Friday by the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) for bringing two passengers with Covid-positive certificates on August 28 and September 4.As per the UAE government rules, each passenger travelling from India is required to bring an original Covid-negative certificate from the RT-PCR test done 96 hours prior to the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-bans-air-india-flights-says-one-third-of-23-new-cases-recently-travelled-from-india/story-0X0d8LMsOYZmQ3nSkTdW2L.html
20-09-2020||World||Ahead of crucial FATF meet, Pakistan continues to treat 21 dreaded terrorists as VIPs||In a big revelation exposing the double standards of Pakistan, the country, despite the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) sword hanging over its head, continues to harbour terrorists and is giving VIP treatment to many of them including underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and Pakistan-based Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terrorist Ranjeet Singh Neeta. Sources said that the international community is concerned about the hypocrisy of Pakistan which is pretending to take action against terrorists but is funding them.According to the sources, the Pakistan government is giving VIP security to 21 dreaded terrorists including those sanctioned last month.According to the list accessed by ANI, the terrorists given VIP treatment include underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, Wadhwa Singh, Chief of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), Indian Mujahideen (IM) chief, Riyaz Bhatkal, terrorist Mirza Shadab Baig and Afif Hassan Siddibapa.Many of these terrorists are those who are wanted in India. Pakistan is giving them asylum.India has repeatedly exposed Pakistan who is sponsoring the terrorist groups and training and arming them to wage war against IndiaFrom last few weeks, experts believe that the Pakistan government is creating an illusion that it is acting against terrorist groups to prevent the wrath of Paris based watchdog FATF. Last month, Pakistan had imposed more restrictions on 88 leaders and members of terrorist groups, in compliance with the new list, issued by the United Nations Security Council. Hafiz Saeed Ahmad of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, Mohammad Masood Azhar of JeM and Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi and Ibrahim are on the list.According to the details, the government has also seized the bank accounts and properties of the terrorists in the country. They have also been banned from travelling aboard, Ary News reported.Though Pakistan has claimed that it is taking actions against the terrorist groups, however, there are no details of how many actions have been implemented.Islamabad is racing against time to escape the FATF’s blacklist and clearing its name from the grey list.Pakistan is in the grey list since June 2018 and the government was given a final warning in February to complete the remaining action points by June 2020. The FATF extended the June deadline to September due to the spread of coronavirus that disrupted the FATF plenary meetings.The country is facing the difficult task of clearing its name from the FATF grey list. Pakistan is making attempts to avoid a demotion from the FATF grey list to the blacklist during the upcoming October plenary meeting. While Pakistan tries to showcase its ‘efforts’ in combating terrorism, there have been reports from Afghanistan giving ample evidence of the presence of Pakistani terrorists on its land.In recent weeks, Pakistan has been trying to paint a picture that it has started the reforms including the passing of bills in order to prevent blacklisting by the FATF.In late July, Pakistan Financial Monitoring Unit Director-General Lubna Farooq told the National Assembly Standing Committee on Finance that the country is yet to comply with 13 conditions out of the 27-point Action Plan of the FATF including curbing terror financing, enforcement of the laws against the proscribed organisations and improving the legal systems. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-crucial-fatf-meet-pakistan-continues-to-treat-21-dreaded-terrorists-as-vips/story-csQtaymaFidHct8Vnk4TBN.html
20-09-2020||World||‘A vaccine with 50 per cent effectiveness’: Astrazeneca releases 111-page Covid-19 vaccine trial blueprint | All you need to know||Pharma company Astrazeneca has released a 111-page trial blueprint, after several questions were raised about its Covid-19 vaccine trials since two participants in the UK reported illness. Reports said experts are quite concerned about Covishield, developed by Oxford University and Astrazeneca as not much is known about the trials.What does the blueprint say?* It says that the goal is to develop a vaccine with 50 per cent effectiveness, as mandated by the Food and Drug Administration.* There will have to be 150 people ill with confirmed coronavirus among participants who were vaccinated or received placebo shots.* A safety board will perform an early analysis after there have been just 75 cases.* When the vaccine will be found 50 per cent effective, it will apply to the government for early release of the vaccine for emergency use.Also Read | AstraZeneca’s trial illnesses may not be due to Covid-19 shot, says Oxford UniversityReleasing the blueprint of a vaccine under research is believed to be unusual as several other rival companies are also racing to develop an effective Covid-19 vaccine. But Moderna, Pfizer, Astrazeneca, all three pharma companies have released their blueprints detailing how they are proceeding with the trials.Controversy over Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccineOn September 8, Astrazeneca confirmed that it has stopped trials on September 6 after two participants reported illness. It refused to divulge any further information regarding the illness. The trials running in other countries were also stopped. After the UK authorities announced that the illness reported was not related to the vaccine shot, Astrazeneca resumed its trial. However, the United States has not yet permitted the resumption of Oxford vaccine trial. What we know so far about illness reportedly prompted by Astrazeneca vaccine shots?According to New York Times, one participant developed spinal cord inflammation after receiving one shot of the vaccine. Later, it was found that the volunteer had a “previously undiagnosed case of multiple sclerosis”.Third-phase trial in India likely to begin tomorrowThe final phase of human clinical trial of Oxford-Astrazeneca’s Covishield will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week, after Drugs Controller General of India gave Serum Institute of India (SII) a go-ahead to continue its trial. “The phase-III trial of ‘Covishield’ vaccine will begin at Sassoon hospital from next week. It is likely to start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial. Around 150 to 200 volunteers will be administered the vaccine candidate dose,” Dr Muralidhar Tambe, dean of Sassoon General Hospital, told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-vaccine-with-50-per-cent-effectiveness-astrazeneca-releases-111-page-covid-19-vaccine-trial-blueprint-all-you-need-to-know/story-cF3IU1I3wHnMyZKNeIokkN.html
20-09-2020||World||Why Thai protesters are challenging the monarchy||Since a longstanding taboo on criticising Thailand’s monarchy was broken by protesters in early August, their rallies in Bangkok have got increasingly bold in criticising King Maha Vajiralongkorn and demanding change. HOW DID THE PROTESTS START?Anti-government protests emerged last year after courts banned the most vocal party opposing the government of former junta leader Prayuth Chan-ocha.After a pause during measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus, protests resumed in mid-July - pushing for Prayuth’s removal, a new constitution and an end to the harassment of activists.Some protesters went further with a list of 10 demands to reform the monarchy.Protesters say they do not seek to end the monarchy, only reform it, but conservatives are horrified by such attacks on an institution the constitution says is “enthroned in a position of revered worship”.Prayuth has said that while protests should be allowed, criticising the monarchy goes too far.WHAT DOES THE PALACE SAY?The Royal Palace has made no comment on the protests and the demands for reform despite repeated requests.WHAT REFORMS DO THE PROTESTERS WANT?Not all protesters demand reform of the monarchy, with some saying such calls are counterproductive, but the size of the weekend demonstrations showed the scale of support.Protesters want to reverse a 2017 increase in the king’s constitutional powers, made the year after he succeeded his widely revered late father King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Pro-democracy activists say Thailand is backtracking on the constitutional monarchy established when absolute royal rule ended in 1932. They say the monarchy is too close to the army and argue that this has undermined democracy.Protesters also seek the scrapping of lese majeste laws against insulting the king. They want the king to relinquish the personal control he took over a palace fortune estimated in the tens of billions of dollars, and some units of the army.WHY ELSE ARE THEY UNHAPPY?Protesters complain that the king endorsed Prayuth’s premiership after elections last year that opposition figures say were engineered to keep his hands on power. Prayuth, who as army chief led a 2014 coup, says the election was fair.Protesters have voiced anger that the king spends so much of his time in Europe.They have also challenged the spending of the Palace and lifestyle of the king, who has been married four times and last year took a royal consort.WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PLAQUE?Protesters cemented a brass plaque on the Sanam Luang - or Royal Field - near the Grand Palace. The plaque proclaims that Thailand belongs to the people not the monarch.It resembles one commemorating the end of absolute monarchy removed without explanation from outside one of the royal palaces in 2017, the year after Vajiralongkorn took the throne, and replaced by one with a pro-monarchist slogan.WHAT DO THE LESE MAJESTE LAWS MEAN?The Thai monarchy is protected by Section 112 of the country’s Penal Code, which says whoever defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent shall be jailed for three to 15 years.In June, Prayuth said the law was no longer being applied because of “His Majesty’s mercy”. The Royal Palace has never commented on this. Rights groups say opponents of the government - including more than a dozen of the protest leaders - have recently been charged under other laws such as those against sedition and computer crimes.The government has said it does not target opponents but it is the responsibility of police to uphold the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-thai-protesters-are-challenging-the-monarchy/story-EPy6F97e19wxLC7s3xk3NI.html
20-09-2020||World||Pak army a state above the state, says Nawaz Sharif as Oppn unites against military leaders||Pakistan’s major opposition parties on Sunday demanded an end to interference by the country’s military leaders in politics, with former premier Nawaz Sharif saying the army has gone from a ‘state within a state’ to a ‘state above the state’.For most of Pakistan’s history, there has been either a military dictator at the helm of affairs or, when there was an elected government, a parallel government was being run by the military, Sharif said in a hard-hitting speech to the conference which was attended by leaders of nearly all major opposition parties. The PML-N leader addressed the All Parties Conference, organised by Bilawal Bhutto Zardari of the Pakistan Peoples Party, via video link from London where he is undergoing medical treatment. Significantly, some parts of the proceedings of the conference were censored on most local TV channels. The military’s interference has reached a point where, from being a state within a state, it was now a state above the state, Sharif said. “This is the root cause of all our problems.” “Our struggle isn’t against (Prime Minister) Imran Khan but with the forces that have installed his illegitimate government to power,” said Sharif. While political leaders were consistently victimised in the name of accountability, army dictators got away despite subverting the Constitution and committing all sorts of crimes, he added.In contrast, he said, there were no accountability proceedings against army generals and gave the example of Asim Saleem Bajwa, a retired general and now head of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor Authority, whose undeclared holdings were exposed by the media but no action was taken.“We want elected leaders to run the affairs of the country, to manage the economy and to decide on the foreign policy.” said Sharif. The former PM said that under the Imran Khan government, Pakistan has become internationally isolated. “The Indian government took advantage of the weak and incompetent government to swallow Kashmir,” he alleged, adding, “even Pakistan’s friends did not stand by it when it protested.” Sharif asked whose agenda foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi was working on when he attacked Saudi Arabia and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation. He was referring to the minister’s comments attacking the Saudi leadership of OIC over what he called its ‘dilly-dallying’ on the Kashmir issue, which led to souring of relations with Riyadh.“When we pointed out that our friendly countries were warning us about our involvement in external issues which was being done at the behest of the military, we were attacked and it was turned into a scandal,” Sharif noted. Now, Pakistan has to deal with the shame of trying to meet targets set by platforms like the FATF, he said, referring to Financial Action Task Force, the global watchdog on money laundering and terror financing.Sharif said the country’s economy had crashed, inflation is up while the Pakistani rupee is at a historic low and economic growth had significantly fallen. He warned his audience that in such a situation, “when the economy is weak, the country will be unable to defend itself from external aggression.”Sharif demanded accountability of Khan’s own assets, the overseas assets of his sister and of those close to the prime minister who had benefited from the sugar shortage in the country.He said that state interference in public life in Pakistan had increased manifold. He lamented attacks on the media and the harassment of journalists. “The policy to divide and rule has been extended from politicians to the media, lawyers, industrialists and even the judiciary.” Sharif called for the supremacy of parliament and the sanctity of the vote.Earlier, while welcoming the participants to the conference, former president Asif Ali Zardari of PPP said the witch hunt being conducted by the present government against politicians should end. “They have even dragged the womenfolk of our families into these false cases,” he said.Bilawal Bhutto Zardari told the conference the time has come for a united opposition platform to fight the selected government of prime minister Imran Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-oppn-parties-unite-to-decry-military-s-state-above-state/story-6a0jTfeYC6cSpnhQ8IhFLN.html
20-09-2020||World||Facebook neutral, non-partisan, its India chief says defending handling of hate speeches||Facebook India Head Ajit Mohan has defended the handling of alleged hate speeches by members of the ruling BJP, saying the platform has remained true to its design of being neutral and non-partisan and acted based on inputs from various teams. In an interview with PTI, Mohan rejected charges of Facebook India’s decisions being influenced by political leanings of individuals, saying the process followed at the platform is designed to ensure no one person can influence outcomes, let alone take any unilateral decisions. “The content policy of team that is at the centre of all the enforcement decisions (on hate speeches) is separate and independent in India from the public policy team (that handles government relations),” he said. “It’s designed for independence.” And the content management team is guided by only community standards. “And enforcement of that has to be objective, has to be non-partisan and neutral. I think that goes to the heart of how the platform has been designed from day one,” he asserted. Individuals can have “points of views” or “leanings”, the “system is designed to make sure no one person can influence the outcomes,” he said. “And so the answer is yes,” he said replying to a question on whether Facebook is a non-partisan and politically neutral entity. The comments come amid a political storm over a report published in the Wall Street Journal last month, alleging the social media giant ignored extremist posts by ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in order to protect its business interests in India. According to the report, Facebook deleted anti-Muslim posts by BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh and three other Hindu nationalists only after being questioned by the paper. Facebook’s head of public policy Ankhi Das, the report said citing company employees, had opposed the deletion of the posts despite being flagged internally as breaching standards. Facebook earlier this month banned the 42-year-old Telangana MLA, categorising him as a “dangerous individual”. Mohan said there are no limits to respectable standard for free speech within and outside the company. While there are people from multiple political leanings and backgrounds in the company, Facebook values people of experience in government or in public service. “But at the same time, I think it is important to call out to you that the content policy of a team that is at the centre of all of these enforcement decisions is separate and independent in India from the public policy team here. It’s designed for independence. So the public policy team that engages with government, for example, central and state governments, is a part of my team. That is separate from the content policy team which is part of the global team,” he said. “So, I think the point is while people can have points of view, they can have leanings, the system is designed to make sure no one person can influence the outcomes, let alone have any unilateral decision making power on this aspect. The separation in India context tells you how design is meant for independence,” he said. Mohan said the content moderation is largely done through automated systems and human reviewers. In dealing with complex issues such as designating individuals, especially elected officials, the content policy team comes into play. “The public policy team does seek inputs from multiple functions and disciplines and teams including public policy team in India. That is not interference. That is the process, that is being designed to have enough local context from the local team,” he said. “But finally the decision that is taken is not taken by the public policy team.” “So you have the opportunity in certain cases like designation, from multiple local and international teams, to provide a point of view that is by design. But it is not for them to take any unilateral decision. That still goes through the content policy team,” he said. Facebook has over 300 million users in India, while its associate WhatsApp is the leader in messaging with over 400 million users. In April this year, Facebook invested USD 5.7 billion to buy a 9.9 per cent stake in Jio Platforms, the digital arm of energy-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance Industries Ltd owned by India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani. Mohan said Facebook has an impartial approach to dealing with content and that this is governed strongly by its community standards. These policies are enforced globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural beliefs, he emphasised. “That is the basis and enforcement of that has to be objective, has to be non-partisan and neutral. I think that goes to the heart of how the platform has been designed from day one. It goes to the heart of something all of us embrace, that we have to be neutral, we have to be non-partisan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-neutral-non-partisan-its-india-chief-says-defending-handling-of-hate-speeches/story-4eeR7RMxJeLKZBzOiwiABJ.html
20-09-2020||World||Thai protesters challenge monarchy as huge protests escalate||Openly challenging the monarchy of Thai King Maha Vajiralongkorn, thousands of protesters marched in Bangkok on Sunday to present demands that include a call for reforms to curb his powers.Protesters have grown ever bolder during two months of demonstrations against Thailand’s palace and military-dominated establishment, breaking a longstanding taboo on criticising the monarchy - which is illegal under lese majeste laws.The Royal Palace was not immediately available for comment. The king, who spends much of his time in Europe, is not in Thailand now.The marchers were blocked by hundreds of unarmed police manning crowd control barriers.Protest leaders declared victory after handing police a letter detailing their demands. Phakphong Phongphetra, head of the Metropolitan Police Bureau, said on a video broadcast from the scene that the letter would be handed to police headquarters to decide how to proceed.“Our greatest victory in the two days is showing that ordinary people like us can send a letter to royals,” Parit “Penguin” Chiwarak, told the crowd before it dispersed. At the biggest demonstration in years, tens of thousands of protesters on Saturday cheered calls for reform of the monarchy as well as for the removal of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former junta leader, and a new constitution and elections.SYMBOLIC PLAQUE Shortly after sunrise on Sunday, protesters cemented a plaque near the Grand Palace in Bangkok in the area known as Sanam Luang, or Royal Field.It reads, “At this place the people have expressed their will: that this country belongs to the people and is not the property of the monarch as they have deceived us.”Government spokesman Anucha Burapachaisri said police would not use violence against protesters and it was up to the police to determine and prosecute any illegal speech. Bangkok authorities would need to determine whether the plaque is illegal and if it is it would need to be removed, Bangkok’s deputy police chief Piya Tawichai told reporters.Far from all Thais support the new plaque, which resembles one that had commemorated the end of absolute monarchy in 1932 and which was removed from outside a royal palace in 2017, after Vajiralongkorn took the throne.Prominent right-wing politician Warong Dechgitvigrom said the actions of the protesters were inappropriate and that the king was above politics.“It didn’t achieve anything,” he told Reuters. “These actions are symbolically against the king, but the king is not an opponent.” Thai authorities have said criticising the monarchy is unacceptable in a country where the king is constitutionally “enthroned in a position of revered worship”.Protests that began on university campuses have drawn increasing numbers of older people. That includes red shirt followers of ousted populist prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra who had clashed for years with pro-establishment yellow shirts before Prayuth seized power in 2014.“The new generation is achieving what their parents and grandparents didn’t dare. I’m very proud of that,” said Somporn Outsa, 50, a red shirt veteran. “We still respect the monarchy, but it should be under the constitution.”Protesters say the constitution gives the king too much power and that it was engineered to allow Prayuth to keep power after elections last year. He says that vote was fair.The next protest is scheduled for Thursday. Protest leaders called on Thais to take Oct. 14 off work to show their support for change.“Radical change is hard in Thailand, but the movement has at least kept the momentum going,” said Titipol Phakdeewanich, dean of political science at Ubon Ratchathani University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-protesters-challenge-monarchy-as-huge-protests-escalate/story-OftXBrhURGJV2O7caDDAWI.html
20-09-2020||World||Italians vote in 7 regional contests shaped by pandemic||Italians in seven regions headed to the polls Sunday for two days of voting shaped by the Covid-19 pandemic.Voters were required to wear masks and maintain social distancing as they cast ballots in regional contests originally scheduled for the spring but delayed due to the pandemic. Italy’s outbreak has claimed more than 35,600 lives — the second-worst confirmed death toll in Europe after Britain — and stricken 296,500 people since February.For the first time, voters over 65 will have preferential access and will be guided to the front of any line by volunteers from Italy’s civil protection agency.Once inside, voters may lower their masks just long enough to confirm their identity against voting cards and ID documents. And in a change, voters leaving the voting booths will place the ballots inside the boxes themselves, instead of turning them over to poll workers.Veneto Gov. Luca Zaia of the right-wing League party is expected to win his third mandate handily after helping Veneto avoid the worst of the pandemic through targeted testing early on and protocols that took the pressure off intensive care wards.In the region of 5 million people centered around Venice, confirmed virus deaths have numbered 2,158, compared with 16,917 in Lombardy, the epicenter of Italy’s epidemic with a population of 10 million.The other races are considered a test of the strength of the right-wing opposition, led by League leader Matteo Salvini, against the ruling parties of the 5-Star Movement and the Democratic Party. The toughest contest is expected in Tuscany, where Salvini is betting his candidate can oust the Democratic Party from the left-wing stronghold.Regional leadership is also being decided in Liguria, Le Marche, Campania, Puglia and Valle d’Aosta. Mayoral races also were being held in 1,000 towns and cities.Despite the complications presented by coronavirus, analysts are projecting a strong turnout, as the pandemic emphasized the significance of local and regional leadership. In Italy, health care is administered at a regional level.Regional presidents “are quite powerful and people understand this,’‘ said Cristina Fasone, a professor at Rome’s LUISS University. “I think even more so after we experienced the first months of the pandemic.’‘ Italians also are voting on a referendum to reduce the number of national lawmakers, backed by the 5-Star Movement, which has made reforming Italy’s often moribund institutions a central political plank. The move would cut lower house lawmakers from 630 to 400 and those in the Senate from 315 to 200. The 5-Stars, which have the most members of any party in the lower house after the 2018 election, say the move will save 500 million euros ($580 million) each five-year legislative period.Most parties back the constitutional reform, which has already been passed by parliament but without the two-thirds majority that would have avoided a referendum. Still, many top political voices say they are voting ‘‘no’‘ as the move would reduce regional representation.Polls will close at 3 p.m. on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italians-vote-in-7-regional-contests-shaped-by-pandemic/story-KnQA6l1rd2INGp65AWoYQP.html
20-09-2020||World||TikTok owner seeking $60 billion valuation in US deal||China’s ByteDance Ltd. is seeking a valuation of $60 billion for TikTok as Oracle Corp. and Walmart Inc. take stakes in the short-video app’s business to address US security concerns, according to a person familiar with the matter.Oracle and Walmart have rights to buy 12.5% and 7.5% respectively of a newly established TikTok Global under an agreement that won the approval of President Donald Trump, the person said, asking not to be named discussing private negotiations. The two companies would pay a combined $12 billion for their stakes if they agree to that asking price.The final valuation had not been set as the parties worked out the equity structure and measures for data security, the person said. Terms are still in flux and the proposed valuation could still change. Beijing also has yet to approve the deal, though regulators are said to favor any transaction in which ByteDance maintains control of its valuable recommendation algorithms and other proprietary technology.ByteDance was pressured into a deal for TikTok when Trump threatened to ban the app in the US over national security concerns. After Microsoft Corp. made a proposal for a full buyout of the service, ByteDance instead turned to Oracle’s offering in which the Chinese parent will maintain a solid majority stake.“I approved the deal in concept,” Trump told reporters Saturday as he left the White House for a campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina. “If they get it done, that’s great. If they don’t, that’s OK too.”ByteDance and Oracle representatives didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.The valuation for TikTok has been a looming question as Washington and Beijing escalated their rhetoric over the negotiations. The service for the US market alone has been estimated to be worth $20 billion to $50 billion, or even more. Snap Inc., for context, trades at a $35 billion valuation.ByteDance, the Beijing-based parent company, is the most valuable private startup in the world at $140 billion, according to market researcher CB Insights. The TikTok Global deal does not include the app’s China twin, Douyin, which has become an enormous hit in its own right.ByteDance may end up owning as much as 80% of TikTok Global, which would include the app’s operations in the US and the rest of the world excluding China. Venture firms, including Sequoia Capital and General Atlantic, may also acquire equity in the new business.Under the current proposal, there will be five seats on the board of TikTok Global. Walmart Chief Executive Officer Doug McMillon will become a director, the retailer said in a statement. TikTok Global will likely be headquartered in Texas and will hire “at least” 25,000 people, Trump said. It will need to hire thousands of content moderators, engineers, and marketing staff that were previously located in China and around the world.TikTok Global intends to hold an initial public offering within 12 months, Oracle and Walmart said. And Trump said Saturday he wants $5 billion from companies creating a new US-based TikTok venture directed toward teaching American children “the real history of our country.”Oracle will get full access to review TikTok’s source code and updates to make sure there are no back doors used by the company’s Chinese parent to gather data or to spy on the video-sharing app’s 100 million American users, according to people familiar with the matter. The US software giant has given reassurances it can protect TikTok user data from foreign influence.“Oracle will quickly deploy, rapidly scale, and operate TikTok systems in the Oracle Cloud,” CEO Safra Catz said in a statement. “We are a 100% confident in our ability to deliver a highly secure environment to TikTok and ensure data privacy to TikTok’s American users.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-owner-seeking-60-billion-valuation-in-us-deal/story-EJF7MbbRofs7vefOmkI9GN.html
20-09-2020||World||Covid-19 is putting Britain’s next industrial revolution on ice||In the country that pioneered the world’s first industrial revolution in the 18th century, its latest one is looking very much on hold.The global shift toward robotics and artificial intelligence across advanced economies is currently in a go-slow phase in the UK -- where both Covid-19 and Brexit have hampered progress.That threatens to harm Britain’s competitiveness against rival economies which are already retooling more aggressively to be more productive. It could also mean greater long-term pain in the UK labor market, delaying the inevitable adjustment for workers who need to retrain as jobs in industries from manufacturing to retail become obsolete.“Eventually, businesses will have to automate because it is just cheaper and better -- better for employees as well,” said Tera Allas, director of research and economics at McKinsey. “In sectors that are competitive, either we automate them and we continue to be competitive, or someone else automates them and we ship in those goods from some other country.”Britain has long been a somewhat slow mover in the so-called “fourth industrial revolution” harnessing the potential of robots and artificial intelligence. That was the conclusion of a report by lawmakers last year calling on the government to develop a strategy to accelerate that shift.In manufacturing, for example, the UK has just 89 robots per 10,000 workers, compared to over 900 in Singapore, according to the International Federation of Robotics. That’s the lowest level of any major economy.One reason for that is subdued investment provoked by Brexit uncertainty and the redefining of Britain’s trading relationship with the European Union.The transition in place when the UK did finally leave the EU in January provided some encouragement -- with spending intentions on plants and machinery rising to a two-year high, according to a Confederation of British Industry survey. Robot orders reached the highest since 2012, another study showed.But then Covid struck. Business investment plunged more than 30% as a nationwide lockdown shuttered firms, kept employees out of workplaces and broke international supply chains.Not enough actionSince then, the virus has created a new incentive for businesses to shift away from human employment, and find more reliable workers and processes that can’t succumb to illness.But that has yet to translate into new orders for Brian Palmer, the chief executive officer of Tharsus. His company creates and commercializes robots for clients such as online grocery giant Ocado Group Plc and jet-engine maker Rolls Royce Holdings Plc.“People are still trying to figure out what this new normal looks like,” he said. “There’s more interest, but is there investment and action? Not yet.”Such news might come as a faint relief for millions of UK employees already facing the threat of layoffs as government wage support winds down. The advent of automation and robotics has long been a specter hanging over labor markets that could displace as much as 50% of the global workforce, Bank of England Chief Economist Andy Haldane said in 2018.That respite may not last forever. In a survey of European business leaders by EY, more than 80% said the shift to automation technology will probably accelerate because of the pandemic.“It is now just much more expensive to employ people because you have to worry about social distancing, you have to worry about safety equipment, you have to worry about testing and tracing,” said McKinsey’s Allas. “Covid itself has massively changed the playing field between capital and labor.”Guildhawk, a company which provides translation and content management systems for companies like KPMG and Hitachi, is confident that Britain’s fourth industrial revolution won’t stay on hold for long. The company has unveiled two new products since the coronavirus struck -- including one which automates the process of checking and correcting large volumes of translated text.“Now we can see what technology can do for us, people are really pushing forward,” said founder Jurga Zilinskiene. “Instead of looking at tech as some kind of monster to take away your job, now the tech is the hero.”Still, the risk if businesses don’t respond to the shifting landscape is that the UK will lag further behind peers when it comes sowing the seeds of future growth by adopting technology to boost poor productivity.That could not only delay the labor market’s adjustment to the new reality, but also curtail work prospects for future generations of employees.“The UK have missed the opportunities to invest in automation over a long time,” said Susanne Bieller, general secretary of the IFR. “If you don’t use robots, why would you create the skills around them?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-is-putting-britain-s-next-industrial-revolution-on-ice/story-8MsHwDx0o6fA75eGXrcRGP.html
20-09-2020||World||Banksy’s Show Me the Monet to go on sale next month||Auction house Sotheby’s on Friday announced it would offer British street artist Banksy’s well-known tribute to Claude Monet for an estimated £3-5 million at a live-stream auction next month. The anonymous artist’s 2005 painting, Show Me the Monet, is a satirical variation of the legendary French painter Monet’s 1899 masterpiece, Bridge Over a Pond of Water Lilies. In his signature style, Banksy has converted the impressionist artwork into a commentary on modern times by artfully introducing in the painting discarded supermarket trolleys and a traffic cone floating under the arched bridge. “Banksy shines a light on society’s disregard for the environment in favour of consumerism,” Sotheby’s said on its Instagram account. The painting will be auctioned for an estimated £3-5 million on October 21 in London, according to the auction house’s website. It is a part of The Contemporary Art Evening Auction, which is set to “bring together works by some of the most engaging artists of the 20th and 21st centuries” through a live-stream auction event. Also Read: Banksy’s latest graffiti in London’s Underground rail is inspired by Covid-19Show Me the Monet was first displayed 15 years ago as part of Banksy’s gallery exhibition titled Crude Oil: A Gallery of Re-mixed Masterpieces, Vandalism and Vermin. The series was a remix of masterpieces, including Vincent van Gogh’s Sunflowers, where Banksy’s version showed wilted flowers in a vase, and Andy Warhol’s Marilyn Monroe, whose subject Banksy replaced with superstar model Kate Moss. The maverick exhibition also included 200 rats that roamed freely at the venue. Sotheby’s hailed the influential graffiti artist on its website, observing that Banksy’s work is marked by “dark humour, satire and political commentary” and has turned him into a “mainstream phenomenon”. In 2010, Banksy had made it to the Time magazine list of the world’s 100 most influential people. Last year, Banksy’s 2009 artwork Devolved Parliament, which mocked the British House of Commons by depicting it as an assembly of chimpanzees, had sold for a staggering £9.9 million - a record for the elusive artist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/banksy-s-show-me-the-monet-to-go-on-sale-next-month/story-MqHPOU5uaViArhj9EcLV1N.html
20-09-2020||World||Sweden spared surge of coronavirus cases but many questions remain||A train pulls into the Odenplan subway station in central Stockholm, where morning commuters without masks get off or board before settling in to read their smartphones.Whether on trains or trams, in supermarkets or shopping malls — places where face masks are commonly worn in much of the world — Swedes go about their lives without them.When most of Europe locked down their populations early in the pandemic by closing schools, restaurants, gyms and even borders, Swedes kept enjoying many freedoms.The relatively low-key strategy captured the world’s attention, but at the same time it coincided with a per capita death rate that was much higher than in other Nordic countries.Now, as infection numbers surge again in much of Europe, the country of 10 million people has some of the lowest numbers of new coronavirus cases -- and only 14 virus patients in intensive care.Whether Sweden’s strategy is succeeding, however, is still very uncertain.Its health authorities, and in particular chief epidemiologist Dr. Anders Tegnell, keep repeating a familiar warning: It’s too early to tell, and all countries are in a different phase of the pandemic.That has not stopped a World Health Organization Europe official from saying the continent could learn broader lessons from Sweden that could help the virus battle elsewhere.“We must recognize that Sweden, at the moment, has avoided the increase that has been seen in some of the other countries in western Europe,” WHO Europe’s senior emergency officer, Catherine Smallwood, said Thursday. “I think there are lessons for that. We will be very keen on working and hearing more from the Swedish approach.”According to the European Center for Disease Control, Sweden has reported 30.3 new Covid-19 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, compared with 292.2 in Spain, 172.1 in France, 61.8 in the U.K. and 69.2 in Denmark, all of which imposed strict lockdowns early in the pandemic.Overall, Sweden has 88,237 reported infections and 5,864 fatalities from the virus, or 57.5 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants since the beginning of the crisis.The way Sweden’s strategy was viewed outside the country seems to depend largely on what stage of the pandemic the observer was experiencing at the time. Initially, many abroad were incredulous at images of Swedes dining with friends in restaurants or sipping cocktails on the Stockholm waterfront. Some were envious that Swedish businesses were not forced to close.Then came shock as the virus ripped through the country’s nursing homes and hospices.By mid-April, more than 100 deaths were reported each day in Sweden, while mortality rates were falling elsewhere in Europe.Today, as fears of a second wave grow across Europe, it’s fashionable to praise Sweden, with reporters from France, the UK and elsewhere traveling to Stockholm to ask about its success.But a Swedish government commission investigating the handling of the pandemic will, undoubtedly, have hard questions to answer: Did authorities wait too long to limit access to nursing homes, where about half of the deaths occurred? Were they too slow to provide personal protective equipment to staff in those homes when shortcomings in the elderly care sector had long been known? Why did it take so long to set up wide-scale testing?Tegnell also refuses to rule out a second wave of coronavirus infections in Sweden. A particular concern is the return of students to high schools for the first time since March.“We need to be very careful and find the first sign that something is going on so that we can do as much as possible to prevent it from escalating,” he told The Associated Press.Localized outbreaks are expected, but rather than fight them with nationwide rules, officials plan to use targeted actions based on testing, contact-tracing and isolating patients rapidly.“It’s very important that we have quick and local response to hit down the virus without making restrictions for the whole country,” Health Minister Lena Hallengren said last week.From the beginning, health officials argued that Sweden was pursuing a sustainable approach toward the virus that the population could adopt — for years, if necessary. “This is a marathon, not a sprint,” became a slogan repeated by ministers at every opportunity, given that neither a vaccine nor a cure yet exist.While the rest of the world watched with envy at the freedoms that Swedes enjoyed amid lockdowns elsewhere, there were not as many as people have assumed. Gatherings were capped at 50, and congregating at bars was banned.Most of the changes involved voluntary actions by citizens, rather than rules imposed by the government.This trust given to the population to shoulder personal responsibility in the pandemic puts Sweden at odds with most other countries that used coercive measures such as fines to force compliance.This is often attributed to a Swedish model of governance, where large public authorities comprised of experts develop and recommend measures that the smaller ministries are expected to follow. In other words, the people trust the experts and scientists to develop reasonable policies, and the government trusts the people to follow the guidelines.Swedes were asked to work from home when possible and maintain a social distance, and most willingly complied. While people now ride public transportation without masks, there are also far fewer people commuting than before.Unlike most European countries that have mandated wearing face masks in public spaces, Sweden does not recommend their broad use, and people largely follow that recommendation.Health officials say face masks used outside health care facilities by untrained personnel can provide a false sense of safety that could see sick people leave home and ignore social distancing. Instead, they believe simple but nonnegotiable guidelines provide clear rules that can stay in place for long periods of time: staying home when showing symptoms of Covid-19, maintaining good hand hygiene and keeping social distancing.In a country the size of California with only a quarter of that state’s population of 41 million, and with low levels of transmission, most Swedes believe wearing masks makes little sense.Carol Rosengard, 61, who runs a center for disabled youth, has seen people wear masks improperly or take them off to smoke a cigarette or drink water.“That’s not how they should be handled,” Rosengard said, explaining her support for not imposing face mask rules on the population.That view is echoed by Hallengren, the health minister, who doesn’t totally dismiss the effectiveness of masks and sees their usefulness in cases of severe local outbreaks. At the same time, she rejects blanket rules for the entire country.“People will not wear masks for years,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-spared-surge-of-coronavirus-cases-but-many-questions-remain/story-yhPCWCoSk0ADaGE31hiGIP.html
20-09-2020||World||Threat of lethal autumn looms in Europe after Covid-19 reprieve||As vacations and parties fed a late-summer surge of Covid-19 in Europe, there’s been one reassuring constant: a lower death toll. The latest numbers out of the continent’s hardest-hit countries show the relief may only be temporary.The virus has started spreading in older populations again, according to data from France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK In France, its prevalence among those aged 75 or over more than doubled in the past three weeks.The shift could be a tipping point as Europe faces another wave of the virus. Rising cases among the elderly, more reports of nursing-home clusters and the number of deaths edging upward are “major warning signs,” France’s public health agency said in a report on Thursday.“We have a very serious situation unfolding,” said Hans Kluge, the World Health Organization’s regional director for Europe, said. For the first time, he wore a mask at the press conference on Thursday. “The September case numbers should serve as a wakeup call for all of us.”A 75-year-old is 220 times more likely to die of a coronavirus infection than her 27-year-old granddaughter, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.In France, Health Minister Olivier Veran pointed to what he called a worrying increase in the number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care. More infections among the oldest people means there will probably be even more hospitalizations and deaths in coming weeks, French authorities said. Because people who are sick usually take a few weeks to get worse, there’s a time lag before new infections begin to cause a shift in mortality rates.‘Most fragile’Veran appealed directly to French seniors, asking them to better protect themselves by cutting back on the number of people they see every day because they are “the most fragile in the face of Covid.”Data from Italy points the same way. The median age of diagnosed cases rose to 41 in the week ended Sept. 13, up from 30 a few weeks ago. The report noted that the virus is now circulating “even among people of a more advanced age.”Even in Germany, which has managed to hold its seven-day rate of infections to a low level of about 11.5 cases per 100,000 residents -- about one-seventh the rate of France -- outbreaks seeded by travelers have begun to spread to nursing homes.Kaufbeuren, a small town in Bavaria, is a case in point. The virus first popped up only sporadically in people who had just returned from trips, Mayor Stefan Bosse said in a video statement earlier this month. “That has now unfortunately changed,” Bosse said. First a single worker at a local senior citizens’ home tested positive. By this week, the virus spread to some 30 residents and staff, according to the Robert Koch Institute.Authorities must find a way to protect old people without locking them away, French President Emmanuel Macron said on Friday. “We are reinforcing the rules,” Macron said, including making sure nursing home staff are tested. “We know that isolation and solitude are bad for old people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/threat-of-lethal-autumn-looms-in-europe-after-covid-19-reprieve/story-Eko6LiIJ2AAkZxAWayaoUL.html
20-09-2020||World||Taiwan president says has no plans to talk to Japan’s new PM||Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen said on Sunday that there was no plan for her talk by telephone with new Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, after a Japanese envoy had told Tsai that Suga might be open to it, prompting concern in Beijing.Taiwan, claimed by China as its own territory, has close cultural and historic ties with Japan, though Japan, like most countries, recognises China’s government in Beijing, not Taiwan’s.Meeting Tsai in Taipei on Friday, former Japanese prime minister Yoshiro Mori, visiting for a memorial service for late president Lee Teng-hui, said Suga told him that “if there is the opportunity, he hopes to speak by phone or other means”.China’s foreign ministry said late on Saturday that Japan had told them such a thing “will never happen”, after Beijing sought clarification from Tokyo.Tsai told reporters that she did not talk about this issue with Mori. “We also don’t have this plan at the moment to have a telephone conversation,” she said.Japan’s foreign ministry did not immediately reply to a request for comment outside of usual working hours on Sunday.Japan cut diplomatic ties with Taiwan in favour of China in 1972.Taiwan was a Japanese colony between 1895 and 1945.Unlike in China or South Korea, many Taiwanese have a broadly positive view of Japan, saying that Japan’s rule brought progress to what was an undeveloped, largely agricultural island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-president-says-has-no-plans-to-talk-to-japan-s-new-pm/story-1gNoaHaJM7PCO6evTJsJ7K.html
20-09-2020||World||Russia’s new Covid-19 cases above 6,000 for second day in a row||Russia reported 6,148 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, the second straight day when the daily number of cases exceeded 6,000, taking the national tally of infections to 1,103,399.The country’s coronavirus crisis centre said 79 people had died of the disease in the last 24 hours, bringing the Russian death toll to 19,418.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-new-covid-19-cases-above-6-000-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-kKP6mdFpuyjxJTn6rE0MTJ.html
20-09-2020||World||France, UK, Germany reject US call to return Iran sanctions||The U.S. has no authority to demand a snap-back in sanctions against Iran after quitting the 2015 nuclear deal two years ago, the French Foreign Ministry said in a joint statement with Germany and the U.K. on Sunday.“We have worked tirelessly to preserve the nuclear agreement and remain committed to do so,” the three countries’ foreign ministers said in the statement.Since quitting the nuclear accord in May 2018, the Trump administration has intensified efforts to pressure the Islamic Republic, ratcheting up sanctions. But the U.S. moves have united partners like the U.K., France and Germany with Russia and China, who have sought to salvage the accord. That has left the U.S. isolated on the UN Security Council, with most nations saying America has no authority to demand the return of international sanctions since it’s no longer a party to the agreement.The U.S. says that the broader Security Council resolution that enshrined the accord doesn’t require it to still be in the agreement, and that all of the United Nations resolutions on Iran that were in place before the accord -- from a ban on arm deals to restrictions on the Islamic Republic’s ballistic missile activity and its nuclear enrichment -- should have gone back into effect on Saturday.The U.S. expects all UN member states to comply with their obligations to implement sanctions, Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in a statement late Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-uk-germany-reject-us-call-to-return-iran-sanctions/story-NuwRc0Ag3BdEsFI7wp0rPK.html
20-09-2020||World||Mira Nair’s A Suitable Boy to be first-ever TV series to close Toronto Film Fest||In an unusual year, the Toronto International Film Festival concludes on Sunday with an unusual choice: Its closing night presentation isn’t a movie, but the TV series A Suitable Boy, adapted by Indian-origin director Mira Nair from Vikram Seth’s classic novel.The screening spans six hours, covering the entire series produced for BBC, with two intermissions of 20-minutes each for those attending in person. Nair said she was “delighted” when TIFF chose to make this the first-ever TV project to close the festival in its 45-year history. Nair said this was the only format to do justice to Seth’s monumental work: “A Suitable Boy cannot be a two-and-a-half hour film, it should not be. It should be at least six hours, in the way I’ve tried to do it but it could be even longer.”While the novel was first published in 1993, many of its themes remain relevant, including that of communal faultlines. In fact, Nair took the original “distillation” of the novel and “brought a lot of politics back from the story of the novel” rather than making it just one about the protagonist Lata having to choose from among three suitors. “I love that part of it, but it was important for me to see Lata almost as the new India. So, as the country moved towards its first election, Lata moves towards finding herself.” The novel is set in the period right after Independence and syncretic culture is the foundation of the series.“I did really want to hold a mirror in a way to the young of today to see what we were, even though we had just come out of the trauma of Partition,” she said.There was a “depth of relationships that today are really being threatened just by the politicisation of it all,” she said.Nair has already been feted at TIFF this year with the Tribute Award, along with actors Kate Winslet, Sir Anthony Hopkins, and director Chloe Zhao. Tanya Maniktala, who plays Lata, was chosen as one of TIFF’s Rising Stars. Of casting the young actor in the pivotal role, Nair said that other than her hypnotic eyes and amazing smile, she had the kind of “fluttery innocence” that was difficult to find among young women these days.The author has two meaningful words for the director about the series – “Thank you,” Nair said of Seth’s reaction. “I don’t speak for him, but I think he’s very satisfied.”New York-based Nair was unable to make it in person for the closing night screening due to ongoing restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic. The series has been acquired by Netflix and Nair said she is hopeful it will be available to an Indian audience “very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mira-nair-s-a-suitable-boy-to-be-first-ever-tv-series-to-close-toronto-film-fest/story-oaKGt4pCgJHNNjkfBf4y8K.html
20-09-2020||World||Tropical storm Beta spurs hurricane worries for Texas||An exceptionally busy Atlantic hurricane season was churning along Saturday as the Texas coast prepared for a tropical storm that could strengthen into a hurricane before breaching its shores in the week ahead.Both the city of Galveston and Galveston County on Saturday issued voluntary evacuation orders ahead of Tropical Storm Beta, as did the city of Seabrook to the north of Galveston.Mayor Pro Tem Craig Brown said in a statement that high tides and up to 10 inches (25 centimeters) of expected rainfall would leave roads impassable, especially along the city’s west end and low-lying areas.Also read: As Laura makes landfall in Louisiana, a look at other tropical storms heading towards MexicoCounty Judge Mark Henry said during a Saturday news conference that his concern is also based on rising waters creating a storm surge and that a mandatory evacuation is not expected.“If you can survive in your home for three or four days without power and electricity, which we’re not even sure that’s going to happen, you’re OK,” Henry said. “If it’s uncomfortable or you need life support equipment, maybe go somewhere else.”Tropical Storm Beta was brewing in the Gulf of Mexico, 235 miles (375 kilometers) southeast of Galveston, Texas, the US National Hurricane Center said.The system could approach hurricane strength as it approaches Texas on Monday, officials said. Forecasters issued a tropical storm warning from Port Aransas, Texas, to Morgan City, Louisiana. A storm surge warning was issued from Port Aransas, Texas, to Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, Louisiana.If Beta makes landfall in Texas, it would be the ninth named storm to make landfall in the continental US in 2020, tying a record set in 1916, according to Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach.In Lake Charles, Louisiana, where thousands of people remain without power more than three weeks after Hurricane Laura slammed into the coast, there are concerns that Beta could super-soak the region once again. Up to 20 inches of rain (15 centimeters) is possible in some parts of the area, Donald Jones, a National Weather Service meteorologist based in Lake Charles, said in a Saturday briefing.Also read: From Nisarga to Amphan: How do tropical cyclones form“A lot of people have been saying, ‘Is this going to be like Harvey? Is this going to be like Imelda?’“ Jones said. “We’re not talking about rainfall totals yet that are on the orders of magnitude that we saw with that.” Imelda, which struck southeast Texas in 2019, was one of the wettest cyclones on record. Harvey — which dumped more than 50 inches (127 centimeters) of rain on Houston in 2017.However, if the storm ends up moving a bit slower than what’s being forecast now, rainfall totals could be even higher than 20 inches, Jones said.“Harvey was a very specific and unique event, but we are talking about the same idea in terms of very heavy, heavy rainfall,” he said.Beta had maximum sustained winds at 60 mph (95 kph) and was moving north-northeast at 2 mph (4 kph) Saturday night.Forecasters were predicting up to 4 feet (1.2 meters) of storm surge along parts of the Texas coast that included Baffin Bay, Corpus Christi Bay, Galveston Bay and more. Wind, heavy rainfall and life-threatening surf and rip current conditions were also expected with the storm.Forecasters ran out of traditional storm names on Friday, forcing the use of the Greek alphabet for only the second time since the 1950s.Meanwhile, Hurricane Teddy remained a powerful hurricane Saturday, with maximum sustained winds at 115 mph (185 kph) and moving northwest at 13 mph (20 kph). Teddy was centered 405 miles (655 kilometers) south-southeast of Bermuda less than a week after Hurricane Paulette made landfall in the wealthy British territory.A tropical storm warning was in effect for Bermuda. Large swells from Teddy were forecast to impact the Lesser Antilles, the Greater Antilles, the Bahamas and Bermuda, and were expected to impact the US East Coast.Parts of the Alabama coast and Florida Panhandle were still reeling from the effects of Hurricane Sally, which roared ashore on Wednesday. At least two deaths were blamed on the system. Roughly 82,300 were still without power in the Florida Panhandle on Saturday. Gulf Power said 95% of its customers in hardest hit Escambia and Santa Rosa counties will have power restored by the end of the day Tuesday.Meanwhile, residents in Springfield were warned to avoid contact with standing water after 5,000 gallons (about 19,000 liters) of raw sewage spilled into Lake Martin, according to county health officials.The Salvation Army was distributing roughly 10,000 meals Saturday at 10 locations throughout the Panhandle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-beta-spurs-hurricane-worries-for-texas/story-2pqATynSRoQ6Gr8E9xbSJM.html
20-09-2020||World||Ricin found in White House originated in Canada: Police||A letter containing the deadly poison ricin that was mailed to the White House may have originated in Canada, Canadian law enforcement has said.Canadian authorities are working with their US counterparts on the investigation. The material was addressed to US President Donald Trump. The envelope was intercepted at a government facility that screens mail addressed to the White House and Trump, a US official said.A preliminary investigation indicated it tested positive for ricin, a poison found naturally in castor beans, the official said.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) is cooperating in this investigation with US authorities, the media outlet Global News reported.It quoted a spokesperson for RCMP as saying that “initial information” from the investigation “suggests that the letter originated in Canada.”The identity of the sender has not been revealed as yet. A spokesperson for Bill Blair, Canada’s minister for public safety and emergency preparedness, also confirmed that there were “concerning reports of packages containing ricin directed toward US federal government sites.” Investigators in both countries are “working closely” on the matter, the spokesperson added.This is not the first time that the deadly poison was sent to US presidents or top American officials.A US Navy veteran was arrested in 2018 and confessed to sending envelopes to Trump and members of his administration that contained the substance from which ricin is derived.Authorities said at the time that William Clyde Allen III sent the envelopes with ground castor beans to the president, FBI Director Christopher Wray, along with then-defence secretary Jim Mattis, then-CIA director Gina Haspel, top naval officer Adm John Richardson and then-Air Force secretary Heather Wilson. The letters were intercepted, and no one was hurt.In 2014, a Mississippi man was sentenced to 25 years in prison after sending letters dusted with ricin to President Barack Obama and other officials.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ricin-found-in-white-house-originated-in-canada-police/story-oSua1661F6cdFaeaFe53pM.html
20-09-2020||World||Trump says he intends to name a woman as US Supreme Court judge||President Donald Trump has said he intends to name a woman as his nominee to replace late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and will make an announcement next week.“It will be a woman — a very talented, very brilliant woman,” Trump said at an election rally in North Carolina on Saturday. “We haven’t chosen yet, but we have numerous women on the list.”The president first spoke of picking a woman for the seat left vacant by the passing of Ginsburg while talking to reporters before departing for the rally. Asked if he would pick a woman, he said he could. “I could see, most likely, it would be a woman, yeah. I think I can say that it would be a woman. I would - if somebody were to ask me now, I would say that a woman would be in first place, yes.”He also said in a response to another question he expects to announce his pick next week .Female judges reportedly in his shortlist include Amy Coney Barrett, a judge on the Seventh Court of Appeals (similar to Indian high courts). He had interviewed her in 2018 when considering a nominee to replace Stephen Kennedy. He went with Brett Kavanaugh instead.Trump had then also considered Amul Thapar, an Indian-American judge on the Sixth Court of Appeal. He had made it to the last four. His name shot to the group of front-runners earlier Saturday, to replace Ginsburg. But his chances now seem diminished with the president announcing he will pick a woman.Whoever Trump picks eventually will face a bruising confirmation process in the Senate, with fierce opposition expected from Democrats. They want the seat to be filled by the next president, whoever wins the November 3 elections,  as Republicans had argued in 2016 to block President Barack Obama’s pick for a vacancy in the court.Republicans face opposition from some of their own senators as well, which will make the confirmation tricky. With a 53-47 majority, they cannot afford to lose four senators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-intends-to-name-a-woman-as-us-supreme-court-judge/story-yHIZkQCvulhNpxBBdmi6KI.html
20-09-2020||World||£10,000 fine for breaking Covid-19 rules in England||People in England who refuse to self-isolate to stop the spread of coronavirus could face fines of up to £10,000 ($13,000, 11,000 euros) under tough new regulations announced Saturday to tackle a surge in cases.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said this week that Britain was seeing a second wave of Covid-19, and introduced new restrictions for millions of people across northwest, northern and central England.Also read: WHO says Covid-19 situation in Europe ‘very serious’. Second lockdown in UK?In a further measure announced late Saturday, he said that from September 28 people will be legally obliged to self-isolate if they test positive or are told to by the National Health Service (NHS) tracing programme.“The best way we can fight this virus is by everyone following the rules and self-isolating if they’re at risk of passing on coronavirus,” Johnson said in a statement.“And so nobody underestimates just how important this is, new regulations will mean you are legally obliged to do so if you have the virus or have been asked to do so by NHS Test and Trace.”Currently people who have symptoms or test positive are asked to self-isolate for 10 days. Those who live with someone who either has symptoms or tests positive must self-isolate for 14 days.The new fines will start at £1,000 -- in line with breaking quarantine after international travel -- and rise to £10,000 for repeat offences and the worst breaches, including businesses that threaten self-isolating staff with redundancy, officials said.Also read: ‘This is a big moment:’ UK government cautions on coronavirusIn an incentive to get people to comply, those on low incomes will be able to claim an extra lump sum of £500 if they are unable to work from home during their isolation.“While most people are doing their absolute level best to comply with the rules, I don’t want to see a situation where people don’t feel they are financially able to self-isolate,” Johnson said.Almost 42,000 people who have tested positive for Covid-19 have died in Britain, the worst death toll from the pandemic in Europe.After a summer lull, cases are rising rapidly again and Johnson warned on Friday of a second wave.“We are seeing it in France, in Spain, across Europe -- it has been absolutely, I’m afraid, inevitable we were going to see it in this country,” he said.New rules limiting social gatherings to six people from different households came into effect this week, and local measures have been introduced across the country.But Johnson has expressed his reluctance to introduce another nationwide lockdown and some of his Conservative lawmakers are increasingly vocal in condemning current restrictions.In London on Saturday, anti-vaccine and anti-lockdown protesters clashed with police in Trafalgar Square. Police said 32 people were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-000-fine-for-breaking-covid-19-rules-in-england/story-gOwhW94Jqt84pHhp6TFa3N.html
20-09-2020||World||Former Canadian Prime Minister John Turner dies at 91||John Turner, a Liberal party politician who served stints as Canada’s justice and finance ministers before a very brief turn as the country’s 17th prime minister, has died at age 91, his family reported Saturday.Marc Kealey, a former aide speaking on behalf of Turner’s relatives as a family friend, said Turner died peacefully in his sleep at home in Toronto on Friday night.Turner failed to live up to the great expectations of his early career, serving as prime minister for just 79 days in 1988 after a difficult, decades-long climb to the top job.A track star, Turner graduated from the University of British Columbia in 1949, winning a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University. After studying law, he went to Paris to work on a doctorate at the Sorbonne.The young lawyer caused a stir when he danced with Princess Margaret at a party in 1959, giving rise to speculation that the two would become a couple. The two remained friends for life.Turner moved to Montreal to practice law but was lured into politics in 1962.As justice minister in Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau’s Cabinet from 1968 to 1972, Turner proposed a national legal aid system — an issue close to his heart — and created the Federal Court, among other reforms.He defended the decriminalisation of homosexuality and abortion in the 1960s He was named finance minister in 1972 and held the job for three turbulent years, marked by high unemployment and high rates of inflation.As Liberal party leader and Canada’s new prime minister, he decisively lost the 1988 federal election to Brian Mulroney over the Canada-U.S. free trade agreement, which Turner vehemently opposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-canadian-prime-minister-john-turner-dies-at-91/story-a3ibo3dzm167rIdKBsFh9L.html
20-09-2020||World||Oracle plans 12.5% stake in TikTok global; forms partnership||Oracle Corp. said it plans take a 12.5% stake in TikTok Global and become the cloud computing provider to the newly formed company, culminating weeks of negotiations over a popular video-sharing app that became the focus of US-China tension.Also read: Donald Trump says he’s approved Oracle deal for US TikTokOracle and Walmart Inc. together could end up with as much as 20% of the entity, to be called TikTok Global, purchased in a round of financing that would precede an initial public offering, TikTok said. Sequoia Capital and General Altantic, current investors in TikTok parent ByteDance Ltd., could also pursue stakes in that fundraising round, a person with knowledge of the matter said.TikTok’s decision to pick Oracle was influenced by another company, Zoom Video Communications Inc., which recently moved some of its videoconferencing capacity to Oracle’s cloud business, Redwood City, California-based Oracle said Saturday in a statement.Also read: TikTok files complaint against Trump administration to try to block US banByteDance searched for investors in TikTok’s US operations after Trump proclaimed that TikTok was a threat to US national security, and ordered the app be sold to an American business or shut down by Sept. 20. The president said earlier Saturday that he gave his “blessing” to the “concept” of the deal, even though ByteDance will retain such a large stake.“TikTok picked Oracle’s new Generation 2 Cloud infrastructure because it’s much faster, more reliable, and more secure than the first generation technology currently offered by all the other major cloud providers,” Executive Chairman Larry Ellison said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oracle-plans-12-5-stake-in-tiktok-global-forms-partnership/story-u9uCCqyjc4VTCdI4cbRSoL.html
20-09-2020||World||White House receives envelope containing poison ricin: Official||Federal officials intercepted an envelope addressed to the White House that contained the poison ricin, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press on Saturday. The letter was intercepted at a government facility that screens mail addressed to the White House and President Donald Trump, the official said. A preliminary investigation indicated it tested positive for ricin, a poison found naturally in castor beans, the official said. The official was not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Federal investigators were working to determine where the enveloped originated and who mailed it. The FBI, the Secret Service and the US Postal Inspection Service were leading the investigation. In a statement, the FBI said agents were working to investigate “a suspicious letter received at a US government mail facility” and that there is “no known threat to public safety.” A Navy veteran was arrested in 2018 and confessed to sending envelopes to Trump and members of his administration that contained the substance from which ricin is derived. Authorities said the man, William Clyde Allen III, sent the envelopes with ground castor beans to the president, FBI Director Christopher Wray, along with then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, then-CIA Director Gina Haspel, Adm. John Richardson, who at the time was the Navy’s top officer, and then-Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson. The letters were intercepted, and no one was hurt. In 2014, a Mississippi man was sentenced to 25 years in prison after sending letters dusted with ricin to President Barack Obama and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/envelope-addressed-to-white-house-contained-poison-ricin-official/story-SfCmLXtKXcSFj5XGnMferL.html
20-09-2020||World||Iran says it can set fire to all US bases in region at once||The commander of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said his country is capable of setting fire to all US bases in the Persian Gulf “at once”, according to an interview on state TV.General Hossein Salami, the commander of the IRGC -- the most powerful and influential branch of Iran’s armed forces -- said the US army “is exhausted and doesn’t have the power” to start a ground war with the Islamic Republic..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-it-can-set-fire-to-all-us-bases-in-region-at-once/story-oFsAwoqDFi2SL2VKfzwT9H.html
20-09-2020||World||Donald Trump says he expects to nominate Ginsburg replacement next week||President Donald Trump said he expects to nominate a replacement for the late Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court next week and that he’ll likely select a woman.“I’ll be making my choice soon,” Trump told reporters as he departed the White House on Saturday for a campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina. “We’ll have a nominee very soon.”He said that choosing a woman “would certainly be appropriate” to replace Ginsburg, and complimented two Appeals Court judges said to be on his shortlist, Amy Coney Barrett and Barbara Lagoa.Barrett is “very highly respected,” he said. He said Lagoa is an “extraordinary person” and “Hispanic.”Both are Trump appointments to the circuit courts and are on a list of more than 40 potential Supreme Court picks he issued earlier this month.Trump said it “would be very good” if the Senate confirmed his choice before the Nov. 3 election and that he expects the process “is going to move very quickly, actually.”Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in a statement Friday less than two hours after Ginsburg’s death was announced promised Trump’s nominee would get a vote, but he gave no timetable for when that would be.White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said Saturday he’s had multiple conversations with McConnell about the confirmation.“We talked about the Supreme Court process and what to expect from the Senate,” Meadows said. “The discussion was more directed at process than individual persons.”Many of Trump’s allies, conservative activists and Republican aides believe there’s not enough time for a confirmation vote before the Nov. 3 election, people familiar with the matter said.That raises the specter of a handful of defeated, lame-duck senators voting on Trump’s choice for a lifetime appointment to the court, even if the president also loses re-election.If that happens, the Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, told colleagues in a conference call Saturday, “then nothing is off the table for next year. Nothing is off the table.”Some Democratic activists are already advocating for Joe Biden, if he’s elected president, to expand the Supreme Court with new justices who would dilute the current conservative majority.McConnell could call a vote anytime he is certain of having at least 50 senators supporting confirmation. With 53 Republicans in the 100-member Senate, McConnell can afford to lose three senators and still confirm Trump’s pick with Vice President Mike Pence casting a tie-breaking vote.The question may be whether whether a pre-election vote is not only practical but politically viable.At least seven incumbent Republican senators face tough re-election contests, and a pending fight over a pivotal Supreme Court seat could energize the party’s voting base, though it also risks motivating Democrats.Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican facing a difficult re-election contest this year, on Saturday became the first Republican to declare that a new justice should be selected by the winner of the presidential election.“In fairness to the American people, who will either be re-electing the president or selecting a new one, the decision on a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court should be made by the president who is elected on November 3rd,” she said in a statement.On Friday, before the announcement of Ginsburg’s death, GOP Senator Lisa Murkowski, who isn’t up for re-election until 2022, told Alaska Public Radio that if there were a vacancy on the court this year she wouldn’t vote to confirm a nominee before the election.Republican senators will be under tremendous pressure in a tight election year from anti-abortion groups and evangelicals to take what could be their last chance to overturn Roe v. Wade, the ruling that made abortion legal.North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis, one of the most vulnerable GOP incumbents in 2020, tweeted out a statement saying he would vote for Trump’s still-unnamed pick, sight unseen. Senator Martha McSally of Arizona, another endangered Republican on the ballot, also tweeted that the Senate should vote on Trump’s nomination.South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee that considers court nominees, tweeted Saturday that he would support Trump “in any effort to move forward regarding the recent vacancy created by the passing of Justice Ginsburg.” Graham also is up for re-election and is facing a surprisingly strong challenge.Trump has pressed GOP senators to line up behind him.“We’re now, right now we’re here, and we have an obligation to the voters. It’s a very simple thing,” he said. “That’s now the way I read it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-expects-to-nominate-ginsburg-replacement-next-week/story-U5R99YSpdpOPqPuLprMZTK.html
20-09-2020||World||As Covid-19 cases rise, UK eyes more curbs||The Boris Johnson government is considering imposing another nationwide lockdown after the UK reported a fresh surge of Covid-19 cases - 4,322 infections were recorded on Friday - with experts and ministers huddled in meetings over the weekend amid growing ire over steps taken to stop the spread of the virus.Johnson admitted major challenges in providing tests and saw a second wave coming after similar spikes in cases were reported in other European countries as well. Epidemiologist Neil Ferguson said the UK is facing a “perfect storm” due to the easing of some of the curbs.Prime Minister Johnson said, “We are now seeing a second wave coming in. We’ve seen it in France, in Spain, across Europe. It’s been absolutely inevitable, I’m afraid, that we would see it in this country.“We want to keep the schools open - that’s going to happen. And we’ll try and keep all parts of the economy open, as far as we possibly can. I don’t think anybody wants to go into a second lockdown.”Johnson added, “Clearly, when you look at what is happening, you’ve got to wonder whether we need to go further than the rule of six that we brought in on Monday. We’ll be looking at the local lockdowns we’ve got in large parts of the country now and see what we can do to intensify things.”New measures that could mean another lockdown are due to be announced on Monday or Tuesday.Canada: Two opposition leaders go into self-isolation less than a week before parliament reconvenesIn Canada, two opposition leaders have gone into self-isolation less than a week before parliament reconvenes as the country witnessed a resurgence in cases that may signal the arrival of a second wave. Erin O’Toole of Conservative Party has gone into self-isolation after a member his staff tested positive. Also in quarantine was Yves-François Blanchet of the Bloc Québécois after he tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-uk-eyes-more-curbs/story-47xdZBbvjV1JAsw1TkABAL.html
20-09-2020||World||Girls are quitting school to work in coronavirus-battered rural Asia||One of the first cutbacks that many poor families consider during tough financial times is education for their daughters. During the pandemic with in-class learning shuttered, some girls in rural areas of Asia countries are being pushed to drop out.Lina, an 11th-grade student in Cambodia who dreamed of obtaining an accounting degree, is among them. Her parents want her to leave school and find work to help the family pay down its debt. Lina’s story was shared with Bloomberg by Room to Read, a non-profit organization that promotes literacy and gender equality in developing countries. The group changed her name to shield her identity.To determine the impact of the virus outbreak on girls’ education, Room to Read conducted a survey of 28,000 girls in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Laos, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and Vietnam. It found that 42% of girls surveyed reported a decline in their family’s income during the Covid-19 pandemic and that one in two girls surveyed was at risk of dropping out.“When families can’t afford school and have to choose, they will often send boys,” said John Wood, founder of Room to Read. Financial hardships and cultural stereotypes about gender roles play a major part in keeping girls in less-developed countries from completing their education, he said.Although the full scope of the problem isn’t yet clear because many schools remain closed for in-person classes, groups that promote girls’ education including the World Bank and the United Nations’ agency UNICEF are closely monitoring the situation worldwide.“More disadvantaged families are going to have particular struggles because of the economic impact. This will make it particularly difficult for them to send their children to school,” said Toby Linden, the World Bank’s education practice manager for East Asia and Pacific. “One of the lessons from the pandemic is the important role the families have in supporting their children’s education.”The pandemic has decimated jobs and reduced household income, threatening to drag as many as 100 million people into extreme poverty. As many as 20 million more secondary school-aged girls could be out of school globally, according to the Malala Fund, a non-profit organization that promotes girls’ education. In the Asia Pacific region, that would add to the 35 million girls and boys already not in school.This is expected to exacerbate the education deficit for girls in poorer countries, where the rate of female secondary school enrollment was low before the pandemic. It risks setting back years of progress for girls’ education and gender equality in some of the world’s poorest nations.The 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa showed how devastating a loss of income was to girls’ education. Poorer families needed their children to make money during the crisis, and children who found work were rarely encouraged to return to school when it reopened.The female education deficit is one of the key factors hindering women’s workforce participation and their wages. An extra year of secondary school education for girls can increase their future earnings by as much as 20%. Barriers that prevent girls from completing 12 years of education and limited learning opportunities cost countries as much as $30 trillion in lost lifetime productivity and earnings.“The worrying trend is that the reopening of schools doesn’t automatically mean that all children will be back in schools,” said Francisco Benavides, regional education adviser at UNICEF East Asia and Pacific. “The pandemic has a high economic impact for the region. If girls don’t have access to learning opportunities, it’s very likely that the families and society will be less able to adapt to economic shock.”Educating girls also has been shown to lead to greater gender equality. For example, in Thailand, women hold 32% of senior management roles, compared with an average of 27% globally, according to Grant Thornton data published in 2020. They make up 24% of chief executives and 43% of chief financial officers. Although Thailand is an outlier, it shows what can be achieved when women are educated.Though other countries in the region also have made progress in girls’ education in past decades, the virus means the region “will be going backward several years,” according to Benavides. “We’ll lose progress. The spillover effect will be massive because it may also impact the generation after this one. It can take us so many years to get back to where we were before. This won’t help the Asian economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/girls-are-quitting-school-to-work-in-coronavirus-battered-rural-asia/story-yGCWJ0yhTu6Jau5Cd9gkYJ.html
20-09-2020||World||Donald Trump says he’s approved Oracle deal for US TikTok||Donald Trump approved Oracle Corp.’s bid for the U.S. operations of TikTok “in concept,” a deal forced by the president’s orders last month declaring the popular video-sharing app a national security threat.“I have given the deal my blessing. If they get it done that’s great. If they don’t, that’s OK too, ” Trump told reporters Saturday as he left the White House for a campaign rally in Fayetteville, N.C. “I approved the deal in concept.”The new company, which will be called TikTok Global, has agreed to donate $5 billion to an education fund, which Trump said would satisfy his demand that the government receive a payment from the deal. “They’re going to be setting up a very large fund,” he said. “That’s their contribution that I’ve been asking for.”Under terms of the deal, Oracle Corp. and Walmart Inc. will control 20% of the new TikTok Global, according to a person familiar with the matter. Sequoia Capital and General Atlantic, already investors in TikTok’s Chinese owner ByteDance Ltd., are also expected to take stakes in the new company, the person said.TikTok said in a statement that it was “pleased that the proposal by TikTok, Oracle, and Walmart will resolve the security concerns of the US administration and settle questions around TikTok’s future in the U.S.”The company confirmed Oracle will host all its US data and secure its computer systems. TikTok said it is working with Walmart on a commercial partnership and it, along with Oracle, will take part in a TikTok Global pre-IPO financing round in which they can take as much as a 20% cumulative stake in the company.The deal was forced by a pair of bans Trump issued in August citing national concerns over TikTok’s Chinese ownership. The Commerce Department on Saturday delayed by a week a ban that would have forced Apple Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google to pull the TikTok video app from their U.S. app stores on Sunday.TikTok Global will likely be headquartered in Texas and will hire “at least” 25,000 people, Trump said. TikTok will need to hire thousands of content moderators, engineers, and marketing staff that were previously located in China and around the world.To sweeten the deal for Trump, TikTok promised to hire an additional 15,000 jobs more than the 10,000 positions the company already pledged to fill earlier this year. It’s unclear if there’s a timeline to achieve that target, or any guarantees that it will follow through. Facebook Inc., the largest U.S. social media company, employed about 45,000 people in 2019, while Twitter Inc. employed only 4,900, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Trump is ramping up pressure on Chinese-owned apps in the weeks before the Nov. 3 presidential elections, citing national security concerns about the data US citizens provide to them and the potential for Beijing to use them for spying. The president is trailing his opponent Joe Biden in polls and has sought to portray himself as tougher on Beijing than the Democrat.While the Chinese government must now sign off on the transaction for it to go forward, as of earlier this week, ByteDance was growing increasingly confident that the proposal would pass muster with Chinese regulators, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.Under the terms of the agreement reached early in the week, ByteDance would retain a majority of TikTok’s assets and control over the algorithm, with Oracle and other US investors taking minority stakes.Trump seemed to contradict that on Saturday. “It will have nothing to do with China, it’ll be totally secure, that’ll be part of the deal,” he said. “All of the control is Walmart and Oracle, two great American companies.”Trump spoke with Oracle Chairman Larry Ellison and Walmart Chief Executive Officer Doug McMillon on Friday, telling them he still expected the US government to receive a cash payment as part of the transaction, according to people familiar with the matter. They agreed to the educational donation as a way to satisfy Trump’s demand, one of the people said.The new US company intends to hold an initial public offering in about a year, according to people familiar with the matter. TikTok plans to use the proceeds from the listing for the $5 billion educational grant, one of the people said.Oracle will get full access to review TikTok’s source code and updates to make sure there are no back doors used by the company’s Chinese parent to gather data or to spy on the video-sharing app’s 100 million American users, according to people familiar with the matter.The deal came together last weekend, the result of high-level negotiations between ByteDance, Oracle and top Trump administration officials after ByteDance rejected a bid from Microsoft Corp. and Walmart to buy the US TikTok service outright.Beijing has signaled it would greenlight a deal as long as ByteDance doesn’t have to transfer the artificial intelligence algorithms that drive TikTok’s service, Bloomberg has reported.The Treasury Department said the deal is subject to a security agreement that requires approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US, or Cfius. The term sheet that’s been negotiated between Cfius and the companies will now have to be formalized in a document that details the mechanics for implementing the terms of the deal.That document would likely include requirements related to the establishment of the new company, arrangements governing its relationship with ByteDance, whether an IPO is part of the deal, whether ByteDance will have to divest its entire stake in the IPO and what would happen if for some reason the IPO doesn’t occur, said Aimen Mir, a lawyer at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and a former deputy assistant secretary for investment security at Treasury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-s-approved-oracle-deal-for-us-tiktok/story-sFneM4bVksAMAEgAYHk17J.html
20-09-2020||World||Victims of Rochester shooting were not intended targets: Police||Police believe that the two victims who were killed in a shooting early Saturday in Rochester, New York, were not the intended targets.Gunfire at a backyard party killed two people and wounded 14 others on Saturday. Rochester police Captain Frank Umbrino said during a news conference that an argument sparked the shooting at the party.Umbrino said investigators believe there were between three and four shooters. Authorities said both victims were 19.“Our community has been hurting enough already,” Rochester City Council Vice President Willie Lightfoot said. “This is just another thing on top of all the things that we’ve been going through.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/victims-of-rochester-shooting-were-not-intended-targets-police/story-0QsBUqfm7L5Sp1DFS3AdUM.html
20-09-2020||World||Joe Biden has no plans to release potential court picks||Democratic nominee Joe Biden has no plans to release a list of potential Supreme Court nominees, a campaign official said Saturday.Biden had come under pressure after the Friday death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg to publish a list of people he might pick for the high court vacancy given the opportunity. The former vice president has only committed to nominating a Black woman to the court if he faced a vacancy as president.President Donald Trump said Saturday he expects to nominate a replacement for Ginsburg next week and it would likely be a woman. He complimented two appeals court judges said to be on his short list, Amy Coney Barrett and Barbara Lagoa.Biden said late Friday that whoever wins the November 3rd election should be the one to fill the vacancy left by Ginsburg, while most Republicans have insisted the decision is up to Trump.Trump had released a list of potential nominees even before Ginsburg’s death, seeking to distract from campaign-season criticism over his response to the coronavirus pandemic.Just before Ginsburg’s death was announced, Biden was asked about naming potential Cabinet officials or justices before the election.“We’re going through that now with the transition committee of the people who I might choose,” Biden told reporters after a campaign stop in Duluth, Minnesota on Friday. “There’s a lot of incredibly qualified people. What I want to make sure I do is keep the commitment that my government, assuming I win, my Cabinet and the White House looks like the country.”When pressured into whether he would release any names before the election, Biden said, “No, I don’t think so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-has-no-plans-to-release-potential-court-picks/story-aMpBv4icmcb42JRwQPwAdL.html
20-09-2020||World||US says all UN sanctions on Iran restored, but world yawns||The Trump administration declared Saturday that all UN sanctions against Iran have been restored, a move most of the rest of the world rejects as illegal and sets the stage for an ugly showdown at the world body ahead of its annual General Assembly.The administration said that its triggering of the “snapback” mechanism in the UN Security Council resolution that enshrined the 2015 Iran nuclear deal had taken effect at 8 p.m. Eastern Time. That is 30 days after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo notified the council that Iran was in “significant non-performance” with its obligations under the accord, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA.“The United States took this decisive action because, in addition to Iran’s failure to perform its JCPOA commitments, the Security Council failed to extend the UN arms embargo on Iran, which had been in place for 13 years,” Pompeo said in a statement released at precisely 8 p.m.“In accordance with our rights ... we initiated the snapback process to restore virtually all previously terminated UN sanctions, including the arms embargo,” he said. “The world will be safer as a result.”The White House plans to issue an executive order on Monday spelling out how the US will enforce the restored sanctions, and the State and Treasury departments are expected to outline how foreign individuals and businesses will be penalized for violations.“The United States expects all UN, member states to fully comply with their obligations to implement these measures,” Pompeo said. “If UN, member states fail to fulfill their obligations to implement these sanctions, the United States is prepared to use our domestic authorities to impose consequences for those failures and ensure that Iran does not reap the benefits of UN-prohibited activity.”But the US move faces stiff opposition from the other members of the Security Council who have vowed to ignore it. They say the US lost legal standing to invoke snapback when President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal in 2018 and reimposed American sanctions on Iran. The US argues it retains the right to do it as an original participant in the deal and a member of the council.Even before the US declaration, fellow Security Council members said the declaration had no legal force, calling into question the ability to enforce snapback. Snapback means that international sanctions eased or lifted by the nuclear deal are reimposed and must be enforced by UN member states, including hitting Iran with penalties for uranium enrichment to any level, ballistic missile activity and buying or selling conventional weapons.Those bans were either removed or set to expire under the terms of the deal in which Iran was granted billions of dollars in sanctions relief in return for curbs on its nuclear program.China and Russia have been particularly adamant in rejecting the US position, but US allies have not been shy either. In a letter sent Friday to the president of the Security Council, Britain, France and Germany — the three European participants who remain committed to the deal — said the US announcement “is incapable of having legal effect and so cannot bring in to effect the procedure.”“It flows from this that any decisions and actions which would be taken based on this procedure or on its possible outcome would also be incapable of having any legal effect,” they wrote. Thus, the three countries said, the sanctions relief provided by the nuclear deal will remain in place.US officials have talked tough about their intentions to ensure the sanctions are enforced, but it remains unclear how the administration will respond to being ignored, particularly by its European allies, which have pledged to keep the nuclear deal alive. A wholesale rejection of the US position could push the administration, which has already withdrawn from multiple UN agencies, organizations and treaties, further away from the international community.In the midst of a heated campaign for reelection, Trump plans to address Iran in a speech to the General Assembly’s annual high-level meeting on Tuesday. Officials say he will also touch on his brokering of agreements for Israel and the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to normalize relations in part to solidify a regional bulwark against Iran.And, as he seeks to demonstrate statesmanlike credentials ahead of the election, Trump has injected another element of uncertainty into the mix by threatening to retaliate “1,000 times” harder against Iran if it attacks US personnel overseas.Iran earlier Saturday warned that it may still strike US interests to avenge the death of a top Iranian general in an American airstrike earlier this year. But the head of the country’s Revolutionary Guard Corps mocked a report that it was plotting to assassinate the US ambassador to South Africa, saying Iran’s response would target people directly or indirectly involved in the general’s death.Amid uncertainty over that, the other 14 members of the Security Council and all but about five of the UN‘s 195 member states say the US lost its legal standing to act on sanctions when Trump withdrew from the nuclear accord more than two years ago.Pompeo traveled to the United Nations on Aug. 20 to formally notify the Security Council that the US was triggering snapback because Iran is not complying with the nuclear deal. He dismissed suggestions that the administration was engaged in anything legally questionable or even controversial.He has said the snapback mechanism was the “one thing that the previous administration got right” in the nuclear deal that Trump has denounced as the worst deal ever negotiated. Yet, aside from Israel and the Gulf Arab states, almost no country in the world agrees with the US.Trump administration officials have been attacking the 2015 nuclear deal for years. They say it is fatally flawed because certain restrictions on Iran’s nuclear activity gradually expire and will allow the country to eventually develop atomic weapons.The immediate concern of the US has been the indefinite extension of the arms embargo that would otherwise expire on Oct. 18. The Security Council rejected a US effort to extend the embargo in a lopsided vote which saw the United States get support from only one country, the Dominican Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-all-un-sanctions-on-iran-restored-but-world-yawns/story-I7x7pspfJsMngkLnemvHHP.html
20-09-2020||World||Homes burned as winds push California fire into desert floor||Strong afternoon winds intensified a wildfire burning for nearly two weeks in mountains northeast of Los Angeles, prompting authorities to issue new evacuation orders Saturday for desert communities that lost some homes a day earlier.Meanwhile, officials were investigating the death of a firefighter on the lines of another Southern California wildfire that erupted earlier this month from a smoke-generating pyrotechnic device used by a couple to reveal their baby’s gender.The death occurred Thursday in San Bernardino National Forest as crews battled the El Dorado Fire about 75 miles (120 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, the U.S. Forest Service said in a statement.Also read: California wildfire smoke blankets parts of CanadaIn northern Los Angeles County, firefighters focused on protecting homes Saturday as increasingly erratic winds pushed the Bobcat Fire toward foothill communities in the Antelope Valley after churning all the way across the San Gabriel Mountains. An evacuation order was issued Saturday for all residents in that zone as the fire burned toward Wrightwood, a mountain community of 4,000, said fire spokesman Andrew Mitchell.The fire grew to 142 square miles (368 square kilometers) on Saturday when winds pushed the flames into Juniper Hills.Some residents fled as blowing embers sparked spot fires, hitting some homes but sparing others. Bridget Lensing feared her family’s house was lost on Friday after seeing on Twitter that a neighbor’s house three doors down went up in flames.The house stood when she made her way back Saturday afternoon but her neighbors’ houses in the remote community were burned to the ground.“Everything around us is gone,” she said.The extent of the destruction in the area about 50 miles (80 kilometers) northeast of downtown LA wasn’t immediately clear. But, Los Angeles County park officials said the blaze destroyed the nature center at Devil’s Punchbowl Natural Area, a geological wonder that attracts some 130,000 visitors per year.No injuries were reported.On the south side of the Bobcat Fire, firefighters continued to protect Mount Wilson, which overlooks greater Los Angeles and has a historic observatory founded more than a century ago and numerous broadcast antennas serving Southern California.Also read: Thousands of firefighters battle US West Coast blazes amid ‘overwhelming’ ruinThe fire that started Sept. 6 had already doubled in size over the last week. It is 15% contained.Officials said the fire has been challenging because it is burning in areas that have not burned in decades, and because the firestorms across California have limited resources. There were about 1,660 firefighters on the lines.The name of the firefighter killed in the nearby El Dorado Fire was being withheld until family members are notified. The body was escorted down the mountain in a procession of first-responder vehicles. No other information was released about the circumstances of the death.A statement from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, or Cal Fire, said it was the 26th death involving wildfires besieging the state.A new blaze sparked by a vehicle that caught fire was growing in wilderness outside Palm Springs.To the north, a fire burning for nearly a month in Sequoia National Forest roared to life again Friday and prompted evacuation orders for the central California mountain communities of Silver City and Mineral King.More than 7,900 wildfires have burned more than 5,468 square miles (14,164 square kilometers) in California this year, including many since a mid-August barrage of dry lightning ignited parched vegetation.The El Dorado Fire has burned more than 34 square miles (89 square kilometers) and was 59% contained, with 10 buildings destroyed and six damaged.Cal Fire said earlier this month that the El Dorado Fire was ignited Sept. 5 when a couple, their young children and someone there to record video staged the baby gender reveal at El Dorado Ranch Park at the foot of the San Bernardino Mountains.The device was set off in a field and quickly ignited dry grass. The couple frantically tried to use bottled water to extinguish the flames and called 911.Authorities have not released the identities of the couple, who could face criminal charges and be held liable for the cost of fighting the fire.Throughout the Northwest, firefighters welcomed cooler weather and rain, as well as much-improved air quality and visibility that would allow some to survey fire activity with drones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/homes-burned-as-winds-push-california-fire-into-desert-floor/story-eNqmgiypNciLlLnpE9MpBN.html
20-09-2020||World||Ruth Bader Ginsburg, liberal jurist and American feminist icon, dies||Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg moved slowly.When court was in session, she often had her head down, sometimes leading visitors to think she was asleep. She once acknowledged that she did occasionally nod off. But it was a mistake to equate her gait and gaze with frailty, for Ginsburg showed over and over a steely resilience in the face of personal loss and health problems that made the diminutive New Yorker a towering women’s rights champion and forceful presence at the court over 27 years.Ginsburg, affectionately known as the Notorious RBG, died on Friday of complications from pancreatic cancer in Washington at 87.But even as large crowds of mourners gathered outside the Supreme Court to pay tribute to the liberal jurist, battle lines were forming. Her death has added new weight to the November 3 election, potentially giving President Trump a chance to expand the court’s conservative majority to 6-3 at a time of a gaping political divide in America.Supreme Court appointments require Senate confirmation, and Trump’s fellow Republicans control the chamber, holding 53 seats of the 100 seats. Democrats lack the votes to block any Trump nominee unless some Republican senators join them. Early on Saturday, Trump urged the Republican-run Senate to consider “without delay” his upcoming nomination to fill the Supreme Court seat. “We were put in this position of power and importance to make decisions for the people who so proudly elected us, the most important of which has long been considered to be the selection of United States Supreme Court Justices. We have this obligation, without delay!” he wrote in a tweet. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said any vote should come after the election. “Voters should pick the president and the president should pick the justice to consider,” Biden said. The impending clash over the vacant seat — when to fill it and with whom — is sure to significantly affect the stretch run of the presidential race, further stirring passions in a nation already reeling from the pandemic that has killed nearly 200,000 people, left millions unemployed and heightened partisan tensions and anger.For liberals who considered Ginsburg a heroine, the grief they have expressed over her death was tinged with fear over what happens next. Conservative activists for years have sought to get enough votes on the Supreme Court to overturn the 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling that legalised abortion nationwide. During the 2016 campaign, Trump promised to appoint justices who would overturn that landmark decision. In her final years on the court, Ginsburg was the unquestioned leader of the liberal justices, as outspoken in dissent as she was cautious in earlier years.Ginsburg was outspoken in her condemnations of President Trump, a man she criticised for his “ego” and whose impact on the court she said she did not “even want to contemplate”.Just a few days before her death, Ginsburg dictated the statement to her granddaughter Clara Spera: “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed,” US media reported. In 2019, doctors treated Ginsburg with radiation for a tumour on her pancreas. She maintained an active schedule even during the three weeks of radiation. When she revealed a recurrence of her cancer in July 2020, this time with lesions on her liver that were treated with chemotherapy every two weeks, Ginsburg said she remained “fully able” to continue as a justice.Her determination was perhaps most evident on the day the court met for the final time in June 2010. Her husband had died a day earlier, and her children told her their father would want her to go to work. The justices filed into the courtroom that Monday, and Ginsburg was there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ruth-bader-ginsburg-liberal-jurist-and-american-feminist-icon-dies/story-0Fv97Zl8ieUWxVKqV6xufK.html
20-09-2020||World||Donald Trump wants successor to Ginsburg ‘without delay’||US President Donald Trump on Saturday said he intended to move “without delay” to name a candidate for the vacancy left on the Supreme Court by the demise of justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.“We were put in this position of power and importance to make decisions for the people who so proudly elected us, the most important of which has long been considered to be the selection of United States Supreme Court justices,” Trump tweeted, adding, “We have this obligation, without delay!” Amul Thapar on Trump’s shortlist for successorTrump has not indicated who he will name and when, but Indian-American Amul Thapar is among the top few he is considering, according to multiple media reports. Thapar’s name was on the US president’s shortlist to replace justice Stephen Kennedy in 2018, but he eventually picked Brett Kavanaugh. Thapar, 51, is a judge on the 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals. Trump thanked former Senate leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, for removing a rule that required 60 votes to confirm a nominee. Republicans have a 53-47 majority in the Senate. All presidential nominations to certain federal positions must be confirmed or rejected by the Senate.Republican majority leader Mitch McConnell has already indicated that he is ready to start the process, saying in a statement that Trump’s nominee will get a vote. In 2016, he had blocked president Barack Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court, saying it must be left to the next president, even though elections were due after nine months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-wants-successor-to-ginsburg-without-delay/story-8xj3wpFkmBXNud5w49mmfN.html
20-09-2020||World||Trump touts ‘fantastic’ TikTok deal with Walmart and Oracle||Donald Trump on Saturday touted a “fantastic” deal that could see Oracle and Walmart become the US tech partners for TikTok, which the president is seeking to ban over security concerns.“I think it’s going to be a fantastic deal,” Trump said. “I have given the deal my blessing. If they get it done that’s great, if they don’t that’s okay too.”The United States on Friday ordered a ban on downloads of the wildly popular Chinese-owned video app, escalating a fight with Beijing over technology.TikTok users could keep accessing the service through November 12, a timeframe that potentially allows for a tie-up between TikTok -- owned by China’s ByteDance -- and a US company to safeguard data for the app to allay Washington’s security concerns.With Trump facing a tough re-election campaign, US officials have described the measures as essential to safeguard against potential Chinese espionage through the platforms.But in response China’s Commerce Ministry on Saturday condemned what it called US “bullying,” saying it violated international trade norms and that there was no evidence of any security threat, shortly before launching a mechanism that would allow it to sanction foreign companies.Trump critics have said that while TikTok’s security risks were unclear, the sweeping ban raises concerns about the government’s ability to regulate free expression.The ban ramps up the battle with Beijing over technology, which some analysts say is based more on competitive than security concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-touts-fantastic-tiktok-deal-with-walmart-and-oracle/story-CuY3gELgd5gWe55sx5mxoI.html
20-09-2020||World||Indian-American Amul Thapar in the race to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg||Indian-American judge Amul Thapar is among the top names being considered by US President Donald Trump to replace Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, according to multiple media reports. Ginsburg died on Friday at the age of 87.Trump, who on Saturday indicated that he wanted to move “without delay” on naming a replacement, has not indicated who it will be or when. But he has had a list of potential candidates for a long time, which he updated recently with 20 names.Thapar has been on the list for a while and had made it to the list of names as a possible candidate to succeed Justice Stephen Kennedy, who retired in 2018. He lost that race to Brett Kavanaugh.Thapar, 51 is a judge on the 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals.“We were put in this position of power and importance to make decisions for the people who so proudly elected us, the most important of which has long been considered to be the selection of United States Supreme Court Justices,” the US president tweeted, adding, “We have this obligation, without delay!”In another post, Trump thanked former Senate leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, for removing a rule that required 60 votes to confirm a nominee. Republicans have a 53-47 majority in the Senate. All presidential nominations to certain federal positions must be confirmed or rejected by the Senate.Republican majority leader Mitch McConnell has already indicated that he is ready to start the process, saying in a statement that the US president’s nominee will get a vote. In 2016, he had blocked president Barack Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court, saying it must be left to the next president even though elections were due after nine months.Thapar has been on Trump’s list for quite a while. He had been considered in 2017 to replace Antonin Scalia. Trump eventually went with Neil Gorsuch. Later in the year, he named Thapar to the Cincinnati-based Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.Thapar was confirmed by a 52-44 vote, becoming only the second Indian-American judge of an appeals court. Shri Srinivasan, who was appointed to the DC circuit court of appeals by Obama and confirmed in 2013, was the first.Thapar, 47, was born in Detroit to immigrants from India, Raj Thapar and Veena Bhalla. He went to college in Boston, and studied law at University of California, Berkeley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-amul-thapar-in-the-race-to-replace-ruth-bader-ginsburg/story-qvathLlIulySR2bP29oGBL.html
20-09-2020||World||Indian American in the running for vacancy on US SC bench||Indian American judge Amul Thapar is among the top names being considered by President Donald Trump to replace Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, according to multiple media reports.Trump, who on Saturday indicated he intended to move “without delay” on naming a replacement, has not indicated who it will or when. But he has had a list of potential candidates for a long time, which he updated recently with 20 names.Thapar has been on the list for a while and had made it to the last few names as a candidate to succeed Justice Stephen Kennedy who retired in 2018. He lost that race to Brett Kavanaugh.Thapar, 51 is a judge on the 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals“We were put in this position of power and importance to make decisions for the people who so proudly elected us, the most important of which has long been considered to be the selection of United States Supreme Court Justices,” the president wrote on twitter, adding, “We have this obligation, without delay!”In a follow-up post, the president thanked former Senate leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, for removing a rule that required 60 votes to confirm a nominee. Republicans have a 53-47 majority in the senate currently. All presidential nominations to certain federal positions must be confirmed or rejected by the senate.Republican majority leader Mitch McConnell has already indicated that he is ready to start the process, saying in a statement the president’s nominee will get a vote. In 2016, he had blocked President Barack Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court fit saying it must be left to the next president even though election were due only after nine months.Thapar has been on President Trump’s list for a long time. He had been considered in 2017, to replace Antonin Scalia. Trump went with Neil Gorsuch eventually, but he named Thapar later in the year to the Cincinnati-based Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.Thapar was confirmed by a 52-44 vote, becoming only the second Indian American judge of an appeals court. Shri Srnivasan, who was appointed to the DC circuit court of appeals by President Barak Obama and confirmed in 2013, was the first.Thapar, 47, was born in Detroit to immigrants from India, Raj Thapar and Veena Bhalla. He went to college in Boston, and studied law at University of California, Berkeley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-in-the-running-for-vacancy-on-us-sc-bench/story-6nmxmVSJ8mhQMVAWlQ9YcJ.html
20-09-2020||World||Kamala Harris has ‘totally run away’ from Indian-Americans, says Donald Trump’s son||US President Donald Trump’s son Eric has alleged that Senator Kamala Harris, who is the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential candidate, has “totally run away” from the Indian-American community. Harris, 55, is the first-ever black, African-American and Indian-origin person to have been nominated by a major political party as its vice-presidential candidate. Eric Trump, the second son of the president, charged Harris of not associating herself with the community at an event in Atlanta early this week at the formal launch of Indian Voices for Trump, wherein he accused the opposition Democratic Party of coming under the influence of the radical left.Also read: Trump’s son Eric agrees to sit for questioning in New York probe, after the election “You just look at Kamala Harris. Kamala Harris is of Indian descent and she’s totally run away from the community,” Eric said in his address to the Indian Voices for Trump. “I think the Indian community knows that. And you know, she’s not going around saying that she’s of Indian descent. In fact, she’s going around saying the exact opposite,” Eric said, urging the Indian-American community to support and re-elect his father as against the Opposition Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Joe Biden and his running mate Harris. “You look at what this party stands for. You look at what the radical left stands for the lack of organised religion. They want to go after businesses. They want to increase taxes in ways that have never been thought possible. And you have so many business owners in this room right now. “Look at this latest plan to increase taxes by USD 4 trillion… 82 per cent of people, which is pretty much every taxpayer... mean, all things that would absolutely tank the economy,” he said. Indian-Americans have traditionally been supporters of the Democratic Party. However, Trump, with his intensive outreach, has made a big dent into this traditional vote bank, according to a recent survey. According to the survey released by Indiaspora and Asian Americans & Pacific Islanders (AAPI) Data early this week, 66 per cent Indian-Americans currently favour Biden and 28 per cent favour Trump while six per cent were undecided. Notably in the 2016 presidential election, 77 per cent voted for former US secretary Hillary Clinton, and 16 per cent for Trump. In 2012, as many as 84 per cent Indian-Americans voted for Barack Obama.Also read: Indian-Americans represent ‘best of America’, says Donald Trump’s son Al Mason, co-chair of Trump Victory Indian-American Finance Committee, who was the first to report about this trend, said that the results of his survey in battleground states show that as many as 50 per cent of potential Indian-American voters, the vast majority of whom traditionally have voted for Democrats in the past presidential elections, will defect from the Democratic Party and vote for Trump in 2020. The nomination of Harris as the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential candidate has generated enthusiasm in the Indian-American community. However, many members of the community have expressed their apprehensions over several of her policies and that of the Biden campaign. Harris in her speeches, including her historic address at the Democratic National Convention, rarely forgets to mention the deep influence that her Indian mother Shyamala Harris had on her life and how her upbringing prepared her for the role she is seeking today. The vice presidential candidate in her social media posts has also talked about the deep influence on her of India’s freedom movement led by Mahatma Gandhi that was based on the philosophy of non-violence, peace and truth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-has-totally-run-away-from-indian-americans-says-donald-trump-s-son/story-ndz4ZpCvcFVogzqEgeUFAJ.html
