24-09-2020||World||Hong Kong Disneyland loses right to land near theme park ahead of reopening||Walt Disney Co.’s Hong Kong Disneyland Resort lost an option to expand its site after local authorities decided not to renew an agreement with the amusement park to develop a neighboring plot of land.Hong Kong won’t extend the 20-year purchase option, which expires Thursday, due to “the current economic conditions,” according to a statement Wednesday on the government website. A 60-hectare patch of land next to the theme park was reserved since 2000 to allow for possible expansion.It would be more “prudent” for the theme park operator to focus on developing the existing resort, a spokesman for the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau said in the statement.The move underscores changing priorities for Hong Kong as it tries to revive its economy battered first by the anti-government protests and then by the coronavirus outbreak. Waves of challenges have badly hurt the city’s tourism sector and major attractions such as Hong Kong Disneyland have been closed for most of the year.‘Extremely disappointed’Disney “will continue investing in the current expansion plan, however, we are extremely disappointed with the Hong Kong government’s decision not to extend the phase 2 land expansion option,” a Hong Kong-based company spokeswoman said in an email.Disneyland’s plan to expand within its existing Hong Kong site aimed at adding at least one new attraction almost every year through 2023, according to a paper submitted by the city’s legislative council in June. The plan was estimated in 2016 to cost HK$10.9 billion ($1.4 billion), according to the document.The theme park in Hong Kong is run by a firm that’s jointly owned by the local government and Disney. It’s scheduled to reopen on Friday with reduced capacity and enhanced health and safety measures.In January, Hong Kong’s Secretary for Transport and Housing Frank Chan said that he wanted to build temporary residential units on this site, urging Disney to consider its “corporate social responsibility.”Some local tycoons, criticized by state-run media for helping drive up home prices, have offered to donate land or cash to the government to avert any backlash from Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-disneyland-loses-right-to-land-near-theme-park-ahead-of-reopening/story-sEwtD4SbjZcIDStep2A7sM.html
24-09-2020||World||Trump non-commital on peaceful transfer of power after election||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday refused to commit himself to allow a peaceful transfer of power if he lost his November 3 re-election bid, raising the largely unfounded prospect of widespread fraud in mail-in ballots.If it was a fair and free election, Trump claimed, there will be “continuation” of power, and not transfer.This is not the first time he was non-committal on the issue, taking the same stance most recently in an interview to Fox News. And as a candidate in 2016, he had refused to say he will accept the outcome of the election if he lost.“Well, we’re going to have to see what happens,” Trump said on Wednesday when asked by a reporter at a White House briefing if he would commit to a peaceful transfer of power. “You know that. I’ve been complaining very strongly about the ballots. And the ballots are a disaster.”Trump has been campaigning against large-scale use of mail-in ballots for the upcoming elections, alleging, without any evidence, that it will be used for election fraud by Democrats.There are two kinds of mailing ballot systems: universal mail-in voting, when states send ballots to all eligible voters; and absentee balloting, when a voter is sent a mail on request. President Trump himself has voted by mail. In 2016, nearly a quarter of all votes polled were cast by mail.More states are resorting to widespread use of mail-in voting for the November 3 elections because of concerns about the ongoing Covid-19 epidemic.“Get rid of the ballots and you’ll have a very ...very peaceful ... there won’t be a transfer, frankly,” Trump said at the briefing, adding, “there’ll be a continuation.”As before, President Trump’s refusal to give a commitment kicked up a storm.“What country are we in? I’m being facetious,” said Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for president when asked for a response to the president’s remarks. “I said what country are we in? Look, he says the most irrational things. I don’t know what to say.”Backlash came also from Republicans. “Fundamental to democracy is the peaceful transition of power; without that, there is Belarus,” said Mitt Romney, a Republican senator and a former candidate for president, referring to the unrest in the former Soviet nation caused by the sitting president’s efforts to cling on to power in an allegedly rigged election. “Any suggestion that a president might not respect this Constitutional guarantee is both unthinkable and unacceptable,” he added.Liz Cheney, a Republican congresswoman, said: “The peaceful transfer of power is enshrined in our Constitution and fundamental to the survival of our Republic. America’s leaders swear an oath to the Constitution. We will uphold that oath.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-non-commital-on-peaceful-transfer-of-power-after-election/story-kQaSV6hlbP7RYik7VSG4bL.html
24-09-2020||World||Covid-19: UK to pick up wage bill for 6 more months||After UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced new curbs to last about six months, chancellor Rishi Sunak on Thursday provided another multi-billion-pound package that includes the exchequer picking up parts of the wage bill of all employees until April 2021.The package includes extension of VAT relief, loans to struggling companies and extension of grants to the self-employed. Sunak said he could not ensure that every job is protected, but offered a lifeline to millions of people on furlough and to companies facing severe downturn.The government has been paying much of the wage bill of employees since April, which was due to end in October. But the recent surge in cases and the new curbs to last about six months prompted demands for extension of the schemes.Sunak said in a statement to the House of Commons: “The resurgence of the virus, and the measures we need to take in response, pose a threat to our fragile economic recovery…Our approach to the next phase of support must be different to that which came before”.“The primary goal of our economic policy remains unchanged - to support people’s jobs - but the way we achieve that must evolve”. Sunak cancelled the annual winter budget due in October after making a series of Covid-influenced mini-budget statements in recent months.The economic plans announced so far amount to over £190 billion of support for people, businesses and public services - including paying the wages of nearly 12 million people, supporting over a million businesses through grants, loans and rates cuts.Sunak said: “Our lives can no longer be put on hold…We find meaning and hope through our friends and family, through our work, through our community. People were not wrong for wanting that meaning, for striving towards normality, and nor was the government wrong to want this for them.”“(The) truth is the responsibility for defeating Coronavirus cannot be held by government alone. It is a collective responsibility, shared by all. Because the cost is paid by all. We have so often spoken about this virus in terms of lives lost. But the price our country is paying is wider than that”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-to-pick-up-wage-bill-for-6-more-months/story-KZNEgYkjNOJGDzDNSyJyUJ.html
24-09-2020||World||Ex-CEO of Cambridge Analytica banned from running cos for seven years||Alexander Nix, former CEO of controversial political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica that worked on projects in India and other countries between 2013 and 2018, was banned on Thursday by the UK government from running companies for seven years.Officials said that Nix, 45, gave an undertaking that he caused or permitted companies he was associated with to offer ‘unethical services’ to clients that included bribery and honey-trap stings, demonstrating a lack of commercial probity. Nix gave this undertaking to the government: “From no later than January 2013 to March 2018 I caused or permitted SCL Elections Ltd or companies associated with SCLE to market themselves as offering potentially unethical services to potential clients, thereby demonstrating a lack of commercial probity including: bribery stings and honey trap stings designed to uncover corruption; voter disengagement campaigns; the obtaining of information to discredit political opponents; the anonymous spreading of information.”From October 5, Nix stands disqualified for seven years from acting as a director or directly or indirectly becoming involved, without the permission of the court, in the promotion, formation or management of a company.Nix was a director of SCLE, a company that provided data analytics, marketing and communication services to political and commercial customers. He was also a director of five other connected UK companies: SCL Group Ltd, SCL Social Ltd, SCL Analytics Ltd, SCL Commercial Ltd, and Cambridge Analytica (UK) Ltd.From 2016, SCL Elections Ltd was included in a rebranding of associated companies which then operated under the trading names Cambridge Analytica, CA Political (Global) and CA Commercial.SCL Elections and the five connected companies, however, ceased trading following allegations in the UK and US media which created substantial adverse publicity. Some of the accusations against the companies related to allegedly offering potential clients unethical services.Officials said the unethical services offered by the companies included bribery or honey trap stings, voter disengagement campaigns, obtaining information to discredit political opponents and spreading information anonymously in political campaigns.Mark Bruce, chief investigator for the Insolvency Service, said: “Following an extensive investigation, our conclusions were clear that SCL Elections had repeatedly offered shady political services to potential clients over a number of years”.“Company directors should act with commercial probity and this means acting honestly and correctly. Alexander Nix’s actions did not meet the appropriate standard for a company director and his disqualification from managing limited companies for a significant amount of time is justified in the public interest”.It emerged in 2018 that up to 87 million Facebook users potentially had their data hijacked by Cambridge Analytica, which was working for Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Facebook modified its data sharing app policies since then.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ex-ceo-of-cambridge-analytica-banned-from-running-cos-for-seven-years/story-0oM5UN3I46G07zA7o5omcM.html
24-09-2020||World||‘You aren’t legitimate Belarus president’: EU tells Lukashenko||President Alexander Lukashenko is not the legitimate president of Belarus, the European Union said on Thursday, saying his abrupt swearing-in on Wednesday went directly against the will of the people.The ceremony accelerated EU plans to boycott Lukashenko following the disputed Aug. 9 election, as the European Parliament had earlier decided not to recognise the veteran leader from November, when his term as president was due to end.“The so-called ‘inauguration’ ... and the new mandate claimed by Aleksander Lukashenko lack any democratic legitimacy,” the EU’s 27 states said in a statement.“This ‘inauguration’ directly contradicts the will of large parts of the Belarusian population, as expressed in numerous, unprecedented and peaceful protests since the elections, and serves to only further deepen the political crisis in Belarus.”The EU, a large financial donor to Belarus, also said it was “reviewing its relations” with the country, meaning the bloc would seek to cut off direct funding to Lukashenko’s government, channelling it to aid groups and hospitals instead.Before the election, the EU had committed to spend 135 million euros on projects in Belarus and has also pledged 53 million euros for the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.Opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya discussed with EU foreign ministers on Monday in Brussels how to bypass state administration to support doctors and hospitals.“I asked Europe not to support financially the regime. All the money Mr.Lukashenko can get now will not go to support the Belarusian people but will go for those repressions,” she told reporters, referring to the pro-democracy crackdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-aren-t-legitimate-belarus-president-eu-tells-lukashenko/story-x4WrEg91QitE03NpdFKOYN.html
24-09-2020||World||Hong Kong activist Wong arrested over unauthorized assembly||Hong Kong pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong said he was arrested again Thursday for allegedly participating in an unauthorized assembly last October.Wong tweeted that he was arrested when reporting to the semi-autonomous Chinese territory’s Central Police Station.He said he was also accused of violating a pre-coronavirus pandemic law banning the wearing of masks in public places on the pretext they obscure identity.Wong was expected to leave the police station and address journalists later Thursday.He rose to prominence as a student leader during the 2014 Umbrella Movement protests for universal suffrage, and is among a growing number of activists being charged for various relatively minor offenses since Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law on the territory that has severely restricted political speech.He played a low-key role in mostly leaderless and sometimes violent anti-government protests last year that led to Beijing imposing the security law. However, with Beijing’s encouragement, Hong Kong authorities have been pursuing charges against major opposition figures for illegal assembly and other minor infractions in what some call a campaign to harass and intimidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-activist-wong-arrested-over-unauthorized-assembly/story-ZKTkDBSHFA9JusIBNeJaQO.html
24-09-2020||World||France curbs city life in Europe’s battle to contain the spread of Covid-19||France introduced new measures to fight the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic in major cities, adding to risks weighing on an already slowing economic recovery.The first significant tightening of restrictions on daily life since the end of the lockdown in May includes closing bars at 10 p.m. in Paris and several other large urban centres. The tougher restrictions follow similar moves in the UK, as Europe reemerges at a hot spot for the disease.“If we don’t take measures rapidly, we risk being in a critical situation in some regions in a few weeks,” Health Minister Olivier Veran said at a press conference in Paris late Wednesday, insisting that the government isn’t considering another nationwide lockdown.There are signs the prospect of harsher curbs has already hit confidence, which improved less than expected in September. National statistics agency Insee said that while business leaders are more upbeat about recent activity, they are losing optimism about the outlook for their own companies and the entire services sector.“Today’s measures are an extra shock to confidence as it reminds consumers that it isn’t over,” said Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING. While some sectors could be hit, “it’s not a general shock.”France is the latest in a string of European governments to change tack in the face of mounting infection rates as they try to avoid the widespread restrictions that tipped the continent into a deep recession earlier this year. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson this week abandoned his appeal for Britons to return to offices as he warned of “many more deaths” unless people obey a raft of new restrictions.The British government is due to set out a fresh round of policies to support jobs on Thursday after abandoning plans for a fall budget. A government official said Wednesday that now is not the right time to outline long-term strategy, a sign the Treasury is preparing for months of economic disruption.In France, the virus has gathered force after tailing off at the start of the summer. The country has recently hit fresh highs in daily infections of more than 13,000 positive tests.Gyms in the hardest-hit French cities will be shuttered for two weeks, and there will be limits on public and private gatherings. In Marseille -- one of the most seriously affected areas -- all restaurants and bars will be shut from Saturday.Any new restrictions will apply for two weeks and can be extended, Veran said, adding that businesses affected will be compensated. Prime Minister Jean Castex will be under pressure to explain the strategy when he appears on TV talk show Thursday evening.“It’s an unfair decision that the government has taken only to mask its inability to handle the crisis,” Franck Trouet, spokesman for the employers’ union GNI, told Agence-France Presse on Thursday, adding that bars and restaurants will suffer from a new loss of business after having invested heavily to meet social distancing rules.Shares in exhibition organizer GL Events fell as much as 10% to its lowest level in more than a decade.The widening spread has disrupted national politics. Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire, who is in quarantine after confirming he tested positive for Covid-19 last week, will hold a call Thursday with representatives from sectors hit by the new restrictions.France’s neighbors are reacting by restricting travel. Italy on Monday ordered mandatory virus tests for people arriving from Paris and some other parts of France. Germany on Wednesday added the regions of Brittany, Normandy and Centre-Val de Loire to its list of coronavirus “risk areas.” The Paris region has been on the list since the end of August.Many of the new infections have been linked to vacationers bringing the virus home, as well as young people socializing without respecting distancing and hygiene rules.So far, the fresh wave of infections hasn’t claimed large numbers of lives. More than 30,000 people died from the disease in France between March and July. The government reported 43 deaths linked to Covid-19 on Wednesday, bringing the total to 31,459.That’s given President Emmanuel Macron the leeway to use more targeted measures to fight the disease to minimize the hit to the economy, following the path taken by France’s European neighbours. The government has said that France can’t afford to impose another full lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-curbs-city-life-in-europe-s-battle-to-contain-the-spread-of-covid-19/story-7PbXvq4HrMME4gilBomdzN.html
24-09-2020||World||AstraZeneca still waiting for FDA decision to resume US trial||AstraZeneca is still waiting for the go-ahead from the US drug regulator to restart the clinical trial of its potential Covid-19 vaccine in the United States, Chief Executive Pascal Soriot said on Thursday.“We are the sponsor of the US study. We then provided all this information to the FDA (US Federal Drug Administration) and we are waiting to hear their decision,” Soriot told a virtual World Economic Forum discussion.The US trial of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, initially developed by the University of Oxford, remains on hold while regulators investigate an illness in one of the participants, even after a British study and other programmes outside of the United States have resumed. US Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said on Wednesday the continued suspension showed the FDA took vaccine safety seriously.A document posted online by Oxford university last week stated the illness in a British participant that triggered the pause on Sept. 6 may not have been associated with the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-still-waiting-for-fda-decision-to-resume-us-trial/story-NOIi6zguExvyqmsXbORL6K.html
24-09-2020||World||Israel tightens second lockdown amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Israel on Thursday moved to further tighten its second countrywide lockdown as coronavirus cases continued to soar.The Cabinet voted to close all non-essential businesses, including open-air markets. Prayers and political demonstrations would be limited to open spaces and no more than 20 people, and participants would not be able to travel more than a kilometer (0.6 miles) from home for either.The measures are set to go into force on Friday afternoon, as the country shuts down for the weekly Sabbath ahead of Yom Kippur on Sunday and Monday. Israel annually closes down for 24 hours in honor of the solemn holiday.The restrictions are to last for at least two weeks, but synagogues will be allowed to open under restrictive conditions for Yom Kippur prayers.The restrictions on demonstrations are subject to approval by the Knesset, Israel’s parliament, and the limits on both prayers and protests could spark a backlash. An anti-lockdown demonstration was planned for later in the day in front of the Knesset.Israel’s politically influential ultra-Orthodox community has objected to limits on public prayer during the ongoing Jewish High Holidays, and opponents of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have accused the government of using the lockdown as a cover to end weekly demonstrations against his handling of the crisis.Israel is currently reporting nearly 7,000 new daily cases, making the outbreak in the country of 9 million people among the worst in the world on a per capita basis.Israel won praise this spring when it swiftly moved to seal its borders and shut down most businesses. By May, its daily rate of new cases had dropped into the double-digits. But then it reopened the economy too quickly, leading to a surge of new infections over the summer.Many businesses, meanwhile, have yet to recover from the earlier lockdown, and the new restrictions are expected to take a heavy toll on the economy even though they are being imposed during the holidays, when many businesses would ordinarily scale back hours.Israel has reported a total of more than 200,000 cases since the pandemic began, including 1,335 deaths. It has more than 50,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-tightens-second-lockdown-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-j7nhuZ4KmMjnQF5cxGkqpI.html
24-09-2020||World||‘Less than 10,000 Britons catching Covid-19 per day,’ says health secretary Matt Hancock||The British government estimates less than 10,000 people a day are contracting Covid-19, health minister Matt Hancock said on Thursday, less than during the pandemic’s peak, even as numbers testing positive have risen to similar levels. “(At the peak), we estimate through surveys that over 100,000 people a day were catching disease, but we only found around 6,000 of them, and they tested positive. Now we estimate that it’s under 10,000 people a day getting the disease. That’s too high, but it’s still much lower than in the peak,” he told Sky News on Thursday.Britain reported 6,178 new daily cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday.Hancock also said the proportion of people getting a so-called false positive test result is below 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/less-than-10-000-britons-catching-covid-19-per-day-says-health-secretary-matt-hancock/story-hMG8uLkWAXBnjR223xzjPJ.html
24-09-2020||World||New Japan PM Yoshihide Suga calls for ‘repairing’ ties with South Korea||Japan’s new prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, spoke to South Korea’s president for the first time on Thursday, calling for both countries to repair their frayed ties and cooperate to counter any threat from North Korea.Relations between the two U.S. allies have deteriorated sharply over the past year over war-time history and trade, in particular the issue of Korean labourers forced to work at Japanese firms during Japan’s 1910-1945 colonial rule.“I told President Moon that we cannot leave our current very difficult relations where they are now,” Suga told reporters after a telephone call with South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in.“Cooperation between Japan and South Korea, as well as between Japan, the United States and South Korea, is crucial to deal with North Korea and other issues.”Japan would “continue to firmly seek appropriate action from South Korea”, he said. He did not elaborate.South Korea had asked for the telephone call, Japan said.Moon congratulated Suga and said that Japan and South Korea need to find the best solution on the war-time forced labour issue, said Kang Min-seok, a spokesman of the South Korea’s presidential Blue House.Moon said that South Korea and Japan are the closest friends who share basic values and strategic interests, as well as a partner that should cooperate for peace and prosperity of the world and Northeast Asia.The two leaders also welcomed scheduled talks on the special entry procedure for essential travels between the two countries and expected it would serve as an opportunity to resume personal exchanges and improve bilateral relations.The ties between Seoul and Tokyo soured after South Korea’s Supreme Court ordered a Japanese steelmaker to pay compensation for forced labour in 2018, which prompted Tokyo to impose export curbs on some key high-tech materials.In a letter to Suga last week, Moon had said he was willing to sit down any time to improve ties. Suga replaced Shinzo Abe as prime minister last week. (Reporting by Chang-Ran Kim in Tokyo, additional reporting by Sangmi Cha in Seoul.; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Michael Perry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-japan-pm-yoshihide-suga-calls-for-repairing-ties-with-south-korea/story-rhuG1Yjc7xccXSiTfvyw4L.html
24-09-2020||World||Seoul: North Korea shoots South Korean official, burns his body||South Korea said Thursday North Korean troops fatally shot a South Korean government official who may have attempted to defect and set his body on fire, after they found him on a floating object in waters near the rivals’ disputed sea boundary.According to Seoul’s announcement, the man disappeared from a government ship that was checking on potential unauthorized fishing in an area south of the boundary on Monday, a day before he was found in North Korean waters.North Korea sent officials wearing gas masks aboard a boat near the man to learn why he was there on Tuesday afternoon. Later in the day, a North Korean navy boat came and opened fire at him, South Korea’s Defense Ministry said.Sailors from the boat, putting on gas masks and protective suits, poured gasoline on his body and set it aflame, the Defense Ministry said, citing intelligence gathered by surveillance equipment and other assets.It was also unclear how he ended up in the North. But a defense official said the man might have tried to defect to North Korea. The official, requesting anonymity citing department rules, said the official was wearing a life jacket on a small floating object and that the military had obtained information that he wanted to go to North Korea.The official said North Korea may have determined to kill him in line with its stringent anti-coronavirus rules that involves shooting anyone illegally crossing the border.North Korea has steadfastly said there hasn’t been a single virus case on its territory, a claim widely disputed by many foreign experts. Observers say a pandemic could cause devastating consequences in North Korea because of its broken public health care system and a chronic shortage of medical supplies.South Korea sent a message to North Korea via a communication channel at the US-led UN Command in South Korea on Wednesday to ask about the missing official. But North Korea hasn’t responded, according to the South Korean Defense Ministry.Senior military officer Ahn Young Ho told reporters Friday that South Korea strongly condemned North Korea’s “atrocious act” and urged it to punish those responsible. He said South Korea used various intelligence to hold North Korea responsible for the man’s death.Little is known about the 47-year-old, except that he was among 18 officials aboard the government boat belonging to the Oceans and Fisheries Ministry. When his colleagues searched for him after his disappearance, they only found his shoes left on the ship. Days of search involving aircraft and vessels came up empty handed, according to the defense and oceans ministries.The poorly marked western sea boundary is where several bloody naval skirmishes and two deadly attacks blamed on North Korea happened in recent years. The government ship was near South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island, which was hit by North Korean artillery in 2010, killing four people.The incident is expected to deepen already-strained ties between the rivals, whose exchange and cooperation programs have virtually all been suspended amid a deadlock in broader nuclear diplomacy between Pyongyang and Washington. In June, North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office on its territory to protest South Korean civilians sending leaflets against the North across the border.Conservative experts and politicians in South Korea argued that the government explanation the official might have attempted to defect lacked evidence. They say the government may want to prevent strong anti-North sentiments in South Korea to keep alive chances for talks with North Korea.“A public servant defecting to North Korea? I think it sounds bit strange as he has a stable job security,” said Choi Kang, vice president of Seoul’s Asan Institute for Policy Studies. “Why did North Korea shoot a man defecting to the North voluntarily? I can also say the burning of his body was an attempt to conceal evidence.”South Korea’s liberal government led by President Moon Jae-in has faced criticism by conservatives that it’s sympathizing with North Korea too much and fails to respond strongly enough to the North’s provocation, such as the liaison office destruction and crude insults.In 2008, North Korean soldiers fatally shot a visiting South Korean tourist who wandered into a restricted area. South Korea’s then conservative government responded by suspending tours to the North’s scenic Diamond Mountain resort.The main conservative People Power Party urged Moon’s government to take stern action. “The reason for the government’s existence is protecting its people and their property,” a party statement said.Defections of South Koreans to North Korea are highly unusual. More than 30,000 North Koreans have fled to South Korea in the past 20 years for political and economic reasons.In July, however, a North Korean defector slipped back to North Korea, prompting North Korea to impose a lockdown of a border city and declare a state of emergency over virus concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seoul-north-korea-shoots-south-korean-official-burns-his-body/story-D7v1QV8at3UT6JJMdzdS6K.html
24-09-2020||World||Parts of Canada already in second wave of Covid-19, says PM Trudeau||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warned that a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is already evident in parts of the nation.Public health authorities have already stated the resurgence was real but stopped short of describing it as a second wave. But Trudeau defined it as such. “In Canada’s four biggest provinces, the second wave isn’t just starting, it’s already underway.”Trudeau’s 12-and-a-half minute long address, for which he sought airtime from all major networks in the country, came just hours after his government laid out its programme before Parliament in the Throne Speech delivered by the Governor General Julie Payette.“I want to speak directly to you today because Canada is at a crossroads.” Trudeau said, explaining the reasoning behind the rare public broadcast.His speech, given in English and French, painted a stark picture for Canadians.“We’re on the brink of a fall that could be much worse than the spring.” He pointed out that the numbers were “clear” as when Canada went into lockdown on March 13, there were 47 confirmed coronavirus cases, while on Tuesday, it recorded “well over 1,000.”As the surge is being caused mainly by cases being reported within younger demographics suffering from “Covid fatigue”, Trudeau said, “It’s no time for a party.”He said while Canadians can’t change the numbers being reported currently, they could change where the country is in October and into the winter. “It’s all too likely we won’t be gathering for Thanksgiving, but we still have a shot at Christmas,” he said. Canada has far more tools in its toolbox, the PM noted, and sought cooperation in wearing masks, taking precautions and using a tracking app released by the government.Canada recorded 147,612 cases by Wednesday evening, including 1,085 for the day, an 80% rise over the past fortnight. It also tallied 10 fatalities to take the total death toll to 9,244, going into double digits after weeks.Earlier on Wednesday afternoon, as the parliament reopened in Ottawa, the government presented its platform, which will form the basis of its legislative agenda for the session. Among these were extending welfare payments in a new form into at least mid-2021 as well as a similar tenure for a wage subsidy programme that can be availed by employers.While the government has come under fire from the Opposition for taking on record debt and ballooning the deficit to new highs, it was clear Trudeau is looking at increased spending as a way out of the crisis. As it put in the Throne Speech, “The economic impact of Covid-19 on Canadians has already been worse than the 2008 financial crisis. These consequences will not be shortlived. This is not the time for austerity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/parts-of-canada-already-in-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-pm-trudeau/story-zpESwjmeS5cPUgj8mWTjJK.html
24-09-2020||World||Pak oppn alliance against Imran Khan is crumbling, with some help from the army||Within days of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s hard-hitting speech challenging the army leadership’s interference in Pakistan’s politics, the grand opposition alliance created to unseat the Imran Khan government seems to be crumbling.Not surprisingly, this comes with a little nudge from the military.While the government was unable to counter much of the allegations levelled by Nawaz Sharif, it was the army that sprung into action with a series of media leaks and statements which created rifts in not only the political alliance but in Sharif’s own party PML-N, pitting his brother Shahbaz Sharif, who is also party president, on a collision course with his daughter Maryam Nawaz, who is party vice president and Nawaz’s political heir.The first statement after the former premier’s speech to a meeting of the alliance came the very next day from the army chief, Gen Qamar Bajwa, himself. Meeting selected parliamentarians, Bajwa said Pakistani military did not have role in matters related to politics.He added that the military did not play any part in the recently passed FATF-linked legislations, the workings of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) and the political proposals for Gilgit Baltistan (GB). The government had rammed through a bunch of bills linked to compliance with Financial Action Task Force, the global watchdog on money laundering and terror funding, in a joint sitting of parliament after several of them were defeated by the Senate.Insisting that political leadership was responsible for all these matters, Bajwa conceded that GB had strategic importance and therefore broad-based consultation was necessary. The government is moving ahead with holding elections and declaring province status for GB, both opposed by India which considers it a region within Jammu and Kashmir illegally occupied by Pakistan.While this debate was gathering momentum, it was leaked to the media two days ago that key opposition party leaders had met with Gen Bajwa, and the head of the ISI Lt General Faiz, days ahead of the All Parties Conference of the fledgling alliance. Railways minister Shaikh Rasheed, who is seen to be close to the military, made this disclosure as he taunted the opposition for criticising the army on the one hand and meeting with it on the other.It emerged that the meeting was attended by Shahbaz Sharif, along with his party colleagues Khawaja Asif and Ahsan Iqbal on behalf of the PML-N while the PPP was represented by party chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and senator Sherry Rehman. The leak embarrassed most of those who attended. Shahbaz Sharif confirmed the meeting and said nothing more. Bilawal Bhutto Zardari clarified that they had attended a briefing on national security and such briefings are usually kept secret.In a hurriedly called press conference, he justified the meeting with the military as Prime Minister Imran Khan had failed to engage with the opposition on national security issues that have arisen during his tenure, such as worsening of relations with India following the Pulwama attack. He also said that the issue of Gilgit Baltistan was discussed at the meeting.Soon after, PML-L leader Maryam Nawaz Sharif took this opportunity to criticise her allies and take a pot shot at her uncle and party president Shahbaz Sharif.She told the media on Wednesday: “They (opposition leaders) were called (to the GHQ, the military headquarters) on the issue of Gilgit Baltistan. This is a political issue that should be settled by the peoples representatives.... These issues should be decided in the parliament, not in the GHQ.”Asked if the PML-N leaders who went to see the army had Nawaz Sharif’s blessings, she denied having any knowledge of that. However, she said “the political leadership should not be called nor should it go to discuss such issues”.Reacting to Maryam statement, railways minister Sheikh Rasheed further disclosed that the PML-N leadership held not one, but two meetings in the last two months with the military leadership. In the meantime, Maryam’s statement seems to have hit its target and the military retaliated within hours. In response to her claim that Nawaz Sharif had not been part of the meeting with the army, the head of the Pakistan Army’s media wing disclosed that senior PML-N leader Mohammad Zubair held two meetings with Gen Bajwa in recent weeks about the former prime minister and his daughter.Babar Iftikhar told a news channel on Wednesday night that both meetings were “requested” by Zubair, a former Sindh governor. “In both meetings he (Zubair) talked about Mian Nawaz Sharif sahib and Maryam Nawaz sahiba,” Iftikhar said, adding “The army chief made it clear to him (Zubair) that whatever their (Nawaz and Maryam’s) legal issues are, will be solved in Pakistan’s courts, while the political issues will be solved in the parliament.”The army’s line appears to be that they don’t interfere in the country’s politics and that all politicians come to them for help, including Nawaz Sharif.When asked about it, Zubair said he had had personal ties with Gen Bajwa for more than 40 years. “There’s nothing unusual about the meeting,” he told an interviewer, adding he never approached the army chief when the PML-N was facing difficulties.“As a friend, I thought I should brief him (Bajwa) on the state of economy of Pakistan and issues of governance. But I told him in clear words that I had not come to seek relief for anyone in my party, neither had I come on the request of anyone — neither Nawaz nor anyone else.”While the army seems to have won the latest round, what is clear is that the issue of military interference in the country’s political landscape will continue to be debated. It has also shaken the government of Imran Khan, who is being accused of coming to power on the back of a rigged election.Analyst Kamran Yousaf said that the days of the Imran Khan government may soon be over, and that a government cobbled with consensus could be taking charge. But others strongly disagree.At the same time, most analysts say that Nawaz Sharif’s speech to the APC via video link from London, where he is undergoing medical treatment, seems to have stirred a hornet’s nest. His contention that the army is now a “state above a state” will echo in corridors of power for a long time to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-oppn-alliance-is-crumbling-with-some-help-from-the-army/story-1ugLydxbeYRfVkUvNFaaKM.html
24-09-2020||World||Vaccine tycoon overtakes Jack Ma as China’s wealthiest person||A bottled-water and vaccine tycoon has become China’s wealthiest person in a day also marked by massive losses among the world’s tech elite.Zhong Shanshan’s net worth reached $58.7 billion on Wednesday, $2 billion more than Jack Ma’s, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Zhong is now Asia’s second-richest person, behind India’s Mukesh Ambani, and is the 17th wealthiest in the world, ahead of Charles Koch and Phil Knight.Nicknamed “Lone Wolf” for his eschewing of politics and clubby business groups, Zhong’s fortune has jumped $51.9 billion in 2020, more than anyone else in the world except Amazon.com Inc.’s Jeff Bezos and Tesla Inc.’s Elon Musk. Both suffered heavy declines on Wednesday as tech stocks stumbled and Tesla plunged after its “Battery Day” event fell short of expectations. Musk’s fortune dropped by almost $10 billion.The initial public offering of bottled-water company Nongfu Spring Co. -- which turned out to be Hong Kong’s most popular among retail investors -- propelled Zhong to China’s top three richest earlier this month. That came after the April listing of vaccine maker Beijing Wantai Biological Pharmacy Enterprise Co. pushed his net worth to $20 billion by early August.Zhong now leads a wealth ranking in China that is typically dominated by people who made their fortunes from tech companies.While Zhong has surpassed Ma as China’s wealthiest, the tech tycoon might soon regain the top spot, which he’s held for most of the past six years after Alibaba went public in the U.S. Ant Group’s IPO next month is poised to boost his fortune, with his stake estimated at $28 billion if the company achieves the $250 billion valuation people familiar with the matter have said it’s targeting.Wednesday was brutal for U.S. tech stocks, which tumbled the most since earlier this month. The plunge in Musk’s wealth was the biggest among the people on the Bloomberg ranking of the world’s 500 richest, followed by Bezos, whose net worth dropped by $7.1 billion. Musk is now worth $93.2 billion and Bezos $178 billion. Zhong added almost $4 billion Wednesday, more than anyone else in the index.(Updates table, adds last paragraph about Wednesday rout)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-tycoon-overtakes-jack-ma-as-china-s-wealthiest-person/story-XDMW91hwlUbUPLTDcpbCDO.html
24-09-2020||World||Trump says he’s ‘not a fan’ of Meghan’s, wishes Harry luck as ‘he is going to need it’||President Donald Trump took a swipe at the Duchess of Sussex on Wednesday after the former Meghan Markle and Prince Harry participated in a Time 100 video urging Americans to vote.Meghan, an American, says in the video that every four years elections are referred to as the most important election of our lifetime. “But this one is,” she stressed. “When we vote, our values are put into action and our voices are heard.” Harry called on Americans to “reject hate speech, misinformation and online negativity.” Neither mentioned Trump or his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, by name, but some have interpreted their comments as critical of Trump.Trump was asked about the video during a White House press conference, with the reporter saying the couple “essentially encouraged people to vote for Joe Biden.” “I’m not a fan of hers and I would say this, and she probably has heard that, but I wish a lot of luck to Harry. He’s going to need it,” Trump said.The couple recently moved into a California home after announcing they were quitting royal duties and moving to North America, citing what they said was unbearable intrusion and racist attitudes from the British media.Meghan, star of the TV legal drama “Suits,” married Harry, grandson of Queen Elizabeth II, in a lavish ceremony at Windsor Castle in May 2018. They have a young son named Archie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-s-not-a-fan-of-meghan-s-wishes-harry-luck-as-he-is-going-to-need-it/story-tgztvGTrUGPrqRYvNf2UoI.html
24-09-2020||World||Work from home culture to continue even after pandemic ends: Bill Gates||The work from home culture has worked well and many companies will continue with the system even after the coronavirus pandemic ends, billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates said on Wednesday. Various parts of the world have been under strict lockdowns following the Covid-19 outbreak, forcing organisations to let their employees work from home. “It is amazing to see how well the work from home (WFH) culture has worked and I hope will continue even after the pandemic is over,” Gates told an online business summit organised by financial daily The Economic Times. “But once this pandemic ends, we will rethink on what percentage of time we spend in offices... 20, 30, 50 per cent. Lots of companies will expect their employees to spend well below 50 per cent of their time in offices and may be the rest of the companies will go the normal way,” he added. Gates, who co-founded Microsoft and also the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, said he has not travelled for work this whole year. “Honestly I have got time to do much more. It’s been.. eye opening for me,” he said.   However, the world’s biggest philanthropist said WFH has not been as engaging, for which software has to improve a lot. Software engineering has surprisingly worked well but when kids are home, homes are small and there are chores, it is difficult to work. For women, they have too many things to handle so WFH comes with its own drawbacks, he pointed out. On his outlook on the end of the pandemic, Gates said “the message from me and others resulted in very little... Even the US, from which you would expect to have the best response with the great scientific research, did a very poor job in getting ready with this and now we are faced with incredible damage.” “Hopefully we will learn our lessons and be better ready next time but in the meanwhile we have so much work to be done,” he emphasised. Stating that China did not do a perfect job in getting the data out initially about the virus, he said this led to wasting time. On whether the strict two-month lockdown has worked in India, he said the country did some “incredible things” like use of digital infrastructure to transfer money to households in need. But the challenge for India is its population, he said, adding a lot of people live in slums and dense areas and they cannot be asked to maintain social distancing. Besides, many people have jobs where remote working is not possible, he said. “India was always going to face much bigger problems compared to Europe and the US. We hope as we get into fall, things don’t get worse although the cold temperature is not good for containing the virus. “Right now some great things are happening, the Premjis, Primals, the Tatas etc are stepping up efforts to minimise the damage,” Gates added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/work-from-home-culture-to-continue-even-after-pandemic-ends-bill-gates/story-vH8WsZ2poeSYhxutOs8SKO.html
24-09-2020||World||US Presidential polls: Trump won’t commit to peaceful transfer of power if he loses||President Donald Trump on Wednesday again declined to commit to a peaceful transfer of power if he loses the Nov. 3 presidential election.“We’re going to have to see what happens,” Trump said at a news conference, responding to a question about whether he’d commit to a peaceful transfer of power. “You know that I’ve been complaining very strongly about the ballots, and the ballots are a disaster.”It is highly unusual that a sitting president would express less than complete confidence in the American democracy’s electoral process. But he also declined four years ago to commit to honoring the election results if his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, won.His current Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, was asked about Trump’s comment after landing in Wilmington, Delaware, on Wednesday night.“What country are we in?” Biden asked incredulously, adding: “I’m being facetious. Look, he says the most irrational things. I don’t know what to say about it. But it doesn’t surprise me.”Trump has been pressing a months long campaign against mail-in voting this November by tweeting and speaking out critically about the practice. More states are encouraging mail-in voting to keep voters safe amid the coronavirus pandemic.The president, who uses mail-in voting himself, has tried to distinguish between states that automatically send mail ballots to all registered voters and those, like Florida, that send them only to voters who request a mail ballot.Trump has baselessly claimed widespread mail voting will lead to massive fraud. The five states that routinely send mail ballots to all voters have seen no significant fraud.Trump on Wednesday appeared to suggest that if states got “rid of” the unsolicited mailing of ballots there would be no concern about fraud or peaceful transfers of power.“You’ll have a very peaceful — there won’t be a transfer frankly,” Trump said. “There’ll be a continuation. The ballots are out of control, you know it, and you know, who knows it better than anybody else? The Democrats know it better than anybody else.”In a July interview, Trump similarly refused to commit to accepting the results.“I have to see. Look ... I have to see,” Trump told Chris Wallace during a wide-ranging July interview on “Fox News Sunday.” “No, I’m not going to just say yes. I’m not going to say no, and I didn’t last time either.”The Biden campaign responded Wednesday: “The American people will decide this election. And the United States government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House.”The American Civil Liberties Union also protested Trump’s remarks. “The peaceful transfer of power is essential to a functioning democracy,” National Legal Director David Cole said. “This statement from the president of the United States should trouble every American.”Trump made similar comments ahead of the 2016 election. When asked during an October debate whether he would abide by the voters’ will, Trump responded that he would “keep you in suspense.”It’s unlikely that any chaos in states with universal mail-in voting will cause the election result to be inaccurately tabulated, as Trump has suggested.The five states that already have such balloting have had time to ramp up their systems, while four states newly adopting it — California, New Jersey, Nevada and Vermont — have not. Washington, D.C., is also newly adopting it.Of those nine states, only Nevada is a battleground, worth six electoral votes and likely to be pivotal only in a national presidential deadlock.California, New Jersey, Vermont and D.C. are overwhelmingly Democratic and likely to be won by Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-polls-trump-won-t-commit-to-peaceful-transfer-of-power-if-he-loses/story-LVuJ7oiaE2lR9DKHRLIqJI.html
24-09-2020||World||Study suggests dengue fever may provide immunity against Covid-19||Amid the ongoing surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, several organizations and institutions across the globe are conducting research to develop a vaccine or to find out a disease that might combat Covid-19.Since the last eight months, over 47,000 scientific papers have appeared in medical journals that talk about ways of dealing with the disease. The information obtained from these papers has helped in forecasting the outcome of Covid-19 and developing effective measures to control it.According to news agency Reuters, a study was conducted that analysed the Covid-19 crisis in Brazil- which is the third worst-hit nation after the United States and India. The country has registered over 4.6 million cases so far. The deaths are nearing 140,000 while the active and recovered cases stand at 178,743 and 923,699 respectively, according to Worldometer figures.The study which was exclusively shared with Reuters found a link between the spread of Covid-19 and past outbreaks of mosquito-borne viral disease dengue, which further suggested that exposure to dengue might be able to provide immunity against the virus to some extent.The study, which has not been published yet, was led by Miguel Nicolelis who is a professor at Duke University. It compared the geographic distribution of Covid-19 cases with the spread of dengue in 2019 and 2020.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe study was being published ahead of peer review on the MedRxiv preprint server and will be submitted to a scientific journal.Nicolelis discovered that the places which had lower Covid-19 infection rates and a slower case growth had suffered intense outbreaks of dengue in 2019 or 2020.“This striking finding raises the intriguing possibility of an immunological cross-reactivity between dengue’s Flavivirus serotypes and SARS-CoV-2,” the study said, referring to dengue virus antibodies and the novel coronavirus.While speaking to Reuters, Nicolelis pointed out previous studies that showed those with dengue antibodies in their blood could test falsely positive for Covid-19 even if they were never infected.“This indicates that there is an immunological interaction between two viruses that nobody could have expected, because the two viruses are from completely different families,” Nicolelis said, adding that further studies are needed to prove the connection.The study highlighted an important co-relation between lower incidences, mortality and growth rate of the virus in Brazil, where levels of antibodies to dengue were higher.Also read| Covid-19 vaccine: When will US get its first vaccine?The team led by Nicolelis also found a similar relation between dengue and Covid-19 in several parts of Latin America, Asia and islands in the Pacific Ocean and Indian Ocean.Nicolelis added that his team came across the dengue discovery by accident, during a study focused on how Covid-19 had spread through Brazil, in which they discovered that highways played a major role in the distribution of cases across the country.After identifying certain case-free spots on the map, the team went in search of possible explanations and a breakthrough came when the spread of dengue was compared with that of Covid-19. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-suggests-dengue-fever-may-provide-immunity-against-covid-19/story-ZShNVVEhBfIYBkylfIJI6L.html
24-09-2020||World||Police officers not charged for killing Breonna Taylor||A Kentucky grand jury brought no charges against Louisville police for the killing of Breonna Taylor during a drug raid gone wrong, with prosecutors saying Wednesday that two officers who fired their weapons at the Black woman were justified in using force to protect themselves after they faced gunfire.The only charges were three counts of wanton endangerment against fired Officer Brett Hankison for shooting into a home next to Taylor’s that had people in it. The FBI is still investigating potential violations of federal law in connection with the raid at Taylor’s home on the night of March 13.Ben Crump, a lawyer for Taylor’s family, denounced the decision as “outrageous and offensive,” and protesters shouting, “No justice, no peace!” marched through the streets.Also read: 1 fatally shot at Breonna Taylor protest park in KentuckyPolice in Louisville, Kentucky, said Wednesday night that an officer had been shot. It’s not clear if it happened during the protests and no other details were immediately released.Scuffles have broken out between police and protesters, and some were arrested. Officers in riot gear fired flash bangs and a few small fires burned in a square that’s been at the center of protests, but it had largely cleared out ahead of a nighttime curfew and demonstrators marched through other parts of downtown Louisville. Dozens of police cars blocked the city’s major thoroughfare.Demonstrators also marched in cities like New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., Atlanta and Philadelphia.Taylor, an emergency medical worker, was shot multiple times by white officers who entered her home on a no-knock warrant during a narcotics investigation. State Attorney General Daniel Cameron, however, said the investigation showed the officers announced themselves before entering. The warrant used to search her home was connected to a suspect who did not live there, and no drugs were found inside.Along with the killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Taylor’s case became a major touchstone for nationwide protests that have drawn attention to entrenched racism and demanded police reform. Taylor’s image has been painted on streets, emblazoned on protest signs and silk-screened on T-shirts worn by celebrities. Several prominent African American celebrities joined those urging that the officers be charged.The announcement drew sadness, frustration and anger that the grand jury did not go further. The wanton endangerment charges each carry a sentence of up to five years.“To not indict the officers for murder is to claim #BreonnaTaylor killed herself. Racist America constantly kills Black people and then tells Black people we killed ourselves,” tweeted Ibram X. Kendi, director of the Center for Antiracist Research at Boston University and the author of “How to Be an Antiracist.”Also read: Black Lives Matter: Beyoncé wants officers charged in Breonna Taylor’s deathMorgan Julianna Lee, a high school student in Charlotte, North Carolina, watched the announcement at home.“It’s almost like a slap in the face,” the 15-year-old said by phone. “If I, as a Black woman, ever need justice, I will never get it.”Right after the decision, protesters began gathering in Louisville, with some preparing food and others bringing cases of water to “Injustice Square,” the park where people have demanded justice for Taylor.While the rallies were largely peaceful, police in protective gear carrying batons mobilized in downtown, and some scuffles broke out. Officers could be seen handcuffing some people. Police also ordered a group that broke off from the protests to disperse, warning that chemical agents might be used if they didn’t.Gov. Andy Beshear, a Democrat, said he authorized a limited deployment of the National Guard. Guard members and armored military vehicles were in downtown Louisville, and streets were blocked off with barricades, fences and large trucks.Beshear also urged Cameron, the state attorney general, to post online all the evidence that could be released without affecting the charges filed.“Those that are currently feeling frustration, feeling hurt, they deserve to know more,” he said.The case exposed the wide gulf between public opinion on justice for those who kill Black Americans and the laws under which those officers are charged, which regularly favor police and do not often result in steep criminal accusations.At a news conference, Cameron spoke to that disconnect: “Criminal law is not meant to respond to every sorrow and grief.”“But my heart breaks for the loss of Miss Taylor. ... My mother, if something was to happen to me, would find it very hard,” he added, choking up.But Cameron, who is the state’s first Black attorney general, said the officers acted in self-defense after Taylor’s boyfriend fired at them. He added that Hankison and the two other officers who entered Taylor’s apartment announced themselves before entering — and so did not execute the warrant as “no knock,” according to the investigation. The use of no-knock warrants has since been banned.“According to Kentucky law, the use of force by (Officers Jonathan) Mattingly and (Myles) Cosgrove was justified to protect themselves,” he said. “This justification bars us from pursuing criminal charges in Miss Breonna Taylor’s death.”Cameron said an FBI crime lab determined that Cosgrove fired the bullet that killed Taylor.Taylor’s boyfriend, Kenneth Walker, opened fire when police burst in, hitting Mattingly. Walker was charged with attempted murder of a police officer, but prosecutors later dropped the charge.Walker told police he heard knocking but didn’t know who was coming into the home and fired in self-defense.Cameron, who is a Republican, is a protégé of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who has been tagged by some as his heir apparent. His was also one of 20 names on President Donald Trump’s list to fill a future Supreme Court vacancy.At a news conference, Trump read a statement from Cameron saying “justice is not often easy.” He praised both Cameron’s handling of the case and the governor’s calling up of the National Guard.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden told reporters that he didn’t have enough information on the decision to comment fully but warned protesters to keep demonstrations peaceful.“Do not sully her memory or her mother’s by engaging in any violence,” he said.Kamala Harris, Biden’s running mate and a former prosecutor, also told reporters she hadn’t fully read the decision.“But there’s no question that Breonna Taylor and her family deserved justice yesterday, today and tomorrow, so I’ll review it,” she said.Hankison was fired on June 23. A termination letter sent to him by interim Louisville Police Chief Robert Schroeder said the white officer had violated procedures by showing “extreme indifference to the value of human life” when he “wantonly and blindly” fired his weapon.Mattingly, Cosgrove and the detective who sought the warrant, Joshua Jaynes, were placed administrative reassignment.Last week, the city settled a lawsuit against the three officers brought by Taylor’s mother, Tamika Palmer, agreeing to pay her $12 million and enact police reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-officers-not-charged-for-killing-breonna-taylor/story-44Hcd2SHrhgMVcNHTas10I.html
24-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine: When will US get its first vaccine?||As Johnson & Johnson announced the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial, US President Donald Trump said four Covid-19 vaccine candidates are at the final stage.Here are the status of the ongoing trialsPfizerThe vaccine candidate being developed by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech SE is considered the frontrunner in the race. US President Donald Trump has indicated that this vaccine may become the first one to get FDA approval. Expected: The company has announced that by the end of October it will come to know whether their vaccine works.ModernaModerna’s vaccine candidate - mRNA-1273 - is nearing the finish line in its push to enrol 30,000 individuals in a late-stage trial of a novel coronavirus vaccine. The company plans to seek emergency authorisation for high-risk groups if the vaccine proves effective.Expected: Moderna aims to make 20 million doses of vaccine by the end of 2020.Oxford-AstrazenecaThe trial in the US is currently halted as US Food and Drug Administration has not yet given a go-ahead to Astrazeneca to resume its trial. On September 8, the pharma company, which is developing the vaccine along with Oxford University, announced that illness was reported in two participants in the UK. After a brief halt, trials resumed in the UK, Brazil, India. Expected: The company aims to make the vaccine available by early 2021.Johnson & JohnsonJohnson & Johnson said on Wednesday it was entering the final Phase 3 stage of its Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial following positive results in earlier stages.Expected: If the vaccine is proven safe and effective, Johnson & Johnson says it expects the first doses to be up for emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration by early 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-moderna-pfizer-astrazeneca-johnson-johnson-when-will-us-get-its-first-vaccine/story-jlWYlM9QKAN47jmaRlYvSN.html
24-09-2020||World||US Navy releases documents from Cold War loss of submarine||The Navy began releasing documents from the investigation into the deadliest submarine disaster in US history on Wednesday, but the Navy said the documents released under a court order don’t shed any new light on the cause of the sinking.The first of the documents released were 300 pages from the official inquiry into the sinking of the USS Thresher on April 10, 1963.The loss of the nuclear-powered submarine and all 129 men aboard during a test dive in the Atlantic Ocean delivered a blow to national pride during the Cold War and became the impetus for safety improvements.“The loss of Thresher was a defining event for the submarine service,” said Rear Adm. William Houston, director of the undersea warfare division in the office of the chief of naval operations at the Pentagon.The Thresher story was already well known. It had undergone sea trials and was back in the ocean for deep-dive testing about 220 miles off Massachusetts’ Cape Cod.The first sign of trouble was a garbled message about a “minor difficulty” after the 279-foot (85-meter) submarine descended to more than 800 feet.The crew indicated it was attempting to empty ballast tanks in an effort to surface. The crew of an accompanying rescue ship heard something about the “test depth.” Then the sailors listened as the sub disintegrated under the crushing pressure of the sea.The Navy inquiry found weaknesses in the design and construction of the first-in-class nuclear-powered submarine, which had been built at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine, and based in Groton, Connecticut.The documents released Wednesday included the timeline of the sinking, evidence lists, reports, testimony and correspondence. But there were some redactions. Even more than 50 years later, technical details including the test depth were redacted.In the documents, the Navy said it believes an interior pipe burst and caused electrical problems that caused an emergency shutdown of the nuclear reactor.The documents noted that the commanding officer’s evaluation of the first year of operations – before additional work was conducted at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard -- included praise the submarine. But he also said the submarine was overly complex in many areas and he noted a vulnerability of the auxiliary salt water system.“He stated, ‘In my opinion, the most dangerous condition that exists in Thresher is the danger of salt water flooding while at or near test depth,’” the report said.The brazed joints in pipes were a special concern, and many electrical panels were not adequately protected from sea water in the event of a leak, the report said.Resting on the ocean floor at a depth of 8,500 feet, the Thresher looks as though it went through a “shredding machine” and is spread out over a mile, University of Rhode Island oceanographer Robert Ballard told The Associated Press in 2013. Ballard used his 1985 discovery of the RMS Titanic as a Cold War cover for surveying the Thresher.Not everyone was satisfied with the Navy’s conclusions.Retired Capt. James Bryant, commander of a Thresher-class submarine, requested the documents under the federal Freedom of Information Act and ultimately went to court to demand the documents’ release. He thinks there’s more to be learned from the documents, most of them classified.Michael Shafer, whose father and uncle both died on the Thresher, said some of the families need to review the documents to see for themselves and fully understand what happened. His suspicion is that the Navy was pushing the limits and placing personnel at risk during the Cold War.“I want to know the truth, the whole truth. Not some smoke screen from the Navy,” he said Wednesday from St. Petersburg, Florida.A judge in February ordered the Navy to release the documents. The coronavirus pandemic delayed the review of the documents. Eventually, more than 1,000 pages of documents will be released.If there was a silver lining, it was that the tragedy so shook the Navy that it accelerated safety improvements and created a program called SUBSAFE, an extensive series of design modifications, training and other improvements.One submarine has sunk since then, the USS Scorpion in 1968, and it was not SUBSAFE-certified, the Navy said.Some of the improvements included better welding techniques, and the main ballast tank blow system that helps a submarine reach the surface was made more effective.Joy MacMillan, one of four siblings who lost their father, the submarine’s chief radioman, said it’s helpful to know the tragedy spurred safety improvements. But it’s still important for the families to have the documents, and some closure.“After being 57 years in the dark, it’s time for the families to know any and all information so that we can put it away. We can say, ‘Mistakes were made. Let’s move on,’” MacMillan, of Brentwood, New Hampshire, said Wednesday.The sinking was the first of a string of calamities in 1963.The March on Washington was a turning point in the Civil Rights movement, but the Vietnam conflict grew, white supremacists bombed the 16th Street Baptist Church in Alabama and President John F. Kennedy was assassinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-navy-releases-documents-from-cold-war-loss-of-submarine/story-dcx37TeWZe4YSpFSY019pK.html
24-09-2020||World||White House could veto FDA’s vaccine rules, says Trump||President Donald Trump signalled that he could veto any tightening of US rules for the emergency clearance of a coronavirus vaccine, a move that could increase concerns that the race to find a Covid-19 shot is being politicized ahead of the presidential election.The Food and Drug Administration is expected to soon issue final guidelines for an emergency-use authorization. Regulators and drugmakers have in recent weeks vowed to adhere to science, not politics, in deciding when a vaccine is ready to reach the market.At a news conference on Wednesday, Trump said it “sounds like a political move” when asked whether the FDA was considering stricter standards for an authorization, suggesting that the White House could intercede if it thought the agency was too rigorous.“That has to be approved by the White House,” Trump said. “We may or may not approve it.”A representative for the FDA declined to comment.If a vaccine shows promising early signs of being safe and effective, it could be allowed to reach the market on an emergency basis before full results from a clinical trial are available. Companies including Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and Johnson & Johnson have vaccine candidates in late-stage clinical trials. Some of those studies could produce efficacy data as soon as October.Trump is trailing Democrat Joe Biden in polls ahead of the November election, with surveys showing that a majority of Americans disapprove of the president’s handling of the virus. Trump has sought to focus on other topics while claiming that his administration is doing a good job handling the virus.The president has been promising that a coronavirus vaccine will be approved within weeks -- a gambit to turn a pandemic inoculation into an October surprise for his struggling re-election campaign.Trump and his supporters have also questioned whether government employees are trying to sabotage his efforts to combat the virus. In August, the president attacked the FDA for harboring “deep state” staff slowing vaccine and drug work to hurt him politically. There’s no evidence that’s the case.FDA officials have indicated they would hold a vaccine to a higher standard than other medications that typically receive emergency waivers from the agency.Peter Marks, head of the agency’s biologics office, earlier this month described what he called an EUA-plus program that would accelerate the review of a vaccine but require data standards similar to those that are used when the FDA is considering a full approval.Marks also said at the time that the FDA would like companies to have a median of two months of follow-up on trial participants after they receive the vaccine.“That’s what we’re hoping for,” Marks said. “Most adverse events will happen about a month and a half after vaccination.”He also said any plan for an emergency authorization would include longer-term follow-up once the vaccine is on the market.The FDA has been attempting to rebuild trust as Trump publicly pushes for a vaccine to be authorized by the Nov. 3 election. FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn has been criticized for exaggerating the benefit of a plasma treatment the agency authorized for use against the virus last month. Hahn has tweeted several times since that outside FDA advisers would review vaccine data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-could-veto-fda-s-vaccine-rules-says-trump/story-3133VQbDWoJFKi29nntSnL.html
24-09-2020||World||‘Lies and shady motives’: China fumes at Donald Trump||China on Wednesday slammed US President Donald Trump for his hard-hitting remarks against Beijing at the UN General Assembly session, saying his allegations were full of “fabricated lies” driven by “shady political motives”.In his address on Tuesday, Trump blasted China for “unleashing” the plague of the “China virus” to the world, demanding that the UN must hold Beijing accountable for failing to contain the pandemic.Slamming Trump’s speech, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said his remarks about China “disregarded facts and fabricated lies”.“And driven by shady political motives, President Trump used the UN podium to level unfounded accusations against China. China firmly opposes these smears. Such acts have again shown that unilateralism and bullying are the biggest threat to the world,” Wang said.“Lies can in no way masquerade as truth. The world is fully aware of China’s record in containing Covid-19, and the people have their fair judgement,” he said, adding, “China is a victim of the virus.”Saudi king targets IranSaudi Arabia’s King Salman used his speech before the UN General Assembly on Wednesday to stress his country’s Islamic roots and slam rival Iran.The monarch touted the kingdom’s role as president of the G20 this year, and the billions of dollars in humanitarian aid Saudi Arabia gave to countries around the world.He said West Asia has been suffering from major political and security challenges, blaming Iran for the region’s instability. He blamed Iran for targeting Saudi oil facilities last year, saying: “It demonstrated that this regime has total disregard for the stability of the global economy or stability of oil supplies to international markets.” He said Iran has exploited a 2015 nuclear deal with world powers “to intensify its expansionist activities, create its terrorist networks, and use terrorism,” adding that this had produced nothing but “chaos, extremism, and sectarianism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lies-and-shady-motives-china-fumes-at-donald-trump/story-jReZv54el0vDW0VZxrAsHL.html
24-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine: Johnson & Johnson begins Phase-3 trial with 60k people||Johnson & Johnson said on Wednesday it was entering the final Phase 3 stage of its Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial following positive results in earlier stages.The trial will seek to enroll up to 60,000 volunteers across more than 200 sites in the US and around the world, the company and the US National Institutes for Health (NIH), which is providing funding, said.With the move, J&J becomes the tenth maker globally to conduct a Phase 3 trial against Covid-19, and the fourth in the US. The company, which is developing the vaccine on a not-for-profit basis through its subsidiary Janssen, said it anticipated the drug would be ready for emergency approval by early 2021 if proven effective.“As Covid-19 continues to impact the daily lives of people around the world, our goal remains the same - leveraging the global reach and scientific innovation of our company to help bring an end to this pandemic,” said Alex Gorsky, the company’s chairman and CEO.Anthony Fauci, director of the NIH’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said, “Four Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in Phase 3 clinical testing in the US just over eight months after Sars-CoV-2 was identified. This is an unprecedented feat for the scientific community made possible by decades of progress in vaccine technology.”The US has given J&J about $1.45bn in funding under Operation Warp Speed. The vaccine is based on a single dose of a cold-causing adenovirus, combined with a part of the new coronavirus called the spike protein that it uses to invade human cells.J&J used the same technology in its Ebola vaccine which received marketing approval from the European Commission in July.The company said it was poised to imminently publish the results from an earlier stage of the trial on a medical preprint site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-johnson-johnson-begins-phase-3-trial-with-60k-people/story-jXVrxaHjcYh11NtvE7dwaP.html
24-09-2020||World||200k Covid-19 deaths in US, but Trump says could’ve been 2.5 million||As America’s death toll from Covid-19 crossed 200,000, President Donald Trump called the alarming milestone “a shame” even as he deflected the blame for the coronavirus pandemic on China.“I think if we didn’t do it properly and do it right, you’d have 2.5 million deaths,” the US president told reporters, defending his administration’s handling of the health crisis. The world’s most powerful nation hit the figure 41 days before a presidential election, and as the World Health Organization warned that new cases worldwide have risen to record highs.Trump used a video address to the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday to attack Beijing for not stopping the spread of what he called the “China virus”. He has repeatedly played down the seriousness of the crisis, even as the United States suffered one of the world’s highest death tolls.According to a tally run by the US-based Johns Hopkins University, more than 31.6 million people have been infected worldwide and nearly 972,000 have died from Covid-19 since the virus emerged in Wuhan, China in late 2019.Across the Atlantic, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson made a fervent appeal to the public, urging them to diligently follow the new curbs or face the prospect of yet another lockdown. He sent out the message in a special broadcast of Tuesday evening, hours after outlining a new set of restrictions.He said, “(Unless) we take action, the risk is that we will have to go for tougher measures later… If we let this virus get out of control now, it would mean that our NHS had no space - once again - to deal with cancer patients and millions of other non-Covid medical needs.“And if we were forced into a new national lockdown, that would threaten not just jobs and livelihoods, but the loving human contact on which we all depend… We must do all we can to avoid going down that road again. But if people don’t follow the rules we have set out, then we must reserve the right to go further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/200k-covid-19-deaths-in-us-but-trump-says-could-ve-been-2-5-million/story-hg0E5JxhQlgJ4gvY02F38N.html
24-09-2020||World||Indians in US raise $3.3mn for Biden in one night, seek moderate positions on Kashmir, CAA||Indian Americans raised $3.3 million on a single night for Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, a possible record, and pressed his campaign to moderate its positions on Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, as also to add an agenda for the Hindu community on its web platform.Around $2mn was written in by “big donors” and $1.3mn came in from smaller donors, said Ramesh Kapur, a member of the Biden-Harris National Finance Committee 2020, who participated in Tuesday night’s fundraiser, adding he believed this was a record amount raised by the community at any single-night fundraiser.Biden acknowledged that he knew and understood this was because of Kamala Harris, his Indian-American nominee for vice president, Kapur said.The main virtual fundraiser, which followed Biden’s interaction with a handful of Indian Americans such as Kapur, was attended by over 200 people and headlined by Vivek Murthy, the former US surgeon general, who is among those the community is pushing for a cabinet position in a possible Biden administration. He introduced the former vice-president, recalling how he had helped with his rocky confirmation hearing process in the Republican-controlled US Senate.Some Indian Americans who wanted to “do more than just write cheques” also took the opportunity to press the former vice-president on his campaign’s position on Kashmir, CAA and the “lack of equal treatment” of Hindus, who don’t have a dedicated section on the campaign platform’s section titled “Joe’s Vision”. There are various segments in that section of the website, which also explains Biden’s agenda for communities including Indian Americans, Muslims, Jews and catholic Christians.The segment on Muslim Americans says, “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weaken democracy. “Joe Biden has been disappointed by the measures that the government of India has taken with the implementation and aftermath of the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act into law. These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious.”Many in the Indian American community have called this an egregious overreach by the Biden campaign, amounting to interference in the internal affairs of another country. Even Democrats such as Sunil Puri, an Illinois businessman, were irked and have publicly and privately pushed the campaign to “moderate” its position.“Joe do you even know that you’re making all these comments about (article) 370 and Kashmir,” Puri said recounting his remarks to the former vice-president. “And if you do, it’s a complicated situation. And before we jump in and make comments about what are other country’s internal affairs, (we should understand) we wouldn’t want India to tell us what to do.”Puri, who was on the White House presidential commission on Asian Americans during President Barack Obama’s tenure, also said he cautioned Biden against taking the Indian American community for granted, citing a recent poll in which Biden’s support among Indian Americans is 65%, down from 77% in 2016 had backed Hillary Clinton, the then Democratic nominee.The poll of the Indian American community by Indiaspora-AAPI Data showed that while Biden’s support in the community has fallen compared to Clinton’s, President Donald Trump’s has gone up from 16% in 2016 to 28%. This shift has been attributed by some to the Biden campaign’s positions on Kashmir and CAA, among other things.“We have the Christian page, we have the Muslim page, but we don’t have a Hindu page,” Kapur said, recounting his remarks to the former vice-president at the fund-raiser, adding Biden asked him to call him.The Indian American community, which has 1.8 million eligible voters, is being wooed aggressively by both Biden and Trump campaigns, especially in the battleground states that will determine the presidential election on the basis of electoral college seats, not the popular vote.While most of them lean Democratic and will vote for Biden, according to the Indiaspora-AAPI poll, they feel aggrieved by on account of the Kashmir and CAA positions; enough to not be allayed by the campaign’s expansive programme for Indian Americans and Biden’s repeated assurances that relations with India will get “high priority” in his administration.Even at the Tuesday fundraisers, he repeatedly expressed concern over Chinese aggression along the border with India. He brought it “twice” and on his own said Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indians-in-us-raise-3-3mn-for-biden-in-one-night-seek-moderate-positions-on-kashmir-caa/story-skRsMw2Mfdg6Hz4XauLBxI.html
