27-09-2020||World||Joe Biden has upper hand over Donald Trump in debate expectations game||Democrat Joe Biden takes the stage at the first presidential debate of 2020 on Tuesday staring at an opponent, in President Donald Trump, who has unwittingly done him a big favour -- lowered expectations for Biden’s performance.The president has spent months painting Biden as sleepy, doddering and senile, a move that may have lowered the bar for Biden’s performance in the eyes of many voters who will be seeing him on stage in Cleveland for the first time since the Democratic convention.An even passable performance by the former vice president might come off looking like a win in a debate that has taken on outsize importance after Covid-19 limited the candidates’ in-person campaigning.“President Trump will definitely try to throw the vice president a bunch of curveballs that are designed to get him off his game,” said Jay Carney, who was Biden’s communications director before becoming White House press secretary under President Barack Obama. “The vice president fully expects and is preparing for that and knows that taking that bait is not what he wants to do.”Waiting for GaffesBut if the gaffe-prone Biden stumbles, or looks even a little like the caricature Trump has painted of him, his campaign may be damaged. There are two more presidential debates to go, but first debates -- like first impressions -- have a way of sticking to candidates.A good debate performance by Trump at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland could help revive his faltering campaign. He’s trailing Biden by about 7 points nationally, according to an average of polls by RealClearPolitics. Trump, bolstered by his unwavering confidence in his ability to sell himself, has said he’s done little of the traditional preparation for a high-stakes debate. He says his daily back-and-forth with reporters, sometimes two or three times a day, is practice enough.“I think I prepare every day. I think, you know, when you’re president, you sort of see everything that they’re going to be asking,” Trump said in a Sunday interview with Fox News.Trump muddied the waters a little more on Sunday, tweeting a “demand” that Biden take a drug test before or after the debate -- the latest in a series of baseless suggestions that the former vice president’s public appearances have been affected by drug use.But first debates are often a trap for incumbent presidents, who have less time for practice than their rivals, or just aren’t as likely to get worked over in debate prep by loyal and sometimes even fawning aides.Ronald Reagan devastated President Jimmy Carter in 1980 by asking voters if they were better off than they were four years ago. President George W. Bush was criticized for complaining about how hard his job was while debating John Kerry in 2004. Bush’s father, President George H.W. Bush, faced double-barreled attacks from Bill Clinton and independent Ross Perot in his first re-election debate in 1992 -- and famously looked at his watch mid-debate. President Barack Obama, one of the Democratic Party’s most gifted orators, was clearly bested in his first debate with Mitt Romney in 2012.Wall Street will be watching. Trump’s refusal last week to commit to a peaceful transfer of power if he loses the election reinforced moves by traders to hedge against post-Nov. 3 volatility. Assets ranging from currencies and gold to stocks and interest rates are now reflecting an unusual potential for sharp moves around and after Election Day.Covid CampaignsTrump has only resumed his signature campaign rallies in earnest in the last month, staging events at outdoor airplane hangers that hold fewer people than the sports arenas he’s accustomed to filling.And Biden has largely eschewed all but small, tightly scripted campaign events in what his aides say is an effort to abide by best social distancing practices during the pandemic. But that’s exposed him to far less of the usual give-and-take with reporters and the public.Biden, for his part, had fewer campaign events last week, staying home to have aides pepper him with questions and craft responses in person at his home in Wilmington, Delaware, and over video conference call. Longtime advisers Ron Klain and Anita Dunn are leading the effort. Dunn’s husband, Bob Bauer -- who served as White House counsel during the Obama administration -- has played Trump in mock debates, according to a person with knowledge of the debate preparations.The Biden campaign believes Trump will be eager to lob insults and spread misinformation, presenting a challenge for anyone debating him. That’s particularly acute for Biden because any verbal misstep by the Democratic nominee offers Trump a chance to pounce.Prepping for AttacksAides have prepared Biden for Trump’s likely attacks on his family, particularly after Senate Republicans last week released a report critical of the former vice president’s son, Hunter, that detailed millions of dollars in transactions and payments that they said came from Chinese businessmen with ties to the Chinese government as well the widow of the former mayor of Moscow. A lawyer for a Hunter Biden denied he had any financial relationship with the former mayor, and the report found no wrongdoing by Joe Biden.Biden has become angry and defensive on the campaign trail when he senses his family is being attacked, including snapping at an Iowa voter in January who asked about his son’s business dealings.“I hope I don’t get baited into getting into a brawl with this guy,” Biden said at a fundraiser earlier this month. “It’s going to be hard, because I predict he’s going to be shouting.”Trump has been honing his attacks through an accelerated campaign schedule over the past week where he often riffs at length about his Democratic challenger.After the debate, Biden is looking to match some of Trump’s frequency of campaign appearances, embarking on a train tour through Ohio and Pennsylvania, marking his first multi-day swing since March, according to a person familiar with the candidate’s travel plans.Setting ExpectationsTrump may be doing more preparation than he’s letting on. The president has had a phalanx of campaign aides accompany him on his recent trips around the country, and enlisted former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie – who played Hillary Clinton in Trump’s mock debates in 2016 – for additional assistance.Trump aides have studied Biden’s previous debate performances – including two prior vice presidential debates -- and briefed Trump on how Biden has consistent answers to certain questions he’s honed over decades of time in Washington.And the Trump campaign has lately changed course on setting expectations, portraying Biden as a veteran debater thanks to a lifetime in politics.“He was in the Senate for three decades, where all they do is debate,” said Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh. “He debated twice as vice president and by all accounts he won those debates. During the primaries he was in 11 debates and managed to defeat two dozen challengers. He’s a guy who knows his way around the debate stage.”But attempts by Trump’s campaign to raise expectations for Biden have been largely foiled by the president, who keeps up his drumbeat that the 77-year-old former vice president is unable to function without a Teleprompter.Debate StrugglesBiden’s team has also played the expectations game, saying that for the vice president, a key challenge will be to absorb the personal diatribes the president is planning to unleash.Biden allies also acknowledge he at times struggled during the Democratic debates, stumbling over his words or failing to parry attacks, like when Senator Kamala Harris, now his running mate, eviscerated him in a primary-campaign debate for his past stance on busing children to racially integrate schools.And Biden’s team has tried to coach him not to get too caught up in trying to fact-check Trump, according to a person familiar with the campaign’s thinking. They worry too much time spent debunking Trump will take away from Biden’s opportunity to present his vision for the country. They expect moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to do the fact-checking so Biden doesn’t have to.“Debates don’t reward folks who speak in complete sentences and long paragraphs,” Carney said. “They really reward one-liners and insults and zingers.”Still, the former vice president has made clear he expects to best Trump.“He doesn’t know how to debate the facts,” Biden told MSNBC in an interview that aired Saturday. “He’s not that smart. He doesn’t know that many facts. He doesn’t know much about foreign policy. He doesn’t know much about domestic policy. He doesn’t know much about the detail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-has-upper-hand-over-donald-trump-in-debate-expectations-game/story-oIre6LKRo5U2xWc59LgP9H.html
27-09-2020||World||Top Democrat expresses hope deal can be reached with White House on Covid-19 relief||US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in Congress, said on Sunday she thinks a deal can be reached with the White House on a coronavirus relief package and that talks were continuing.“We are having our conversations. And when I have a conversation with the administration, it is in good faith,” Pelosi said on CNN. “I trust (Treasury) Secretary (Steve) Mnuchin to represent something that can reach a solution. And I believe we can come to an agreement.”Formal talks between Pelosi, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, Mnuchin and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows aimed at hammering out a relief package broke down on Aug. 7 with the two sides far apart. Pelosi and Mnuchin have since spoken by phone.With formal Covid-19 relief talks stalled for weeks, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal on Thursday said Democratic lawmakers were starting to draft a bill totaling at least $2.2 trillion. Pelosi on Sunday said it was “definitely a possibility” that she would offer legislation in the coming days if the impasse with the Trump administration continued but said she would rather have a deal with the White House than a “rhetorical argument.”Any legislation the Democratic-led House might approve would be unlikely to advance in the Senate, which is controlled by Republicans.Pelosi and Schumer had originally sought a $3.4 trillion relief package but have scaled back their demands. Meadows has previously said that Trump would be willing to sign a $1.3 trillion bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-democrat-expresses-hope-deal-can-be-reached-with-white-house-on-covid-19-relief/story-I83Z5b5kGhAzkNQJ8p328K.html
27-09-2020||World||Judge plans to decide on TikTok US app store ban by end of day||A US judge in Washington said he plans to decide later on Sunday whether to block a Trump administration order banning Apple Inc and Alphabet Inc’s Google from offering Chinese-owned short video-sharing app TikTok for download.US District Judge Carl Nichols said after a 90-minute Sunday morning hearing that he plans to issue a public order later in the day. The Commerce Department TikTok app store ban is set to take effect at 11:59 p.m. EDT (0359 GMT).John E. Hall, a lawyer for TikTok, argued during the hearing that the ban was “unprecedented” and “irrational.”“How does it make sense to impose this app store ban tonight when there are negotiations underway that might make it unnecessary?” Hall asked during the hearing. “This is just punitive. This is just a blunt way to whack the company. ... There is simply no urgency here.”US officials have expressed national security concerns that personal data collected on 100 million Americans who use the app could be obtained by China’s Communist Party government.ByteDance said on Sept. 20 it made a preliminary deal for Walmart Inc and Oracle Corp to take stakes in a new company, TikTok Global, that would oversee US operations. Negotiations continue over the terms of the agreement and to resolve concerns from Washington and Beijing.The deal is still to be reviewed by the US government’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS).The Justice Department said a preliminary injunction allowing Americans to continue downloading the TikTok app would be “interfering with a formal national security judgment of the president; altering the landscape with respect to ongoing CFIUS negotiations; and continuing to allow sensitive and valuable user information to flow to ByteDance with respect to all new users.” On Sept. 19, the Commerce Department delayed the ban to give the companies an additional week to finalize a deal.TikTok argues the restrictions, amid rising US-China tensions under the Trump administration, “were not motivated by a genuine national security concern, but rather by politicalconsiderations relating to the upcoming general election.”A separate set of restrictions are set to take effect Nov. 12 barring other transactions with TikTok that would effectively ban the app in the United States, the company said.Another US judge, in Pennsylvania, on Saturday rejected a bid by three TikTok content creators to block the ban, while a judge in California has blocked a similar order from taking effect on Tencent Holdings’ WeChat app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-plans-to-decide-on-tiktok-us-app-store-ban-by-end-of-day/story-mpUGiioyWzOf847Zd6sfkI.html
27-09-2020||World||Strong govt policies needed to build traveller’s confidence: Experts||Coronavirus-hit travel and tourism sector needs strong government policies to tap opportunities in the new normal, industry experts said on Sunday. Experts suggested that short vacations and holidays nearer to home are likely to be in trend post Covid-19. They called for uniform protocols across states to attract domestic tourists and tap those who go out of the country. “This is the time that we need to look at the policies, which would help build the tourism sector post Covid-19. So, we have to adapt to it and build our policies in the new normal,” Maharashtra Principal Secretary - Tourism, Excise and Civil Aviation - Valsa Nair Singh said at an online interaction on the occasion of the World Tourism Day. “We think this is the time when we need to consolidate all the infrastructure. We are identifying destinations, where we need to strengthen the infrastructure work,” she said. The Maharashtra government has come up with the Beach Check and Agri Tourism policy, she said during an online interaction organised by the IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “Now when you look at the post-COVID trends, you find that short holidays and holidays are nearer to your home. They are going to be the ones who will have to sustain the sector. So, the state’s coastline, the rural tourism and Agritourism will be more about incentivising farm stays and rural homestays exit tracks. “We are making an opportunity out of COVID by developing sustainable tourism, with destinations that are safe and that are not congested,” she pointed out. United Nations World Tourism Organisation Director Technical Cooperation and Silk Road Development Suman Billa said the UNWTO estimates that international tourist arrivals this year is likely to drop. “What this means in number is that we are going to see one billion less travellers, in terms of tourism exports we are going to see USD 1 trillion less. And in terms of job losses, which is the most important indicator, we are going to see something like 100-120 million job losses on account of COVID,” he said. Therefore, there is a need to think of a business plan and a business proposition for the new reality in order to navigate space success, he opined. “I think there is going to be a shift towards more meaningful experiences, and which means that the market will redefine the products. Those who are able to redefine and cater to the changing consumer preferences are those who are likely to survive,” he added. He said in India every state has their own protocols, and even people do not know what to expect from some states. “So, the first thing that we need to do is to harmonise all protocols. Make it productive and make it predictable so that a tourist when he travels should know what is to be expected,” he opined. Further, he suggested that there should be a limited approach by focusing on some key destinations. “It’s very difficult for us to say that all the country is safe. I think the important thing for us to do is to cut your cloth according to your coat, pick up a few key destinations, and work backwards to make them completely safe, and if we succeed, that experience can be used to ramp up in other destinations,” he added. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said the Indian industry to be very resilient and can always find an opportunity given in the crisis. “Survival is right now the most important factor in this. Right now, we know that the consumer confidence is at an all-time low and our focus must be on how to regain the trust of consumers. We must be first ready to survive, and then be ready for when that trust comes in,” he said. As there are lockdowns in many places, long haul travel is not going to happen, he said, adding that short travel or road travel, where one can travel by road by car in 2-4 hours is going to be the industry’s focus for the time being. “There is a need to focus on tapping those who go out of the country if we can do that it will be a win-win situation,” he added. India Cruise Lines Association Chairman and Jalesh Cruise Mauritius Chief Executive Officer Jurgen Bailom said there’s a lot of positive to take out of this unfortunate situation, and a lot of learning, a lot of great ideas, a lot of new technology, a lot of new things which we can do better in the future and help the industry. “We work very closely with the government and we are extremely excited to get started again. And I’m all for Incredible India. I think India is a beautiful country, I believe most of the Indians did not see their own country. You have the third-largest coastline in the world. And I think there are great opportunities to come out,” he added. PTI SM MR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-govt-policies-needed-to-build-traveller-s-confidence-experts/story-ypdKVEmXXDlHK3grwJrM7I.html
27-09-2020||World||Diminished response by ‘killer’ T cells behind high mortality rate in elderly Covid-19 patients: Study||Elderly patients face a higher risk of severity and death than younger patients due to COVID- 19, and new research, comparing the immune response among age groups, may help explain the reason why?Older patients with the disease have lower frequencies of the immune cells needed to expel the virus from the body, the researchers found. The study was published this week in mBio, an open-access journal of the American Society for Microbiology.“Elderly people have more severe diseases compared to young people, and we found that the cytotoxic part of immune control is not as efficient to respond to the virus in older people,” said virologist Gennadiy Zelinskyy, Ph.D., at the University Hospital Essen, in Germany, who also led the new study.He and his colleagues analysed blood samples from 30 people with mild cases of COVID-19 to observe how T cells, which are necessary for recognition and elimination of infected cells, respond during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Patient ages ranged from the mid-20s to the late 90s. In all patients, the investigators found that acute SARS-CoV-2 infections led to lower numbers of T cells in the blood of the patients, compared to healthy individuals.This reduction has been one of many unwelcome surprises from COVID-19, said Zelinskyy. Most viruses, once inside the body, trigger an uptick in the immune system’s expansion of T cells. These include “killer” T cells, which play a critical role in eradicating virus-infected cells. They produce cytotoxic molecules that destroy infected cells in the body. But if a person’s immune system produces fewer of these T cells, said Zelinskyy, it will be less successful at fighting off a viral infection.In the COVID-19 patient group studied by Zelinskyy and his colleagues, the researchers similarly found that the number of CD8+ T cells producing cytotoxic molecules in response to virus diminished with increased age, and that reduction was significantly higher, on average, in patients over 80. Moreover, the “killer” T cells from patients aged 80-96 produced cytotoxic molecules at a lower frequency than similar cells from younger patients.The SARS-CoV-2 virus attaches to cells in the nose or mouth. From there, it may spread to the lungs and move on to other organs, triggering a life-threatening infection. “Cytotoxic T cells really fight for control during this acute phase of infection,” Zelinsky said.If an elderly patient’s immune system produces fewer killer T cells, and these cells are inadequately armed, he said, they may be mounting an insufficient defence against SARS-CoV-2. The viral particles can continue to spread and, as a result, the infection worsens.The new data suggest that cytotoxic T cells play a key role in the control of early infections, but Zelinskyy cautioned that it’s too soon to know if that connection can be harnessed to design effective immunotherapy that uses these cells. In previous studies on viral infections in mice, his group found that a checkpoint inhibitor --immunotherapy that activates killer T cells and effectively releases the brakes on the immune system -- improved virus control at first but had the potential to later cause damage to the lungs and other organs. Further studies are warranted, he said, to better understand the potential risks and benefits of interfering with T cells as a way to control SARS-CoV-2 and other viruses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/diminished-response-by-killer-t-cells-behind-high-mortality-rate-in-elderly-covid-19-patients-study/story-JYAtF8Q7eWxYbAPLErb5XN.html
27-09-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden prepare for first presidential debate. Here’s how||Ahead of the first debate-stage matchup between President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden, each campaign is promising a stark contrast in policy, personality and preparation.Trump has decided to skip any formal preparation. And while Biden’s team believes the significance of the debate may be exaggerated, the Democratic nominee has been aggressively preparing to take on the president.Biden’s campaign has been holding mock debate sessions featuring Bob Bauer, a senior Biden adviser and former White House general counsel, playing the role of Trump, according to a person with direct knowledge of the preparations who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal strategy. Bauer has not actually donned a Trump costume in line with Trump stand-ins from previous years, but he is representing his style and expected strategy.“I’m sure the president will throw everything he can at (Biden). My guess is that they’re preparing for that -- bombarding him with insults and weird digressions,” said Jay Carney, a former aide to Biden and President Barack Obama.“I think it’s an important moment — I think it’s really important for President Trump, because the direction of this election has been pretty stable for a long time now, and he needs to shake it up as any candidate would who’s behind,” Carney added. “The question is, can that work?” Trump and Biden are scheduled to meet on the debate stage for the first time Tuesday night at Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio. The 90-minute event moderated by Fox News host Chris Wallace is the first of three scheduled presidential debates. Vice President Mike Pence and California Sen. Kamala Harris, Biden’s running mate, will also debate in October.For some, the debates represent the most important moments in the 2020 campaign’s closing days, a rare opportunity for millions of voters to compare the candidates’ policies and personalities side-by-side on prime-time television. Trump has been trailing Biden in the polls for the entire year, a reality that gives the president an urgent incentive to change the direction of the contest on national television if he can.Others, including those close to Biden’s campaign, do not expect the debates to fundamentally change the race no matter what happens, given voters’ daily struggles with the pandemic and the economy. They also point to high-profile debates in past elections thought to be game-changing moments at the time but that ultimately had little lasting effect.Those with knowledge of Biden’s preparations suggest he will not take the fight to Trump if he can avoid it. But on Saturday, at least, he was on the attack when he discussed his strategy on MSNBC.“I’m prepared to go out and make my case as to why I think he’s failed and why I think the answers I have to proceed will help the American people, the American economy and make us safer internationally,” Biden said, arguing that Trump won’t persuade voters with broadsides because “the people know the president is a liar.” He also compared Trump to Adolf Hitler’s propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, saying, “He’s sort of like Goebbels. You say the lie long enough, keep repeating, repeating, repeating, it becomes common knowledge.” Biden said he doesn’t expect Trump to articulate a detailed vision for a second term.“He doesn’t know how to debate the facts, because he’s not that smart,” Biden continued. “He doesn’t know that many facts. He doesn’t know much about foreign policy. He doesn’t know much about domestic policy. He doesn’t know much about the detail.” While Biden has said he will try to be a fact checker of sorts on stage, the Democrat is being advised to avoid direct confrontations and instead redirect the conversation to more familiar campaign themes of unity and issues that matter most to voters: the economy, health care and the pandemic.“Arguing over facts, litigating whether what he’s saying is accurate, that is not winning to Biden,” said Jen Psaki, a former Obama aide who is close to Biden’s team. “This is an opportunity to speak directly to the American people. His objective should be to speak directly to them, but not be pulled in by Trump. That is hard.” Trump has not been doing any formal preparation, according to aides and allies who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations.No set has been constructed and aides refused to say whether anyone is playing Biden. Trump, instead, has maintained that the best preparation is doing his day job — particularly his frequent and often contentious interactions with reporters. White House aides also scheduled an ABC town hall earlier this month to expose Trump to real voter questions for the first time in months in preparation for the second debate.Privately some aides and allies are worried that Trump’s lack of formal preparation will lead him to fall into the same hubris trap as other incumbents in their first general election debate. Obama, for example, famously struggled in his first matchup against Mitt Romney in 2012.But other Trump backers are confident that the president is ready to handle any tough questions or pushback from Biden.“The debates matter,” said Lara Trump, a senior adviser to the campaign and the president’s daughter-in-law. “Donald Trump certainly did a great job on the debates (in 2016) and I think this will be no different.” Lara Trump also seemed to simultaneously raise and lower expectations for Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-joe-biden-prepare-for-first-presidential-debate-here-s-how/story-IYLyIFdlbAfS8YozEEVtzH.html
27-09-2020||World||Brain-eating microbe: Residents of Texas asked not to use tap water||Residents of Lake Jackson, Texas were asked not to use tap water after a brain-eating microbe wasfound in the water supply, which the authorities thoroughly disinfected, BBC reported. A six-year-old boy reportedly cotracted the microbe and died earlier this month. According to reports, the boy, Josiah McIntryre, got infected by water of that area. The residents were strictly asked not to use tap water except for flushing the toilet. Naegleria fowleri, the microscopic amoeba, can cause a deadly infection in the brain. The amoeba enters the body through nose and from there, it travels to the brain. Josiah’s mother, Maria Castillo, said her son died at Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston on 8 September, and that doctors told her the cause was the brain-eating amoeba, NBC News reported.The areas affected include Lake Jackson, Freeport, Angleton, Brazoria, Richwood, Oyster Creek, Clute, and Rosenberg. However, the warning was later lifted from the other places except Lake Jackson.The contamination of US treated public water systems by the microbe is rare but not unheard of. According to the CDC website, the first deaths from naegleria fowleri found in tap water from treated US public drinking water systems occurred in southern Louisiana in 2011 and 2013. The microbe also was found in 2003 in an untreated geothermal well-supplied drinking water system in Arizona, as well as in disinfected public drinking water supplies in Australia in the 1970s and ’80s and in 2008 in Pakistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brain-eating-microbe-residents-of-texas-asked-not-to-use-tap-water/story-gaEdAOFayxt55LRyugb4HK.html
27-09-2020||World||Armenia, Azerbaijan clashes disturb peace in South Caucasus, brings Nagorno-Karabakh back in focus||Clashes erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan on Sunday over the volatile Nagorno-Karabakh region, reigniting concern about instability in the South Caucasus, a corridor for pipelines transporting oil and gas to world markets.Both sides, which fought a war in the 1990s, reported fatalities. Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, a breakaway region that is inside Azerbaijan but is run by ethnic Armenians, declared martial law and mobilised their male populations. Armenia said Azerbaijan had carried out an air and artillery attack on Nagorno-Karabakh. Azerbaijan said it had responded to Armenian shelling and that it had seized control of up to seven villages, but Nagorno-Karabakh denied this.The clashes prompted a flurry of diplomacy to prevent a new flare-up of a decades-old conflict between majority Christian Armenia and mainly Muslim Azerbaijan, with Russia calling for an immediate ceasefire and Pope Francis leading calls for talks.Pipelines shipping Caspian oil and natural gas from Azerbaijan to the world pass close to Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenia also warned about security risks in the South Caucasus in July after Azerbaijan threatened to attack Armenia’s nuclear power plant as possible retaliation.Nagorno-Karabakh broke away from Azerbaijan in a conflict that broke out as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Though a ceasefire was agreed in 1994, after thousands of people were killed and many more displaced, Azerbaijan and Armenia frequently accuse each other of attacks around Nagorno-Karabakh and along the separate Azeri-Armenian frontier.In Sunday’s clashes, Armenian right activists said an ethnic Armenian woman and child had been killed. Azerbaijan said an unspecified number of its civilians had been killed. Nagorno-Karabakh denied a report that 10 of its military were killed. Armenia said Azeri forces had attacked civilian targets including Nagorno-Karabakh’s capital, Stepanakert, and promised a “proportionate response”.“We stay strong next to our army to protect our motherland from Azeri invasion,” Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan wrote on Twitter.Azerbaijan denied an Armenian defence ministry statement saying Azeri helicopters and tanks had been destroyed, and accused Armenian forces of launching “deliberate and targeted” attacks along the front line.“We defend our territory, our cause is right!” Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev, said in an address to the nation. International diplomacyRussian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, whose country has mediated between former Soviet republics Armenia and Azerbaijan, spoke by phone to the Armenian, Azeri and Turkish foreign ministers.Turkey said Armenia must immediately cease what it said was hostility towards Azerbaijan that will “throw the region into fire”, and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Twitter that Ankara would continue to show solidarity with Azerbaijan.Erdogan urged the Armenian people to “take hold of their future against their leadership that is dragging them to catastrophe and those using it like puppets”.France also urged the sides to end hostilities and immediately restart dialogue. The pope appealed to Armenia and Azerbaijan to resolve their differences through negotiations, saying he was praying for peace.At least 200 people were killed in a flare-of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan in April 2016. There are frequent skirmishes and at least 16 were reported killed in clashes in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-azerbaijan-clashes-disturb-peace-in-south-caucasus-brings-nagorno-karabakh-back-in-focus/story-rdEwcgr3gN98dyS0GIKq1O.html
27-09-2020||World||Armenia-Azerbaijan clash: Turkey’s Erdogan voices support for Baku||Turkey sharply criticised Armenia on Sunday after clashes between Armenian and Zaeri forces, saying Yerevan was an obstacle to peace and vowing to continue its support for Baku.Armenia declared martial law and mobilised its male population after the clashes, which Yerevan and Baku blamed on each other and in which both sides reported fatalities.In a statement on Twitter following a phone call with Azeri President Ilham Aliyev, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan called on Armenian people to stand against leaders who he said were “dragging them to catastrophe”, adding that Ankara’s solidarity with Baku would “increasingly continue”.“Armenia, which has added another to its attacks against Azerbaijan, has shown once again that it is the biggest threat to peace in the region,” Erdogan said, and added that international reaction to the conflict had been insufficient.Turkey calls on “the entire world to stand with Azerbaijan in their battle against invasion and cruelty,” Erdogan said.Armenia did not immediately respond to the criticism but has said Azeri forces fired first on Sunday.Azerbaijan and Armenia have long been at odds over the mainly ethnic Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh which is in Azerbaijan but declared independence in 1991. A ceasefire was agreed in 1994, but both sides accuse each other of attacks.Turkey has traditionally backed Muslim-majority Azerbaijan.Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar said Armenia must immediately cease what he called hostility towards Azerbaijan that could “throw the region into fire”.Presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said Armenia had violated international laws by carrying out attacks and accused it of being “reckless”. “We believe this conflict can be resolved through peaceful negotiations, but the Armenian side has shown no interest so far other than continuing to occupy parts of Azerbaijan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-azerbaijan-clash-turkey-s-erdogan-voices-support-for-baku/story-1Q38nkTIsfDjdPP0Gwvk5H.html
27-09-2020||World||Armenian, Azerbaijani separatists clash: European Union calls for ‘immediate return to negotiations’ over Karabakh||The European Union called Sunday for a halt to fighting between Armenian and Azerbaijani separatists over the Nagorny Karabakh region and an “immediate return to negotiations”.The worst clashes since 2016 broke out on Sunday between arch-foes Azerbaijan and Armenia, which have been locked for decades in a territorial dispute over the Armenia-backed breakaway region.“Military action must stop, as a matter of urgency, to prevent a further escalation,” European Council president Charles Michel tweeted, calling for “an immediate return to negotiations, without preconditions”.EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell stressed the urgency of relaunching negotiations over Nagorny Karabakh under the auspices of the so-called “Minsk Group” led by France, Russia and the United States.“The European Union calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities, de-escalation and for strict observance of the ceasefire,” he said.A major conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia could draw in top regional players Russia and Turkey.The conflict over Nagorny Karabakh has been fuelling regional tensions for 30 years.Ethnic Armenian separatists seized the region from Baku in a 1990s war that claimed 30,000 lives.Since then, the Azerbaijani authorities have sought to regain control of it, by force if necessary.Peace talks have been largely stalled since a 1994 ceasefire agreement. The last big push for a peace deal collapsed in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-calls-for-immediate-return-to-negotiations-over-karabakh/story-GjpyMIfuGS6AViw5vwFrXI.html
27-09-2020||World||Labour leads in polls as revolt among Tories keeps UK PM Johnson worried||Britain’s Labour Party on Sunday registered its first polling lead since Boris Johnson became prime minister last year as support for his crisis-wracked Conservative government continued to plunge.The Opinium poll for the Observer newspaper put Labour on 42 percent, with the Conservatives on 39 percent.New Labour leader Keir Starmer also led when voters were asked who would make the best prime minister, being the preferred choice for 36 percent of voters compared to 32 percent for Johnson.The Tories were polling 26 points ahead of Labour in March, but Johnson’s handling of the coronavirus epidemic, which has claimed almost 42,000 lives in Britain, has seen his popularity plummet.There appears little relief on the horizon for the prime minister as he grapples with another spike in coronavirus cases while trying to avert a collapse of the economy.He faces a revolt next week by Conservative colleagues who accuse him of governing by diktat and speculation is already brewing about a potential replacement, with finance minister Rishi Sunak attracting attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/labour-leads-in-polls-as-revolt-among-tories-keeps-uk-pm-johnson-worried/story-9ov9ezyeR9ZlpSwGVdECLP.html
27-09-2020||World||Afghan Sikhs, Hindus leave their birthplace as threat from Islamic State rises||Afghanistan’s dwindling community of Sikhs and Hindus is shrinking to its lowest levels. With growing threats from the local Islamic State affiliate, many are choosing to leave the country of their birth to escape the insecurity and a once-thriving community of as many as 250,000 members now counts fewer than 700.The community’s numbers have been declining for years because of deep-rooted discrimination in the majority Muslim country. But, without what they say is adequate protection from the government, the attacks by the Islamic State group may complete the exodus.“We are no longer able to stay here,” said a member of the tiny community, who asked to be identified only by his last name, Hamdard, out of fear he may be targeted for speaking out. Hamdard said seven relatives of his, including his sister, nephews, and son-in-law were killed by Islamic State gunmen in an attack on the community’s temple in March, which killed 25 Sikhs.Hamdard said that fleeing his homeland is as difficult as leaving a mother behind. Still, he joined a group of Sikhs and Hindus who left Afghanistan last month for India, from where they will eventually move on to a third country.Although Sikhism and Hinduism are two distinct religions with their own holy books and temples, in Afghanistan the communities are interwoven, having been driven into a kinship by their tiny size, and they both gather under one roof or a single temple to worship, each following their own faith.The community has suffered widespread discrimination in the conservative Muslim country, with each government “threatening us their own way,” said Hamdard, whose home was seized by warlords after the U.S. invasion in 2001, forcing him to live in one of two Sikh temples in the Afghan capital of Kabul.Under Taliban rule in the late 1990s, Sikhs and Hindus were asked to identify themselves by wearing yellow armbands, but after a global outcry, the rule was not enforced. Also driving the exodus is the inability to reclaim Sikh homes, businesses and houses of worship that were illegally seized years ago.Hindu temples in Kabul’s old city were destroyed during brutal fighting between rival warlords from 1992-96. The fighting drove out scores of Hindu and Sikh Afghans.Aside from the March attack by IS gunmen, a 2018 Islamic State suicide attack in the city of Jalalabad killed 19 people, most of them Sikhs, including a longtime leader who had nominated himself for the Afghan parliament.“Suffering big fatalities for a small community is not tolerable,” said Charan Singh Khalsa, a leader of the Sikh community living abroad, who declined to say where he was living out of fear for his safety. He left Afghanistan after his brother was kidnapped and killed in an attack by gunmen in Kabul two years ago. He said the last three years have been the worst period for all Afghans, but especially so for Sikhs and Hindus.Community leaders have slammed recent governments for failing to step up security in the face of the IS threat.Afghanistan’s government in 2010 decided to dedicate a chair in the national assembly to religious minorities, and there have since been two Sikh representatives.But Khalsa called these posts “symbolic”. He criticized the government for taking too long to grant political representation powers to the community and for failing to “provide security to our places of worship.”A senior Sikh community leader told The Associated Press that the group is in negotiations with the government over its security needs and the repairing of the temple after it was destroyed in March’s attack. The community leader spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the negotiations with the media.At a press conference last month, President Ashraf Ghani’s spokesman, Sediq Sediqqi, said that members of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu community will return once peace is restored. The president’s office did not respond to a request for comment from the AP, but other Afghan officials have pledged to assist the community.“We will use all our facilities to provide security to the people,” Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said, without elaborating. “We are committed and responsible for their (Sikhs and Hindus) mental and personal security.”It is not clear what kind of security measures are being discussed, nor when they might be seen on the ground.Until then, the community’s flight is accelerating, with large numbers of Sikhs and Hindus continuing a recent trend of seeking asylum in India, which has a Hindu majority and a large Sikh population.In August, a group of 176 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus went to India on special visas. They were the second batch since March, with the first 11 members arriving in India in July.Khalsa said that a group of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus in Canada and European countries has volunteered to sponsor the exodus of those remaining in Kabul who cannot afford air tickets and temporary accommodation in a transit country.Several Canadian legislators have asked the country’s immigration ministry for a special program for Afghan Sikh and Hindu refugees, requesting that they be brought to safety in Canada amid the increasing security threat.For Afghan Sikhs, the thought of being uprooted is painful, despite the circumstances.“It’s hard to leave our birthplace but we have no other option,” said Hamdard. “Afghanistan does not want us anymore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-sikhs-hindus-leave-afghanistan-as-threat-from-islamic-state-rises/story-XFX1KBBAqZREkmfzzNm7YL.html
27-09-2020||World||Qatar Airways says losses reach $1.9 billion amid pandemic, boycott||Long-haul carrier Qatar Airways on Sunday reported revenue losses of $1.9 billion for the past year, blaming the coronavirus pandemic, its liquidation of shares in Air Italy and the ongoing boycott of Doha by four Arab nations for the drop.The state-owned carrier also blamed new accounting rules for further adding to losses for the past fiscal year, which ended March 31.“If not for the exceptional circumstances of fiscal year 2020, our results would have been better than the year before,” Qatar Airways CEO Akbar al-Baker said in a statement.It also restated its losses for the previous year in the financial report Sunday, putting it at close to $1.3 billion as opposed to the $639 million it earlier reported. It lost $69 million in 2018.The coronavirus pandemic halted global aviation for months, which only has begun to pick back up. Qatar also has been targeted by Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in a boycott since June 2017. That boycott continues today, despite efforts by other Gulf Arab nations and the US to reconcile the countries involved in the political dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qatar-airways-says-losses-reach-1-9b-amid-pandemic-boycott/story-skUWnzCAoKtoYouBfxYtnN.html
27-09-2020||World||Joe Biden maintains national lead over Donald Trump in two polls||Former US Vice President Joe Biden held a lead over President Donald Trump among potential voters nationally, according to two polls conducted in the past few days.In a poll by the Washington Post and ABC News, Biden had a 10 percentage point advantage over Trump. Biden’s lead was eight points in another survey conducted by the New York Times and Siena College.In the Washington Post poll, Biden and running mate Kamala Harris had 54% support among likely voters compared with Trump and Vice President Mike Pence at 44%. Among registered voters, Biden had a 53% to 43% lead. The margin is statistically unchanged from the 12-point gap in the Washington Post and ABC’s August survey, which was taken before both parties held their conventions.Biden is ahead of Trump by 65% to 34% among the women surveyed, while 55% of men polled supported Trump compared with 42% for Biden, according to the report. The poll was conducted by telephone Monday through Thursday among a random national sample of 1,008 US adults. The margin of error is plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.In the New York Times poll, the former vice president was leading Trump 49% to 41% among likely voters. Women favored Biden by 53% to 37%, while the candidates were tied among men, both at 45%.A total of 950 likely voters were polled between Tuesday and Thursday for the New York Times/Siena College poll, which had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, the report said.Both surveys were conducted after the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg but before Trump’s nomination of federal Judge Amy Coney Barrett on Saturday. Biden led Trump by eight points on the question of who was more trusted to handle the next appointment to the Supreme Court, according to Washington Post and ABC.The same question had Biden leading over Trump by 50% to 43% in the New York Times/Siena poll, with 56% thinking the next justice should be appointed by the winner of the upcoming election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-maintains-national-lead-over-donald-trump-in-two-polls/story-AS6srMazPg1DvmK1QLra5I.html
27-09-2020||World||Donald Trump’s choice of Amy Coney Barrett may not sway female voters he lacks||President Donald Trump’s nomination of Amy Coney Barrett is poised to give the Supreme Court its most conservative female justice in history but is unlikely to accomplish the one thing that could help seal his re-election -- a new surge of support from women, a segment of the electorate his campaign has struggled to attract.Trump on Saturday named Barrett to replace the liberal jurist and feminist icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg, fulfilling his pledge to nominate a woman.The difference between the two women’s views couldn’t be more stark: Ginsburg was a champion of preserving a woman’s right to an abortion, while Barrett says abortion is “always immoral” and has already ruled as a circuit court judge to restrict the procedure.If the Senate confirms Barrett, which is likely given its Republican majority, the pick keeps the court’s gender balance at six men and three women. Barrett would be the only woman on the court’s conservative wing.The move poses a risk for Trump. Since Sandra Day O’Connor became the first woman on the court almost 40 years ago, the reaction to Barrett’s appointment and polling data suggests women are looking at a nominee’s potential rulings and judicial record as much or more than her gender.Conservative women who oppose abortion rights are already in Trump’s camp, but they are a small minority of women voters. Surveys show that very few women, if any, are going to switch their support from Democratic nominee Joe Biden based on Trump’s choice of a female jurist. Instead, there are signs it could actually drive Democrats to polls.Republican activists say their voters are eager to hear Barrett’s voice from the bench. Barrett’s appointment “energizes the very same voters, the women voters, that are faithful Catholics and evangelical and encourages them to once again return Donald Trump to the White House,” said Penny Nance, president of Concerned Women for America.But with the election just more than a month away, Trump’s campaign was hoping a female nominee could attract some new women voters, especially in the suburbs.“For Donald Trump to win, he needs to close that gap with women,” said Sarah Longwell, a Republican strategist who founded Republican Voters Against Trump. The White House seems to think nominating a woman will help them with women voters, she said.“What they don’t realize is that it may actually backfire on them because a lot of these suburban women that they need actually won’t like the idea of somebody who is very far right ideologically taking Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court.”Most women don’t support Trump. A national poll by Quinnipiac University released Wednesday showed 58% of women backed Biden, while 38% backed Trump -- a 20-point gap that amounted for the entirety of Biden’s overall lead. Among men, Trump and Biden were essentially tied at 47% to 46%.Even in Republican states whose voters largely support Trump, it’s women who cut into his lead. Biden leads Trump among women by 10 points in Georgia, 14 points in Iowa and 8 points in Texas, all states where Trump leads overall, according to a New York Times/Siena College poll released last week.Ginsburg’s death just sharpens that divide, given that most women say they don’t believe Trump should fill her seat at all.A CNN poll found 65% of women believe the winner of the November election should fill the seat, compared to just 52% of men. Women were also more likely to say that Trump’s appointments have “changed the court for the worse.”Democrats and progressive groups have seen a surge of donations since Ginsburg’s death and will portray the nomination as a threat to abortion rights, the Affordable Care Act and LGBTQ rights.The Supreme Court vacancy is more motivating for Democrats, said Nancy Zdunkewicz, a Democratic pollster with Change Research.“The conventional wisdom that the politics of Supreme Court vacancies are more motivating for conservatives -- this is not what we see in the data,” she said. “It’s not in the data, not even kind of. It’s looking more important for suburban white college-educated women who are liberal.”Polls have shown that 70% of women oppose overturning Roe v. Wade, a number that has steadily risen over the years.Biden is capitalizing on those numbers, warning that allowing Trump to pick Ginsburg’s replacement threatens not only the Affordable Care Act, but “women’s health,” widely seen to mean abortion rights.“I think Amy Coney Barrett, her record is going to be a big driver of Democratic engagement in this election -- and so is the interest in protecting Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s legacy,” said Shaunna Thomas, cofounder of UltraViolet, a feminist advocacy group.Ginsburg became the nation’s second female Supreme Court justice when President Bill Clinton appointed her in 1993. She was the court’s only woman from 2006, when O’Connor retired, to 2009, when Justice Sonia Sotomayor joined the court. Justice Elena Kagan was confirmed a year later.Barrett’s confirmation would guarantee that the court will have at least three female justices for the foreseeable future. The court could get a fourth if Biden wins and keeps his promise to nominate a Black woman if he gets the opportunity.Until now the biggest skeptics of reproductive rights on the court have all been men. In 2014 when the court ruled 5-4 that companies can refuse on religious grounds to offer their workers the free birth control promised under the Affordable Care Act, five men were in the majority and all three female justices dissented.Now Barrett is likely to join the conservative bloc on the court, comprised of Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel Alito, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, all Republican appointees. She will be a new face for originalism, which focuses on the original meaning of the Constitution’s words and casts doubt on Roe v. Wade.“I’m excited about having a constitutionalist, originalist woman on the court,” said Carrie Severino, president of the Judicial Crisis Network, which backs Trump’s judicial nominees. “This will be our first originalist woman, and it illustrates the breadth and diversity of opinions among women in the law, and I think that’s a great thing for Americans to see.”Barrett, a Catholic mother of seven, wrote in a 1998 law review article that abortion and euthanasia “take away innocent life” and that abortion is “always immoral.”Barrett could be just as valuable a role model to young women as Ginsburg was and that serves a broader purpose than Trump’s re-election, Nance said.“There was a lot being said about Ruth Bader Ginsburg being a role model for women and I would agree with that -- but I would say there’s never been a conservative woman justice. So we are very eager for there to be a role model for our daughters,” Nance said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-choice-of-amy-coney-barrett-may-not-sway-female-voters-he-lacks/story-4clUcVCZWYvrGuE3YTHwqL.html
27-09-2020||World||French president says longtime Belarus leader ‘must go’||France is stepping up the pressure on Belarus’ longtime leader Alexander Lukashenko, with President Emmanuel Macron telling a prominent French weekly that “Lukashenko must go.”The European Union said Thursday it does not recognize Lukashenko as president of Belarus because of large-scale protests by Belarusians who question the results of last month’s presidential election that Lukashenko claims he overwhelmingly won. Opposition members and some poll workers in Belarus say the vote was rigged.Ahead of a trip Monday to Lithuania and Latvia, Macron was quoted in Sunday’s Journal du Dimanche newspaper as saying “it’s clear that Lukashenko must go.”“What’s happening in Belarus is a crisis of power, an authoritarian power that can’t manage to accept the logic of democracy and is clinging on by force,” the newspaper quotes Macron as saying.In a speech Saturday to the virtual UN General Assembly, Belarus’ foreign minister warned Western nations against interfering or imposing sanctions over the country’s disputed presidential election and the government’s violent crackdown on protesters.Thousands of Belarusian citizens have taken part in huge rallies since the Aug. 9 election, which they say was rigged in favor of Lukashenko, who has been in power for 26 years and just took a secretive oath of office for a new term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-president-says-longtime-belarus-leader-must-go/story-AKsLfDnO3Cj0TxnE5ouO5O.html
27-09-2020||World||‘If coronavirus doesn’t kill us, climate change will’: Leaders to UN||In a year of cataclysm, some world leaders at this week’s annual United Nations meeting are taking the long view, warning: If Covid-19 doesn’t kill us, climate change will.With Siberia seeing its warmest temperature on record this year and enormous chunks of ice caps in Greenland and Canada sliding into the sea, countries are acutely aware there’s no vaccine for global warming.“We are already seeing a version of environmental Armageddon,” Fiji’s Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama said, citing wildfires in the western US and noting that the Greenland ice chunk was larger than a number of island nations.This was meant to be the year “we took back our planet,” he said. Instead, the coronavirus has diverted resources and attention from what could have been the marquee issue at this UN gathering. Meanwhile, the UN global climate summit has been postponed to late 2021.That hasn’t stopped countries, from slowly sinking island nations to parched African ones, from speaking out.“In another 75 years, many ... members may no longer hold seats at the United Nations if the world continues on its present course,” the Alliance of Small Island States and the Least Developed Countries Group said.The main goal of the 2015 Paris climate accord is to limit the rise in global temperatures to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial times, but scientists say the world is on track to soar past that. A new study found that if the world warms another 0.9 degrees Celsius (1.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the West Antarctic ice sheet will reach a point of irreversible melting. It has enough water to raise global sea levels by 5 meters (16 feet).The Pacific island nation of Palau hasn’t had a single Covid-19 infection, but President Tommy E. Remengesau Jr. warns it’s the rising seas that will bring the country down.“The momentary drop in (carbon) emissions this year cannot be allowed to generate any complacency about global progress,” he said, referring to the sparkling skies that followed lockdowns to slow the spread of the virus around the world. Pollution has crept back up as restrictions ease.World powers cannot shirk their financial commitments to fighting climate change during the pandemic, Remengesau said, even as economies are battered.But few pledges have emerged at the UN gathering, aside from China’s announcement that it aims to have carbon dioxide emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.The pandemic has muted the UN meeting, with world leaders speaking not from the podium in New York but via video from home. That has sapped the urgency of diplomacy and left nations wondering just how many people are listening.Amid concerns that the world is distracted, it was perhaps no surprise that the student-led movement Fridays for Future returned to the streets this week for the first major demonstrations for climate action in months.Still, island nations have seized on the unusual circumstances to show off what’s at stake.The prime minister of Tuvalu, Kausea Natano, delivered his UN speech with a vista of turquoise waters and swaying fronds behind him that instantly fired the imaginations of house-bound viewers.But the prime minister quickly shattered any dreams. While Tuvalu is free of the coronavirus, the pandemic struck as the island nation was recovering from a pair of tropical cyclones — storms that scientists say are likely to become wetter as the planet warms.Tuvalu’s highest point is just a few meters (yards) above sea level. The pandemic’s effect on the movement of goods exposed food insecurity as local agriculture becomes more difficult with rising sea levels, Natano said.“While Covid-19 is our immediate crisis, climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and well-being of the Pacific and its peoples in the long run,” the prime minister said.From the Marshall Islands, also free of Covid-19, President David Kabua used the virus’s example to plead for more help now.“Change relies on protecting the most vulnerable, because those on the frontline – whether healthcare workers battling the pandemic or small island nations sounding the alarm on climate change – are critical to the survival of us all,” he said.“Small island and atoll nations like mine do not have time for paper promises,” Kabua added.Urgent pleas also came from Africa, which contributes least to global warming but stands to suffer from it the most.“In favoring solutions based on the respect for nature, we’re also preserving the health of our peoples,” said President Issoufou Mahamadou of Niger, part of the Sahel region south of the Sahara desert where temperature increases are expected to be 1.5 times higher than the world average.“Our global home that was teeming with millions of species of God-given creatures, both great and small, is slowly dying,” said Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, who last year noted that his country was the only one in Africa to reach the goal of making renewable energy 75% of its energy mix.He added: “Our world is yearning for us to stop its ruin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-coronavirus-doesn-t-kill-us-climate-change-will-leaders-to-un/story-yXWHJp7gcAWQr3VDTszhSI.html
27-09-2020||World||Late night protest in Portland, Oregon, declared unlawful||Law enforcement declared an unlawful assembly late Saturday, forcing protesters from downtown Portland, Oregon, and making several arrests, just hours after demonstrations earlier in the day ended without many reports of violence.Hundreds of people were gathered downtown in Oregon’s largest city when the unlawful assembly was announced just before midnight by the Multnomah County Sheriff’s Office.Images showed protesters crowded in and around a park near the Mark O. Hatfield United States Courthouse — the same courthouse that had been the scene of nightly unrest over the summer. A protester was seen burning an American flag.Earlier, protesters had shot fireworks at police. Video posted by KOIN-TV showed officers warn that protesters who hurl projectiles will be subject to arrest.Several arrests were made, according to reporters at the scene, but a specific number was not immediately available.The unrest came just hours after a right-wing rally and counterprotesters largely dispersed without serious violence. Although, police were investigating an assault after one person who was documenting the event was pushed to the ground and kicked in the face.Separately, police said a criminal citation was issued after officials confiscated firearms, paintball guns, baseball bats and shields from a pick-up truck that was initially stopped for having obscured license plates as it left the rally.Oregon State Police Superintendent Travis Hampton and Multnomah County Sheriff Mike Reese praised the minimal violence in a joint statement late Saturday.“Our Unified Command worked well to prevent violence before it started,” Hampton said in the statement. “Law enforcement officers performed a number of traffic stops and took weapons off the streets.”“On Saturday, Oregonians denounced hate, racism and violence,” Reese stated, adding that, “the Unified Command was able to help keep the peace.”Several hundred people, dozens of them wearing militarized body armor, gathered to support President Donald Trump and his “law and order” reelection campaign Saturday afternoon. The attendance was far fewer than the 10,000 organizers had expected after tensions boiled over nationwide following the decision not to charge officers in Louisville, Kentucky, for killing Breonna Taylor.Organized by the Proud Boys, a group that has been designated as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center, the rally was described as a free speech event to support Trump and police and condemn anti-fascists and “violent gangs of rioting felons” in the streets.Local and state elected officials condemned the event and rushed to shore up law enforcement ranks as left-wing groups organized several rallies to oppose the Proud Boys’ message. About 1,000 counter-protesters gathered at another park.The events began at noon and were largely dispersed by 3 p.m.The rally came as Portland has seen nearly nightly protests since the police killing of George Floyd in late May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/late-night-protest-in-portland-oregon-declared-unlawful/story-itDo6DgsL0ZJNK0yAnHiuK.html
27-09-2020||World||Amy Coney Barrett: All you need to know about Donald Trump’s recent nominee to US Supreme Court||US President Donald Trump nominated conservative Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court to fill in the vacancy created by the passing of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The 48-year-old judge is Trump’s third such nomination after Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh.“This is my third such nomination after Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh, and it is a very proud moment indeed,” Trump said in the Rose Garden. Barret, in response to her nomination, said that he had no illusions that the road ahead of her was easy, adding that she had never imagined to find herself in this position.  “I assure you that I will meet the challenge with both humility and courage,” she added.Here is all you need to know about the US President’s pick:• Judge Amy Coney Barrett has been on the 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals since 2017, also as a Donald Trump nominee. According to Trump, she is one of the US’ ”most brilliant and gifted legal minds”.• Her appointment in place of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg will give conservatives a 6-3 majority at the US Supreme Court and will provide a boost to Trump’s re-election effort. The majority on the Supreme Court is likely to last a long time and ensure an enduring legacy for Trump.• Barret, 48, will become the youngest justice on the court if confirmed. • She was instrumental in getting a ruling thrown out that blocked an Indiana law that would make it harder for a minor to have an abortion without her parents being notified, according to news agency Associated Press. The Supreme Court ordered a new look at the case after her intervention.• In a dissent in 2019, Barrett argued that a conviction for a nonviolent felony shouldn’t automatically disqualify someone from owning a gun. According to AP, Barrett wrote that “while both Wisconsin and the United States have an unquestionably strong interest in protecting the public from gun violence, they have failed to show, by either logic or data that disarming Kanter substantially advances that interest.”• In the same year, she wrote a unanimous three-judge panel decision making it easier for men alleged to have committed sexual assaults on campus to challenge the proceedings against them.• Barret’s ideological mentor was late conservative Justice Antonin Scalia. • She would be the sixth justice on the nine-member court to be appointed by a Republican president, and the third of Trump’s first term in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amy-coney-barrett-all-you-need-to-know-about-donald-trump-s-recent-nominee-to-us-supreme-court/story-6zOyV30YA3nsThGpfeol5K.html
27-09-2020||World||Armenia says it shot down 2 Azerbaijani copters in dispute||Fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan broke out Sunday around the separatist region of Nagorno-Karabakh and the Armenian Defense Ministry said two Azerbaijani helicopters were shot down. Ministry spokeswoman Shushan Stepanyan also said Armenian forces hit three Azerbaijani tanks. Nagorno-Karabakh is an ethnically Armenian enclave within Azerbaijan that has been out of Azerbaijan’s control since the end of a war in 1994. Both sides have heavy military presence along a demilitarized zone separating the region from the rest of Azerbaijan. Stepanyan said the fighting Sunday began with an Azerbaijani attack, but Azerbaijan said the Armenian side attacked and that Azerbaijan launched a counteroffensive. The news was harshly received in Turkey. Turkey’s ruling party spokesman Omer Celik tweeted: “We vehemently condemn Armenia’s attack on Azerbaijan. Armenia has once against committed a provocation, ignoring law.” He promised Turkey would stand by Azerbaijan and said, “Armenia is playing with fire and endangering regional peace.” Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin also took to Twitter, condemning Armenia. “Armenia has violated the ceasefire by attacking civilian settlements ... the international community must immediately say stop to this dangerous provocation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-says-it-shot-down-2-azerbaijani-copters-in-dispute/story-Wp8BsuXkcbe5fnMYuyyhYL.html
27-09-2020||World||Travellers from Dubai, UK contributed maximum Covid-19 importations into India: IIT study||Travellers from Dubai and the UK were primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India, according to an analytical study done by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi. According to the research, which has been published in the Journal of Travel Medicine, Covid-19 got induced into Indian states mainly due to international travels. The study has also found that infected cases from Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh played less role in spreading the disease outside their communities. Whereas infected people in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka played a significant role in the local transmission, and some of them caused interstate transfer too. “We tracked the spread of Covid-19 and its diffusion from the global to national level and identified a few super spreaders who played a central role in the transmission of the disease in India. The Covid-19 spread in phase one was traced using the travelling history of the patients, and it was found that most of the transmissions were local,” Sarita Azad, Assistant Professor, IIT Mandi, told PTI.“The research team has used the travel history of infected patients from January to April as the primary data source and a social network was created depicting the spread in the early phase of the pandemic. The research found that the maximum numbers of connections were established from Dubai (144) and the UK ( 64),” she added. Azad explained that statistical metrics calculated from the data revealed that Dubai and the UK played a crucial role in spreading the disease in Indian states and were the primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India. “Dubai’s eigenvector centrality was the highest that made it the most influential node. The statistical metrics calculated from the data revealed that Dubai and the UK played a crucial role in spreading the disease in Indian states and were the primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India.“Based on the modularity class, different clusters were shown to form across Indian states, which demonstrated the formation of a multi-layered social network structure. A significant increase in confirmed cases was reported in states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown, which spanned from March 25 to April 14,” she said.“The modularity class of states such as Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Andhra Pradesh was low. Hence, it is likely that infected cases from these states played less of a role in spreading the disease outside their communities. Whereas states like Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka played a significant role in the local transmission, and some of them caused interstate transfer too,” she added. Azad, who conducted the analytical study, along with her student Sushma Devi, said, “When a pandemic like Covid-19 subsides, a good research work serves as a record for the future. In this work, we have used real time data and demonstrated how the disease got diffused from the global to national level from January 30 to April 6. This will be an important contribution to understanding the disease transmission in India during the early phase of the pandemic.” India’s Covid-19 caseload neared 60 lakh with 88,600 fresh infections being reported on Sunday, while the number of people having recuperated from the disease crossed 49 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 82.46 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 59,92,532, while the death toll climbed to 94,503 with 1,124 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/travellers-from-dubai-uk-contributed-maximum-covid-19-importations-into-india-iit-study/story-wio7sB7LBrVuEXmsDdzzsM.html
27-09-2020||World||Nagorno-Karabakh announces martial law and total mobilisation in Azeri-Armenian conflict||Nagorno-Karabakh has introduced martial law and total mobilization of its male population after a flare-up in the Azeri-Armenian conflict, the region’s president Arayik Harutyunyan said in a statement on Sunday. Tensions have increased between Armenia and Azerbaijan over clashes in which Yerevan said Azeri forces shelled the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh and Baku accused Armenian forces of shelling Azeri military and civilian positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nagorno-karabakh-announces-martial-law-and-total-mobilisation-in-azeri-armenian-conflict/story-C5xR8NANLRQnNVxsK5J05I.html
27-09-2020||World||Canadian think-tank defends report linking Pakistan to Khalistani separatists||A Canadian think-tank that recently published an explosive report, which argued that the Khalistan separatist movement is a project of Pakistan, has said it stood by the author and his findings despite a sustained campaign against both. Pro-Khalistan elements in Canada have held protests against the report titled Khalistan: A Project of Pakistan,  written by veteran Canadian broadcaster Terry Milewski.  The MacDonald-Laurier Institute (MLI) was criticised in an open letter written by over 50 Sikh scholars, as well as by the World Sikh Organisation (WSO).“We reject attempts to bully the Institute or its authors into silence,” the Ottawa-based think tank said in a statement.The letter sent by the Sikh scholars had said, “We hope that you carefully consider our concerns and re-evaluate your decision to publish such vitriolic content under your institute’s name, particularly considering the lack of academic integrity and the gravity of the accusations being levelled against a highly visible, racialised community.” MLI said  it is simply false to argue that the report somehow criticises or marginalises the Sikh community or Sikh political activism.“The paper in no way maligns or criticises Sikhs or Sikhism as a community or religion. It instead criticises pro-Khalistani extremism, detailing how such extremism is catalysed by Pakistan, and rightly rejected by the vast majority of Sikhs.”The WSO, in a statement, had said that the report  released earlier this month was “poorly researched”, made “unfounded claims”, failed “to engage in a contextually based analysis”, made “no attempt to present a balanced analysis on the issue” and “uncritically” parroted “a narrative” that is “pushed by India with respect to Sikhs in Canada.” This argument was also countered by MLI, saying the “report does not suggest or insinuate what the letter signatories and other critics have come to conclude without evidence, nor have the actual claims made in the report been refuted.”  In the report, Milewski had connected the WSO to the separatist Khalistan movement, citing its Constitution. In an emailed response to the criticism, Milewski said,  “it does not dispute the whole thesis of the article. It does not dispute the Pakistani role in the Khalistan movement, and it does not dispute that support in India is very weak, or even that the movement is fulfilling Pakistan’s purpose in bleeding India without doing anything to create a Sikh state.“In that sense, it’s hard to see how I could ask for more. Still, I think the Khalistani reaction reveals a degree of desperation that I had not expected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-think-tank-defends-report-linking-pakistan-to-khalistani-separatists/story-omAMV1GvNZCGQyU3YMXhUJ.html
27-09-2020||World||Covid-19: China gives ‘unproven’ vaccine to thousands, makes them sign ‘secrecy’ agreement||China is injecting thousands of its people with Covid-19 vaccine shots, which are still under trial and hence their efficacy unproven, reports said. Those who are getting these vaccine shots are also made to sign a “nondisclosure agreement”, according to which they can’t talk about it to the news media.High-risk population, including staff of state-owned companies, government officials, vaccine company staff, teachers are being inoculated on an emergency basis. Global heath experts are raising questions whether their consent has are being taken or not. In its defence, China has said that the World Health Organization supported China’s experimental coronavirus vaccine programme, which started in July. China informed WHO in June, Zheng Zhongwei, a National Health Commission official, told Reuters.WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has said countries can approve use of medical products within their own jurisdiction in the current emergency situation but only as a “temporary solution”. China currently has 11 vaccines in clinical trials and four in Phrase 3 trials.Among these. two are developed by state-backed China National Biotec Group and one by Sinovac Biotech. Another experimental vaccine was developed by CanSino Biologics, which was approved to be used in the Chinese military in June.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-china-gives-unproven-vaccine-to-thousands-makes-them-sign-secrecy-agreement/story-EGVrUHfHymb0ER0VwHW16O.html
27-09-2020||World||Donald Trump picks Amy Coney Barrett to fill vacancy at US Supreme Court||US President Donald Trump on Saturday nominated Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court to fill the vacancy left by the passing of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, setting up a bitter political fight over her confirmation.Trump announced his nomination at a White House event, calling Barrett “one of our nation’s most brilliant and gifted legal minds”.Barrett is 48 and will be the youngest justice on the court if confirmed. She has been a judge on the seventh circuit court of appeals since 2017, also as a Trump nominee.Barrett’s confirmation, which is likely to go through, will give conservatives a 6-3 majority on the Supreme Court that will last a long time and will ensure President Trump an enduring legacy. Barrett will be the third justice he would have sent to the top court, tilting the ideological balance of the bench.Though Democrats do not have the numbers to stop the confirmation, they will put up a fight that will play out in the final weeks leading up to the presidential election.Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for president, called for the US senate to not act on Trump’s nomination until “after the American people select their next president and the next Congress”. Biden also pointed to Barrett’s opposition to the Affordable Care Act, the Obama-era health insurance plan that Trump and Republicans have been trying to overturn. Barrett’s judicial philosophy was molded by her mentor late Justice Antonin Scalia as she acknowledged in her speech accepting the nomination: “A judge must apply the law as written. Judges are not policymakers, and they must be resolute in setting aside any policy views they might hold.”Barrett, who is a devout catholic and mother of seven children, including two adopted from Haiti, is considered to be anti-abortion, pro-gun and, as Biden pointed out, anti-Obamacare. Critics also say she is anti-immigrant and has supported President Trump’s wealth test for immigrants.Republicans control the senate with a 53-47 majority are expected to fast-track the confirmation. Democrats cannot stop it unless they can peel away four Republican senators, and that appears unlikely. But they can use the confirmation hearing to score points, making it a bruising affair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-picks-amy-coney-barrett-to-fill-vacancy-at-us-supreme-court/story-g0TLCPP0kDrnUsCZpmnuRJ.html
27-09-2020||World||Early Covid-19 treatments could be ‘bridge’ to vaccine, says Anthony Fauci||Monoclonal antibodies that stop the coronavirus from spreading in the body are among promising strategies for averting severe illness from Covid-19 before vaccines arrive, said Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.Antibody-based medications, other blood products from recovered patients and antivirals are being investigated as early treatments, Fauci said. The aim is to prevent patients from developing the serious lung damage for which Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir and the anti-inflammatory drug dexamethasone are administered.“We are focusing very heavily now on treatment of early infection and, or prevention of infection,” Fauci told the Journal of the American Medical Association in an interview Friday. “And that’s the bridge to the vaccine.”Immunization against SARS-CoV-2 could begin in the US in November or December, Fauci said, though it will probably take until at least the third quarter of 2021 for enough Americans to have been protected against the pandemic virus to significantly diminish its threat. Fauci said 100 million doses of vaccine may be produced by December, with all six companies supplying the US slated to have made 700 million doses by next April.With no vaccines yet proven to prevent Covid-19, health authorities must continue to push for new treatments and measures to stop the coronavirus from spreading, said Robert “Chip” Schooley, a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Diego, who is studying more potent versions of an existing antiviral.“Optimally, we’d have an oral antiviral drug you can give to more people earlier in the course of the illness,” Schooley said. Vaccines might not be 100% effective, “which is better than nothing, but we’re still going to have to rely on drugs and behavioral modifications for a long time to come.”Blockbuster studies published by the journal Science on Thursday showed about 14% of critical Covid-19 patients have impaired levels of a substance called interferon that helps orchestrate the body’s defense against viral pathogens.The finding opens up new strategies for identifying high-risk patients and treating them with interferon infusions or, in some cases, removing interferon-blocking antibodies from their blood in a procedure called plasmapheresis.Interferon, which is already being studied in dozens of clinical trials, might improve the effectiveness of antiviral drugs if they are administered early in an infection, according to Stanley Perlman, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, who has studied coronaviruses for 38 years.Infusions of coronavirus-neutralizing antibodies may also reduce the amount of virus in patients early in an infection, preventing an immune overreaction that’s behind most life-threatening cases, said Thomas File, an infectious diseases physician in Akron, Ohio, and president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.Monoclonal antibodies, a product made by cloning an antibody captured from the blood of a patient who recovered from Covid-19, could also be given to high-risk patients in nursing homes as a preventative treatment, Fauci said. Ely Lilly & Co.’s experimental antibody LY-CoV555 showed some hopeful signs in a trial among out-patients, the company said on Sept. 16.“We have some cautious optimism that monoclonal antibodies may be an important therapeutic for early disease,” Fauci said Sept. 10 in an online briefing for Massachusetts General Hospital staff. “We need something to keep people out of the hospital.”‘Tricky Medicine’Dexamethasone and similar steroid medications might cause harm if given too early in the course of a Covid-19 illness, said Shane Crotty, a professor in the Center for Infectious Disease and Vaccine Research at La Jolla Institute for Immunology in California.“Steroids have definitely proven to be valuable in very sick people, but it is tricky medicine,” Crotty said in an interview. The medication inhibits a part of the immune system from going “haywire” and causing damaging inflammation, as well as the part of the immune system generating antibodies to counter the infection.The problem highlights the need for treatments to fight the virus while supporting the immune system, and regimens that can be mixed and matched depending on the body’s success in fighting the infection, said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota.“This is part of the dance with this virus,” Osterholm said. “You’re trying to take the best of the host and enhance it, and take the worst of the host and suppress it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/early-covid-19-treatments-could-be-bridge-to-vaccine-says-anthony-fauci/story-RW1pDRR1UVEaOlhCbmc5UP.html
27-09-2020||World||Donald Trump campaign sues to block mail-in ballot rule changes||President Donald Trump’s campaign committee and the Republican National Committee sued Saturday to block North Carolina election officials from enforcing rule changes that could boost the number of ballots counted in the presidential battleground state.The Republicans’ lawsuit claims a new system adopted by the State Board of Elections will allow for absentee ballots to be cast late and without proper witness verification, “which invites fraud, coercion, theft, and otherwise illegitimate voting.”The elections board on Tuesday issued new guidance allowing mail-in absentee ballots with deficient information to be fixed without forcing the voter to fill out a new blank ballot for November’s general election.The change means absentee voters who don’t provide complete information on their envelope about a witness who saw them fill out the ballot won’t have to complete a new ballot and locate another witness. A voter will just have to turn in an affidavit confirming they filled out the original ballot.North Carolina is one of eight states with witness and or notary public requirements for absentee ballots, according to the Brennan Center for Justice. North Carolina General Assembly leaders announced late Saturday they had also filed a similar lawsuit in federal court against board members. They asked a judge to block enforcement of the board’s absentee ballot alterations, which they contend would wrest away from the legislature its constitutional job to set the rules for federal elections.The national Republicans’ federal lawsuit claims the state elections board made a partisan “backroom deal” that undermines state lawmakers’ “carefully-considered, balanced structure of election laws.” The suit claims the board’s guidance usurps a law that says a ballot may only be accepted if it has a witness signature on it.“While touted as allowing greater access to voters during the current pandemic — an objective already addressed in recent months by the General Assembly — the actual effect is to undermine protections that help ensure the upcoming election will be not only safe and accessible but secure, fair, and credible,” the suit says.The lawsuit filed by the Trump campaign and the RNC also accuses the board of trying to override state law in saying that ballots postmarked on or before Election Day can be counted if they are received within nine days of the election instead of the three days prescribed by law.The state elections board and its chairman, Damon Circosta, are among the defendants named in the lawsuit. The plaintiffs also include two Republican congressmen from North Carolina, US Reps. Greg Murphy and Dan Bishop.Circosta and a board spokesperson didn’t immediately respond Saturday evening to text messages seeking a response to the lawsuits.North Carolina and other states expect a major surge in absentee voting for the Nov. 3 election amid the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 1 million voters in North Carolina already had requested an absentee ballot as of Sept. 24 and that nearly 240,00 completed ballots had already been returned, the lawsuit says.The state elections board’s new guidance to county boards means residents won’t be forced to start over from scratch in casting votes if a witness fails to sign or provide an address on the envelope containing their absentee ballot. The guidance means that the ballot now won’t be considered “spoiled,” and the voter will be sent an affidavit to sign to rectify the problem.Issues with deficient witness information on mail-in ballots have disproportionately affected Black voters. Ballots cast by African Americans account for about 43 percent of those classified as having incomplete witness information, according to state elections data earlier in the week. Yet Black residents account for 16 percent of overall ballots returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-campaign-sues-to-block-mail-in-ballot-rule-changes/story-vVHqNjxQFofFpzXQlumysI.html
27-09-2020||World||‘It is clear Belarus leader Alexander Lukashenko has to go’: France president Emmanuel Macron||French President Emmanuel Macron said Belarus’s leader Alexander Lukashenko has to step down, in comments to a French weekly published on Sunday.“It’s clear he has to go,” he told the Journal du Dimanche, speaking days after the European Union refused to recognise Lukashenko as the country’s legitimate president.“It is a crisis of power, an authoritarian power that cannot accept the logic of democracy and which is hanging on by force. It is clear that Lukashenko has to go,” he said.Tens of thousands of people have taken to the streets in Belarus since August 9 elections which opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya says she won, despite Lukashenko’s insistence he took a landslide victory.The embattled leader has launched a brutal crackdown against the protesters -- drawing condemnation from the West, but support from Moscow.He recently triggered new demonstrations and fresh Western criticism after holding a secret inauguration for himself.Macron on Sunday said he had been “impressed by the courage of the protesters” in Belarus.“They know the risks they are taking by demonstrating every weekend, and yet, they are pushing forward with the movement to make democracy come alive in this country that has been deprived of it for so long,” he said.“Women in particular, who march every Saturday, command our respect,” he added.More than 90 people -- most of them women -- were arrested on Saturday at opposition rallies, one NGO said.The EU on Thursday said Lukashenko’s inauguration lacked “democratic legitimacy” and refused to recognise him as president.Brussels is reviewing its relations with the country, the bloc’s diplomatic chief has said.EU ministers decided in principle last month to impose sanctions against the regime, but Cyprus has been blocking approval until the bloc agrees similar measures against Turkey over gas exploration in the eastern Mediterranean.On Friday, EU Baltic states Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia expanded their own sanctions against Belarus.The issue will be debated during an EU summit on October 1-2 in Brussels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-is-clear-belarus-leader-alexander-lukashenko-has-to-go-france-president-emmanuel-macron/story-F4T04y5QSRInBx6fW8hw6N.html
27-09-2020||World||Judge rejects bid to delay TikTok US app store ban set for Sunday||A judge in Pennsylvania on Saturday rejected a request by three TikTok content creators who asked her to temporarily block a government ban on Apple Inc and Alphabet Inc Google app stores offering the short-video sharing app for download set to take effect on Sunday.The content creators argued they would “lose access to tens of thousands of potential viewers and creators every month, an effect amplified by the looming threat to close TikTok altogether.”US District Judge Wendy Beetlestone wrote that the ban is “undoubtedly an inconvenience” but said in denying the request “they will still be able to create, publish, and share content for their millions of current followers.”A separate legal challenge from TikTok and Chinese owner ByteDance to the Commerce Department order is still pending. A 9:30 a.m. hearing on Sunday is set on the issue before US District Judge Carl Nichols in Washington. ByteDance said on Sept. 20 it had made a preliminary deal for Walmart Inc and Oracle Corp to take stakes in the short video sharing app’s US operations, but the exact terms remain unclear.The Commerce Department gave the companies an additional week to finalize a deal before an order banning TikTok from US app stores takes effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-rejects-bid-to-delay-tiktok-us-app-store-ban-set-for-sunday/story-XhnqUZztiuVhSNF8lCTASP.html
27-09-2020||World||North Korea warns of naval tensions during search for slain South Korean||North Korea said it would hand over the body a South Korean man killed by its troops if it is found during a search operation, but warned South Korea from sending any warships into the North’s territorial waters, state media reported on Sunday.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un issued a rare apology on Friday after South Korea’s military said that the North’s soldiers had killed the man, doused his body in fuel and set it on fire near the sea border.In its report on Sunday, the KCNA state news agency called it an “awful case which should not have happened” but warned that South Korean naval operations near the site of the incident threatened to escalate tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-warns-of-naval-tensions-during-search-for-slain-south-korean/story-JISufkMXHAfSOMUS5ZzOZJ.html
27-09-2020||World||Passenger bus catches fire in Pakistan, 13 killed||At least 13 people have been charred to death after a passenger bus they were travelling in caught fire and overturned in Pakistan, officials said. The over-speeding bus, on its way to Karachi from Hyderabad, skidded off the road and burst into flames on Saturday, police and rescue officials said. At least 13 people have lost their lives in the accident near Nooriabad area, they said. “They were 22 passengers in the bus when it overturned and caught fire… many of them were trapped inside and got burnt. Others who escaped or have been rescued also suffered injuries,” additional IG Motorway Police Dr Aftab Pathan told the media. Five of the survivors were in a critical condition, he said, adding that officials were trying to retrieve the bodies from the wreckage of the bus. “The accident took place after the bus travelled some 60 kilometres from Hyderabad and the vehicle has been totally destroyed in the accident,” the officer said. Edhi ambulances from Karachi and Edhi Home rushed to the spot along with fire tenders to extinguish the blaze. Earlier this year, six members of a family, including four children, were charred to death while five others injured when a fire broke out in a moving van in New Karachi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/passenger-bus-catches-fire-in-pakistan-13-killed/story-o2cOdn2e6kPnAsQJo1u9HK.html
27-09-2020||World||Joe Biden compares Donald Trump to Goebbels, saying he’s promoting a ‘lie’||Democratic nominee Joe Biden compared Donald Trump to Joseph Goebbels, saying the president was repeating a “lie” in the same way the Nazi propagandist did in the 1930s and ‘40s.“He’s sort of like Goebbels. You say the lie long enough, keep repeating it, repeating it, repeating it, it becomes common knowledge,” Biden said in an interview on MSNBC that aired Saturday.Biden was responding to a question about how he would confront repeated false accusations from Trump that he’s a socialist.The comment came hours before Trump announced conservative judge Amy Comey Barrett as his pick to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court, and three days before Biden and the president are scheduled to meet for their first debate.Adolf Hitler and Goebbels, his minister of propaganda, espoused a technique known as the “Big Lie,” which involved repeating a colossal falsehood until the public came to believe it was true. Hitler coined the term in his 1925 book “Mein Kampf.”“If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it,” Goebbels is often reported to have said, although the source of the comment is unclear.Biden had compared Trump to Goebbels once before, when he called for the president’s impeachment in October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-compares-trump-to-goebbels-saying-he-s-promoting-a-lie/story-NaMhkaDxrRp05wqAw1OOQO.html
27-09-2020||World||Joe Biden urges US Senate not to confirm Supreme Court nominee before election||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Saturday called on the US Senate to refrain from confirming President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee until after the November 3 election.“The Senate should not act on this vacancy until after the American people select their next president and the next Congress,” Biden said, just moments after Trump announced his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to replace the late liberal justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump predicted that Barrett, a staunch conservative, will get a “very quick” confirmation in the Republican-controlled senate.Barrett is “a jurist with a written track record of disagreeing with the Court’s decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act,” the healthcare plan known as Obamacare that was adopted when Biden was vice president, the Democrat said in a statement.Trump has been trying to end Obamacare “for four years,” Biden said, but twice the Supreme Court “upheld the law as constitutional.“But even now, in the midst of a global health pandemic, the Trump Administration is asking the US Supreme Court to overturn the entire law, including its protections for people with pre-existing conditions,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-urges-us-senate-not-to-confirm-supreme-court-nominee-before-election/story-zdKAyU32GJZwN82ehZRhTN.html
27-09-2020||World||A look at Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s notable opinions, votes||Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President Donald Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court, has been on the 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals since 2017. Her short tenure as a judge has led to few noteworthy or controversial opinions. She has, however, signed onto several decisions that are sure to be questioned in a possible confirmation fight. Here are summaries of some of her notable opinions:Abortion Barrett has twice joined dissenting opinions asking for decisions blocking laws enacted by abortion opponents to be thrown out and reheard by the full appeals court.Last year, after a three-judge panel blocked an Indiana law that would make it harder for a minor to have an abortion without her parents being notified, Barrett voted to have the case reheard by the full court.In July, the Supreme Court in July threw out the panel’s ruling and ordered a new look at the case.Also read: Donald Trump picks conservative Amy Coney Barrett for Supreme CourtIn 2018, a three-judge panel ruled that Indiana laws requiring that funerals be held for fetal remains after an abortion or miscarriage and banning abortions because of the sex, race or developmental disability of a fetus were unconstitutional.Barrett was among four judges who wanted the full court to weigh in and suggested that the laws, signed by then-Gov. Mike Pence, might be constitutional.Supreme Court abortion decisions “hold that, until a fetus is viable, a woman is entitled to decide whether to bear a child. But there is a difference between ‘I don’t want a child’ and ‘I want a child, but only a male’ or ‘I want only children whose genes predict success in life,’” Judge Frank Easterbrook wrote for the dissenting judges.Barrett also joined the part of the opinion on the fetal remains law. “Many states have laws that prescribe how animals’ remains must be handled,” Judge Frank Easterbrook wrote for the dissenters. “The panel has held invalid a statute that would be sustained had it concerned the remains of cats or gerbils.”Last year, the Supreme Court reinstated the fetal remains law, but not the ban on abortions for race, sex and developmental disabilities.GunsIn a dissent in the 2019 gun-rights case of Kanter v. Barr, Barrett argued that a conviction for a nonviolent felony — in this case, mail fraud — shouldn’t automatically disqualify someone from owning a gun.The two judges in the majority agreed with Trump administration arguments that the defendant, Rickey Kanter, could not own a gun under federal or Wisconsin law because of his criminal conviction.Barrett used most of her 37-page dissent to lay out the history of gun rules for convicted criminals in the 18th and 19th centuries, consistent with her embrace of interpreting laws and the Constitution according to the meaning they had when they were adopted.Barrett wrote that “while both Wisconsin and the United States have an unquestionably strong interest in protecting the public from gun violence, they have failed to show, by either logic or data that disarming Kanter substantially advances that interest.”She said that her colleagues were treating the Second Amendment as a “second-class right, subject to an entirely different body of rules than the other Bill of Rights guarantees.” Barrett quoted from a 2010 opinion by Justice Samuel Alito that extended gun rights, but the phrase also has been used more recently by Justice Clarence Thomas and other conservatives to complain that the Supreme Court has shied away from recognizing gun rights.Campus sexual assault Barrett wrote a unanimous three-judge panel decision in 2019 making it easier for men alleged to have committed sexual assaults on campus to challenge the proceedings against them.The case involved allegations by a female student at Purdue University that her boyfriend had sexually assaulted her. The students were identified in court documents as John and Jane Doe.John Doe sued in federal court claiming sex discrimination after Purdue suspended him for a year and took away his Navy ROTC scholarship. Barrett concluded Purdue’s process was unfair and allowed his lawsuit to continue.“The case against him boiled down to a ‘he said/she said’ — Purdue had to decide whether to believe John or Jane,” Barrett wrote.The judge criticized the university official who ended up siding with the female student. “Her basis for believing Jane is perplexing, given that she never talked to Jane. Indeed, Jane did not even submit a statement in her own words,” Barrett wrote.Immigration Barrett was in dissent in June when her two colleagues on a 7th circuit panel put on hold, just in Chicago, the Trump administration policy that could jeopardize permanent resident status for immigrants who use food stamps, Medicaid and housing vouchers.Under the new policy, immigration officials can deny green cards to legal immigrants over their use of public benefits.She wrote that existing immigration law and Clinton-era welfare reform had already limited public assistance to noncitizens. The administration was just using leeway those laws had given it, Barrett wrote. The objections of immigrants and their advocates “reflect disagreement with this policy choice and even the statutory exclusion itself. Litigation is not the vehicle for resolving policy disputes,” she wrote.Access to a lawyer Barrett dissented in the case of a Wisconsin man who admitted that he fatally shot his wife seven times but argued that he had been provoked, making his crime second-degree homicide instead of first-degree homicide, which carries a higher penalty.A federal judge reviewed the provoking claim in a pretrial hearing without prosecutors present and without allowing the lawyer of defendant Scott Schmidt to speak. The judge rejected Schmidt’s claim of provocation, and he was convicted of first-degree homicide and sentenced to life in prison. However, a 7th Circuit panel overturned that decision, saying that Schmidt had been denied his Sixth Amendment right to counsel.Barrett, in her dissent, disagreed that the pretrial hearing where the judge questioned Schmidt about his provocation claim was a situation that required Schmidt’s lawyer and said the Supreme Court has never extended the right to counsel outside an adversarial proceeding.The Supreme Court’s “’critical stage’ precedent deals exclusively with adversarial confrontations between the defendant and an agent of the state,” she said.She added: “Perhaps the right to counsel should extend to a hearing like the one the judge conducted in Schmidt’s case. But (federal law) precludes us from disturbing a state court’s judgment on the ground that a state court decided an open question differently than we would — or, for that matter, differently than we think the (Supreme) Court would.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-look-at-judge-amy-coney-barrett-s-notable-opinions-votes/story-rXLVg46QoPRa4ebjPUfWPJ.html
27-09-2020||World||Donald Trump picks conservative Amy Coney Barrett for Supreme Court||President Donald Trump nominated Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court on Saturday, capping a dramatic reshaping of the federal judiciary that will resonate for a generation and that he hopes will provide a needed boost to his reelection effort.Republican senators are already lining up for a swift confirmation of Barrett ahead of the November 3 election, as they aim to lock in conservative gains in the federal judiciary before a potential transition of power. Trump, meanwhile, is hoping the nomination will serve to galvanize his supporters as he looks to fend off Democrat Joe Biden.Trump hailed Barrett as “a woman of remarkable intellect and character,” saying he had studied her record closely before making the pick.“I looked and I studied, and you are very eminently qualified,” he said as Barrett stood next to him in the Rose Garden.An ideological heir to the late conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, Barrett would fill the seat vacated after the Sept. 18 death of liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsberg, in what would be the sharpest ideological swing since Clarence Thomas replaced Justice Thurgood Marshall nearly three decades ago. She would be the sixth justice on the nine-member court to be appointed by a Republican president, and the third of Trump’s first term in office.For Trump, whose 2016 victory hinged in large part on reluctant support from conservative and white evangelicals on the promise of filling Scalia’s seat with a conservative, the latest nomination in some ways brings his first term full circle. Even before Ginsburg’s death, Trump was running on having confirmed in excess of 200 federal judges, fulfilling a generational aim of conservative legal activists.“This is my third such nomination after Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh, and it is a very proud moment indeed,” Trump said in the Rose Garden. He encouraged Democrats to take up her nomination swiftly and to “refrain from personal and partisan attacks.” The set design, with large American flags hung between the Rose Garden colonnades, appeared to be modeled on the way the White House was decorated when President Bill Clinton named Ginsburg as his nominee in 1993.The announcement came before Ginsburg was buried beside her husband next week at Arlington National Cemetery. On Friday, she was the first woman to lie in state at the Capitol, and mourners flocked to the Supreme Court for two days before that to pay respects.Barrett said she was “truly humbled” by the nomination, adding that she would be “mindful of who came before me.” She praised Ginsburg upon accepting the nomination, saying, “She has won the admiration of women across the country and indeed all across the world.” Within hours of Ginsburg’s death, Trump made clear he would nominate a woman for the seat, and later volunteered he was considering five candidates. But Barrett was the early favorite, and the only one to meet with Trump.Barrett has been a judge since 2017, when Trump nominated her to the Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. But as a longtime University of Notre Dame law professor, she had already established herself as a reliable conservative in the mold of Scalia, for whom she clerked in the late 1990s.She would be the only justice on the current court not to have received her law degree from an Ivy League school. The eight current justices all attended either Harvard or Yale.The staunch conservative had become known to Trump in large part after her bitter 2017 appeals court confirmation included allegations that Democrats were attacking her Catholic faith. The president also interviewed her in 2018 for the vacancy created by the retirement of Justice Anthony Kennedy, but Trump ultimately chose Brett Kavanaugh.Trump and his political allies are itching for another fight over Barrett’s faith, seeing it as a political windfall that would backfire on Democrats. Catholic voters in Pennsylvania, in particular, are viewed as a pivotal demographic in the swing state that Biden, also Catholic, is trying to recapture.While Democrats appear powerless to stop Barrett’s confirmation in the GOP-controlled Senate, they are seeking to use the process to weaken Trump’s reelection chances.Barrett’s nomination could become a reckoning over abortion, an issue that has divided many Americans so bitterly for almost half a century. The idea of overturning or gutting Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that legalized abortion, has animated activists in both parties for decades. Now, with the seemingly decisive shift in the court’s ideological makeup, Democrats hope their voters will turn out in droves because of their frustration with the Barrett pick.Trump has also increasingly embraced the high court — which he will have had an outsized hand in reshaping -– as an insurance policy in a close election.Increases in mail, absentee and early voting brought about by the coronavirus pandemic have already led to a flurry of election litigation, and both Trump and Biden have assembled armies of lawyers to continue the fight once vote-counting begins. Trump has been open about tying his push to name a third justice to the court to a potentially drawn-out court fight to determine who will be sworn in on Jan. 20, 2021.“I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” Trump said Wednesday of the election, adding, “And I think it’s very important that we have nine justices.” (AP) CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-picks-conservative-amy-coney-barrett-for-supreme-court/story-PTozx2hZYcPMjB1qPoJCSL.html
27-09-2020||World||Thousands flout Covid-19 curbs for anti-lockdown rally in London||Protesters clashed with police as officers tried to disperse crowds for failing to socially distance during an anti-lockdown rally in London on Saturday. The Metropolitan Police said 16 people were arrested and nine of its officers were injured during the clashes, which saw protesters hurling bottles and water. Two of the injured police officers have been hospitalised with head injuries.Thousands of anti-lockdown demonstrators had gathered at Trafalgar Square and later moved to Hyde Park in central London for a so-called “We Do Not Consent” rally to protest against restrictions, including the current “rule of six” which limits numbers allowed to gather as part of curbs to control the spread of coronavirus.The Metropolitan Police had issued a statement to warn that it would be stepping up patrols in line with the planned demonstrations, even as it reminded the public that such gatherings could be in breach of regulations designed to protect people from coronavirus. It is illegal for people to gather in groups of more than six, unless they are exempt. While protest is one of those exemptions, organisers must submit a risk assessment and must comply with social distancing.“As the crowds began to swell in Trafalgar Square, it became impossible for people maintain social distancing and keep each other safe,” said Commander Ade Adelekan, who is leading the Met Police operation on Saturday.“This lack of action voided the risk assessment submitted by event organisers the night before. Therefore, today’s demonstration was no longer exempt from the coronavirus regulations. In the interest of public safety, officers then worked quickly to disperse crowds,” he said. Earlier, he had said that his officers will use the approach of engaging, explaining and encouraging people to follow the regulations. “However, if people fail to comply, and continue to put themselves at risk, officers will take enforcement action,” he said. “I know there is great frustration to these regulations, but they have been designed to keep everyone safe from what is a lethal virus. By flagrantly gathering in large numbers and ignoring social distancing, you are putting your health and the health of your loved ones at risk,” he added. A number of highly trained public order officers as well as mounted officers were among the visible police presence throughout central London, in order to respond “swiftly” to breaches of the coronavirus regulations and scenes of violence, the Met Police said. Meanwhile, protesters could be seen holding placards reading: “When tyranny becomes law, resistance becomes duty”, “Unmask the Truth” and “No More Lies, No More Masks, No More Lockdown”, while also chanting “take off the mask”. Last weekend, a similar anti-lockdown protest also turned violent, resulting in 32 arrests. “I am very frustrated to see that nine officers were injured during clashes with a small minority of protestors. This is especially saddening in light of the injuries sustained by officers last weekend. We will be supporting those officers who were injured and I wish them a very speedy recovery,” added Commander Adekelan. Saturday’s rally comes as London Mayor Sadiq Khan called for tougher curbs for the UK capital, which is now on the government’s Covid-19 watchlist. All its boroughs are now part of 92 areas of concern around the UK, where the death toll from the deadly virus is edging towards 42,000 with infection rates continuing on an upward trajectory. Large parts of Britain are already under stricter localised lockdowns, with more than a quarter of the population facing curbs as further rules come in force this weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-flout-covid-19-curbs-for-anti-lockdown-london-rally/story-hefwaiCl2k44CxdzgqmNTN.html
27-09-2020||World||Pakistan PM Imran Khan says opposition parties trying to create rift between government and army||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said that opposition parties wanted to create a rift between his administration and the armed forces. Talking to journalists in Islamabad on Friday, he said that he was aware of meetings that opposition politicians had held with the country’s military leadership.PM Khan said the Pakistan Army continued to support democracy and listen to his administration. “The opposition is not happy to see the unprecedented harmony between the government and the army and they want to create a rift between the civil-military leadership,” he said. “The army does 100% what I ask it. The army honoured my decision on different important issues, like returning Indian Air Force fighter pilot Abhinandan Varthaman to India, opening of the Kartarpur Corridor for Sikh pilgrims, policies on Afghanistan and India, and so on.” Talking about the Gilgit-Baltistan assembly elections in November, Khan claimed that India wanted to create unrest in Gilgit-Baltistan. Without giving any proof, he said his government and the Pakistan military were aware of India’s growing interest in Gilgit-Baltistan.The Pakistan PM also accused India of fomenting sectarian trouble in the country, but didn’t provide any evidence to back his claim. “They want to create a sectarian crisis in Pakistan,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-imran-khan-says-opposition-parties-trying-to-create-rift-between-government-and-army/story-EQ2Zika44payY6UCvnU9SJ.html
