01-05-2021||---||Chemistry prof takes lecture in bus, booked||Jalandhar, April 30Prof MP Singh, who runs a renowned coaching centre in the city and teaches chemistry to the Class XI and XII students, was today booked by the city police after he organised a coaching class for around 10 students in a bus near Jalandhar bus stand.Prof Singh organised a doubt-clearing session for his students in the presence of the media as he said these students had been repeatedly calling him for doubt-clearing sessions of certain topics but he felt that the students were facing a setback academically by not attending regular classes. So, he decided to run classes for them in a bus for the next few days.The chemistry teacher asked why were the coaching centres asked to suspend offline classes while the buses had been allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity. He said he found a way out to teach his students in buses in an offline mode. “This way, I will be able to achieve my purpose as the children will have a better understanding of concepts. Also, since we will be legally correct in doing this, we will also not be defying any government orders,” he said.But hours after his videos went viral, the professor was booked by the city police. Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said, “The professor had committed violations under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act and hence we have lodged an FIR against him at New Baradari Police Station. It was wrong on his part to call students and provide coaching, be it in a bus. We also checked videos and found that the professor was not wearing his mask properly, which again is a violation.”Meanwhile, students who had come on the call of the professor maintained that they felt that they were able to understand concepts better through offline teaching rather than using gadgets from home. Some of them also complained that their internet services were not working properly.Prof MP Singh had been in news a few days back as well when he sold vegetables in a cart, trying to mock the government for making teachers like him lose their bread and butter. “What else can we do to feed our families? I believe selling vegetables is a more profitable business these days,” he said, while posting his video on Facebook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chemistry-prof-takes-lecture-in-bus-booked-246638
01-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Kin abandon Covid patients in hospitals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 30While on one hand, visuals of people crying for their relatives are going viral in the country, the city has been witnessing a worrisome resurgence in the number of Covid positive patients being abandoned by their kin at hospitals.A few days ago, a man dropped his mother with low saturation level at a local government hospital and went away only to be found some time later by doctors and the staff. On being asked why he abandoned his ailing mother in the hospital, he said he was highly ‘frustrated’ and thus wanted to run away from this misery. A doctor reminisces this incident while putting light on the gravity of the situation these days.“This is another face of the pandemic, where one gets to know that there is hardly any humanity left in people. The virus has exposed the real side of people,” the health workers said. While many of them are going all-out to save their loved ones by seeking help on the social media, there are some people who have been running away from their responsibilities.A Block Extension Educator (BEE), who cremates patients dying of Covid said several such incidents have been coming to the fore off-late. “We were to cremate a man who died of Covid. We kept on waiting for his daughter to come to carry out the last rites. But to our surprise, she came after making us wait for her for so long and didn’t even step out of her car,” he said.The BEE added that these days, people who are not related even related to the patients are more forthcoming to help them in the hour of need. “Such cases and incidents have made us wonder whether the humanity is completely lost. He also said he, along with other health officials, hgave no qualms about helping the victims as they have protected themselves with PPE kits.Senior Medical Officer from Shahkot, Dr AS Duggal said it was true that such strange incidents have come to fore where people don’t care about the patients they come with and then leave without telling anyone. “We have to face such challenges, in such circumstances, it becomes difficult for us to handle the situation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kin-abandon-covid-patients-in-hospitals-246639
01-05-2021||---||18-plus drive deferred, Jalandhar district flags acute shortage of vaccine||Jalandhar, April 30The vaccination drive for those above 18 years has been deferred in the state as there has been an acute shortage of the Covid vaccine in the district. The district is left with merely 6,000 doses of the Covid vaccine.While a little over 8,000 people were administered vaccines in the district today, only 3,000 more vaccines came to the district leading to an acute shortage.Notably, while 10,000 doses were left on Thursday, of these 8,000 doses were administered today. Left with 3,000 remaining after yesterday’s drive and 3,000 more received today – the district doesn’t even have enough vaccines to meet its average per-day inflow of vaccine beneficiaries.District Immunisation officer, Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have 6,000 to 6,500 vaccines remaining with us. The vaccination for over 18 persons have been deferred but a steady flow of those over 45 have been coming in to get vaccinated. We will make do until tomorrow but beyond that we will need more vaccines. An average of 10,000 beneficiaries are getting vaccinated across our Covid centres each day.”Rationing of Remdesivir, oxygen still onMeanwhile, the rationing and disbursal of both Remdesivir and oxygen goes on in the district as both the commodities are still short in the market. The district administration today supplied 485 Remdesivir vaccines to various private hospitals based on their need. The district drug department has been giving meagre Remdesivir supplies to various private hospitals based on stocks being received.There have been occasions – including today – when merely four to five injections have been disbursed to some of the hospitals. Amidst acute shortage many hospitals have also repeatedly been complaining of delayed supply and preference of other hospitals.DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “Remdesivir injections have been disbursed across over 40 hospitals today. The injections are being disbursed as soon as we receive stocks as per demand to the hospitals which require them.” Meanwhile, 1,884 oxygen cylinders are also continuing to be rationed across 60 private hospitals and the civil and military hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-plus-drive-deferred-jalandhar-district-flags-acute-shortage-of-vaccine-246640
01-05-2021||---||Violations: Owners of IELTS centre, theme park booked||Jalandhar, April 30The city police on Friday took action against all those violating the restrictions imposed by the state government in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases.The owner of an IELTS centre was booked for allegedly running coaching classes. Classes were reportedly being held with the doors locked from outside to give an impression that the centre was not working.However, after a complaint was lodged with the police that the centre, having its building near the bus stand, was calling students for offline classes, the nearby bus stand police post raided the centre and got it immediately vacated.Manvir Singh, owner of the centre, was booked under Section 188 of the IPC and under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. While schools and colleges had been shut since March 20, the state government had earlier this month ordered the closure of all coaching centres too.In another incident, the owner of Wonderland theme park, Nakodar Road, was allegedly booked for violating the norms imposed keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19. As per the norms, all clubs, gyms, pools and stadium had been ordered to remain closed on April 19.Today, as the news pertaining to the functioning of a swimming pool in Wonderland went viral, Kashmir Singh, SHO, Lambra police station, reached the site and took action. Since the owner of the theme park was not present, he was booked for violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, but could not be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/violations-owners-of-ielts-centre-theme-park-booked-246641
01-05-2021||---||Devotional song composed for parkash purb of Guru Teg Bahadur||Kapurthala, April 30On the occasion of the 400th Parkash Purb of Hind-Di-Chaddar Guru Teg Bahadur, senior faculty of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University composed and sang a spiritually devotional song.The senior faculty of Electronics Department Prof Avtar Singh Buttar initiated this job out of his educational teaching track. In this devotional song, Prof Buttar depicted the importance of the Guru’s life and martyrdom. The lyrics and the background music of this religious song dedicated to Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib were also performed by Prof Buttar.The song was released by Vice-Chancellor of the university Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma during a special but limited function at the university. Before the release of the song, a prayer (ardaas) was also offered. On this occasion, Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma said the university was planning a number of programmes in the series of 400th Parkash Purb including seminars, workshops on the Guru’s life and message, kavi darbar and releasing books.He spoke about the life of the Guru and congratulated Prof Buttar on this initiative. VC Dr Sharma said that such religious songs are a source of inspiration for our new generation for religious, spiritual and communal unity.It is worth to mention that in this religious devotional song, important topics related to the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur such as the discovery of the ninth guru by Makhan Shah Lubana at Baba Bakala, Guru Simran, Aurangzeb’s religious intolerance and Kashmiri Pandits’ appeal to Guru Sahib, Guru Sahib’s martyrdom are also penned by Prof Buttar. The Sikh martyrdom tradition includes details up to the Khalsa Sajna after the martyrdom of Guru Sahib are also a part of the song.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/devotional-song-composed-for-parkash-purb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-246642
01-05-2021||Nawanshahr||Man booked for raping woman||Man (40) rapes his70-yr-old motherKapurthala: In a brutal incident, a 40-year-old man reportedly raped his 70-year-old mother at their place in a village of Bholath area. The police have nabbed the alleged rapist and booked him under Section 376 of the IPC. SHO Bholath Jasbir Singh said he had received a complaint from the victim. “She told us that she has two sons. While the younger one works in a factory in Jalandhar, the elder one, who is a divorcee, sits idle. He entered my room and assaulted me sexually,” said the SHO. The medical examination of the victim was done at the Civil Hospital. TNSASHA workers disappointedJalandhar: ASHA workers have approached the Deputy Commissioner and the District Programme Officer to give them Rs 200 per vaccination. They said they have been entrusted with several tasks, but they don’t get their dues. Last week, ASHA workers had again raised their demands, but to no avail. “When it comes to us nobody bothers,” rued a worker. TNSNo smartphones for studentsJalandhar: Government schoolteachers have been facing problem in teaching students online as there are no or limited smartphones with students in villages. Kulwinder Singh, a teacher in Lohian block, said, “Nothing can be done in this situation, but, our only concern is that students are losing interest in studies,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-raping-woman-246643
01-05-2021||---||Plaint against Jalandhar-based private hospital: Inquiry rules out any discrepancy||Jalandhar, April 30An inquiry deputed by the Civil Surgeon against a Jalandhar-based private hospital on the complaint of a city activist, has given a clean chit to the hospital and its doctors named in the complaint. Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh had marked an inquiry into the matter, which has absolved the hospital of any wrongdoing or discrepancy.Notably, activist Sanjay Sehgal had marked a complaint to the Deputy Commissioner, Civil Surgeon and Police Commissioner - seeking action against doctors of a private hospital for alleged negligent treatment of his father. In his letter to the officials, he alleged that his father was admitted to the private hospital on April 7. He alleged, “The next day, the doctor advised that the patient had to be immediately given Remdesivir injection (6 vaccine course) which is available at a cost of Rs 5,400 each. I requested the doctor to arrange Remdesivir injection from my source. The nursing staff on duty told me that the injection will be injected late at night to your patient. As told by the doctor, my father’s condition was critical or serious why was injection not given to him immediately. Why did the doctor ask me that Remdesivir injection will be given late night?”He further alleged, “The hospital and its doctors have not given proper treatment to my father so he went into critical condition on level-III ICU.” The Civil Surgeon Jalandhar formed a team comprising Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Jyoti Sharma, SMO Dr Parminder Kaur and Drug Inspector Amarjit Singh.Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said, “None of the charges made has been proven in the investigation. The inquiry did not find anything amiss on the part of the hospital.”Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Jyoti Sharma said, “The Remdesivir records at the hospital show it was bought on an MRP of Rs 5,400 which was the printed price then. The hospital has also shared records of the patients to whom Remdesivir was administered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plaint-against-jalandhar-based-private-hospital-inquiry-rules-out-any-discrepancy-246644
01-05-2021||---||Nawanshahr sees 10 deaths, 174 new cases in last 3 days||Jalandhar, April 30The district witnessed 174 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 10 deaths in the last three days. The recovery rate in the district is 91 per cent while the death rate is 2.76 per cent.At present, there are a total of 569 cases and there are four containment zones where rapid samplings are being done so that the chain could be broken. The number of positive cases stands at 8,775 in the district.Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur said samplings had been increased in the district. On a daily basis, 1,600 samples are being taken. Along with RT-PCR, rapid antigen test (RAT) had also been increased. Vaccination had also been increased in the district.“Both Covaxin and Covishield are beneficial. We are doing well in the vaccination process and soon the number of people getting the jab will touch the 1 lakh mark,” he said, adding that Covid-19 was here and people should follow the guidelines. “We must not be scared of the virus rather we should fight it,” he said.People are still not following the norms. The Covid-19 tests of 592 people moving without masks were conducted by health teams. Even now, police teams are making announcements in villages asking people to wear masks and save themselves from contracting the virus.The distribution of food kits to needy patients, who are in home isolation at Jadla village in the district, was also started. The food kits would contain 10-kg atta, 2-kg chana and 2-kg sugar. Senior Medical Officer Dr Geetanjali Singh said as many as 28 food kits were distributed to various houses.7 die, 544 test positive in JalThe district on Friday recorded 544 new cases of Covid-19 pushing the tally to 42,917. Of these, 47 belong to other districts. Besides, seven persons succumbed in the district, taking the toll to 1,082. At present, the district has 4,305 active cases and 37,484 people have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 82 persons tested positive. The district tally reached 12,349 cases. Three deaths were officially reported in the district. The deceased were identified as a 65-year-old woman and a 63-year-old woman.5 succumb in HoshiarpurThe district reported five more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 727 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 214 fresh cases taking the tally to 18,898.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,869 and 17,822 patients had recovered from the virus. Of the 214 positive cases, 14 were reported from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining from other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-sees-10-deaths-174-new-cases-in-last-3-days-246647
01-05-2021||---||Mohinder Ram elected Phillaur MC president||Phillaur, April 30Councillors Mohinder Ram and Vaibhav Sharma were elected as the president and vice-president of the Phillaur Municipal Council respectively, under the leadership of former Punjab Youth Congress President and Phillaur Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary here on Friday.The election was held during the first meeting of the newly-elected members of the house and the proceedings were conducted by SDM Dr Vineet Kumar. The Congress party had won 11 seats out of total 15 in the local bodies elections held in February, but all the members unanimously supported and voted for the nominees proposed by Vikramjit Chaudhary.The Phillaur Assembly in-charge congratulated the councillor from Ward No. 14 Mohinder Ram and that from Ward No. 8 Vaibhav Sharma on getting elected unopposed. He said people of the city had high expectations as they reposed their faith in Congress again during the civic elections, adding that he hoped that both Mohinder Ram and Vaibhav Sharma would work hard to fulfill the promises made to the people.Phillaur Market Committee Chairman Makhan Singh Khaira, Goraya Market Committee Chairman Dara Singh Rai, Goraya Municipal Council President Kamaldeep Singh Bittu, Phillaur City Congress President Balak Ram, Goraya City Congress Vice President Sanjay Atwal, former Phillaur Municipal Council President Narinder Goyal, EO Vijay Kumar Dogra, Pardeep Dosanjh, Dr Rakesh Sharma, Sarabjeet Singh, Taljeet Singh and Amarjeet Singh were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mohinder-ram-elected-phillaur-mc-president-246651
01-05-2021||Ashok Kaura||Phagwara civic body elections postponed||Phagwara, April 30The surge in the Covid-19 cases have badly affected daily life of a common man and now the proposed elections of the Phagwara Municipal Corporation scheduled to be held before May 31 have been postponed.A notification in this regard has been issued by Ajay Kumar Sinha, Principal Secretary, Local Bodies Government, which clearly mentions that elections of the Phagwara Municipal Corporation and byelections of civic bodies in Taran Taran, Dera Baba Nanak,Sangrur, Sanaur, Rampura Phool, Sardulgarh, Nadala and Lehra Mohabbat would now be held before June 30.When contacted, Phagwara ADC-cum-MC Commissioner Rajeev Verma confirmed the development and said copies of the notification have been received by the authorities concerned.Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal has been on an inauguration spree of various development works in the city. His opponents, including Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation chairman and former minister Joginder Singh Maan and former mayor Arun Khosla has demanding postponement of civic body elections in the wake of the pandemic.Dhaliwal alongwith the ADC and SDO Pardeep Chattani today inaugurated an eco-desilter machine. Dhaliwal said four such desilter machines have been provided to the Phagwara MC.Politicians were leaving no stone unturned to cash any small or big issue without maintaining social distancing in the city.Meanwhile, social and religious gatherings were being organised whithout following the health guidelines.Phagwara Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Bahia recently stopped numerous such congregations.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said nobody would be allowed to violate restriction orders. In order to tackle the pandemic, complete ban on all political, social and religious gatherings is the need of the hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-civic-body-elections-postponed-246652
01-05-2021||Jalandhar||Online fevicryl workshop organised||Labour Day observedPaying a well deserved tribute to “the work and the worker” on the eve of Labour Day, Mayor World School organised virtual activities for the students. Learning the value of money in a fun way, the budding Mayorites of Grade I and II showcased their crafting skills by making their own piggy banks. The zoom sessions of Classes III to V were filled with gusto as the students prepared ‘Thank You’ cards enfolding a beautiful note extending gratitude to their helpers for relentlessly working round the clock performing assigned duties with sincerity. In the brain teasing activity ‘Jobs on the Cob’ conducted for Classes VI to VIII, the students were instructed to make an English Alphabet chart and write as many job titles as they could think of against each letter. The young minds listed different fields of work ranging from astronaut to zoologist.World Heritage Quiz contestState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised an online Inter-House World Heritage Quiz Competition on the eve of World Heritage Day. All the four houses enthusiastically participated in the competition imbibed with positive and progressive approach. The competition was tough as each participant was well prepared for the same. Sahibzada Zorawar Singh House bagged the first position. President Dr Narotam Singh along with principal Savina Bahl appreciated the efforts done by the students and encouraged them to give their best performance in future.Session on Intellectual PropertyA team of the Institute’s Innovation Council of HMV College organised an interactive session to mark the World Intellectual Property Day with the support of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen and under the coordination of Dr Anjana Bhatia, In charge of the council. The session was organised in collaboration with Punjab State Council of Science and Technology and Dr Jatinder Arora, Executive Director, PSCST presided the session as the chief guest. The keynote speaker was Divya Kaushik, scientist, Patent Information Centre, PSCST. The worthy guests were cordially welcomed by Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Dean, Academics and HoD, Commerce. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen highlighted the role and importance of IP in the educational institutions. Dr Jatinder Arora apprised the students with the current status of Intellectual property awareness in the country through statistical figures and evidences.Training for placement driveThe department of computer science and engineering of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, Jalandhar organised one week Capsule programme in association with training and placement department on ‘Aptitude Skills’. The 30-hour programme prepared students for placements and encapsulated rigorous aptitude preparation, mock interviews by industry partners, and employability enhancement tests. The resource person of the programme was Anshul Wadhwa, Co-Founder, Aptiguide. Anshul is an IIT pass-out and professional aptitude trainer. He gave tips and tricks of attempting aptitude tests and effective communication skills required during the interviews. Around 130 students from various dept. such as CSE, ECE, ME and CA registered and attended the capsule programme.Nrityanjali competitionThe students of PG department of dance of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, participated in Dance Competition ‘Nrityanjali’ organised by Kristu Jayanti College, Bengaluru, on the occasion of International Dance Day. After qualifying the preliminary round successfully, the students presented their performances for the second round and won cash prizes and made their college proud. Mayuri Muskaan and Asmita Gupta bagged the first prize in Duet Classical Kathak. Aditi Mittal bagged the second prize in Solo Kathak. Hiten bagged the first prize in Duet Eastern and another first prize in Duet Folk. Palak bagged first prize of in Retro Duet. Palak and Hiten bagged first and second prize in Eastern Solo.E-Poster Contest on Water ConservationHoshiarpur: Water Conservation Club and Social Awareness Club of the DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online E-Poster Making Competition on “Water Conservation” under the guidance of Dr Naresh Kumar and Poonam Mehta. The motive of this contest was to spread the awareness regarding the scarcity of water among trainee teachers. Dr Harvinder Kaur and Dr Monika were the judges of the event. Harpreet Hani got the first prize, Gurleen Kaur got the second prize while Priya and Simrandeep Attri jointly bagged the third prizes and Priya, Harsimran and Pooja Rani got the appreciation prizes. TNS/oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-fevicryl-workshop-organised-246653
01-05-2021||A selfless tiffin initiative ‘Guru Ki Rasoi’ has been started in Nawanshahr for the needy. District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa recently started the rasoi for the destitute||‘Guru Ki Rasoi’ started for the needy in Nawanshahr||Smart school at KarimpurThe foundation stone of one of the rooms of Government Middle School at Karimpur village in Nawanshahr district was laid by the oldest woman of the village, Bibi Mohinder Kaur. The school has been gaining accolades from everyone for its great infrastructure and performances of the school students. On this occasion, school in-charge Monika Sharma said school teachers had been making efforts to enhance the enrolment by visiting door-to-door. The efforts are getting a positive response. The school is providing smart classroom facilities, smart library, E-content, online education and many other facilities to the students. Many students have been admitted from the private schools. Sharma proudly said seven students had brought laurels to the school, as they excelled in various competitions organised under the aegis of the English Booster Club.Curfew violators bookedCases under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 of the IPC, Epidemic Disease Act 1897, and Disaster Management Act 2005 have been registered against a man in Banga, Nawanshahr, for opening liquor vend after 5 pm even when evening curfew has been imposed. Several cases have been registered against several people for not following curfew rules in Nawanshahr.(Contributed by Aakanksha Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-ki-rasoi-started-for-the-needy-in-nawanshahr-246656
