02-05-2021||---||8 fall prey to virus, 567 positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 1The health authorities reported 567 positive cases in Jalandhar on Saturday. With this, the tally reached 43,484 cases in the district.The authorities reported eight deaths in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,090. At present, the district has 4,451 active cases and 37,933 people recovered.In Kapurthala, 129 persons tested positive today. The district tally reached 12,478 cases. Four Covid-19 related deaths were reported in the district.The ceceased include a 45-year-old man from Kapurthala, 77-year-old man from Fattowal, 65-year-old woman from Mundi village and a 65-year-old man from Palahi.6 die, 221 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district recorded six more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 733 on Saturday. Besides, the district also witnessed 221 fresh cases taking the tally to 19,113.Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,933 and 17,973 patients had recovered from the virus.Of today’s 221 positive cases, 20 patients were from Hoshiarpur city while six were reported from other districts and the remaining ones were from other health blocks of the district. Five patients of the district died in Hoshiarpur hospitals while one person died at a hospital in Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-fall-prey-to-virus-567-positive-in-jalandhar-district-247112
02-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Good Samaritans feeding those in home isolation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 1The country has been badly hit by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Lives have been disrupted in ways many could not even have imagined. However, in these challenging times, good Samaritans are coming forward to help those in distress. And one of many ways they are doing so is by providing free food to those in home isolation. Kunwar Sartaj Singh, a resident of Urban Estate Phase-1, has come up with the initiative of providing free meals to Covid-19 infected residents.“It’s been three days since we are reaching out to Covid patients in the district, who are in isolation and couldn’t have access to cooked meals. Before actively delivering the meals at the doorstep of Covid victims, we started reaching out to locals through our social media pages and circulated our contact details. So far, we have delivered food to nearly 60-70 patients. We are receiving positive response from people,” said Sartaj.A few months after the outbreak last year, Kunwar along with his friends started their NGO ‘EduYouth Foundation’ to lend a helping hand to the underprivileged children by providing them stationery and books. Afterwards, as a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, they made a group of volunteers to help farmers in the ongoing farmers’ protest“The meals are being sought majorly by families where women members are also sick and are recovering from the virus. Those who are living away from their families and are alone in the self-isolation period also ring up for meals. We ourselves deliver food at their doorstep. As we have hired a dhaba to prepare and pack food, it takes us 30-45 minutes to reach at the patient’s house. In addition, to follow social distancing, either a non-infected member of the family comes at the door to pick up the food packets or it is kept in a container to avoid any contact with the infected person,” said Gurkirat Singh, another member of the NGO.Due to his job and wife’s illness, Kamaljit wasn’t able to afford cooked meals, however, after knowing about the NGO, his problem was resolved and he managed to provide two-square meals to his family of four. Working as a delivery boy, Kamaljit appreciated the NGO for its compassionate efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritans-feeding-those-in-home-isolation-247113
02-05-2021||---||Jalandhar administration fixes ambulance charges for Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 1Two days after The Tribune highlighted the issue related to overcharging by private ambulance operators, the district administration has swung into action and capped ambulance charges for the Covid-19 patients.Taking cognisance of the report, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday fixed rates of private ambulances in the district.From now onwards, Rs 1,200 have been fixed for the first 15 km and an additional Rs 12 per km for additional distance in BLS ambulance up to 2,000 cc with basic life support.Similarly, for an ambulance above 2,000 cc, a minimum of Rs 1,500 for the first 15 km and an additional Rs 15 per km for extra distance. An ambulance equipped with advanced cardiac life-support, fare has been fixed at Rs 2,000 for the first 15 km and Rs 20 per km for additional travel.In addition, if an ambulance drops a Covid-19 patient within the city up to 10 km, Rs 1,000 would be charged followed by Rs 600 and Rs 800 up to 10 km for ambulances below and above 2,000 cc, respectively.Thori said, the administration has also issued another set of instructions for ambulances, including availability of masks, gloves and PPE kits for attendants at customers’ expense.Hospitals have been allowed to charge Rs 1,500 in case of sending paramedics in ventilator enabled ambulances. He said ambulances would not claim additional charges for oxygen gas and plant owners have been directed to fill oxygen cylinders in ambulances on a priority basis and at controlled prices.Stern action would be taken against those who charge more than the fixed rates from patients and case would be registred under the Epidemic Act, said the DC.Helpline numbers (0181-2224417, 5073123) have been issued to complain against overcharging by ambulance operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-fixes-ambulance-charges-for-covid-patients-247114
02-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Frequent changes in lockdown norms confuse Jalandhar residents, officials||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 1Regular changes in the lockdown norms and their untimely release has often confused residents. Not just locals, but even the administrative officials remain puzzled regarding the orders, which keep on varying from day to day.While previous orders on the lockdown were prevalent till April 30, no fresh detailed orders regarding those to be implemented from May 1 were released publicly till today evening, thus leaving everyone in a quandary over certain issues.Cops from Division Number 6 police station today visited a few construction sites at Model Town and detained around four persons including contractors and owners for getting the construction work done during the weekend lockdown. They were made to sit at police station for more than two hours where they kept on pleading that they had received the Deputy Commissioner’s orders on WhatsApp, which mentioned that construction related work was permissible during the lockdown.Amarjit Singh of Model Town, who was detained by the police, said he told the SHO, Surjit Singh, that during the last year’s lockdown, construction work was not allowed, but this time the government had not imposed any such restriction. “Cops refused to budge saying that it was a weekend lockdown and no such work can be allowed. The SHO did not let any of us go back,” said Amarjit.Gurnek Singh, who was getting his house constructed in Model Town, said he even managed to get fresh orders of May 1 from the administration and showed it to the SHO where it had been mentioned that construction work was allowed. “I made the SHO talk to a senior PCD official for clarity,” said Gurnek and adding that he had to give a surety to get his builder released.The SHO said, “Since construction is not allowed, we made builders, contractors and owners sit and make them understand that they cannot continue their work during the lockdown. I had sought clarification from the SDM before taking action. We have not booked anyone, but just warned them.”Asked why surety bonds were made to be filled by their acquaintances before setting them free, he said, “I am busy in a meeting.”Fresh orders issuedWhile point number 4 in the orders issued on April 27 to be implemented till April 30 listed construction work in the list of exempted activities. On Saturday, again as fresh orders were issued in the evening, the same point has been mentioned as point no 5.No marriages on weekendEven today, a number of families who had fixed marriages for the weekend had to do last minute cancellation as the Deputy Commissioner in a video released late evening said marriages will not be allowed on Saturday and Sunday. In a previous order which was valid till April 30, he had said only 20 persons would be allowed and marriage function would have to be concluded before 9 pm. Most people thought that the same orders would continue, but a video for clarification of orders issued by the DC at the last minute made many families postpone the events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/frequent-changes-in-lockdown-norms-confuse-jalandhar-residents-officials-247117
02-05-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar's private hospitals receive additional 388 oxygen cylinders||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-private-hospitals-receive-additional-388-oxygen-cylinders-247118
02-05-2021||Kapurthala||Vaccination in Kapurthala crosses 1 lakh mark||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-in-kapurthala-crosses-1-lakh-mark-247129
02-05-2021||Jalandhar||290 ventilators not being put to use: Manoranjan Kalia||Punjab Government is yet to recruit a trained staff or train the available staff which can put the said ventilators to use. It shows the callous and casual behavior of the Congress government which failed to prepare itself for the second wave of Covid. The capacity of the both government as well as private hospitals providing level-III care is bursting to its seams. There are many government hospitals in Punjab where the ventilators are either out of order or the trained staff which can put the ventilators to use is not available.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/290-ventilators-not-being-put-to-use-manoranjan-kalia-247133
02-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man held for raping teen||Firing: copies of HC verdict burntJalandhar: Holding a protest against the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s verdict on SIT report relating to Kotkapura firing incident, the members of Sri Guru Granth Satkar Committee and Sikh Action Committee burnt the copies of the court orders on Friday. The activists gathered outside the DC office and called the orders ‘political and flawed’. Gurinder Singh Jamsher, who led the protest, said the Sikh community was feeling betrayed for not getting justice on the issue. Representatives of the groups also levelled allegations against Punjab CM Amarinder Singh for not fulfilling his poll promise of ensuring action against all accused and providing justice to the families of the two youth who lost their lives. The members said the cancellation orders had been issued just when ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap was set to submit the 10th challan in the case. Others present included IS Bagga, Harwinder Singh, Parminder Singh, Paramjit Singh and Narinder Pal Singh. TNSDC condoles scribe’s deathJalandhar: Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar on Saturday condoled the sad demise of senior journaliat SK Vyas (78) who passed away at Tagore Hospital after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, and two sons. In a condolence message, the DC described late Vyas as an upright journalist committed to his profession. He said that he was a fine journalist and discharged his duties fearlessly in the time of pandemic. He also assured fulsome support to the family of Vyas in the future. TNSSAD leader’s son bookedHoshiarpur: The city police have booked Bablu Josh, son of former CPS and senior SAD leader Mohinder Kaur Josh, and two others for beating a medical store owner and his parents while they were sitting in their car parked outside their medical store on Railway Road. Ayush Aggarwal said on April 29 his father was sitting in their car parked outside their shop. In the meanwhile, Bablu Josh and two others came in an SUV and started abusing his father. When he tried to stop them, Bablu took out his revolver and threatened to kill him. All three started beating him and his father. Seeing this, his (Ayush’s) mother came out and the accused beat her too. The police have booked Bablu and two others under various sections of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-raping-teen-247139
