03-05-2021||---||Traders want VAT cases till December 31 to be taken under OTS||Jalandhar, May 2 One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for VAT dues was unveiled recently, and active Jalandhar traders were the reason behind the success as it was after scores of meetings and plethora of requests, that one-time settlement (OTS) scheme had come. Now that the government has extended the last date for filing of application for settlement of unpaid taxes till June 30, the traders said only the cases from 2013-2014 have been covered under the scheme, which is not justified. They have demanded that the cases till December 31, 2020 to be taken under the scheme.  Ravinder Dhir, convener of the Khel Udyog Sangh, who had been going to Chandigarh and holding meetings with the ministers to convince them to release notification of the policy also demanded increase in the slab of tax from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh so that it could benefit maximum number of traders and industrialists. “With this policy, the traders having tax demand of up to Rs 1 lakh will only have to pay 10 per cent of the tax demand and thus the policy is good for them. But those above it, i.e., those who have tax demand above Rs 1 lakh will just be relieved from paying interest penalty, but will have to pay full tax,” he said, adding, that there is a demand from the government that they increase the slab as above 90% of the traders will get relief. “It will definitely be beneficial for most of the traders, but those who have tax demand above Rs 1 lakh will not be benefited much,” he said. The traders had also thanked MLA Rajinder Beri who was the only one to always visit along with the traders and put pressure on the government to unveil the policy. Industry Minister Sham Sunder Arora had termed it as a ‘historic step’ to give much-needed relief to the industrialists. He said the scheme would benefit almost 10,000 small and medium scale businessmen of the Doaba region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-want-vat-cases-till-december-31-to-be-taken-under-ots-247556
03-05-2021||---||Kapurthala man held for selling oxygen, injections in black||Jalandhar, May 2The Kapurthala police arrested a 40-year-old man on Sunday who had been duping people by carrying out the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and vaccines. The man had also been duping the young in the name of promising them shooting and modeling contracts. Sachin Grover (40), originally a Kapurthala resident, but currently living at Shivaji Enclave, Delhi, was nabbed by the Kapurthala police in Kapurthala city. The police express apprehensions that he might be involved in even bigger crimes.The man had been promising cylinders to people across different states at Rs 10,000 per cylinder and injections of Covid related drugs for Rs 4,500 per injection. The police said he was promising people to provide the vaccines or cylinders via social media or WhatsApp, asking them to deposit money to his account. He was also promising modeling, shooting, make-up or costume assignments to many and asking them to deposit money in his account. The police said previously also, a case was registered against him under Section 420 of the IPC, he was also declared a PO at the Kapurthala city police station after which he fled to Delhi. The 40-year-old has been booked under Sections 420 of the IPC and Section 66 D of the Information and Technology Act.The police said the accused was using Jalandhar and Mohali-based music company’s functionary’s name to dupe many on the pretext of modeling and shoot assignments. The company’s functionary himself made a complaint to the police after the frauds came to light. Police sources expressed astonishment at the fraud the man has been able to get away with without even delivering the promised goods or services in return to those he duped.SHO Kapurthala Raghbir Singh said: “He had been asking people to pay Rs15,000 (10,500 for an O2 cylinder and Rs 4,500 for an injection). People even from Maharashtra, Lucknow and UP were in his loop. We don’t know how many there might be. In addition, he has also duped many in the name of promising modeling, shoot etc. assignments by using the name of the music company. He moved to Delhi after he was declared a PO here. He is currently in custody and will be presented in the court tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-man-held-for-selling-oxygen-injections-in-black-247557
03-05-2021||---||8 violate lockdown norms in Nawanshahr, booked||Nawanshahr, May 2 Even when the virus has surged and people are losing their lives, there exist careless ones who pose threat to everyone. On Sunday, eight cases were registered against the violators for not following the lockdown norms. The cases were registered in Pojewal, Balachaur, Mukandpur, Sadar Nawanshahr, Kathgarh, Behram and Nawanshahr city. The cases have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and the Disaster Management Act 2005.  In Pojewal, the police have registered a case against a shopkeeper who was selling grocery items during the lockdown. A case was registered under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. A similar case was also registered in Balachaur. In Mukandpur, a sweet shop owner was booked under the same sections. He failed to show permission to open his shop. In Kathgarh, a case was registered against unidentified persopns who gathered outside a factory to unfurl a flag during the lockdown. In Balachaur, a man carrying 12 bottles of liquor and commuting without any mask was confronted by the police and a case was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-violate-lockdown-norms-in-nawanshahr-booked-247558
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent||No dearth of oxygen, Remdesivir in state: Arora||Hoshiarpur, May 2Reiterating the state government’s commitment for best healthcare services to Covid positive patients, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, who visited the Civil Hospital on Sunday, said there was no dearth of oxygen, Remdesivir and other medicines.Arora said the Civil Hospital has a back up of 300 oxygen cylinders to tackle any sort of exigency.Besides oxygen, essential medicines and other healthcare facilities have been ensured so that no patient suffers.As many as 94 patients, including five level-II were undergoing treatment at Covid ward having a capacity of 100 beds, said the minister.Arora said apart from the Civil Hospital, special beds for Covid patients have been arranged in private hospitals, so that these could be utilised to tackle any untoward situation.He said the treatment and medicines were being provided free of cost to patients at the Covid ward. He also urged residents to strictly adhere to the health guidelines.Mayor Surinder Kumar and Dr Jaswinder Singh among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-dearth-of-oxygen-remdesivir-in-state-arora-247563
03-05-2021||---||Tough month: April sees 166 deaths, 13,361 cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 2In April alone, the health authorities reported 13,361 cases and 166 deaths in the district. While 30,123 cases were reported till April 1 since the pandemic began, the district tally reached 43,484 cases on May 1. Interestingly, as per government figures, lesser deaths were reported in April even amid the peak.A total of 195 deaths were witnessed in March, the health authorities reported 166 deaths in April.Till April 1, there were 924 deaths in the district, which reached 1090 by May 1.On May 1, 2020 – exactly this time the last year – the city had reported 105 Covid cases and four deaths. This year, Jalandhar has reported 44,209 cases till May 2, and the death toll increased to 1,098.Dr Kashmiri Lal, retired SMO, Jalandhar, said, “In the middle of second wave, there has been a phenomenal rise in positive cases. New restrictions imposed by the state government might go a long way in tackling pandemic if they are implemented strictly. However, a major rise in positive cases is expected in May. The health mechanism in Jalandhar needs to be prepared accordingly.”Record 725 cases, eight deaths reported in Jalandhar districtOn May 1, 2020, Jalandhar city had reported 100 Covid cases. It was the first city in the state to surpass 100 mark. With 725 positive cases reported on Sunday, the tally has reached 44,209. This is the highest single-day spike in the district so far.The health authorities reported eight Covid-19 deaths in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,098. At present, the district has 4,730 active cases and 38,381 persons have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 107 persons tested positive today and the district tally reached 12,585 cases. The authorities reported two death today. The deceased include a 49- year-old woman from Dhilwan, Kapurthala, and a 62-year- old-woman from Lakhan ke Padde village.7 die, 266 cases in HoshiarpurThe health authorities on Sunday reported seven deaths, thus pushing the death toll to 740. The district witnessed 266 fresh cases, with which the tally increased to 20,905.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 3,683 samples were received and out of them, 251 new cases were reported while 15 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,912 while 18,253 patients recovered.Hoshiarpur city reported 21 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks of the district. Of the seven deaths, five patients succumbed at hospitals in Hoshiarpur while two patients died at private hospitals in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tough-month-april-sees-166-deaths-13-361-cases-in-jalandhar-district-247565
03-05-2021||---||Cop ends life, 5 booked||Jalandhar, May 2A Head Constable posted at the Batallion Seven at the PAP Complex commited suicide by consuming poisonous substance on Friday. Before taking the extreme step, Shresth Gill, a native of Gurdaspur, blamed two women and three men of harassment in his suicide note.His wife Urwashi told the police that she was informed on April 30 that her husband has consumed poison. Following which, she rushed him to a nearby private hospital. During his treatment, Gill reportedly told his wife that advocate Dipika, Trilochan Sharma and three others were blackmailing him.Unfortunately, after trying their best to revive him, doctors could not save Gill and he breathed his last on Saturday.Cantonment police station SHO Ajaib Singh Aujla said based on the statement of the deceased’ wife and the suicide note recovered from his house, a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against advocate Dipika, Trilochan Sharma, Narinder, Sheetal and Indra Prakash. Gill is survived by his wife and two sons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cop-ends-life-5-booked-247566
03-05-2021||---||Remembering Sikh Guru’s supreme sacrifices||Jalandhar, May 2Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary visited Gurdwara Nauvi Patshahi Dukh Nivaran Sahib, Jalandhar, and paid obeisance to Guru Teg Bahadur on his 400th birth anniversary.MP Chaudhary said Guru Teg Bahadur was the epitome of human values and stood against oppression and tyranny. “We remember the ninth guru as ‘Hind di Chadar’, who made supreme sacrifice to protect humanity and Indians from tyranny of then rulers. His selflessness and compassion can never be forgotten by us,” he said.The Lok Sabha MP further stated that the martyrdom of the guru to protect freedom of conscience and belief is an inspiration all over the world, adding that he is an icon of resistance against atrocities and injustice.“Guru Teg Bahadur’s life was spent in the service of humanity and his martyrdom was for the preservation of faith. His Gurbani and philosophy serve as the guiding light for millions. In today’s time when we are dealing with a pandemic, it is important to remember his ideals and serve the people with compassion,” MP Chaudhary said.Webinar organised by KNCW, PhagwaraThe Post-Graduate Department of Hindi conducted a webinar on the birth anniversary of the Guru Teg Bahadur. The webinar was based on the topic ‘’Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji ki Bani ki Prasangikta’’ (the relevance of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji’’s bani). Dr Kulwinder Kaur, Head, Department of Hindi, Hindu Kanya College, was invited as the resource person. She was introduced and welcomed by the convener Dr Asha Sharma, head, Department of Hindi. Dr Savinder Pal, college Principal, extended a formal welcome to the resource person and focused on the propagation of Gurbani so that people can practise patience and perseverance in such tough times. Dr Kulwinder urged people to stay connected with Guru Sahib’s bani to find solace in the times of pandemic. She also called Guru Teg Bahadur as ‘the prime epitome of perseverance’.‘Follow guru’s teachings to promote scientific outlook’To mark the commemoration of the 400th Birth Anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar on ‘Teachings of the Guru: Science and Innovative thinking’ on Saturday. Around 150 students participated in the webinar. Harjinder Singh Cheema, managing director, Cheema Boilers Limited, was the speaker at this occasion. He said he was deeply influenced by the guru’s teachings of devotion, courage and integrity and that for society to develop, innovative thinking and entrepreneurial spirit was the need of the day. The youth needed to follow the high values put forth by our gurus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-sikh-gurus-supreme-sacrifices-247567
03-05-2021||Jalandhar||Deputy Commissioner calls for donations||Girl (18) hangs herself to deathJalandhar: An 18-year-old girl of Bast Sheikh reportedly hanged herself to death on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Shivani, a Class XII student. She was residing with her parents and two siblings. Her mother first spotted her and rushed her to the Tagore Hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Assistant Sub-Inspector Nirmal Singh said they have sent the body to conduct the post-mortem. The ASI said family members of the girl stated that she was depressed from the four days. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated by the police. TNSKMV students excel in examsJalandhar: The result of MSc Fashion Designing semester III was outstanding for the students of KMV. Kanika Sharma bagged the first position by securing 453/525 marks, Simarjeet Kaur stood second with 441/525 marks and Anjali bagged third position with 431/525 marks. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of PG Department of Fashion Designing on this remarkable success and appreciated them for their hard work. She expressed confidence that the students ably guided and mentored by the extremely qualified and dedicated faculty will continue their journey of success in the future as well. TNSExpert dwells on liver healthHoshiarpur: “Amidst Covid pandemic, there has been a steep rise in liver diseases. Covid patients can face hepatitis and in some rare sick patients, the virus can even lead to liver failure which requires timely management.” Dr Sumeet Kainth, a consultant of hepatologist and gastroenterologis, said due to pandemic related movement restrictions, there has also been a rise in cases of obesity which leads to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. He said: “The liver is the most important organ of our body and it is our lifestyle and the way we treat our body that affect the health of our liver”. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-commissioner-calls-for-donations-247569
03-05-2021||The issue of the alarming mass deaths of fish at the Kali Bein in Sultanpur Lodhi was taken up by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal at an NGT meeting. Amidst administrational apathy||Dead fish in Kali Bein||Village takes on coronaAmid a sombre Covid scenario everywhere, Kapurthala village Nangal Lubana has turned the tide of the Covid scenario. From 70% last year the village’s positivity rate is down to 1%. Those coming fore to get vaccinated include 90 to 95-year-old elderly women. As many as 1,213 persons above the age of 45 years were vaccinated at the Nangal Lubana village in Kapurthala – which comprises 90.2% of those over 45 years of age. The largest village in Begowal with a population of 5,234, the village has 1,334 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years, of whom 1,213 got vaccinated. Notably, the village saw a rough 2020 where in the first wave the village saw a 70% positivity rate. Of the 835 positive cases in Bholath subdivision, 83 were from Nangal Lubana – which was 10% of the sub division. Four people from the village also lost their lives to Covid. With regular testing and vaccination the positivity rate in the village has come down to 1 per cent. Presently, none of the village residents are in hospital or home isolation. Of those vaccinated at the village include 95-year-old Kartar Kaur and 91-year-old Kartar Kaur. Aparna Banerjee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dead-fish-in-kali-bein-247570
03-05-2021||DO YOU THINK THE GOVT WILL BE ABLE TO MEET THE VACCINE REQUIREMENT?||Vaccine equity a challenge to ensure immunisation for all||Teachers, workers should be prioritisedFirstly, persons with comorbidities should prefer above all for vaccination. Data should be collected for this group of people and for faster implementation diabetologists, cardiologists and physicians should be roped in. These patients should also be contacted if they have any doubts or hesitation regarding the vaccine. Secondly, people whose job professions are such that they come in contact with a lot of people or are in jobs that include public dealing such as school teachers, bankers, bus drivers/conductors, marketing officials, vegetable/wholesale vendors, workers, delivery persons and mechanics etc. should be preferred in this line. Also, there is a need to make people aware of the importance of getting the jab and remove their hesitation.Gagan AroraOverpopulation a big challengeIt may not be possible to get the jab for all since we already lack in the required resources and infrastructure, considering the size of our population. The government didn’t ready a plan before launching the drive at mass level to fight the pandemic. Leaders had been more concerned in winning elections than thinking about the safety of people amid the pandemic. In fact overpopulation is the root cause of all problems that we are facing such as poverty, poor living standards, deteriorating health system and so on. Age doesn’t determine a person’s health. It the mental and physical state of a person’s which matters and makes one strong enough to beat all odds and challenges thrown to him in life. People who are more engaged in sedentary activities and lifestyle are more prone to catch infections owing to reduced immunity due to less physical activity. Persons who are more vulnerable should be prioritised for getting the jab as they need it before the healthy ones.Lt Col GS BhullarVaccination drive will be a successVaccination is emerging out as the only way to win the war against the Covid pandemic. But, the recent emerging news of shortage of vaccine stocks with the states is a cause for concern. According to some news reports, though one may still contract the virus even after getting the jab, the disease would not be that severe and one would easily recover as the infection would be mild, which might not be the case otherwise. When the shot was being administered to a restricted group of people, a large number of people demanded that it should be offered to all age groups above 18 and now that the government has given its nod to the same, people should get them inoculated and help end the menace of Covid pandemic as soon as possible. To ensure that the drive goes on smoothly, even the US President had recently promised to provide the nation with the raw material to help ease shortage of vaccine stocks. Similarly many other nations have offered their help in curbing the raging pandemic in the nation and end the menace. The daily number of Covid-19 patients is increasing and the vaccination drive has also been accelerated, the main reason is to curb the menace of Covid-19. The rates of the vaccine should be the same and one throughout India without any discrimination. In order to cover more population, mobile centres should be set up, social organisations should be roped in, regular monitoring of the vaccinated persons and awareness drives among the beneficiaries are a must. In my opinion, the state will certainly be able to meet the requirement of vaccine and the vaccination drive will be a success.Rajat Kumar MohindruCentre, states must work in tandemThe pandemic has shaken the world all around. Social and economic order has been adversely paralysed. Obviously under the ongoing scenario, foremost priority is to save human lives for which all out efforts are being made. Recent resurgence of new cases and high number of fatalities is said to be fallout of this laxity. As the wave still goes unabated, the Centre has now decided to vaccinate everybody above 18 years with effect from May 1. The challenge is stupendous amid the present shortage of vaccine and big population. Obviously, in order to ensure adequate availability of medicinal vials to cater to the huge requirements, the government will have to extend all financial as well as infrastructural support to the indigenous manufactures to increase production besides importing the medicine from other countries. It is a matter of relief that the US after initial hiccups had consented to waive sanctions and provide us with raw material to manufacture vaccine. Currently, the situation demands both the Centre and states to work in tandem to lead the campaign.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathBiased Union Govt must act responsiblyThe Tribune has rightly raised the issue of vaccinating people above 18 years when the stocks are already in short supply, more so in Congress-ruled states. It is very unfortunate that the Centre is discriminating about vaccines even when the number of cases is rising at an alarming rate. The state government has been repeatedly flagging the shortage of vaccine stocks. Owing to this scenario, how will the drive commence in the state for a wider range of beneficiaries from May 1? Even oxygen supply is running short which is required in serious patients and causing record-high fatalities in the state. There is inequity in the supply of vaccine and oxygen in the nation. The Centre needs to act responsibly and manage the chaos that the raging pandemic is causing. It is monumental failure on the part of the Modi government that they could not anticipate the second wave of the pandemic when many countries in Europe and other countries were already facing it. Modi and Shah were busy in elections in five states rather than paying attention to the pandemic. The results are before us as the health system has nearly collapsed, people are gasping for oxygen and hospitals and doctors are helpless. It is shameful that many countries have banned flights from India. The Centre is duty bound to raise the number and amount of oxygen and vaccines to save young lives. In the second wave, more people between 30 to 40 years of age are losing battle to the virus. Irony of the situation is that the Union Health Minister blamed the Punjab Government and other Congress-ruled states, when the BJP-ruled states were a total failure in controlling the spread of Covid infections.Dr JS WadhwaActive participation of citizens requiredApropos sudden and recent spike in the Covid-19 cases has nevertheless espoused one of an untoward kind of crisis probably ever since the dawn of the 21st century. Vaccination programmes for one of the most vulnerable section of the society comprising of citizens from the age group of 18 to 45 years is no doubt a commendable step in the right direction with the government taking a giant leap in the so-called one of the largest vaccination programmes in the world. But, at the same time, it requires active participation of the citizens to make it a success. However, other factors that will determine the success of the drive include government agencies who are decisive partners in the entire process, the US providing vaccine raw material to ease stock shortage, menace of population outburst, constraints on supply of oxygen, black-marketing of Remdesivir injections besides, various other reasons. With the discovery of the third mutant of Covid variant in India recently, the situation must be tackled with a firm hand. It all together calls for an adoption of a benevolent ‘SMS’ (sanitation, mask and social distancing) plan advocated on a pan India basis with a realisation of the solemn belief that together we can and we will make a difference in combating the virus.Sameer BhatiaDifficult to meet growing demandAs the nation is caught in the throes of a more devastating second Covid wave, adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour and judicious and speedy pace of vaccinating maximum number of people to achieve herd immunity is the last resort to defeat the deadly pandemic. But, the country is facing an acute shortage of the life-saving vaccine. Perhaps capitalising on ex-PM Dr Manmohan Singh’s sane advice, the specific liberalised shift in Centre’s inoculation policy covering everyone over 18 years from May 1 onwards is a welcome measure. Though belated, the government has also sanctioned advance funds of Rs4,500 crore to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to scale up vaccine manufacturing capacity, and has sought raw material and healthcare assistance from the international community. But, differential pricing of indigenous vaccines for the Centre, states and private hospitals, mandatory registration on CoWIN portal and pre-booking of pharmaceutical firms till May 15 are some glitches that might create vaccine hesitancy, hamper the expensive new strategy and lead to brazen profiteering. Chronically reeling under severe economic crunch, Punjab may find it difficult to meet the growing demand for the requisite anti-Covid vaccines. In this hour of unprecedented health crisis, parties should not indulge in any blame game for political mileage. The incumbent central BJP dispensation should help the state financially and regulate the supply of essential medical facilities without any political prejudice and bias. The state government should re-adjust its priorities and even stretch its resources to speed up vaccine purchase. The general public should fully cooperate with the Punjab Government’s ongoing efforts to salvage the prevailing precarious situation.DS KangExpect chaos at vaccination centresVaccination for all above the age of 18 is a step in the right direction and the government must ensure effective implementation of the plan. Proper arrangements should be made for the public as there is a possibility that people in large numbers would flock vaccination centres to get inoculated at the earliest and cause chaos. It will be difficult for the authorities to manage the crowd if they don’t chalk out a plan for the same. No doubt that the government had issued guidelines that walk-in vaccination won’t be allowed and prior registration on CoWIN app is a must to get the shot. But, erratic supplies of doses will affect the drive.Shashi KiranEnsure enough doses for allAfter having successfully launched first and second phase of vaccination drive, the Centre decided to vaccinate all those falling under the category of 18-45 age group with effect from May 1. The decision is laudable and one hopes that it will run smoothly as some apprehensions regarding supply of vaccines and its pricing as expressed by some quarters needs to be addressed satisfactorily. Regarding availability of stocks, the Centre had assured the state government of sufficient supply as per schedule but the issue of its pricing is yet to be resolved. The Centre should come out with policy of uniform and reasonable rates across the country for achieving the inoculation targets in a shortest possible time without any delay. Presently, the nation is facing unprecedented medical emergency and the people are suffering immensely through losing their precious lives and livelihood on unimaginable scale. All persons of designated age groups must get themselves vaccinated without any delay and get the registration done in order to reduce the burden over government machinery fighting the deadly virus. All apprehensions and fears generated about the efficacy and side effects of vaccination have been cleared as no such serious case had been reported from any part of the country so far.Jagdish ChanderQUESTIONWith shortage of ICU beds in hospitals, Covid drugs and oxygen, how can the administration deal with the increasing coronavirus cases in the district? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 6).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-equity-a-challenge-to-ensure-immunisation-for-all-247571
03-05-2021||---||‘Make defence hospitals dedicated Covid facilities’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 2Considering the spiraling Covid cases in the district, president of District Youth Congress (urban), Angad Dutta has appealed to the Centre and the district administration to make beds available for civilians too.Amid the crisis, opening doors of the defence forces hospitals for the civilians would not only help immediate treatment of Covid patients, but would also save them from paying exorbitant bills at private hospitals.“As per the reports, at present, there are a total of 270 level-II oxygen beds and 16 level-III ICU beds in the Military Hospital and 50 level-II oxygen beds at the BSF Hospital. Owing to the resurgence of daily cases due to the second wave of the virus, hospitals are already overburdened and non-availability of medical colleges in the city has made it an uphill task for the administration. Hence, the defence hospitals will help reduce heavy load of patients and locals can avail the treatment at the prices set by the government,” said Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-defence-hospitals-dedicated-covid-facilities-247575
