04-05-2021||---||Consumer panel asks immigration firm to refund Rs 9.14L, pay Rs10K fine||Jalandhar, May 3 The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in its recent order directed Avalon Immigration Private Ltd, a private immigration agency, to pay Rs 9,13,800 to a Hoshiarpur-based couple for duping them on the pretext of sending them to Canada. The complainant, Shakti Kumar and his wife Rajvir Kaur, both residents of Rampur Bilron village in Hoshiarpur said that the regional and Chandigarh-based officials of the immigration firm had done fraud with them. The officials of the company approached the complainants, who were interested to go abroad at their resident and convinced them that they have relations in the Canadian embassy and could help them to obtain visa sponsorship and PR for Canada. For which they would be charging Rs 19,20,000 to be paid in four instalments of Rs 4,80,000 each. The company officials also asked the complainants to pay the first instalment at their Chandigarh-based office, while signing the agreement and second instalment would paid at the time of arrival of settlement and third instalment would be paid on the arrival of the nomination and fourth instalment would be paid at time of medical by the High Commission of Canada. Following which, the complainant paid the first installment via demand draft on September 9, 2013 and second on January 13, 2014, on the assurance that their visa would arrive within one month. However, the complainant realised that the company was doing nothing to get their visa. Meanwhile, he got to know that the company has already done a fraud of nearly Rs 7 lakh with a Jalandhar-based resident, hence after waiting for months he demanded his money from the immigration company. But despite several attempts he couldn’t receive his money and filed a case against the company at the consumer court. However, the company officials failed to appear before the court and later on April 17, 2018, they filed a reply and contested the complaint.   After hearing arguments of both the parties, the president of the Commission, Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna, concluded that the company did assure the complainant that he would get the visa after paying two instalments, however, the company owners committed default in arranging visa for the complainant.  Therefore they cannot retain the amount paid by Shakti. Therefore, the company owners were directed to refund Rs 9,03,800 to the complainant with five percent interest  per annum from the date of filing of the complaint, Rs10,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and for financial loss including cost of litigation and to deposit Rs 5,000 in the Legal Aid Fund of this commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/consumer-panel-asks-immigration-firm-to-refund-rs-9-14l-pay-rs10k-fine-248033
04-05-2021||---||A kaleidoscope of colours||Jalandhar, May 3Lockdown gave ample time to people of all walks of life to explore their creativity and give wings to their hobbies.One such family in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar is of Bhatias’ which used this time to set up an exquisite garden with the collection of plants from every nook and cranny of the country! From the Ghuar Moti (in the Kutch district of Gujarat) to Chakum Pass, they are proud owners of all kinds of plants.Dr Achla Bhatia, a former college Principal, and her family members joined in to set up a picturesque and scenic composition in the vacant spaces around their home. Now, their bougainvillea belt stretches to the roof atop. The snake plant popularly called `The Mother- in-laws tongue’ trenches its way around. The ficus bushes are making deep inroads into the rock-strewn wall with the togetherness of the desert plant adenium. Not only this, several varieties of roses at their home have been adding to the hues of their garden.Bhatia proudly shows her floral paradise, “I have managed to get plants of diverse traits ranging from the appealing dollar plant, cheese plant, dracaena, spider lily, golden pothos, money plant and jade plant. Besides, I also got many medicinal plants primarily aloe vera, ajwain, elaichi, holy basil, mint and lemon etc recommended for good health and efficacy.”It being the onset of summer season, she already has flowers such as zenia, sunroses, jasmine, periwinkle, trumpet vine, roses, lilies, portulaca and sadabahar. The ornamental Bonsai plants adorning her garden include those of ficus, adenium, banyan, mango and jamun, which surely invite the attention of many passers-by.Besides the variety of plants, the stone-sculpted cats, the statuette two-horned bull and a collection of captivating clay pottery are eye catchers for everyone getting a glance into Bhatia’s floral paradise. It is in fact home to a several aesthetic collections of driftwood lamps and artistic tables that have been decorating corners and spaces of the house, besides various quarters to create positive vibes in the garden. Earthen lamps, clay mounds, terracotta pots from the shore of the river-banks to the mountainous ranges of the Himalayas speak volumes about the sparkling resourcefulness. Another distinguishing feature of their botanic paradise is the setting up of the compost pit from the kitchen and garden waste which is converted into manure.Achla Bhatia’s son and practising lawyer Sameer Bhatia tells that the best thing that he likes since the makeover of the garden is the squeak of the squirrels, the coo of the pigeons, squawk of the parrots besides the low-pitched whistle of the various birds clustering around the green belt in the early morning. “Despite our hectic schedules, we all love to nurture this space and enjoy its serenity, efflorescence and blossoming every morning and evening”, he said. He praises his mom for being an educationist by vocation, a poetess by heart and a gardenerette by passion. “Winner of the `Women of the Year in Education’ in 2008, she still is an exemplar to many in pursuit of pioneering the true meaning of life”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-kaleidoscope-of-colours-248034
04-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Residents resort to panic buying||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 3On the first day of the ‘mini lockdown’, the city witnessed residents thronging markets. Panic buying was seen from early morning as shoppers stood in serpentine queues outside grocery stores and sabzi mandi.Grocery stores open at 6 amApart from vendors and shopkeepers, a large number of visitors were seen without face masks. Social distancing norms also went for a toss.Afraid of restrictions faced in 2020, locals went on buying spree through out the day while shops dealing in non-essential goods remained closed.Suraj Kumar, a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony, who had reached Maqsudan sabzi mandi around 11 am to stock up ration, said, “The government is issuing fresh orders every day. The lockdown like restrictions forced me to purchase staple goods. I fear that the government may soon order complete lockdown, considering the surge in Covid cases.” Similarly, grocery store owners reported higher sales today and till 5 pm, most goods were sold out.Traders unhappyHaving suffered huge losses last year, traders were unhappy with the mini lockdown. Members of The Opticians’ Association, Jalandhar, submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner to include optical shops under essential items. Jasjit Singh, a member of the association, said, like mobile and motor repair shops, opticians should also be granted permission to open their stores as spectacles and vision glasses were basic necessity for students, computer professionals and those above 40 years of age.Anil Kumar, a shopkeeper at Rainak Bazaar, said garment stores should also be allowed to open as it’s a wedding season and people come to purchase clothes and jewellery. He said all the norms were being followed by shopkeepers.Sampling of visitorsTaking cognisance of hoarding at Maqsudan sabzi mandi (largest mandi in the region), Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today ordered daily sampling of visitors at the vegetable market. Two samplings team will remain deployed at the entry and exit point of the mandi, where screening of visitors would be conducted.“An influx of people, including sellers, buyers, commission agents and retailers, gather daily at the mandi. Later, they go to different localities and interact with people to sell their items, thus their testing is quite necessary. The sampling will happen from 5 am to 11 am daily,” said Thori.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-resort-to-panic-buying-248035
04-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||19 parakeets found from Nawanshahr farm||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 3Efforts of vigilant wildlife activists on Monday led to exposing of a farm owner in Nawanshahr during a raid where as many as 19 parakeets were found along with the meat/flesh of birds. It is being alleged that illegal trading of birds was going on here.Parbhat Bhatti, a Nangal-based bird watcher and wildlife enthusiast, said he, along with Nikhil Sengar, Wildlife Warden, Nawanshahr, had got information that the farm owner might be involved in illegal trading of birds. “After getting the information, we got in contact with the state Wildlife Department and a team was formed to conduct a raid today,” he said.Bhatti added that when the team reached the farm, the owner was not there. “We got to know that he had sold two eagles yesterday,” he said.Nikhil Sengar said, “We will request the Wildlife Department to take cognisance of such persons who take permits and then get involved in the illegal trading. The CM should also look into these matters.”The activists also claimed to have found a diary from the spot where the owner has allegedly written about the number of animals and birds he has sold to date.Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Wildlife, Hoshiarpur, Gursharan Singh, however, said he had no information about the diary that was seized. He said if there is any diary, it will be a part of the investigation. He said he received information from the Ropar team, and he also sent his team to the spot.Sharing the preliminary information, the DFO said, “Two types of meat have been recovered; their samples will be sent to Wildlife Institute of Dehradun to identify the animal. We will call the owner and interrogate him on the issue. He has already been booked under the Wildlife Protection Act. We will nab him and will also find out his address and phone number,” he said. Whether he was involved in illegal trading of birds or not will be cleared after investigation, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-parakeets-found-from-nawanshahr-farm-248036
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent||46 face music for violating lockdown in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 3As Covid-19 surges, Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal has appealed to people to support police personnel and the district administration by staying indoors and obeying the health guidelines issued by the government.Three booked for partying at nightThe police have booked three persons, who were holding a party at office of a property advisor near Tanda bypass chowk in Hoshiarpur. The police team led by DSP Madhvi Sharma was checking shops in the area, where the property advisor’s office was found open. Some people were found partying without mask and consuming alcohol said the DSP. A case under Section 188 of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Act has been registered against them.The SSP said rather than enforcing the norms, residents should follow the rules to tackle the pandemic. Taking stern action against violators, 46 FIRs were registered during the weekend lockdown in Hoshiarpur, said the SSP.Nakas were set up throughout the city and those found wandering without any reason booked. He said people should follow the guideluines, else all the efforts of the administration would go in vain.The SSP said all non-essential shops, including salons, jewellery and clothes shops, would remain closed till May 15. He said except essential shops (grocery and medicines) everything would stay close. The SSP pointed out that there’s complete night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am and people should not violate the same.As per directions of the government, dine-in has been prohibited in hotels/ restaurants. Only two passengers can travel in a four-wheeler and one person on a two-wheeler.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/46-face-music-for-violating-lockdown-in-hoshiarpur-248037
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Now, check bed availability through helpline number||Hoshiarpur, May 3To ensure strict enforcement of the Covid-19 guidelines in the district, Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Monday released a few helpline numbers to facilitate people in case of any exigency and violation of the guidelines.The Deputy Commissioner said these helpline numbers will help people to seek information about availability of beds in Covid Care Centres.She said people can register plaints or share info related to violation of curfew/lockdown at mobile number 88722-31039 or 92570-37000 while the information of bed availability in different hospitals can be sought through helpline no 82187-65895.Riyait said as of now, five private and a government hospital are offering treatment to Covid-19 patients that include level-II and level-III beds. The beds availability can be seen at social media handle of the District Public Relations Officer, Hoshiarpur. She said a total of 175 level-II and 25 level-III beds were available currently.The Deputy Commissioner said people can inform administration about overcharging/profiteering in the sale of oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab or RT-PCR tests on helpline number 81466-22501 on WhatsApp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-check-bed-availability-through-helpline-number-248039
04-05-2021||---||7 fall prey to virus, 696 cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 3With 696 new cases on Monday, Jalandhar tally increased to 44,905 cases. Of these, 64 belong to other districts. The health authorities reported seven deaths in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,105. At present, the district has 4,921 active cases and 38,979 persons recovered so far. Jalandhar round upNew cases: 696Total cases: 44905New Deaths: 7Total Deaths: 1105New Recovery: 598Total Recovery: 38979Active: 4921Helpline number of Ambulance: 108Emergency helpline: 104Jalandhar Helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Distt Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-fall-prey-to-virus-696-cases-in-jalandhar-district-248042
04-05-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||World is her canvas!||Hoshiarpur, May 3Like several students, even Sehar Atwal (12), a student of Gems Cambridge International School, Hoshiarpur, was dejected when the schools did not open for the second time in a row. She was one among the countless children who had to lose out on the camaraderie as well as a structured curriculum for students at school. But she chose to make a difference and let the lockdown count.Sehar, a gifted artist, who had always been interested in craft activities, took to canvas painting during the lockdown times. She channelised her energy into art since the onset of lockdown in March 2020 has painted more than 100 paintings in diverse shades.“I plan to hold an art exhibition in my school when it reopens.” She tells us enthusiastically as she shows us the collection of her art works. She uses poster, acrylic, metallic and neon colours to paint and is now learning the art of fluid painting. The theme of her paintings is diverse. Her paintings range from hip-hop dancing girls to a rising sun in a distant horizon to a brook cascading from the steep hills.Landscapes, nature and 3D art are some of her favourites which found a resonance with this young artist. She gets her ideas from the Internet and from her friends whom she keeps updating with her art work.Sehar credits her achievement to her art teachers, Rampal and Jyoti Salota for the constant encouragement in the online classes the school has been conducting since last year.Her mother Dr Rana Preet Gill, a Hoshiarpur-based author and Veterinary Officer exhorted the parents to allow the creativity in their children to thrive by providing them the right atmosphere and by indulging in their passions.“Every little encouragement goes a long way in boosting the confidence of the child. We must create a positive atmosphere at home for our children. Sehar’s paintings give me hope that times will change for the better,” she said.Sehar’s father Varundeep Singh Atwal is an engineer by profession. “It is important for parents to divert their kids away from gadgets during the times of the pandemic and cultivating a hobby goes a long way in making a child more aware of his or her surroundings,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-is-her-canvas-248046
04-05-2021||---||Webinar dwells on digital marketing||Jalandhar, May 3An international digital media training webinar was organised by Gram Panchayat Sahungra, Nawanshar and 'My Learning Day'. The webinar was conducted online from 11 am to 1 pm. Through the seminar, the youth and other participants were informed about how they can make money at home using the Internet. The chief hosts of the programme were Jatinder Chauhan, Vijay, Sarpanch Raj Balwinder and Harpreet Singh.Jatinder Chauhan stated that India was gaining a foothold in the field of digital marketing and many industries were making it the future. Many employment opportunities are open to the youth in this sector. This allows you to work from home with foreign companies. Vijay explained which courses could be used to hone skills and get an accredited certificate from Google and also give interviews.As many as 100 youth took advantage of this programme. Sarpanch Rajbalwinder Singh gave an example of how he uses a mobile app to digitalise gram panchayats. He records the progress being made in the village in a mobile application and uploads it to his own gram panchayat website digitalsahungra.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-dwells-on-digital-marketing-248047
04-05-2021||---||20 challaned for defying guidelines in  Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, May 3As many as 20 challans were issued to shopkeepers and other violators by the Kapurthala police and the district administration for defying the health guidelines.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and Senior Superintendent of Police Kanwardeep Kaur visited various areas of the city. The duo along with other senior officials, visited Sadar Bazaar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk, old and new sabzi mandi.The SSP issued instructions and said farmers, arhtiyas, shopkeepers and shoppers should wear masks, practise social distancing and wash hands regularly. Officials of the Health Department also conducted RT- PCR tests of shopkeepers.They said as per the orders of the state government, a weekend lockdown has been imposed to protect people, and arrangements have been made to keep essential services running smoothly.The duo made it clear that under the prescribed rules, traders would not face any inconvenience while those who spread the pandemic by violating the norms would be dealt with sternly. Kapurthala SDM Virender Pal Singh Bajwa and DSP Surinder Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-challaned-for-defying-guidelines-in-kapurthala-248058
04-05-2021||---||Govt must share data of unused ventilators: Kalia||Jalandhar, May 3BJP leader and former health and family welfare minister, Punjab, Manoranjan Kalia today questioned the state government how many ventilators were lying unused in the state and whether the private hospitals in the state will charge ventilator rent from patients on ventilators given to them for free by the government.Commenting upon the decision of the Punjab Government to distribute ventilators purchased by it last year to private hospitals Kalia questioned whether the private hospitals will charge the rent of ventilators from the patients.Kalia said the ventilators were given to private hospitals for them to use these in view of the paucity of manpower, especially anaesthetis, at government facilities.In a release issued here today, Kalia demanded, “Punjab Government must spell out the number of ventilators “in-use” in the hospitals and “not in-use” lying in the store unpacked. Also how many ventilators have been sent by Centre government and purchased by Punjab government and remained unused. When the 290 ventilators sent by Modi Government, remained unused, why the 809 ventilators were purchased by the Punjab Government and the public exchequer’s money wasted unnecessarily? Or if the 809 ventilators already stand purchased by Punjab government, why did the Punjab Government not refuse to accept the 290 ventilators sent by Modi Government so that it could be utilised for the needy state? Because in both the situations, the medical manpower to operate the ventilators is not available.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-share-data-of-unused-ventilators-kalia-248059
