05-05-2021||Jalandhar||SHO suspended for kicking cart of vegetable vendor in Phagwara||After a video of a policeman went viral in which he was seen kicking the roadside cart of a vegetable vendor, the SSP Kapurthala on Wednesday placed the erring SHO under suspension and initiated departmental enquiry against him.SSP, Kapurthala, Kanwardeep Kaur placed SHO, City Phagwara, Navdeep Singh under suspension.For the past few days, the police had been asking the vendors who used to park their carts at Sarai Road in Phagwara for sale, not to remain stranded at one place and instead move about in colonies for door-to-door supply.Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences. https://t.co/terAynz6ao  The nearly 100 vendors in the area had been resulting in crowding which could not be allowed in view of COVID-19 pandemic.The SHO, instead of getting challans issued or taking some action, kicked the cart of a vendor, a video of which was recorded.The SSP in the order said, “As a member of a disciplined force, such behaviour is against service rules and is unwarranted. Under the supervision of DGP Punjab, Punjab Police has been working on the forefront of the war against COVID-19 for over a year now and has served the people of Punjab with dedication. During this, we have also lost many officers to COVID-19. Behaviour of officers as above brings bad name to the entire force. Taking strict action against the officer he has been immediately placed under suspension. A departmental enquiry has been initiated against him.”The officers of Kapurthala police have contributed from their salaries for providing compensation to the vegetable vendor, the order said.“We are committed to serving the people of District Kapurthala with sincerity and honesty and any such act by any officer shall be strictly dealt with,” it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sho-suspended-for-kicking-cart-of-vegetable-vendor-in-phagwara-248545
05-05-2021||---||Tying knots beyond barriers of disability||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 4Happily married for around 19 years to an able-bodied woman, polio-afflicted Ashok Sharma (49), who is a lawyer, has made a mission to help physically challenged persons find a good match.Working on this front for the last 14 years, Sharma has helped as many as 23 disabled persons find a life partner through his marriage bureau. “We all know that disabled persons face odd situations during match-making. They often remain single and lonely. But all those who are able to find a compatible companion (either be physically challenged or fit) often lead a happier life,” he said.Sharma has been running an NGO ‘Helpline’ since 1997 with the support of his friends who are lawyers, doctors, teachers and even government employees. “We have been providing legal and financial help to people for marriage of their daughters. We have been taking up projects to spread awareness against social evils. It was in 2007 that we felt the need to start a marriage bureau. Another front on which we are actively working is on the rights of disabled, especially creation of ramps and elevators at all public places,” he said.Sharing his personal journey, Sharma said, “I had barely started walking as an 11-month-old toddler when I had polio. It attacked my entire body from legs till neck. My parents tried to get best treatment for me. Thankfully, my upper body recovered, but my legs remained affected. I can walk only with calipers and crutches.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tying-knots-beyond-barriers-of-disability-248418
05-05-2021||---||SDM clarifies lockdown norms||Jalandhar, May 4Amid confusion over essential category shops, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Dr Jai Inder Singh on Tuesday came out with clarifications regarding the instructions laid out by the state government.The SDM said those dealing in medicines and essential items, including milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy, poultry products (eggs and meat), grocery/kirayana, PDS shops, fertilisers/agriculture machinery/products, retail/wholesale liquor vends, shops selling hardware, industrial material and tools/motor pipes, fall under this category.He said bakery/sweet shops, big departmental stores are allowed to provide only home delivery from Monday to Friday. He also cleared that electronic shops, tyre shops and car accessories cannot operate and mechanical spare parts/workshops can remain open till 5 pm.He said as per fresh orders of the state government, these shops are permitted to operate till 5 pm except during the weekend curfew (from 6 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdm-clarifies-lockdown-norms-248419
05-05-2021||---||25 oxygen concentrators for Civil Hospital||Jalandhar, May 4In a bid to boost Covid management at the Civil Hospital, the district administration has ordered 25 oxygen concentrators.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said today they received the first lot of 10 concentrators, which has been handed over to the Civil Hospital. He said an NGO ‘Gill Foundation’ had donated money to the Red Cross Society for this cause.He said delivery of the remaining machinery was under way. He said these concentrators would reduce oxygen demand at the Civil Hospital and saved oxygen would be diverted to other Covid care facilities. He lauded Raj Gill, patron of the Gill Foundation, for coming forward to service the humanity. He said efforts of such philanthropists make a difference.Meanwhile, to further streamline oxygen generation and distribution to hospitals, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal today visited oxygen plant of Indian Air Production located at Jandu Singha. He said owners of the plant were asked to strictly adhere to the government guidelines with respect to oxygen production and distribution as all supplies other than medical institutions have been suspended.The ADC further directed the plant management to ensure round-the-clock availability of spare parts and mechanics to repair machinery in case of a breakdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-oxygen-concentrators-for-civil-hospital-248420
05-05-2021||Our Correspondent||AAP holds ‘Vyapari te Vyapar Bachao’ march in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 03Despite ban, local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party organised a protest march here  demanding to save the traders and business community from economic woes and to wake up the state government.  The protesters raised slogans against the state government and demanded to act wisely and save people of the state from economic woes as soon as possible in this time of Covid-19 epidemic. Sandeep Saini of the AAP said the government was duty-bound to provide livelihood to the people, but it was unfortunate that the Capt government even during the severe period of this pandemic, is busy doing politics and sadly the government is also dividing business community into what is needed and what is not. “The general public of Punjab is demanding an answer from Capt as to how any business, that bears the financial burden of one's home and the family, can be unnecessary”, he said, adding that if the Capt government was a true benefactor of the people then he should credit financial assistance in the bank accounts of the people of Punjab on the lines of Delhi government.  Ajay Verma, vice-president, intellectual cell, said that with the onset of lockdown, trade and commerce in almost the entire Punjab was on the verge of extinction. He said that it was not understandable that why Capt was coming up with such policies which were breaking the back of trade. He appealed to government to reconsider its decisions and implement pro-people policies in Punjab. Khushiram Dhiman, Yogendra Singh Raja, Ajaib Singh, Rajesh Sharda, Raju Khatri, Nitish Kumar Nishu, Tarun Gupta and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-holds-vyapari-te-vyapar-bachao-march-in-hoshiarpur-248421
05-05-2021||Nawanshahr||Only 50 get jabs, vax out of stock||Vaccination for scribes startsJalandhar: Describing inoculation as the most effective weapon against the infection, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday inaugurated a special inoculation camp organised for the journalists at the local Red Cross Bhawan. The DC said Jalandhar was the leading district in the state as far as the Covid vaccination was concerned. He also solicited the support and cooperation of journos for spreading awareness about the pandemic. TNSF&CC meeting on May 7 nowJalandhar: A series of F&CC meetings have been held in the last one month. It is happening after a long time when meetings are taking place twice or thrice a month. Though a meeting was held on May 3, the next one will now be held on May 7. The agendas include construction of cement concrete roads in various parts of the city and development of parks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-50-get-jabs-vax-out-of-stock-248425
05-05-2021||Our Correspondent ||Rs 1 crore electric crematorium to come up at Shiv Puri: Arora||Hoshiarpur, May 4 Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Tuesday announced that a modern electric crematorium would be a part of city’s main cremation ground Shiv Puri located on Hariana Road. The work of this crematorium would be completed at an estimated cost of Rs 1 crore within next two months.        Accompanied by Mayor Surinder Kumar, the minister took a round of Shiv Puri cremation ground to review the status of amenities amid the rising number of Covid deaths. The minister informed that a 20’x 60’ size shed is also being constructed in the area, where the bodies of those succumbed to Covid cremated, to facilitate the people as problems being faced by them in unfair weather and rainy days. The minister said that this shed would be constructed in a week’s time.          Reviewing the sanitisation arrangements, the minister directed officials of the Municipal Corporation to increase the number of sanitation workers so that both the outer and inner area of ground could be properly cleaned especially in these trying circumstances. He said that the MC had also been given necessary directions for the setting up of electronic crematorium and other requisite facilities would also be upgraded in time to come. The minister also mentioned that the existing infrastructure of cremation ground was earlier strengthened with nearly Rs 2 crore corporate social responsibility funds. Prominent among those present on the occasion were Arun Gupta, Sunil Prashar and master Vijay Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-1-crore-electric-crematorium-to-come-up-at-shiv-puri-arora-248428
05-05-2021||---||District administration starts testing in mandis||Jalandhar/Kapurthala, May 4Witnessing a massive rush in vegetable markets on Monday, the administrations of all the districts of Doaba on Tuesday tried to regulate the movement and deployed police personnel to get the Covid-19 protocols implemented.Random Covid-19 testing was started at vegetable market in Maqsudan today where staff from the Health Department took samples (RT-PCR tests) of vendors entering the mandi.Cops at Maqsudan mandi restricted general public from entering the main mandi and allowed only vegetable and fruit vendors to enter the market. Officials said only wholesale operations would be allowed in the market and no retail business as restrictions would help check rush and keep a control on spread of the virus. Owing to new curbs and checks, the rush in the market remained relatively much controlled today.Jai Inder Singh, SDM, Jalandhar-1, visited Mandi Phantom Ganj (wholesale market for grocery items). The SDM held meetings with the market association and convinced them to ensure that there would not be more than three customers at a time. He asked them to mark circles outside their shops where consumers could stand. Even vehicular movement in the wholesale market area has been restricted to ensure that there’s no crowding.The Kapurthala administration has started testing people for Covid-19 in vegetable markets in the district. Special camps have been set up in mandis to tackle the pandemic.During the RT-PCR sampling at a camp at sabzi mandi on Hoshiarpur road in Phagwara, 11 people tested positive.Phagwara SMO Dr Kishore Kumar said a total of 80 samples were collected, out of which 11 were found positive. Contact tracing of the positive cases has started, besides isolating them.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal directed the authorities concerned to strictly implement the health guidelines.District Mandi Officer Arvinder Singh said testing camps have been set up at New Sabzi Mandi in Kapurthala (50 samples collected) and Phagwara (80 samples collected).“Officials of the Mandi Board have been asked to cooperate and meet arhtiyas and shopkeepers to prevent further spread of the virus,” he said.The DC today visited the vegetable market at Phagwara and directed to take stern action against violators. She also visited the testing centre at Sarai road near the bus stand.Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said there’s a danger of rapid spread due to congestion in vegetable markets.The DC said to facilitate public and vendors, option for home delivery has been allowed till 9 pm in the district.The duo also visited Covid sampling camps at sabzi mandi in Phagwara and said tests should be carried out on daily basis.The SSP has constituted special teams for continuous patrolling in congested areas to ensure the implementation of the Covid guidelines.She said strict action was being taken against those who were found roaming without any reason.Phagwara ADC Rajiv Verma and SP Sarabjit Singh Bahia were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-administration-starts-testing-in-mandis-248429
05-05-2021||---||Financial odds dim chances of this powerlifter’s comeback||Jalandhar, May 4The 2017 Gold medal winner in Commonwealth para-powerlifting and Bench press Championship is finding herself at the crossroads once again. Despite being the only power-lifter from Punjab to get selected for an international event to be held at Dubai from June 19 to 22, she says that she is unable to arrange for an amount of Rs 80,000 that she has to pay for participation to RAW powerlifting Federation of India.Ramandeep has been selected for bench press event in the Single Lift International Powerlifting Championship in the women master’s category of physically-challenged players.Showing a selection letter that she recently received after her selection in the trials, Ramandeep Kaur said that she was highly excited to receive it. “This letter is like a comeback call to me to continue the game which I had abandoned for the past two years, owing to death of her three-month-old infant last year. Since then, I was upset and could not practice for a long time. There was also a dip in the opportunities coming my way due to Covid. All these years, I kept trying for the job of a coach in the sports department but to no avail. If I am able to make a mark in this event, I will surely feel more confident to continue the game,” she said.The selection letter reads, “The approximate cost of visa process, air ticket, accommodation, championship entry fee, drug test and uniform kit is approximately Rs 80,000. All players must pay Rs 60,000 out of the full budget by April 30.” Ramandeep says that on her special request to the federation, she had managed to get an extension of 15 days to make the full payment.Hailing from Ghorewahi village of Bhogpur here, Ramandeep is running a small shop selling sweets, chips and other items in her 50-yard house to make both ends meet. “I have already sold my jewellery while taking part in previous international events. I tried seeking some loan from relatives for this but everyone these days is ruing shortage of funds. I do not want to miss the event and I cannot see any way-out,” she said appealing for some financial aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/financial-odds-dim-chances-of-this-powerlifters-comeback-248431
05-05-2021||---||Eight deaths, 733 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 4Within a week, the number of Covid cases reported in the district has again crossed the 700-mark. As many as 733 persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Out of the total number of infections reported on Tuesday, 74 persons belonged to other districts.With eight more deaths today, the death toll has reached 1,113 in the district.In the last four days, 2,721 people got infected and 31 persons succumbed to the deadly virus. While, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 45,638, there are 4,921 active cases in the district.Six die in Hoshiarpur districtThe district reported six more Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 755, while 186 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 21,314. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,842 and 18,717 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of the 186 cases reported today, 18 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 19 were from other districts and the remaining 149 patients were from other health blocks of the district.4 deaths reported in KapurthalaThe health authorities of the district reported four deaths and 101 new Covid cases today. The four persons who lost their life to the infection include a 40-year-old resident of Bhawanipur village, a 37-year-old man of Kanjli village and two women, aged 60 and 84, from the city. With this, the death toll in the district has climbed to 346. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said the district had 1,025 active cases, after 140 patients were discharged from various hospitals.75 test +ve in NawanshahrAs many as 75 persons tested positive for Covid and a 58-year-old man of Mukandpur lost his life to the deadly virus in Nawanshahr today.With this, the total number of cases in the district stands at 9,029. The recovery rate is 91.06 per cent (8,222) and death rate is 2.72 per cent (246) deaths. At present, there are 596 active cases in the district, of which 508 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-deaths-733-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-248433
05-05-2021||In view of the soaring Covid-19 cases and shortage of beds at the hospitals||Dera Chak Hakim rises to the occasion||7% hike in enrolmentOwing to the intensified ''Door-to-Door'' and ''Each one Bring One'' campaigns, the elementary government schools in Phagwara recorded 7 per cent hike in the enrolment drive. District Education Officer (DEO) Primary, Gurbhajan Singh Lasani stated that the primary schools of both the sub divisions of Phagwara showed a good response in terms of enrollment. From 4,640 students last year, the student count in Phagwara Sub division-1 has increased to 4,936. Similarly, the total count has increased to 4,214 mark in sub-division-II, compared to 4,110 last year.Farmers at receiving endEven after protesting against the shortage of bardanas (gunny bags), at Rihana Jattan grain market for four continuous days, on Hoshiarpur roads, the farmers continue to suffer. A group of farmers, who have brought their produce to the grain market at Phagwara, rued they had not received new gunny bags and the old ones sent were torn. Due to heavy traffic on the Hoshiarpur road, farmers were assured that they would receive 16,000 gunny bags, but to no avail.(Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dera-chak-hakim-rises-to-the-occasion-248434
05-05-2021||Jalandhar||Business plan competition||Hygiene Training to street vendorsTo provide special training to street food vendors to focus on hygiene, St Soldier Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, has tied-up with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, under the initiative of Punjab government. Chairman Anil Chopra, vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra expressed happiness that St Soldier Hotel Management was selected by PGI Prof and Head Dr Amarjeet Singh (MD) for this initiative. Chopra said St Soldier has always been at the forefront of showing awareness and doing something for the society and the institute will fully contribute in this opportunity to improve the street food that people are getting in the city. Principal Sandeep Lohani said to keep our bodies healthy, food is most important part and if we can improve it then many diseases can be eradicated. Chopra said that this initiative will not only provide clean food to the citizens, but also increase the quality of the food, thereby it will increase vendor’s work.Online Induction organisedUnderstanding the strong need of keeping the students motivated during current scenario, Sanskriti KMV School held virtual induction session for Class XI students as a launch pad of commencing their academic session 2021-22. Apprising of the academic standards and policy for the science, commerce and humanities stream, students were made clear of their queries amidst the recent promotion criteria of CBSE Class X results as well. Session was virtually addressed by Rachna Monga, Principal, and was attended by the school faculty, parents and the students. In her address, Rachna Monga, strongly insisted upon being technologically responsible, self disciplined and socially responsible. With a hope to have offline classes soon, students were motivated to keep up the competitive spirit and be academically strong.Scholarships for studentsHMV Collegiate Sr Sec School has been doling out scholarships and concessions to its students. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen told that this year also, it is giving a lot of scholarships to the toppers. Principal Sareen told that total free will be given to the students scoring 96% and above marks in board examination. Scholarship of Rs10,000 will be given to the students scoring 93 to 95% marks in board examination. Concession of Rs8,000 will be given to the students scoring 90 to 92.9% marks and Rs5,000 to the students scoring 85 to 89.9% marks in board examination. Under Mahatma Anand Swami Shikshit Beti Mission, Rs5,000 concession to fatherless and Rs7,000 concession to parentless students will be given under HMV Provide Wings Mission, 50 per cent concession will be given to differently abled students. Rs5,000 concession to single girl child will be given under Mahatma Hans Raj Beti Padao Mission. Under Maharishi Dayanand Unnat Beti Mission, concession of Rs3,000 will be given on poverty basis. Sister concession is also provided.Talk on Milestones in Plant GenomicsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised another virtual interaction with the scientists of National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR), New Delhi under DBT Star College Status through Science Setu Programme. It was a unique opportunity for science students at undergraduate and postgraduate level to get an exposure to such a high-level research. The resource person for the event was Dr Debasis Chattopadhyay, Scientist VII, NIPGR. The topic of his talk was ‘Milestones in Plant Genomics’. Dr Debasis started his lecture by enlightening the students on the concept of genomics and discussed about the evolution of life and the process of DNA sequencing. He told about the chemistry of DNA sequencing & stressed on the Sanger’s chain termination method for DNA sequencing. He discussed about the concept of separation of reaction products and detection of LASER and also discussed about 2nd Generation DNA sequencing (Short Read Technology).FireFighters’ Day observedEklavya School celebrated World Press Freedom Day and Firefighters’ Day with students. Various activities were performed by the students to spread awareness among the importance of both the days in our lives. Students of Class VIII presented a speech on the topic of the ‘Importance of Fire Fighter’s and Press in our daily life’. Videos were shown to the students to give respect to firefighters. Students of Class IV made beautiful charts on the topic of ‘Fire Prevention’ and cultural events were organised to determine the significance of press freedom. A sole activity was done by the students of Class IV. A drawing competition was done and the theme was the importance of ‘Press Freedom and Fire Fighters’. JK Gupta (Chairman of the school), and Seema Handa (Director) said that we should salute our firefighters and journalists who died while serving our community and dedicated their lives to protecting the safety of all of us. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/business-plan-competition-248435
