06-05-2021||Two days after a farm owner in Nawanshahr was exposed during a raid where as many as 19 parakeets were found along with the meat/flesh of birds||Team constituted to investigate matter||976 violators taken for Covid testingTeams of the police on Wednesday persuaded as many as 976 face-mask violators to undergo Covid testing. A man from Udapad village, who had opened liquor vend during curfew hours, has also been booked by the police. A case was registered against another violator, a dhaba owner at Kachehri Road in Nawanshahr. Similarly, FIR was also lodged against an auto driver for not following social distancing and allowing several passengers to sit in the auto.DC conducts inspection of Covid care hospitalsNawanshahr DC Shena Aggarwal on Wednesday checked the present situation of Covid in the district. During the meeting, the DC also took a serious note of non-availability of medical facilities during Covid in private and government hospitals. She also gave an ultimatum to the hospitals that no Covid patient should lose his/ her life at Level-1 and Level-2 hospitals. She said that patient whose oxygen saturation was above 90, could be referred either to a government health centre or home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/team-constituted-to-investigate-matter-248684
06-05-2021||Jalandhar||Greenery Day celebrated||Online investiture at DIPSDIPS chain of schools organised an investiture ceremony in all its schools. Students office-bearers and their families attended the event. The four houses - Diamond, Ivory, Pearl and Sapphire - nominated various candidates for various posts. All candidates appealed for votes through online videos and students cast their online votes to choose their representatives. Students committees have been formed in this new academic session 2021-22 and duties have been allocated accordingly. The oath taking by designated office-bearers also happened online. Principals of all schools congratulated the selected students. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated the students. They also encouraged them to sincerely discharge their duties.Lecture on challenger marketingPhagwara: GNA University organised a guest lecture on “Challenger Marketing” for the students of GNA Business School over the online virtual platform blackboard. The resource person for the session was Dr Weng Marc Lim, Prof and Head of School of Business, Swinburne University of Technology, Malaysia. The lecture aimed at acquainting the students with the evolving concept of ‘Challenger Marketing’ and what strategies are being taken by business houses to combat the same. The resource person, propounded that challenger marketing is a B2B Marketing Concept that business customers are cutting out business marketers from their learning due to greater availability and accessibility of information. He stated that with growing competition across the world business houses need to tailor the value proposition for resonance and they need to take the control of the sales process. Dr VK Rattan, Vice-Chancellor, GNA University said, “The university is always ready to offer the best to our students in all the various upcoming spheres and current market trends.”Social Networking AnalysisApeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus has started Skill Based value addition courses for students under the umbrella of Multi-Disciplinary Skill Development Courses (MSDC). To start with, the campus has started with three courses - Basics of SEO, Social Networking Analysis and Life Skills. ‘Basics of SEO’ is an introductory course for the students to learn the fundamentals of search optimisation techniques. Students can use these techniques while developing the website to attain high Google score in search engines. Social networking analysis is an introductory course for the students to understand social networks in general and social media in detail. The complex relationships of entities are finding importance in the form of business data analytics. The course highlights the structure of social networks and their applications for academics and businesses. Life Skills course emphasises at developing personal as well as professional skills among students in the areas of self-awareness, critical thinking, problem solving, decision making, creativity, effective communication, empathy, interpersonal skills, emotional intelligence and coping with stress. Dr Rajesh Bagga, Director, was glad to see the response of the students and he congratulated the coordinators Kanwal Khera and Dr Neha Kalra for starting these courses. He also encouraged the faculty members to keep coming up with such programmes.Poetry recitation at Shiv Jyoti SchoolShiv Jyoti Public School provided online platform to its students to take part in various activities. The online inter house English poetry recitation competition for Class III.The participants put forth their enthralling performance. Out of 23 participants, 13 were shortlisted for the same by Sarita Kapur. The final judgement was made by Ritu Devgon. Class-III: Mayank and Aaryan bagged the first position, Saanvi Dogra got the second position and Manas stood third. Consolation prize winners were given to Maulik Arora and Aaradhya. Overall activity was conducted by the activity coordinator Veenu Aggarwal. Principal Neeru Nayyar, Vice Principal Parveen Saili acknowledged the efforts of the students, parents and staff members and blessed all the winners.Webinar on importance of languagesPyramid College of Business and Technology organised webinar on “Languages across the globe and their importance” which was scheduled through Google meet platform. All faculty and students attended the webinar with Jaswinder Singh, Language mentor. Virat Rehani started the session with warm welcome and introduction of the speaker as the grand master of various languages. He has learnt more than nine languages and has helped hundreds of students to explore new language with French, Russian, German, English, Spanish, Urdu, Dutch and Italian. The motive of the webinar was to integrate about the languages across the globe and also the key role of language as part of communication. Human language is different from animals as we can articulate. He called Aryan language as the major language family of South Asia. Languages like Greek and Latin die or extinct because of the fundamental factors like globalisation, imperialism, neo-colonialism, linguicide etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/greenery-day-celebrated-248687
06-05-2021||---||School kids show their talent in poetry recitation event||Jalandhar, May 5Innokids School held an English poetry recitation competition for KG-I and KG-II students. They gave very beautiful messages by their poems.They used charts and flash cards related to the poems and the messages of “Never give up, stay home stay safe, save water, save earth, value of time, stop Covid-19, save trees, I love My School” etc. The contest was conducted on Zoom app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-kids-show-their-talent-in-poetry-recitation-event-248688
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 arrested for assaulting man, cops||Hoshiarpur, May 5A man walking on the Railway road along with his dog was attacked by two persons with sharp-edged weapon on Wednesday. The miscreants also tore his clothes. They also attacked an inspector-rank officer, an ASI of the Punjab Police and a Home Guards jawan who reached there after getting information. The miscreants also tore the uniforms of the police personnel. The police personnel swung into action and caught hold of the two accused. Complainant Karan Sharma said his father went for a walk. Two brothers living in their neighbourhood attacked his father. When he went to save his father, they assaulted him as well. City SHO Talwinder Singh said the accused had been identified as Paras and his brother Navdeep. A case was registered against them under various sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-for-assaulting-man-cops-248686
06-05-2021||---||Webinar on teachings of 9th Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur||Kapurthala, May 5To mark the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, a webinar was organised by the Punjabi Department of Government College, Bholath as per the series of event by the Punjab Government.Principal Sukhwinder Singh Sagar said that Dr Mukhveer Singh gave an online lecture on ‘The Importance of Guru Teg Bahadur’s Teachings in Student Life’ besides urging the students to follow the path shown by great Gurus.Head of Punjabi department Prof Kulwant Singh encouraged the students to take inspiration from the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Acting Principal Sukhwinder Singh Sagar said that with the teachings of Guru Teg Bahadur, students can give the right direction to their lives and society as a whole.Others who took part in the deliberations included Madam Chantarkanta, Harpreet Kaur, Anjali Devi, Rakesh Kumar Khanna, Harman Singh Bhandal, Bhola Singh, Malkit Singh, Lal, Raj Kumar and all the college students appeared online through Zoom app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-teachings-of-9th-sikh-guru-teg-bahadur-248679
06-05-2021||---||BJP condemns ‘ruthlessness’ of Mamata Banerjee||Jalandhar, May 5Amid a strong pro-Mamata Banerjee sentiment prevailing in Punjab, post her victory in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders chose to highlight the issue of violence and vandalisation in their offices in Bengal, through a silent sit-in protest held at various locations today.Coinciding with her oath taking ceremony today, the party leaders specifically chose the day holding placards with messages against her and her party Trinamool Congress. The party leaders and workers also used social media to spread the message against her by using various hashtags, the most common being #RuthlessnessofMamta.All prominent leaders of the party, including ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia, ex-Mayor Sunil Jyoti and ex-CPS KD Bhandari participated in the demonstrations held at various important intersections and roundabouts of the city.Alleging the killing of democracy by TMC activists in West Bengal, activists of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Punjab too joined the protest. State president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Bhanu Pratap Rana said, “Whatever is happening in Bengal is not good for the democracy. BJP will never tolerate the blood-stained politics of those in power in Bengal.”BJYM state general secretary of state Dipanshu Ghai said, “Bengal is burning today. Our workers are calling our leaders every moment with just one request — to come and save them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-condemns-ruthlessness-of-mamata-banerjee-248671
06-05-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees highest single-day spike of 816 cases, 9 deaths||Jalandhar, May 5With record 816 cases, the Jalandhar tally climbed to 46,454 cases on Wednesday. Of these, 48 belonged to other districts. This is the highest single-day spike reported by the district so far. The district health authorities also reported nine death in the district, taking the toll to 1,122. At present, the district has 5,260 active cases and 40,072 people have recovered so far.4 die, 88 positive in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 88 persons tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 12,852 cases. Not only this, four persons succumbed to the virus. The deceased include a 56-year-old man from Phagwara; a 30-yeasr-old woman from Sikhdhwan Dona village Kapurthala; a 65-year-old woman from Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Kapurthala; and a 55-year-old man from Sultanpur Lodhi.3 die in NawanshahrNawanshahr: As many as 125 persons tested positive for Covid on Wednesday, while three persons succumbed to the virus. The deceased were in the 53-72 age group. With this, the total number of cases in the district stands at 9,154. The recovery rate is 90.35 per cent (8,271) and death rate is 2.72 sper cent (249) deaths. At present, there are 670 active cases in the district, of which 572 patients are in home isolation.7 die, 361 new positive in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven more Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 762, while 361 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 21,675.Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,093 and 18,820 patients had recovered from the virus.Of 361 positive cases, 16 were reported from other districts, 24 from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 321 from other health blocks of the district. Four patients of the district died in Hoshiarpur hospitals, two died in Jalandhar hospitals while one died at a Ludhiana hospital. — OCBSNL staff undergoes RT-PCR test Hoshiarpur: An RT-PCR testing camp was organised on the BSNL premises. District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh took more than 70 samples of the BSNL employees. Dr Singh said BSNL employees had been working as frontline warriors during the pandemic to maintain the telecom services in Hoshiarpur, hence they should take necessary preventions to prevent Covid infection. He said earlier, a vaccination camp was organised at the BSNL office where more than 100 personnel took their first dose of the Covid jab. PGM BSNL and Sanchar Nigam Executive Association Hoshiarpur team felicitated Dr Lakhvir Singh. On this occasion, DGM Pawan Kumar Sharma, DGM (Fin) Om Parkash, SNEA Joint Secretary (North) Jagtar Singh, SDE (Vig) Simarjit Thiara, SNEA President Amit Gupta, SNEA Treasurer Sohan Lal, SNEA Vice president Ajit Singh, Distt Secy AIGETOA Gaurav Pathak , AO Baljit Singh were also present. OCPSPCL office staff get the first jab Hoshiarpur: The Hoshiarpur distribution circle of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd organised a Covid vaccination camp on Tuesday on the directions of PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad. Er Parvinder Singh Khamba, Superintending Engineer Hoshiarpur circle, said 78 persons were vaccinated in the camp. Er Khamba asked all employees to get vaccinated by May 10. In a message, Er Parvinder Singh Khamba advised all PSPCL personnel to observe all necessary precautions seriously, especially wearing of face masks, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hand sanitisation. OCWebsite for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-816-cases-9-deaths-248672
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Adopt Covid appropriate behaviour to stop transmission of virus: MLA||Hoshiarpur, May 5Giving a clarion call to people that ‘let’s be warriors and barriers’ against Covid, the Chabbewal MLA, Dr Raj Kumar, on Wednesday met nearly 20 sarpanches to underline the need of proper adoption of Covid appropriate behaviour in their respective villages to put an end to further spread of infection in rural areas.Speaking about the drive, Dr Raj Kumar said that this initiative was aimed at educating more and more people through panchayats against the rural pandemic. He said that he would continuously meet sarpanches to give a fillip to the drive in larger public interest as the case fatality rate had been recorded 2.8 per cent in rural areas, which is four time high than 0.7 per cent in urban areas.Accompanied with a team of doctors, the MLA held marathon discussions with the sarpanches in Primary Health Centre Harta Badla to encourage them to sensitise maximum rural populace about the second wave of Covid and its effects. Dr Raj Kumar emphasised that only sincere adoption of Covid appropriate behaviour could halt the further transmission of infection so that people should not to be careless towards Covid guidelines at any level. He exhorted the sarpanches, other elected representatives, office-bearers of social and religious organisations to work together and in tandem to contain the virus.The MLA categorically mentioned that the state government, Health Department, civil and police administration were working round the clock to keep this virus at bay. At the same time representatives of different organisations must motivate people for timely testing and vaccination, said the MLA, adding that people should extend all possible help to medical teams in contact tracing as well as maintaining quarantine period without any fail. He also informed that as many as 10 medical teams were working in Harta Badla block for testing and vaccination in villages, factories and police posts. These teams have also administered 1,770 doses between May 1 and May 4, said Dr Raj Kumar, adding that the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to tackle any sort of exigency arising of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adopt-covid-appropriate-behaviour-to-stop-transmission-of-virus-mla-248674
06-05-2021||---||Phagwara SHO acts against vendor in Bollywood style, faces suspension after video goes viral||Phagwara, May 5As SHO City Phagwara Navdeep Singh and his team went to Sarai Road this afternoon to take action against vegetable vendors who had kept their carts along the road against police directions, he chose to act in a typical Bollywood style.Opening the door of his vehicle, he alights from it and goes straight to a vendor and kicks a basketful of green chilies that was put up for sale. Scared, all vendors scattered here and there. The act of the SHO, which was probably intended at terrorising vendors, got recorded in a 15-second video clip and immediately went viral. As the viral video reached the senior police officials, the SHO was immediately placed under suspension for his ‘wrong behaviour’.Kanwardeep Kaur, SSP Kapurthala As a member of a disciplined force, such behaviour is against service rules and unwarranted. Taking strict action against the officer, he has been immediately placed under suspension. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against him. The officers of Kapurthala police have contributed from their salaries for providing compensation to the vegetable vendor. We are committed to serving the people of Kapurthala with sincerity and honesty and any such act by any officer shall be strictly dealt with.DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta also had to take to Twitter to clarify the stand as he wrote: “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences.” Even SSP Kapurthala Kanwardeep Kaur was made to rush to Phagwara and take action against the SHO.He was immediately replaced by Inspector Balwinder Pal Singh.The SSP also issued a release to the media, in which she wrote: “Today, a video that was in circulation on various social media platforms came to my notice. In this video, SHO City Phagwara Navdeep Singh was seen damaging the property of a street side vegetable vendor. As a member of a disciplined force, such behaviour is against service rules and unwarranted. Under the supervision of DGP Punjab, the Punjab Police have been working at the forefront of the war against Covid-19 for over a year now and has served the people of Punjab with dedication. During this, we have also lost many officers to Covid-19. But this kind of a behaviour brings a bad name to the entire force. Taking strict action against the officer, he has been immediately placed under suspension. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against him. The officers of Kapurthala police have contributed from their salaries for providing compensation to the vegetable vendor. We are committed to serving the people of Kapurthala with sincerity and honesty and any such act by any officer shall be strictly dealt with.”It is learnt that for the past many days, the cops had been asking vendors who used to park their carts at Sarai Road here for retail sale, not to leave it at a particular place and instead move about in colonies for door-to-door supply. The nearly 100 stranded vendors in the area had been resulting in crowding, which the administration could not allow in the prevailing circumstances. The SHO, instead of getting challans issued or taking some action, kicked the produce of a vendor, which got recorded. He hence invited action against himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-sho-acts-against-vendor-in-bollywood-style-faces-suspension-after-video-goes-viral-248677
06-05-2021||---||Opt for home delivery, says Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner||Kapurthala, May 5In view of the current situation prevailing in the state, the Covid spread can be stopped only by strictly following the restrictions imposed by the Punjab Government.Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal said in view of the raging pandemic, the Punjab Government has given permission to open essential shops selling groceries, medicines, fruits, vegetables, milk and poultry products such as eggs, meat, agriculture related shops etc till 5 pm. She appealed to the people to make maximum use of home delivery keeping in view the rising Covid cases in the state.The DC said she had visited many markets where some shopkeepers were not following social distancing, due to which there was still a risk of Covid spread from sabzi mandis. She also said during a sampling carried out by the officials during their visit to Phagwara Sabzi Mandi, 20 persons had tested positive, which was a matter of concern.The DC further said the district administration had been short of vaccines for the past two days but now the stock has been replenished. “Nearly 70 per cent of these doses would be given as second dose while the remaining 30 per cent would be given to the people above 45 years of age,” she said.She further said the DC further said in Nangal Lubana, Sultanpur Lodhi, Bholath 100 per cent vaccination has been done.‘ITIHAS’ portal to keep tab on Covid-19 patients, says RiyaitHoshiarpur: The district administration is set to use top-notch technology to contain the virus spread in Hoshiarpur as DC Apneet Riyait (in pic) on Wednesday directed the authorities to keep a close tab on super-spreaders through the ITIHAS portal.Chairing a joint meeting with officials of the civil and police administrations and the Health Department, the DC said the Punjab Government and the Chennai IIT had made joint efforts to prepare the portal, which would use mobile locations of Covid-affected persons to track their moments.She said data would be examined by health officials to monitor the most travelled area by the Covid-affected people for 15 days to further declare the containment zones in tiny streets and markets. She also mentioned that the special testing camps would be launched in the identified areas so that the screening of everyone living in such localities could be done at the earliest. Riyait also appointed Assistant Commissioner Kirpalveer Singh as the nodal officer to monitor the implementation of this portal so that the virus spread could be checked.The DC said the collective efforts of all of us could only prevent this new wave of the infection. She lauded the efforts of the entire team of the Health Department in this ongoing war against the invisible enemy and urged all officials to put in more effort into this war. She added that about 3,500-4,000 tests were being done in Hoshiarpur daily, which is a crucial step to contain the virus spread.She asked all SDMs to get the testing in fruit-vegetable and grain markets conducted regularly. She called upon people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as it was the only key to break the chain, adding that people should step out of their homes only when it was unavoidable. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opt-for-home-delivery-says-kapurthala-deputy-commissioner-248678
06-05-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner expresses concern over shortage of blood||To ensure sufficient availability of blood in hospitals amid pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday directed the Red Cross Society to organise small blood donation camps to cater to the needs of patient suffering from chronic diseases.The DC stated that it had come to his notice that there had been a halt on blood donation camps since the pandemic had begun resulting into shortage of blood in the blood banks. He further added that patients suffering from cancer, thalassemia, and some maternity cases required blood during the treatment, hence holding small blood donation camps would be helpful for them.The DC asked the Red Cross Society to rope in different NGOs working in this direction and hold camps to tackle blood shortage in the hospitals as it would save many precious lives.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra stated that as per latest orders issued by the Union Health Ministry, people vaccinated for Covid-19 were advised to donate blood after the completion of 14 days of each of the doses adding that the non-vaccinated people can continue with the blood donation in routine. He called upon people to come forward for the blood donation as a humane gesture to help distressed patients. — TNS‘A humane gesture’District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra stated that as per latest orders issued by the Union Health Ministry, people vaccinated for Covid-19 were advised to donate blood after the completion of 14 days of each of the doses adding that the non-vaccinated people can continue with the blood donation in routine. He called upon people to come forward for the blood donation as a humane gesture to help distressed patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-expresses-concern-over-shortage-of-blood-248682
06-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Sushil Prashar: He is busy updating jobs, careers during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5In order to provide placement to students and unemployed persons in these challenging times, Sushil Prashar, head, department of training, entrepreneurship and placement cell of DAVIET colleges, has come up with a portal to create awareness among job aspirants.Prashar daily posts hundreds of vacancies available in different companies across the country.Sushil Prashar, has come up with a portal to create awareness among job aspirantsIt's hard to see when students don't get jobs, despite having requisite degrees and diplomas. As a part of my campaign, I update around 10,000 plus jobs in a month. I also ask students to work on employability skills and self- confidence.He said as per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data, unemployment rate has declined up to 6.5 per cent in January 2021 from 9.1 per cent in December 2020. Moreover, the employment rate has surged to 37.9 per cent as compared 36.9 per cent last year.Therefore, amid declining rate of campus placements, he has started a campaign ‘Prayas, an initiative to boost employability status of Punjab’.After launching the campaign in the last week of February, he claims to have notified over 40,000 vacancies available in several fields, including engineering, data science, digital marketing, software engineering, cyber security, web developer, pharmaceutical, business analysts and management, marketing.Prashar said, “It’s hard to see when students don’t get jobs, despite having requisite degrees and diplomas. A large number of youngsters have been contacting me to seek information related to jobs from the last year. Hence, after surveying and analysing job trends in various industries, I took the onus to create awareness on types of jobs available and skill sets required. As a part of my campaign, I update around 10,000 plus jobs in a month. I also ask students to work on employability skills and self confidence.”Through his updates, job seekers can also directly contact the listed companies. “Technology has been a game-changer during the pandemic with corporates showing a huge appetite for digitisation. Clearly, IT sector has been the least impacted when it comes to hiring. With more companies adopting the route of digital transformation, IT sector doubled its manpower,” said Prashar, who can be contacted on Prashar_sushil@yahoo.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sushil-prashar-he-is-busy-updating-jobs-careers-during-pandemic-248685
