07-05-2021||---||Record surge: 950 positive cases, 12 deaths in district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6The health authorities reported 950 positive in Jalandhar district on Thursday. With this, the total cases increased to 47,404. It’s for the first time that nearly 1,000 cases surfaced in the district, which is the highest single-day rise ever witnessed since the pandemic hit the nation.The highest number of deaths during the Covid second wave were also reported in the district today. A total of 12 persons lost their lives, thus taking the toll to 1,134.With hospitals already making do with bare minimum in terms of oxygen and supply of essential medicine (Remdesivir), the continous spike in cases, surpassing previous days’ numbers, has been giving sleepless nights to health officials and the administration.While Level-III Covid beds in the district were filled to 80 per cent capacity on Wednesday, the record rise in cases along with the influx of patients from other states has had many hospitals complaining about deteriorating situation.Until yesterday, the district had 5,260 active cases which, with 950 more positive cases has risen to 6210. Due to the strike by the NRHM employees, formal health bulletin was not released in the district today.Of 950 people who tested positive today, majority were between 30 years to 45 years.237 fresh cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 764, while 237 new cases pushed the infection tally to 21,912. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases was 2,052, while 19,096 patients had recovered. On Thursday, 29 positive patients belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while eight cases were reported from other districts and remaining 200 patients were from other health blocks of the district.The total number of samples of Covid-19 taken in the district till date is 4,71,509, of which, 4,46,867 were negative, while 5,960 report were still awaited and 202 samples were invalid. Among the dead were a 52-year-old Hajipur village resident, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, and a 28-year-old Chhatta Bazaar Hoshiarpur city resident, who died at Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur.Nawanshahr reports 149 casesThe district reported 149 new Covid cases on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 9,303. Maximum cases came from Balachaur (43) followed by urban Nawanshahr (32), while no death was reported from the district on Thursday. The number of active cases in Nawanshahr is 785, of which 751 are from the district itself, and remaining 34 out of district.After rise in Covid cases, five containment zones have been created in the district. The recovery rate has also reduced to 89.25 per cent. At present, 68 patients are admitted in Level-II Covid care facility and 15 in Level-III Covid care facility in local hospitals.5 deaths in KapurthalaThe district reported 240 positive cases and five deaths on Thursday. Among those who lost their battle against the deadly virus were five residents from Phagwara city aged 30, 52, 62 and 72 years. A 75-year-old woman from Kasso Chahal village of Kapurthala was also among the victims. The death toll has touched 355, while the number of positive cases now stands at 13,086. The district now has 1,055 active cases after the discharge of 124 patients from various hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/record-surge-950-positive-cases-12-deaths-in-district-249352
07-05-2021||Jalandhar||Nurse relieved from duty as family alleges negligence||A staff nurse of the Sub Divisional Hospital, Phagwara, has been relieved from her duty, after family members of a patient alleged negligence on her part. On the directions of Kapurthala Civil Surgeon, Dr Parminder Kaur, the staff nurse has been moved to the community health centre, Panchat.In a complaint to SMO Kamal Kishore, husband (Balveer Singh) of deceased Jasvir Kaur (57) alleged: “After condition of my wife deteriorated, she was taken to a private hospital in Phagwara, from where she was referred to the Phagwara Civil Hospital (Sub Divisional Hospital). The staff nurse used foul language with us and did not listen to us for 10 minutes. After the intervention of the SMO, she put the patient on oxygen, who died soon after.”Tomas Sethi, kin of Jasvir, said: “She refused to entertain us for around 10 minutes saying the SMO is unnecessarily sending patients to them. Then we called the SMO. We checked on the patient again and saw no oxygen supply was given to her. Later, an injection and oxygen was given to the patient, but it was too late.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurse-relieved-from-duty-as-family-alleges-negligence-249354
07-05-2021||---||Comedian booked for flouting Covid norms at her wedding||Our CorrespondentPhagwara, May 6Breaking Covid protocol during her marriage on April 26 has landed comedian Sugandha Mishra in the soup. She has been booked by the Phagwara police under Section 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act after a video showing many people attending her wedding reportedly went viral recently.The Phagwara police have also booked and arrested Deepak Kumar, manager of the venue Hotel Cabbana falling on Jalandhar-Phagwara road, for breaking the Covid safety protocol and violating the restrictions imposed by the district magistrate. The comedian, who hails from Jalandhar, had got married to Dr Sanket Bhonsle of Mumbai.While at the time of marriage, only 20 persons were allowed, the video footage shows more people, said Senior Superintendent of the Police Kanwardeep Kaur while confirming the arrest of the manager of Hotel Cabbana. She said while Mishra and manager had been booked by name, all those who attended the function and violated the norms would also be taken to task. “We have learnt that Sugandha Mishra is not available locally, so we will send her the notices and follow all legal procedures,” said the SSP.SP Sarabjit Singh Bahia said a video from the wedding went viral on the social media and came to the notice of the police and hence the action got initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/comedian-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-at-her-wedding-249356
07-05-2021||---||Five of a family, including  3 minors, killed in accident||Our CorrespondentMahilpur, May 6Five members of a family were killed after the motorcycle they were riding on collided head-on with a car near Jaitpur village on the Chandigarh-Garhshankar-Hoshiarpur road this afternoon. The car driver, his sister and her friend were also seriously injured in the collision.According to information, Rajesh Kumar (27), son of Hari Singh, a resident of Nangal Choran village, was riding his bike along with wife Kamaldeep (25) and three daughters— Ananya (04), Ishika (02) and Nishu (01). They were coming from Barian Kalan village and going towards Hoshiarpur. While overtaking a tractor-trolley near Jaitpur Adda, their bike was hit by a car coming from the opposite direction. In the accident, Rajesh Kumar, his wife Kamaljeet, daughter Ishika and Nishu died on the spot, while third daughter, Ananya, died on the way to the hospital. Car driver Rupinder Singh, his sister Inderjit Kaur and Inderjit’s friend were seriously injured in the accident. The Chabbewal police reached the spot and started investigation by taking both the vehicles in its possession. The bodies were sent to the hospital for postmortem while injured were admitted to the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-of-a-family-including-3-minors-killed-in-accident-249357
07-05-2021||---||Lull in one market vs spectre of crowd in another||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6The decision of the state government to allow a certain section of traders and shopkeepers to keep functioning while ordering others to observe a mini lockdown is presenting a picture of stark contrast. This is not just causing a lot of resentment among people but also not serving the purpose of keeping Covid at bay. Traders’ forum flays mini-lockdownThe idea behind the same was to have a kind of mini lockdown wherein essential services could continue while those selling garments, footwear, cosmetics, electrical, electronic items, gift items and accessories would remain shut. Since the similar kind of shops in the city are located in one area, this has led to overcrowding in markets like Mandi Fenton Ganj where scores of shopkeepers sell grocery items in wholesale and at the same time complete lull in Phagwara Gate, where nearly 450 shops selling electrical and electronic items are lying closed for the past nearly five days.The shopkeepers of Phagwara Gate market led by President Amit Sehgal said, “There is no point keeping some businessmen completely idle for weeks as this will only lead to frustration and loss of time and money. We need to evolve some other way to ensure that everyone is able to run business and make some regular earning and at the same time there is no crowding, panic and social distancing is properly maintained. We can restrict the working hours for public further but complete closure can have very detrimental effects for we really do not know as to how long it is going to last. Our trade is already getting affected for almost a year.”Meanwhile, despite meetings organised with Jalandhar-1 SDM Jai Inder Singh, the rush at the Fenton Ganj market is yet to be tamed. The market, falling near railway station area, is already very congested with narrow lanes and retailers keep on making a beeline the whole day to get daily need items from the wholesalers here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lull-in-one-market-vs-spectre-of-crowd-in-another-249359
07-05-2021||Being an ancient city||Reminiscence of  Mughal era||The serai was constructed on the orders of Noor Jahan in 1618 AD under the supervision of Zakariya Khan, the then Governor of the Doab. Made in red sandstone, it has intricate carvings depicting birds, elephants, camels, fairies and humans. As a patron of arts and architecture, the Empress is credited with many artistic and architectural achievements. Several mosques, serais, tombs and gardens were built on her name, including this one.The sarai was a resting place for travellers during the Mughal era on the Lahore-Agra route. The growing importance of trade and commerce during their rule led to the construction of a network of roads that connected some commercially important places. Along the sides of these roads, shady trees were planted, wells were dug up and sarais constructed.Due to its prime location on an important trade route, the Noormahal sarai brought in a lot of tariff for Noor Jahan. For the same reason, the sarai was built on a site measuring 551 sq ft. It had over 100 rooms for travellers, of which just aroud 40 are still present.The approach to the sarai now has shops on either side with narrow lanes, typical of any old town. It’s built like a fortress with walls and fortification on all sides. There are octagonal towers at each corner of the gateway.While the double-storey main gate (also called the Lahori Gate or the Western Gateway) of the sarai still stands, the Delhi or the Eastern Gateway has partly crumbled. These are bounded by rooms on three sides. All rooms in the sarai have an arched porch and a verandah. However, all rooms and even the staircase leading to the top have been blocked now. There is also a deep well in the complex covered with an iron grill for safety reasons. The entire central area has lawns.This relic of the past is now a protected monument and is being maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reminiscence-of-mughal-era-249361
