08-05-2021||Jalandhar||No let-up: 10 deaths, 527 new cases surface in Jalandhar||With 527 new cases in the district, the Jalandhar Covid tally reached 47,931 today. With 12 persons losing their lives in the district, the total deaths reached 1,144 today.In view of the strike by NRHM employees, the formal health bulletin was also not released in the district for the second consecutive today.Meanwhile, the district administration added 72 Level II and III beds at Covid facilities today – which include 28 Level II beds and 44 Level III beds.At Kapurthala, 142 persons tested positive for Covid and four deaths were reported today. The deceased include a 77-year-old man from Kapurthala, a 66-year-old man from Meere village, a 68-year-old man from Deepwal and a 58-year-old man from Phagwara.27-year-old among seven fall prey to virus in HoshiarpurOut of 3,996 reports received in the district, 266 persons tested positive for Covid-19. With 11 more persons from the district reported positive from other districts, the tally reached 22,189. The health authorities reported seven deaths, including that a 27-year-old youth. With this, the death toll reached 771.Of the new positive cases, 36 cases were related to Hoshiarpur city, while remaining were from different health blocks of the district. Three deaths were reported from the Hoshiarpur hospitals, Two from Jalandhar hospitals and one each from Dasuya Civil Hospital and a private hospital at Ludhiana.Two die in NawanshahrThe district reported 79 cases on Friday while two lost their lives to the deadly virus. A 60-year-old man from Urban Rahon died at a hospital in Nawanshahr, and a 40-year-old man from Muzaffarpur succumbed to the virus at PGI Chandigarh. The district tally has now reached 9,382. The recovery rate in the district is 89.59 percent. As many as 656 patients are recovering in home isolation. At present, 759 active cases are there in the district. As many as 74 patients are admitted in the Level-II Covid care facility and 18 in Level-III facility at local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-let-up-10-deaths-527-new-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-249749
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||20-day-old infant wins battle against Covid-19||A 20-day-old baby boy from Kapurthala on Friday won the battle against the virus and was discharged.Gurdeep Singh, father of the infant, recalled the nightmarish experience that he and his family had to go through. “Our excitement of having a new family member was short-lived as our baby developed high fever and got seizures just days after his birth. Our little baby has undergone so much pain and tough treatment right at his birth. It was painful to see him take RT-PCR tests and breathe through oxygen mask for two days. His skin had to be repeatedly punctured for various tests and taking blood samples. Besides, the infant had to undergo chest X-rays, which confirmed patches of pneumonia. Thankfully, the bad phase is over for us,” said the father, holding the baby lovingly in his lap as he got a picture clicked with staff of Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, where his child remained admitted for treatment.What father has to sayGurdeep Singh, father of the infant, recalled the nightmarish experience that he and his family had to go through. Our excitement of having a new family member was short-lived as our baby developed high fever and got seizures just days after his birth. Our little baby has undergone so much pain and tough treatment right at his birth. It was painful to see him take RT-PCR tests and breathe through oxygen mask for two days.Dr Jatinder Singh (professor in the Department of Paediatrics) said, “Seeing prevalence of the infection in children, we had already created a four-bed Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) with our expert team. The baby boy, Sukhdeep Singh, had to be put on the Continuous Positive Air Pressure (CPAP) machine for three days and on oxygen for two days. He was given treatment for 10 days and was discharged in a healthy condition. Our team worked day and night to take care of the little one.”Dr Jatinder added, “During the first wave, we never experienced children/newborns affected by the virus, but during the second wave, we are seeing a rise in the number of paediatric Covid-19 cases.” He said this was the first case of a Covid-positive neonate at PIMS and a big challenge for the team. We are happy to discharge the patient in a healthy condition.The doctor advised, “In case a baby is Covid-positive, parents need not panic. Mothers must not stop breastfeeding their babies. The mother should breastfeed by taking all precautions like wearing N-95 mask, gloves and gown. The mother must keep her mouth on one side while feeding child to avoid direct contact with child.” Dr Jatinder said it was very important to get their second dose of the vaccine on time.Amit Singh, Resident Director of PIMS, said, “It gives us much satisfaction that our team of doctors have saved a newborn and made him reunite with the family. During the second wave, kids will be more vulnerable as they are not vaccinated. We should avoid going to crowded places or larger gatherings and continue to make them follow the protocols of social distancing, wearing mask and hand sanitisation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-day-old-infant-wins-battle-against-covid-19-249751
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Woman made to wait for husband’s body for 3 days||The lackadaisical attitude of the Civil Hospital administration came to the fore when a woman on Friday alleged that she was made to wait for the body of her deceased husband for nearly three days. Though the body had been kept in the mortuary, it was not handed over to her in the past three days.Suman, a resident of Adda Hoshiarpur area, said, “My husband Jatinder Singh passed away at around 9.30 am on May 5. He had fever and was complaining of uneasiness. I brought him to the emergency ward, but doctors told me that he was no more. I tried to get his body to perform the last rites but to no avail.”She alleged that she had been spending hours for the past two days shuttling between the emergency ward and the mortuary requesting doctors that she should be handed over her husband’s body but no one was paying a heed to her requests. Asked if her husband had died due to Covid, she replied, “I really do not know. He died even before he could be tested and treated for anything.”The helpless woman narrated her saga, “I think the doctors got irritated as my 26-year-old daughter came with me for getting the body n Thursday. She was disappointed at the state of affairs and vent out her ire against the doctors. Since then, I am facing more problems. My daughter is in depression. I have given her sleeping pills today so that I can come here.”As the matter went viral, mediapersons reached the site. An ASI came rushing in and got the body released. She was provided PPE kits and the cremation of her husband was finally done with the help of administrative staff by following Covid norms.Dr Kamraj, mortuary in-charge, said, “I have learnt that the woman wanted to take the body of her husband home which could not be allowed as doctors suspected it to be a case of Covid. She came to me this afternoon for the first time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-made-to-wait-for-husbands-body-for-3-days-249753
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Civil Hospital runs out of vaccine||With 50 patients still queued up at the Civil Hospital to get themselves inoculated, the hospital ran out of vaccine on Friday afternoon. As a result, many beneficiaries had to return. Authorities said queues were witnessed residents turned up without registering on the app.The vaccine drive for those above 45 years has picked up pace as around 10,000 to 11,000 people were getting vaccinated daily. The drive for 18 plus has got off to a rough start in the district. On May 6, 6,148 people were administered the dose. Today 250 vials were given to the Civil Hospital while 200 to Basti Gujan centre. Officials said 70 vaccine centres in the district were operational.Ashwini Kumar (52), who went to get jabbed along with his wife, brother and sister-in-law, said, “We were waiting for our turn at the Civil Hospital since 12 pm and around 2 pm there was no vaccine left. We went there after due registration on the app. When we asked the reason, staff said there was no vaccine and asked us to come back again on May 8 at 10 am.”District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “There was some shortage of vaccine at the Civil Hospital. This is being primarily caused due to those who turn up without registration. We are telling people to come with proper registration, but some do not listen. They carry expensive mobiles, but ask staff to get register them. On May 8, we anticipate release of 6,000 vials and things are expected to smoothen up.”NHM employees’ strike enters fifth dayThe National Health Mission employees strike entered the fifth day here on Friday. It is noteworthy that NHM employees are working for the past 12-15 years on meager wages apart from their regular counterparts. They are demanding regularisation of their services since long. Now, when whole country is passing through a tough time, these contractual employees raised their demand of the regularisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civil-hospital-runs-out-of-vaccine-249755
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Patron of sports, UK NRI is transforming his village||He’s been settled in the UK for the past 64 years, but the love of his roots remains strong in him. A humanist, philanthropist and sports enthusiast, octogenarian Santokh Bassi has been a great help for his village as he has transformed the sports culture and youths of the village.A sprawling stadium, generous help for the gurdwara, a sports academy, a 20-year-old sports tournament and extending help to every needy person knocking his door are some of the welfare works done by him.“Meri eh soch hai apne ton chhote di madad karo taki oh vi tuhade jinna ban jave (I feel that one should help those with lesser resources so that they can rise to your level),” says Bassi.A retailer at Birmingham in the UK, he has had a string of businesses and dabbled in retail as well as real estate in the UK. One of his prized possessions at his Birmingham home is the Queen’s personal congratulatory message to him and his wife on their diamond wedding anniversary on December 17, 2020, which is framed with the Queen’s picture. His grandson now oversees his real estate business. However, his love for his motherland remains strong.Bassi says, “I’m very happy in the country I’m living in. The healthcare is such that I have been receiving medicines free of cost at home since the outbreak of the pandemic. But I am aware of my roots and I have a wish that my village develops and its youngsters touch new peaks of success. The 20-year-old Sardar Hakam Singh Bassi Memorial Tournament, which is named after my father, was started with this aim. It’s been 20 years and we host all kinds of sports to encourage youngsters. The football academy has also been there for the past 20 years. We wanted to raise a state-of-the-art stadium for village youngsters for practice. With the help of some good thinking citizens, we built a stadium there.”Bassi extends his helping hand to his fellow countrymen in the UK too. He has helped many in getting jobs and been helping youngsters in the UK do work so that they can build their own homes.Even last year, amid the Covid pandemic, he came to his village to celebrate his 80th birth anniversary. However, he returned soon after due to illness. He says when the Covid pandemic is over, he would be coming again.Bassi has been making donations for the marriage of women, for providing medicines to needy persons during the pandemic and for educational institutions in the village. His contributions helped renovate a girls’ school. Similarly, the boys’ school at the village also received a facelift with funds contributed by him.He also contributes for sports activities at Rurka Kalan village. Gurmangal Dass, founder of Youth Football Club, Rurka Kalan, says, “He has been a patron of sports activities. The football academy at Bandala has been a lifeline for players of the region and Bassi has been giving grants for meeting sporting needs of students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patron-of-sports-uk-nri-is-transforming-his-village-249756
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Beyond policing: Cop pens a poetic appeal amid pandemic||A Sub-Inspector at the PAP, Youngbir Singh has written over 60 poems and four short stories over the pandemic period. He has recently written a poem in Punjabi, ‘Break the chain’. He also highlighted the pain that the people have to go through because of the virus and how important it is to ensure safety.‘Lod hai ajj door rehen di, car, bus ya train, mask na laiye kade, je samajh laiye eh gall main; je naa samjhe taa peedhuya takk hou pain; corona afat vaali chain, break the chain’ these are some of the lines from the poem he has penned down recently.The SI is also the in-charge of the horse-riding team that has been taking part in the national tournaments since 1990. He started writing during the lockdown last year. His first poem was, ‘Dosto aajao ik sallah banaiye, corona di afat nu gall toh laiye, aap bachiye te apneya nu bachaiye.’ Youngbir said he had also noticed that adopting norms such as social distancing and hand-washing can not save one from Covid only, but also other types of flu and infections as well.Recently, contributing his bit towards observing the Police Commemoration Day, Youngbir Singh wrote a poem titled ‘Khaki’. ‘Parivar Chadd mar mite jo, apnepan da ehsas kraande e, 21 October vaale din, khaki veer saputa layi sir jhukandi e’. The SI said that he goes to PAP every day, takes care of the horses, makes them exercise daily. Then he spends the entire day in the office.“I write in my free time and mostly on Sundays,” he said. He has also written on the importance of parents in life. He penned stories on several topics such as negative effects of the social media on children and female foeticide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beyond-policing-cop-pens-a-poetic-appeal-amid-pandemic-249759
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Blood shortage: Breather for thalassemics||The reduction in the deferral period for blood donation from 28 days to 14 has come as a relief as the blood banks had run dry owing to the vaccination drive. The decision was taken by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, on Wednesday. The task of arranging blood had become harder for NGOs and blood banks.Amid surge in Covid positive cases and intensified vaccination drive, the NGO reported to have serious dearth of rare blood groups. It is also directly affecting blood transfusion of thalassemia patients.Dearth of donorsVardhan Chaddha, a member of ‘The Blood Association’, while making an appeal to residents with AB+, O+, AB- and other negative blood group holders, to come forward to donate their blood before getting Covid vaccination injected, said, “It has been a month since we are facing shortage of blood units at both government and private blood banks. Almost all blood banks have nearly 8-12 blood units, which is alarming. If situation remains the same, we won’’t be able to help those in need of blood in the coming days. The consistent rise in Covid-19 caseload has severely impacted the blood donation.”Similarly, Trishla Sharma, a social worker, who looks after the regular blood transfusion of thalassemic children says, she has 24 thalassemia patients and needs 50 blood units monthly, however, the situation has become such that if she calls around 50 donors, only five turn up. “Earlier, we also had donors above 45 years of age, but now, due to Covid jab they aren’’t available for blood donation. Due to the Covid spread, youngsters also unavailable. It has been two weeks since she has been giving pick and drop facility to the donors,” she adds.Trishla further added that, after detailed deliberations with the experts, it has been decided to reduce the deferral period for blood donors to 14 days after receiving any dose of the Covid-19 vaccination, hence those who have been vaccinated, shouldn’’t worry and come forward for blood donation.After a gap of several weeks, Vardhan has also received permission to hold a blood donation camp at Red Cross Bhawan on Saturday. “Only 20 donors will be called for the donation, one at a time, and all precautions would be kept in place,” added Vardhan whose helpline number is 9780978181.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blood-shortage-breather-for-thalassemics-249777
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||19,500 ltr of lahan seized, destroyed||On the directions of Dr Harsimrat Grewal, Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Jalandhar-II, a raid was conducted at Baupur, Rampur and Thamowal villages in Shahkot block along the Sutlej river here on Friday. Last week also, a raid was carried out by the Excise Department in which a huge quantity of lahan was seized.Excise Inspector Resham Mahi, Excise Department officials and police personnel searched and confiscated unclaimed 21 tarpaulins of lahan and approximately 19,500 litres of lahan was destroyed on the spot and four iron drums and four vessels were recovered.The raid was conducted under the supervision of Excise Officer Harjot Bedi. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, was registered in this regard.Dr Harsimrat said raids were part of Op Red Rose. “Raids are being conducted to control illegal manufacture and sale of illicit liquor,” she said.Last week, Excise Department and police teams had destroyed 19,000 litres of lahan, besides recovering 180 bottles of illicit liquor, four iron drums, two rubber tubes, 19 plastic tarpaulin sheets, big iron drums and other utensils from the mand area of Veran and Dharme Dian Chhanna villages in Mehatpur block.Officials of the Excise and Taxation Department stated the reasons for why such illegal activities were being carried out mostly along the Sutlej. They said villages were situated far away from residential areas and there was an easy availability of water as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-500-ltr-of-lahan-seized-destroyed-249785
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Mini-lockdown: MP, MLAs, DC hold meeting with traders, market bodies||The district administration today assured the traders’ association that the demands of shops and other commercial establishments falling under the non-essential category would be brought into the notice of the state government to an amicable resolution to facilitate these traders.Hearing the issues of the traders’ association here at the District Administrative Complex, Member of Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh stated that they would apprise the state government about the genuine concerns of trading and shopkeepers fraternity so that their outlets could be opened following necessary restrictions.The MP accompanied by MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Sushil Rinku, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Surinder Chaudhary and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori held detailed discussions with representatives of various trade organisations.Chaudhary pointed out that a viable solution was being mulled by the authorities to allow operations of non-essential shops in a systematic manner. He said the DC would draft a proposal in this regard and send it to the state government for final approval after which new instructions would be enforced in the city.Meanwhile, the administration also sought feedback from various shopkeepers and market associations to evolve such a system where opening of shops and Covid appropriate behaviour could be maintained without any fail. Thori said the meeting was held with all representatives to evolve a consensus based mechanism to draft further restrictions keeping in view the requirements of various stratum of the market. He said the feedback would be sent to the government and after the approval of the same it would be implemented from Monday.The DC also apprised representatives of various trade organisations of the current situation in the district especially when there was a shortage of beds and oxygen supply and cases were rising at an alarming rate. He urged people not to step out of their homes unnecessarily. The DC also encouraged the shopkeepers to form committees to monitor the implementation of Covid appropriate behavior, including social distancing, sanitisation, face-masking for everyone, and activities in a segregated manner.Prominent among others present on the occasion included SSP Dr Sandeep Garg, Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, Jasbir Singh, DCP Gurmeet Singh and representatives of various trade and market associations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mini-lockdown-mp-mlas-dc-hold-meeting-with-traders-market-bodies-249794
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Opening liquor vends, not book shops, draws flak from residents||The government decision to keep some markets shut and others open is drawing flak from various sections. Residents are fuming over the fact that while the city’s books market has been ordered to be kept closed for the past nearly a week but the liquor vends are allowed to function.Infuriated over the decision, the residents are discussing it in their circles of friends, putting up posts on social media and passing comments terming it completely illogical.Harbinder Singh, a resident, said he was surprised to see the entire Mai Hiran Gate market of book shops closed on Thursday. He said he was bemused to note that the books were a non-essential item as per the government orders but liquor shops were essential commodities and were allowed to be open in every corner.Mukesh Sharma, another resident, commented that the decision only showed that the government was not bothered about the public but instead source of income mattered more to it.City-based Puneet Pal Singh Monga too took a jibe on the situation, “While earlier the slogan was ‘Bapu ji na piyo sharab, meinu le deyo ik kitab’ (Father, please don’t consume liquor, get me a book), now it had changed to ‘Bapu ji, tusin piyo sharab, jawakan ne ki karni kitab’ (Father, you may consume liquor, kids do not need books).”Ravinder Ravi too took to social media to write, “In India, education rarely gets priority and what else we expect from the leaders who themselves are illiterate. Here liquor is panacea for everything.”Some netizens are also advising their friends not to venture out in the markets in these days of Covid-19. “Books and other stationery items, required for online classes, can be ordered online. Not a big issue. Let’s stop finding negativity in every single step being taken by the government in preventing the Covid spread,” stresses Jasmine Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opening-liquor-vends-not-book-shops-draws-flak-from-residents-249795
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Cops honoured||Webinar on Organic FarmingThe Faculty of Agricultural Sciences (FAS) at DAV University organised a webinar on the topic ‘Scope and importance of organic farming in India’. Dr JP Saini, Prof and Head, Department of Organic Agriculture and Natural Farming, CSK HPKV, Palampur, was the resource person. The event started with the introduction of the topic to the participants by Dr AH Reddy, Assistant Prof, FAS followed by recitation of “Gaytri Mantra”. Dean Academics (Officiating), DAV University, Dr RK Seth formally welcomed the speaker and introduced the speaker to the audience. Dr JP Saini explained in detail the scope and benefits of organic farming. He stressed on the need of organic farming in India and discussed the historical background of the organic agriculture, implications of use of chemicals in agriculture, principles of organic farming, components of organic farming, scientific evidences with respect to yield comparisons from national and international institutes, challenges in organic farming and way forward.Capacity building workshopOn the occasion of capacity building workshop organised at Hindu Kanya College, Prof Ujjwal K Chowdhury, Pro-Vice Chancellor of ADMAS University, Kolkata, stated that pandemic has created many learning opportunities for teaching community of the country. Prof Chowdhury was addressing the participants to explain the second criteria of Self Study Report of NAAC which includes Teaching, Learning and Evaluation. “The days of traditional teaching methods are over now. In future, it is going to be digitised teaching or blending teaching and for that teachers have to be verse with technology and various software applications,” he said. He also gave tips and techniques to all participants to make their teaching more effective and innovative.Motherhood in challenging timeIn Innocent Hearts School, a webinar depicting the role of a mother in family with the theme ‘Motherhood in Challenging Time’ was conducted. The eminent personalities in this webinar — Dr Sushma Chawla, gynaecologist from Jalandhar, Pooja Bose, Principal, High Range School from Kerala, Vinodita Sankhyam, CBSE Resource Person from Amritsar, and Aarti Ahuja, holistic healer from Gujarat, expressed their views. The moderator was Sharmila Nakra, Cultural Head of Innocent Hearts and motivational speaker. The invited guests praised and appreciated the role of the mother in this difficult time, but at the same time explained to them that they should not compromise their health while taking care of everyone. Pooja Bose and Vinodita Sankhyam gave tips to all mothers on how to organise themselves and encourage children to study online.Talent FiestaIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society endeavoured to give a platform to the children to outshine their talent through Talent Fiesta. The event aimed at exploring and encouraging the multifarious talents of the new students from Classes I to XII which saw the participants competing in artistic creation, dance and music. Students showcased their talent by performing various art and craft activities like flower making, pot decoration and flower hanging. Principal S Chauhan also shared her expression and said that such kind of healthy competitions assert confidence and ebb stage fear. Development of a child in context of one’s creativity should be nourished and cherished. The president of Vasal education Society K K Vasal applauded the efforts put forth by the school to create such platforms to explore a child’s imagination and build confidence.Webinar on ‘Sell from India’The Department of B Voc management and secretarial practices of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a webinar on elevate “Make in India to sell from India”. The resource person for the webinar was Dr Harish Gautam, Business Instructor at College of New Caledonia, Prince George, Canada. During the webinar, Dr Harish made very important revelation that the main objective of ‘Make in India’ is to strengthen Foreign Exchange Reserves of India by selling these products to the world. Having rich and wide industrial experience, Dr Gautam explained that saving would not make people rich rather people should contribute to India’s growth by selling to the world and bring sales proceeds in foreign currency to India.Red Cross Day observedEklavya School celebrated the World Red Cross Day with enthusiasm. Poster making, speech competitions and drawing competitions were arranged on the occasion. Activities like drawing on topics covered by Red Cross like health, ‘Save Girl Child’, ‘No Racism’ etc were done. All students took part in these activities and competitions with lots of joy. Chairman JK Gupta cheered the students for participation. Director Seema Handa admired the students’ hard work. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-honoured-249796
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||‘Ajj Da Shabad’ in all govt schools||NRI comes up with essentialsJalandhar: Amid the pandemic, Hari Singh Auluck (77), an NRI-based at Kalyanpur village, has helped the villagers by donating essential medicines at the government health centre, so that the villagers don’t have to go far away for their treatment. He has been helping the villagers for several years. Master Gopal Singh Memorial Government High School, Kalyanpur, is no less than any leading school in the city. It has a beautiful, stylish building, a full-fledged science lab and a library brimming with a plethora of books. Students of the school have one person to thank – Auluck. He went to Canada around 50 years ago, but his heart lies here. TNSThree held with pistols, injectionsNawanshahr: The district police on Friday arrested three persons travelling in a Verna car at a naka and seized 60 intoxicant injections, pistols, nine magazines from them. A case has been registered against the accused under the Arms Act. The accused had looted the car at gunpoint on the Ropar-Nawanshahr road. The police said during interrogation, the accused also informed that to loot the Verna car, they had used a Swift car which they had also looted from the Garhshankar road. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ajj-da-shabad-in-all-govt-schools-249797
08-05-2021||Jalandhar||Community members step up to serve patients||For the past almost a week, a group of nearly 20 volunteers is involved in the preparation, packaging and delivery of cooked meals to about 80-odd Covid-hit families in Jalandhar twice a day.The volunteers are contributing for the purchase of raw and packaging material and getting the meals readied from the sewadars at Guru Nanak Mission Gurdwara here. They then move in different directions to deliver these packed thalis for lunch and dinner at homes and hospitals for the attendants.Charanjiv Lally and Jaspreet Singh, who are leading the group, say they are also delivering khichdi and porridge to patients suffering from stomach ailments.Three days ago, city-based NGO Gill Foundation donated 10 oxygen concentrators to the Red Cross Society to be used for Covid patients. NGO patron Raj Gill said he had made the donation as he felt no life should be lost due to lack of oxygen.Meanwhile, Jalandhar-based businessman Inderjit Paintal is recording motivational audios and sending those to Covid patients.He is also podcasting those on his portal “sageadvice.in” for all those experiencing mental stress. He has also formed a group “We care” with more than 50 psychologists through which he is connecting with students facing problems in online education, doing webinars especially for those in grief after losing a family member and even offering people 15-minute free counselling session with his panel of psychologists.These are just a few instances wherein the community has risen for the cause and is offering all help for the Covid-affected. There are at least five to six cooked food services being offered in Jalandhar alone. Several hoteliers, too, have joined hands for the cause.Various political leaders have also joined in for the cause. Congress leaders are primarily engaged in getting the government “Fateh kits” and free ration delivered to Covid patients. BJP leaders, too, have been offering free cooked meals on demand. SGPC chief Jagir Kaur has got readied a 25-bed facility at a resort in Bholath with oxygen and emergency services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/community-members-step-up-to-serve-patients-249652
