09-05-2021||---||‘Mother- A walking miracle’||Jalandhar, May 8Mother’s Day celebrations were held in schools on Saturday through dance and creative art forms to pay regards to women who are raising children and shaping them as a good person.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society organised the Mother’s Day celebrations. Kids were told that the day is all about to thank a mother for all the love she is showering and efforts she is putting in since the years. Ivy Kindergarten celebrated this most special day with lots of fun activities and some memorable performances. All children came up with their presentation of ramp walk with mothers, cooking without fire skills, songs and dance, to convey gratitude to their mothers for their unconditional love.The mothers as well as children had a splendid time together in various fun games planned by the educators. It was a pleasure watching the super excited moms with their dynamic and energetic children during these activities. It was a memorable day for every child that left an everlasting impression on their innocent hearts.S Chauhan, principal, Ivy World School, addressed and highlighted the multi-tasking abilities of super moms, from running homes as well as handling jobs . Chief of Vasal Education Society K K Vasal and Director Ena Vasal extended their greetings for the Mother’s Day to all mothers and educators and also addressed about the women empowerment.Nobel SchoolThe Nobel School has conducted online Mother’s Day activity. “In this world the second name of God is mother,” the little Nobelians were told. On the eve of the Mother’s Day, students from kindergarten to Class XII performed various activities, including dance, speech and express their thoughts for their mother. Some of the students has made cards for their mothers and prepared different dishes. All the students made videos and sent to their class incharges and teachers has selected best videos. Chairman Prof CL Kochhar and managing director Kumar Shiv Kochhar appreciated the efforts of all the students and said the mother is the first teacher of a child. So, we must respect our parents and make efforts to fulfill their dreams. At last all the activity incharges Neeta, Anita, Pooja and Neha presented gratitude.Innocent Hearts SchoolTo celebrate the everlasting bond of love and affection on the eve of the Mother’s Day, several activities were organised for students from pre-primary to college at Innocent Hearts. Mothers were also involved in the activities with the children. In pre-primary wing under the theme ‘Motherhood’, children danced with them while dedicating the song to their mother. The two wore identical costumes on the occasion. Additionally, a selfie with kids activity in ‘Mom and Kid’ was conducted where mothers shared their picture on school’s Facebook page. A nutritious recipe open contest was also organised on the occasion in which mothers participated with great enthusiasm and shared their video with their child while cooking. The Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a card making and collage making activity for college students. Students created beautiful cards and collages with creative ideas on which they wrote beautiful messages to their mother. Many participants also made beautiful pictures of their mother to express their love and respect and thanked her for her unlimited love. Some students expressed their love for mothers through the self-composed poems. In virtual classrooms, teachers encouraged the children to respect their parents and explained to them that they can express their love for them by helping their mothers in small tasks.State Public SchoolState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised many online activities to celebrate the Mother’s Day. The activities were planned for different classes to show their unconditional love and care for their mothers. Firstly, live classes ‘Cook with Zoom’ were arranged to encourage students to make a recipe (without fire) for their mothers. It was outstanding and students enjoyed it to the fullest. Chief Dr Narotam Singh and vice-president Gagandeep Kaur along with principal Savina Bahl, appreciated the efforts of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mother-a-walking-miracle-250109
09-05-2021||Diaspora residents' of seven countries gathered together on Zoom to discuss the effects of corona on the call of environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal. During the meeting Seechewal and the diaspora Punjabis discussed the impact of the second wave of Covid at places like Delhi and Mumbai and discussed that Punjab should not be similarly impacted. During the meet||Tackling Covid as a community||20 randomly picked vendors test positiveAs many as 20 randomly picked vendors tested positive during a visit of the SSP and the DC to mandis recently. During random checks by DC Deepti Uppal and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur on Tuesday 11 vendors at the main sabzi mandi and eight at another mandi tested positive for Covid. In all over 240 vendors, 20 tested positive. Notably, officials also said the vendors were freely mingling with the populace in the crowded mandis. Additional restrictions were also imposed at the mandis after these vendors tested positive. Deepti Uppal, in a video message recently addressed, "It is very important that we control the high positivity being reported. The peak hasn't come, it is still to come. We have to prepare ourselves for that. Even today, the rounds we do, we witness that social distancing norms are not being followed. Shopkeepers should make social distancing circles and people should abide by them. Home delivery should be prioritised by all citizens." The DC also asked people to get vaccinated on a priority basis - further adding that there had been reports of much limited spread of Covid in areas or among beneficiaries who got the jab. SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said, "Dedicated teams of SMOs are conducting testing at all places. There have been additional restrictions in the mandis as well. To control crowds in the mandis, wholesalers have been given priority and retailers have been restricted in the mandis. Secondly four vegetable hawkers have been designated to visit each ward to ensure provision of vegetables.Testing crosses three-lakh markCollection of Covid samples in Kapurthala district has crossed 3 lakh as in the wake of the second wave of Covid to identify the epidemic at early stage, the collection of samples being collected daily exceeding 3,000 against the earlier 1,800 to 2,000. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said 3,11,126 Covid tests had been conducted in the district till May 5, out of which 2,385 samples were taken on May 3, 3,145 on May 4 and 3,005 samples on May 5. She said that the district administration through various means of communication had given meaningful results to the people to get tested immediately on the onset of symptoms, as a result of which people are now coming forward for more tests. A total of 13,868 positive cases were detected from the samples taken so far, out of which 12,852 belonged to Kapurthala district and 1,016 to other districts. — Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tackling-covid-as-a-community-250111
09-05-2021||Garhshankar||Youth killed in road accident||Man dies after bike hits truckTalwara: A motorcyclist died after the bike he was riding on collided with a truck near Sabzi Mandi chowk in Talwara on Friday. Talwara police station in-charge Ajmer Singh Chahal and ASI Ram Singh told reporters that Gulshan Kumar, a resident of Sandpur No. 2 village, was going to his house from Sabzi Mandi Talwara when his bike collided with a truck. Seriously injured Gulshan Kumar was rushed to a private hospital in Jalandhar but died on the way. The police have taken both the vehicles in its custody. OC‘Make kids aware of Covid norms’Hoshiarpur: SSP Navjot Singh Mahal has exhorted teachers of the districts to take a special online session to make the students aware of the Covid appropriate behaviour. Writing a letter to principals of all schools in Hoshiarpur to get these special online sessions conducted to sensitise and educate the students and their families about the current situation of Covid and motivate them to be vigilant. The SSP said that it was the call of the day in larger public interest.All students should be encouraged to motivate their families, friends, neighbours and relatives to strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He said that people should not step out of their homes without any necessary purpose. He said that the police had intensified checking on major roads and also in the interior areas of the city. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-killed-in-road-accident-250112
09-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Mother’s Day: Tackling challenges in life head on||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8From an Olympian to a Sub-Inspector in the Punjab Police, Sunith Singh (50), a single mother has faced several ups and down in her life. However, one thing that remained constant was providing better education to her daughter.Born on September 17, 1970, Sunith is a former Indian judoka. She represented India at the 1996 Summer Olympics. She also won bronze medals in the 1995 Asian Judo Championships and in 1996 Commonwealth Championship, but life took a different turn after she got married in 1996 to her fellow Indian judoka, Narender Singh, an Arjun awardee, who had also represented India in both the 1992 Summer Olympics and in the 1996 Olympics.While she was working with a private company as a sports officer in Jamshedpur when her daughter was born, she had to giver up her job and leave sports so that she could be with her husband here.“My husband was posted here at PAP. For sound upbringing and better schooling of my daughter, I left sports. Having played over 20 international tournaments and several national championships, sports was a big miss, but raising my daughter appeared to be a bigger responsibility. And I decided to make my daughter an ace judo player. As life is full of surprising events, In 2002, when my daughter started going to school, an opportunity to become HoD sports at a private school knocked at my door. Analysing all the pros and cons, I took up the job and remained associated with sports. I enjoyed training young minds, including my daughter,” said Sunith.However, life isn’t a bed full of roses. She lost her husband in 2016. While Sunith was recovering from the trauma, she was offered to join the Punjab Police, as her husband was serving as the Superintendent of Police. Considering her young daughter’s future ahead, she joined the police as a judo coach.Before formally serving as a coach, at the age of 46, she underwent a mandatory training for three years, that remained physically challenging. But motivation to set an example for all mothers kept her going. “Instead of putting restrictions on our daughters, we should set them free. Give them the space to spread their wings and let them stand tall on their feet,” she said.Due to an injury, her daughter Sharon couldn’t continue with judo after state championships and is currently pursuing her higher studies abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mothers-day-tackling-challenges-in-life-head-on-250113
09-05-2021||Phagwara||Webinar on women and legal rights||Visionary Leader AwardAn international student Sm Sammam Sakti Ibn Sahadat from Bangladesh at Lovely Professional University selected to be honoured with 'Visionary Leader Award'. Occasion will be 4th Annual Imperial Society of Innovative Engineers India (ISIEINDIA) Excellence Award Ceremony to be held in June 2021 in Andhra Pradesh. Sammam was nominated under this 'Award category' for his outstanding services to promote best practices and contribute towards making India a true superpower. Every year, ISIEINDIA recognises individuals/ institutions/ organisations those have distinguished themselves by remarkable academic accomplishments, outstanding work, exemplary professional services, and personal excellence. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the truly internationalisation-spirited and promising student on getting global recognitions at an early age.World Athletics Day observedJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya commemorated World Athletics Day by organising a week long celebrations. The celebrations were organised by department of physical education. During the celebrations, students made posters, slogans and also shared their videos doing yoga and exercises to express the significance of this day. Students have uploaded their videos doing different exercises and have encouraged people to spend some time on exercise which will boost their health and immunity. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that sports are not related to the sportspersons only, but it should be the part of life of every citizen. She averred that KMV has a very rich history of sports as it has always been the forerunner in all the sports activities. She further maintained that the sports of science emphasises on the holistic development of a person in all her aspects such as physical, mental and psychological.Exam resultsThe students of BCA and MCA have brought laurel to Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus in the results of Department of IT declared by IKG Punjab Technical University recently. In MCA V, Amanpreet Kaur, Avtar Lal, Mandeep Kaur, Ekus Bhogal, Pooja and Ritika scored 8.75 SGPA, Neha Rani scored 8.67 SGPA, Vishali scored 8.54 SGPA, Heeralala and Kanika Arora scored 8.46 SGPA. In MCA III Parjot Kaur scored 8 SGPA, Himani scored 7.69 SGPA. In BCA V, Nikita Nayyar scored 9.46 SGPA, Lovepreet and Vartika scored 9.29 SGPA, Anchal Saini, Monika, Sonia Devi and Vishali scored 9.13 SGPA, Dilpreet Singh scored 9.04 SGPA. In BCA III, Heena Rani scored 9.13 SGPA, Ramandeep, Shivam Sangar and Tanvi scored 9 SGPA, Mithlesh Nirmal scored 8.96 SGPA. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents for their achievement.Capacity Building WorkshopKapurthala: In the seven-day capacity building workshop, being organised by Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Hindu Kanya College, Pro-Vice Chancellor of Central University of Himachal Pardesh Prof Yogender Verma today addressed the webinar. Prof Verma cited the need of sustainable quality and how it can be achieved. "Only quality can bring distinctiveness to any educational institute for achieving quality, one has to put on consistent efforts," he said. Prof Verma put light on different issues relating to seventh criteria of NAAC Self Study Report for affiliated colleges and highlighted the key-points which can help to bring good weightage. He also appealed all colleges to adopt for green auditing, energy auditing, rain water harvesting, e-waste management and generating energy through alternative resources.He also answered to the questions raised by participants relating to important aspects of seventh criteria. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-women-and-legal-rights-250114
09-05-2021||---||Major fire breaks out at Passport Office building in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 8A major fire broke out on Saturday morning at Passport Office building near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk. As per the reports, the PNB MetLife Insurance office, situated on the third floor of the building, caught fire when no one was there in the office.Commuters alarmed the building watchman after spotting smoke and flames erupting from the building. After receiving the information, owner of the office reached the spot and informed firemen. After breaking open office windows, the fire-tenders took around two hours to douse the flames. Short circuit is suspected to be reason behind the fire, a fire official said.In another incident, goods worth lakhs gutted in a fire that broke out at a private building on 66 Feet Road. The intensity of the fire was such that even the glass panels of the windows broke and fell on the ground. Three fire-tenders doused the flames.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/major-fire-breaks-out-at-passport-office-building-in-jalandhar-250115
09-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Crafting motherhood on stones||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8As everyone is passing through the darkest phase of life owing to COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, a city-based artist Ambika Bhatia (40) is perhaps attempting to dispel this gloom through her art.Having created various art forms at her place in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Bhatia these days is enjoying making stone sculptures depicting the bonding between a mother and a child. Working as Fevicryl Certified Professional for Pidilite, she has made several stone paintings showing mother carrying a new born in her arms and looking at him lovingly. Her other paintings show bonding between a mother and a teenage daughter.Says Bhatia, “The theme of mother-child bonding has always been close to my heart. As Mother’s Day was around, I somehow worked around this theme and came out with a good collection of artifacts. My fixation for the theme also comes from a close bonding which I share with my mother Dr Achla Bhatia, an educationist by profession, who has always been my mentor and support. These works are also a tribute to my daughter Tiya, who has always been a big support in all my creative endeavours.”Taking due advantage of the present grim and dismal situation, Bhatia has indeed scored applauds from myriads sections of society for her aesthetic compositions and majestic works of art.Holding degrees of Bachelor of Design, Master of Fine Arts, BEd and MEd, she comes from a family of intellectuals with her father Jatinder Bhatia, a Chartered Accountant, and elder brother Sameer Bhatia, a lawyer.An artist by heart, a designer by skill, besides being a virtuoso by ability, Ambika possesses to her credit a skill of a phenomenal nature. Having taught in educational institutes for many years in the past, her creativity is long-standing, deep-rooted and time-honoured.Her collection ranges from the decoupage bottles to stone paintings, from mural works to Dhokra art, from stone mandala art to crackle effects, acrylics and oil paintings. Having sculpted brush puppets to casting applique work and Rajasthani Jharokas, orchestrating coffee paintings to Jaipur’s faux blue pottery, concerting clay articles, coasters to terracotta plates, her works offer unfading, graphic compositions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crafting-motherhood-on-stones-250116
09-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Tarpreet Singh Uppal: ‘Will protest till Centre buckles under pressure’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8Tarpreet Singh Uppal (32), convener, Kirti Kisan Union, has been protesting at Delhi borders since the beginning of the farmers’ agitation and determined not to head back till the Centre repeals the controversial agri laws. He wants to see demands of farmers getting fulfilled this year.Asked if he thinks of going back to his native place, he said, ‘Je main hun vaapis aa gaya te, eh ohna naal na insaafi hoyegi, jinna ne apniya jaana gavaiya (If I come back now, it will be insult to those who had lost their lives during the stir).Tarpreet Singh Uppal, Convener, KKUI wanted to migrate to Canada for a better future, but when I joined the protest, the urge and wish to settle abroad completely vanished. Now, my only objective is to see farmers’ demands accepted.Tarpreet said, “I wanted to migrate to Canada for a better future, but when I joined the protest, the urge and wish to settle abroad completely vanished. Now, my only objective is to see farmers’ demands accepted.”Since the start of the movement, Tarpreet has been working to strengthen the movement. He along with other volunteers have been working day and night to ensure maximum participation of youngsters in this movement.Tarpreet has been looking after every arrangement, right from managing the stage and maintaining discipline. Tarpreet’s day starts early in the morning and continue to work till late at night.“We want a plethora of youngsters from Punjab for the movement,” he said.He said people from every faith were present at the protest sites. “Not just youngsters associated with the farming community, but everyone must head to Delhi in solidarity with farmers,” he said.Other members of the Kirti Kisan Union have been eyeing to maximise their reach and interact with youths through social media.He said the movement was gaining the momentum and rush was increasing at the protest sites. “I am firm that come what may, I am going to stay here, till the issues are not addressed by the Centre,” said Tarpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tarpreet-singh-uppal-will-protest-till-centre-buckles-under-pressure-250096
09-05-2021||---||Farmers’ protest in Jalandhar evokes no response, shops stay shut||Jalandhar, May 8A protest against the lockdown organised by farm unions urging shopkeepers to pay two hoots to the government guidelines and come out and open their shops failed to evoke any response.Around 100 farmers, including Bharatiya Kisan Union Rajewal spokesperson Kashmir Singh, district president Mandeep Singh Samra and youth wing leader Amarjot Singh Jandiala led the protest.Activists came on jeeps and bikes from Noormahal and made various stopovers in markets before heading back.Farmers first halted at Jandiala. They then took Jamsher Khas-Rama Mandi-Jandu Singha-Ladowali road-Shastri Chowk-Jyoti Chowk-Nakodar Chowk-Kang Sabu before returning to Noormahal again. Heavy security force was deployed all along the route, which was led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Naresh Dogra.Their biggest show of strength was at Jyoti Chowk where they halted for 20 minutes and tried to embolden shopkeepers addressing them via public address system. But shopkeepers and dealers did not come out in their support. Shopkeepers had been holding meetings with the MP, MLAs and the Deputy Commissioner from the last two days who had assured them that all shops could open from Monday for a limited time from 7 am to 3 pm, over which they had already expressed satisfaction.Farmers were warned by the police that they would face action for violating the Covid lockdown restrictions imposed in the state and an FIR would be registered them under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-in-jalandhar-evokes-no-response-shops-stay-shut-250099
09-05-2021||---||Ex-minister seeks probe against suspended SHO||Phagwara, May 8Former minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Saturday sought a high-level probe against suspended SHO Navdeep Singh for his links with dreaded criminals.In a letter to Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, Mann asserted that from day one of his posting, the SHO had always been in news for wrong reasons and despite being a public servant, his attitude towards people had always been very hostile.He said very serious allegations, including his nexus with anti-social elements and others have surfaced against him from time to time. Mann said the entire Phagwara was aware of the fact that the SHO had been victimising the needy.He said apart from adversely hitting the image of the state government led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the activities of the SHO had brought bad name for the Punjab Police.Congratulating the Director General of Police for taking exemplary action taken against the SHO, he said Gupta has once again upheld the ethos of responsive, transparent and humane policing, which is the need of hour, during the pandemic.Mann said the incident of manhandling of a poor vegetable vendor by the SHO was a blot on entire police force.He urged the DGP to initiate a probe against the police officer to inquire all his actions as SHO in Phagwara and added that it would help in restoring faith of people in the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-minister-seeks-probe-against-suspended-sho-250100
09-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 11 deaths, 672 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 8With 672 new cases in the district, Jalandhar Covid tally reached 48,603 on Saturday. The health authorities reported 11 deaths in the district today. With this, the toll increased to 1,155 today. A total of 725 patients were discharged today. Due to the strike by NHM employees, formal health bulletin was not released in the district for the third consecutive day.In Kapurthala, 134 persons tested positive today. The authorities reported four deaths in the district. The deceased include a 60-year-old man from Talwandi, 72- year-old-man from Phagwara, 72-year-old man from Kapurthala and a 52-year-old man from Kapurthala.7 fall prey to virus in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the toll to 778, while 384 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 22,573. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,340 and 19,455 patients recovered. Of 384 positive cases, 14 were reported from other districts, 45 from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining from other health blocks of the district. Five patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals while one died at the Civil Hospital, Dasuya, and another at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-11-deaths-672-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-250101
09-05-2021||---||National Health Mission staff’s strike hits testing drive||Jalandhar, May 8Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, strike by members of the National Health Mission (NHM) has severely impacted health services and sampling in the district. Around 500 members of the NHM who were involved in Covid-related duties until May 3 have been on strike since May 3. Demanding the regularization of services, their protest hit a number of Covid-related duties – from sampling to data collection and contact tracing.At the Shahkot CHC, where 250 to 280 samples were being collected daily, they have now been reduced to 80 to 100. Other health centres acutely impacted by the strike include Bilga, Jamsher, Kala Bakra, Jandiala, Mehatpur, Adampur, Kartarpur and Bara Pind.The 500 NHM personnel on strike in Jalandhar include auxillary nurse midwives (ANMs), pharmacists, Ayurvedic Medical Officers, homoeopathic medical officers, their respective pharmacists, laboratory technicians, staff nurses, information assistants, accountants, Block Statistical Analysts and computer operators.Such is the impact of the strike that no medical bulletin is being sent formally by the Health Department on an official WhatsApp group created for the purpose for the past three days. A formal message from the Health Department informs, “NHM staff de bulare vallon sadesh aya hai ki oh hartal te hon karan ohnan vallon media bulletin daftar civil surgeon Jalandhar nu Covid di report aj di nahi denge.” (There is a message from NHM staff that due to the strike they will not send media bulletin for Covid-19 to CH, Jalandhar office, today.)While the timing of strike in the middle of the pandemic has also drawn flak from all quarters, staff say the demand has been raised many times in the past.Dr Dhiraj Kumar, Ayurvedic Medical Officer, said, “We want our side to be known. We have been urging the Health Department and the government for the past many years demanding regularisation. Around 80 per cent staff with the Health Department is NRHM. School health, polio, woman and child care, and a plethora of departments are dependent on us. During Covid-19, our 500 frontline workers have been infected and various doctors and pharmacists have died. We worked day and night on stretch on flood duties during the Shahkot floods as well. The government had been promising to regularize the services. It’s been a five to six-year-long agitation. In the last meeting on 5 May, we were asked to take a 9 per cent increment. But we are in the most dangerous jobs and we have no health insurance. We demand nothing less than regularisation.”Continuing with their strike, the members staged a protest and handed over a memorandum directed to the CM to Shahkot MLA Ladi Sherowalia. On Friday, a memorandum was handed over to SDM Dr Sanjeev Sharma. Employees said their strike would go on for an indefinite period until their demands were met.Jal Board staff demand free treatment for workersAs if the strike by the NHM employees was not enough, the Jal Supply and Sanitation Contract Workers have also threatened to go on strike. State president Varinder Singh Momi and state general secretary Kuldip Singh Budhewal in a statement released today said the government was not making any provision for masks and sanitisers, etc, for the Jal Supply and Sanitation Contract Workers who have been going home during the pandemic. They said the government had deputed various duties for them amidst the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-health-mission-staffs-strike-hits-testing-drive-250102
