10-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Meet the super moms at pandemic frontline||Phagwara, May 9 While mothers from all walks of life were honoured on the occasion of the Mother’s Day, some of them spent their day away from their kids, at the forefront, performing their official duties, leaving their kids back at homes. Phagwara Sub Division is being headed by a young mother Shayari Malhotra, who has been successfully performing her duty during Covid, leaving her two kids at home with her husband and family.  Moreover, entire District Kapurthala is being administered by two young mothers — Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, mother of a two-and-half-year old son Abhinav and Senior Superintendent of the Police Kapurthala Kanwardeep Kaur, mother of a three-and-half year old son Udhay, who spent the ‘day coordinating and directing officials to tackle the pandemic . Moreover Civil Surgeon Kapurthala Dr Parminder Kaur, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Charumita were also at the helm of affairs while  performing their Covid duties. Meanwhile, Dhanpreet Kaur Randhawa IPS, Alka Meena IPS,Vatsla Gupta IPS, Apneet Riyat Riyat IAS,Shruti Singh IAS, are also included in the list of brave women officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-the-super-moms-at-pandemic-frontline-250654
10-05-2021||---||Baking for a cause||Jalandhar, May 9 They are neighbourers at Mota Singh Nagar and have been schoolmates. Now, while Shaivya is doing B Com, Lavanya is pursuing Bachelors in interior designing. But both think they pair up well whenever they plan something.  This time, they had charity on their mind. While everyone is doing something to provide relief to the affected families in the ongoing pandemic, both chose Mothers’ Day to start a new project. Since Shaivya is a good baker and Lavanya has good marketing skills, both had planned to ‘Bake for charity’.  “Our friends are running an NGO ‘We Can’ and our collections will go for it. We intend to help some families of rickshaw pullers and daily wagers as their livelihood has been badly affected due to Covid,” said the duo. Both said they spread the message and floated it on the social media from where they managed to get a good response. “Since we cannot handle so many orders for a day, we had to stop after taking 45 orders,” said Lavanya. She said, “Though Shaivya handled the baking part, I certainly helped her out in addition to doing packing and getting these delivered. We had tied up with Swiggy for the delivery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/baking-for-a-cause-250655
10-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Brushing off Covid: From old hobby to a skill!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 9Age is certainly a number for Reena Gupta, a Jalandhar-based 50-year-old woman, who has started revisiting her hobby of painting to keep herself occupied amid the pandemic stress. At a time when women of her age are unlikely to give wings to their dreams, she took a leap forward to revist her old interests.Her bio on the social media account reads, “Just trying my hands at painting after 26 years.” Fearing to slip into depression, she revisited her hobby of painting in the beginning of 2019. By the time pandemic knocked onto our lives, she regained her flair for giving colors to her imagination.Also it is just a coincidence that the Covid-induced lockdown gave her a sense of ‘being independent’. While facemasks have become a basic necessity in these trying times, she adds a pinch of her dyes and crayons to make them look more vibrant.“Starting second innings when you are about to cross half century of your life doesn’t seem like a cake-walk. However, it is not impossible too. With this thought, I started practising my old hobby. Before, marriage, I used to do oil-painting and wasn’t even remotely acquainted with water-painting. I started coloring canvas to begin with. Now it’s been two years, I paint daily,” said Gupta, who once felt ageism is huge.She goes on to say, people of our age are more likely to get into depression, when our children get married or busy shaping their career. Keeping ourselves is busy to avoid any health issue.Since July last year, when she started painting masks and begin to share them on her social media accounts, she has sold over 700 masks till now. In the beginning she got customers through word of mouth mostly, but now she gets orders from Delhi, Pune, Mumbai and other states.Starting an online store is often the easiest way to get your feet wet, she adds. Reena learnt to use Instagram to share her creativity or receive orders. A resident of Deen Dayal Upadhayay Nagar she runs her account with the name ‘Brushes and Strokes’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brushing-off-covid-from-old-hobby-to-a-skill-250656
10-05-2021||---||Death toll rising, but people fail to learn lessons||Nawanshahr, May 9 Despite the rising incidents of patients dying due to lack of oxygen, people seem to be learning no lesson as a majority of them can be seen moving without wearing a mask and violating other protocols.  Though the police are issuing challans and filing FIRs against the offenders, these have failed to instill a fear of the law in them. They are serious neither about their own lives nor those of others. As many as 919 people had to undergo RT-PCR tests and these were being conducted by the Health Department at the nakas set up by them. The administration and the Health Department find it strange that people are still not taking the virus seriously. At Gunachaur village, three persons were booked for opening their liquor vends. At Jadla, a case was registered against one person for opening his meat shop and not following the orders during the curfew and the lockdown on Saturday and Sunday.  A case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 of the IPC and Section 52 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act. In Balachaur, a case was registered against three persons who were riding a bike and an FIR was also filed against them for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. In Mukandpur, a case was registered against four persons for not following social distancing norms. Dhaba, swimming pool owner violate guidelines, arrested  Jalandhar: The cops at Basti Bawa Khel police station on Sunday arrested two men for violating lockdown norms. While one was the owner of a dhaba, the other was owner of a private swimming pool. SHO Gagandeep Singh said that a police team during patrolling spotted the accused flouting Covid guidelines. While the dhaba owner, Harish, had kept his dhaba open, Inderjit Chauhan also kept his swimming pool open. Both were held under Section 188 of the IPC, but later released on bail.   “Weekend lockdown has been imposed in the state due to increasing cases of Covid-19. In order to contain the spread, instructions have been given to close all shops in the city during curfew. Only emergency services can operate during lockdown period. Under this, raids are being conducted to avoid any violation. Orders have been issued to take strict action against those flouting Covid protocol”, added the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/death-toll-rising-but-people-fail-to-learn-lessons-250657
10-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||5 Covid +ve mothers deliver babies in last 9 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 9Motherhood is the most beautiful feeling in one’s life! But the pandemic has diluted the excitement and the journey of pregnancy for the expectant mothers. Since the beginning of the second wave, there is more fear among people, and the pregnant women are the most affected ones. Pandemic is taking a toll on their psychology too. Experts say that during the first wave, not many pregnant women contracted the virus, but this time, doctors have been dealing with 3-4 Covid positive patients every day. Recently, a Covid positive woman died five days after delivering the baby.In May, till now, five Covid positive women have delivered babies in the Civil Hospital. All of them were C-section deliveries. Last month, seven children of Covid positive patients were delivered, six with C-section and one with normal delivery. Doctors shared that the pregnant women have been coming to them with a lot of apprehensions and concerns regarding their unborn baby.Dr Varinder Kaur, Assistant Civil Surgeon, who was posted as senior gynaecologist at the Civil Hospital last year when the pandemic had just hit, said in 2020, she dealt with the Covid positive cases, but during the second wave, she has witnessed a rise in the number of cases, and the frequency has increased.In this second wave, she is seeing young pregnant women contract the virus in the first semester. “This was not seen last year, this mutant strain is affecting the younger people and the severity of disease is more,” she said.The Assistant Civil Surgeon said all these cases would be analysed and it will be seen later what effect the virus will have on the expecting mother as well as the foetus. “The severity and intensity of the virus is the same in the pregnant women just like any other normal human being this time,” the doctor said.Gynaecologists have been providing counseling to the pregnant women in these testing times. There is panic among the pregnant women. “So, our work is to assure them and motivate them not to take any stress,” said a gynaecologist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-covid-ve-mothers-deliver-babies-in-last-9-days-250658
10-05-2021||---||12 die, 683 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 9 Covid situation has been becoming critical as 12 deaths, 683 new cases were reported in the district today. At present, 410 patients have been admitted to Level-III Covid care facility. As per the information received from the Health Department, there is an availability of 500 beds in Level-III Covid care facility, and the Health Department is going to take up the issue in the meeting that will be held tomorrow.  Dr Balwant Singh, Civil Surgeon, said patients of any age group suffering from diabetes and other comorbidities have been dying. “Almost every district is reporting high cases. Patients come to the hospitals at the moment when the virus has already attacked their lungs,” he said.  Also, he said there was no such shortage of oxygen in the district and no one has died due to lack of oxygen in the district. Due to the strike by NHM employees, a formal health bulletin was not released in the district for the fourth consecutive day. No death in Nawanshahr After several days, no death was reported from Nawanshahr today. A total of 81 patients tested positive in the district. The total number of cases are 9,588. As many as 832 are active cases in Nawanshahr, of which 742 are home isolated. The number of recovered cases is 8,530 (88.96 percent). The maximum number of cases were reported from Balachaur block i.e., 28, followed by Sujjon block (12). Sampling is being done on an everyday basis, and the result of 911 samples are still awaited. As many as 63 patients are admitted in L-II and 18 in L-III Covid care facilities in local hospitals.  3 deaths, 144 new cases reported in Kapurthala  Kapurthala reported 144 cases, taking the tally to 13,489. Three persons died of Covid. A 78- year-old woman from Noorpur Lubana village (46) from the city and a 61-year-old woman breathed their last. As many as 98 patients were discharged today. Until now, 12,052 patients have recovered from the virus.  Six die in Hoshiarpur The district on Sunday reported six more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 784. Besides, the district recorded 321 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 22,894.  Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,394 and 19,716 patients had recovered from the virus. Of the new positive cases, 40 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 17 from other districts and the remaining 264 patients were from other health blocks of the district. The six victims died at different hospitals of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-die-683-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-250659
10-05-2021||---||Civil Surgeon releases poster with a message||Jalandhar, May 9‘Mask Chuno, oxygen nahee’, reads a poster, which was released by Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur here on Sunday. The initiative has been taken to make people of the district aware of the gravity of the Covid situation. Also, the district is reporting a plethora of offenders on everyday basis. The poster displays a picture of a patient struggling in hospital wearing an oxygen mask and there is also a picture of a mask that the department is advising everyone to wear.The civil surgeon has given it the name of ‘Chetavni pamphlet’ (warning pamphlet). He has been raising the concern that even if cases are being reported from the district, the people are not following the norms, they are still taking it lightly.As he released the poster, he said that most of the people think that they cannot contract the virus as they have strong immunity, but they should also keep it in mind that they become the carrier and could infect their family members.“Instead of remaining in hospitals, people should remain in their homes,” the Civil Surgeon said.District Immunisation Officer Jawinderwant Singh Bains said a picture spoke a thousand words, which is why the decision to release this poster was taken. On the poster, Covid norms are also printed to educate people who still hardly follow any Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civil-surgeon-releases-poster-with-a-message-250660
10-05-2021||Kapurthala||Vaccination for 18+ workers begins today||Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the state government would launch the vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years from May 10, under which the workers registered by the Punjab Construction and other workers board and workers from engineering departments would be vaccinated.She said the vaccination of construction workers would help in maintaining the activities in the construction sector. District Immunization Officer Dr Randeep Singh said that vaccination would be carried out in Kapurthala Civil Hospital, Phagwara Sub Division Hospital and ESI Hospital, Bhulath and Sultanpur Lodhi sub division hospitals in Kapurthala district. The workers registered with the board will have to bring their registration card for vaccination. There are about 6,500 workers registered with the Construction Board in the district who are to be vaccinated.Deputy Commissioner also directed the officers of the Construction Board to make the construction workers aware about the vaccination as well as provide them the necessary guidance for the vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-for-18-workers-begins-today-250665
10-05-2021||WITH SHORTAGE OF ICU BEDS||Boost vax production and strengthen medical infra||Don’t panic, follow all guidelinesSafety of every citizen is the government’s priority. Amid this surge, some positive news include that certain reports claim that there are signs of plateau in Punjab, vaccination of elderly is on at good pace, production of vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — in India is also increased and a batch of Russian vaccine — Sputnik V — has also reached the nation to keep the vaccination drive on in full swing. The government is also making necessary arrangements to increase bed capacity in hospitals so that people are not denied medical facilities due to shortage of beds at hospitals. Though the number of beds is being increased, hospitals are also suggesting people to stay at home and take necessary precautions if the rate of infection in them is mild. Not every Covid patient requires medical facility and most of them can be cured at home itself and should not panic. If the situation turns out to be serious, the government could implement medical emergency and turn hostels of colleges and universities into temporary recovery centres for the Covid-19 patients. As the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is leaving no stone unturned to firmly deal with the pandemic, it is also the duty and responsibility of every citizen to follow the guidelines and make efforts in breaking the chain and putting an end to the virus.Rajat Kumar MohindruTrack purchase of oxygen, drugsAmidst depressing scenario of increasing Covid cases and constant failure of the government to ensure supply of oxygen to critical patients, the role of the local administration, primarily confined to implementation aspect of Covid-19/ health policy guidelines, becomes more challenging. To deal with the situation, the potential of local supplies relating to medical equipment, medicines and oxygen can be explored to augment the existing supply line to Covid health centers. Strict action should be taken against all those indulging in hoarding, black-marketing and profiteering relating to medical oxygen, medicines and drugs. Meticulous supervision and monitoring of local health services relating to Covid patients in both public and private sector. It should be strictly ensured that charges fixed for Covid tests and other medical services, including ambulance, are levied as per the schedule and people should not be forced to pay exorbitant prices for such services in the times of distress. An effective coordination should be maintained with local NGOs and community leaders for streamlining voluntary services and supplies in the battle against the virus. Public morale and trust in the administration has to be kept alive through regular awareness campaigns and interaction with the people.Jagdish ChanderFrom ‘Vishwa Guru’ to ‘Vishwa Beggar’The Covid situation in the nation is undoubtedly getting out of control and turning from bad to worse. The country, which was known as ‘Vishwa Guru’ has become ‘Vishwa beggar’. The regulatory decisions of the government are not uniform but rather erratic. People are confused about the timings and relaxations in the lockdown. A huge rush of people is witnessed at markets whenever there is an announcement made regarding restrictions as people resort to panic buying fearing curfew like situation. Adding to the woes, when there is an alarming rise in number of deaths due to the virus, critical patients are being denied admission to hospitals as there is shortage of beds and oxygen supplies at hospitals. Attendants of patients also are facing a lot of inconvenience in getting the doctor-prescribed drugs such as Remdesivir which are running out of stock. An Amritsar-based company which has been manufacturing Remedesiver for export had requested the government to allow it to stop the export and use it locally but was denied by the Central Government. Australian cricketer Garylinekar had rightly said that more people were dying than the runs being scored in the IPL matches. Such is the sorry state of affairs in India. The capacity of beds at various hospitals should be ramped up and supply of oxygen should also be streamlined. To deal with this situation, we should learn from China how it fabricated hospitals in no time when the cases were rising at alarming rate there. The Centre claims that there is no shortage of oxygen and vaccines but the ground situation is different. Many states, including Punjab, had to postpone the vaccination drive for all above 18 due to shortage of doses. Despite all measures, the cases are rising at record level and thus the last option left with the government is imposition of complete lockdown to break the chain and contain the raging virus. Another problem arising amid the present situation is black-marketing of drugs such as Remdesivir, which should be dealt with strictly by the administration to keep the supply chain smooth.Dr JS WadhwaMismanagement to be blamed for shortageAmidst the unprecedented Covid surge, health services are stretched to optimum level. Consequently, a sort of confusion and lack of cohesive action have resulted in lawlessness and turmoil at some places. This wave of the pandemic is quite more virulent and voices are being raised to fix accountability for negligence in Covid-management. Even the higher courts are venting their ire against the Union Government for their laxity and not paying attention to the worsening pandemic during the recent election season. The role of autonomous Election Commission of India and AIIMS Director has also been unde the scanner for not proactively warning the government of the possible Covid-blast by allowing large political rallies and openly flouting norms. Current alarming number of new cases and scarcity of oxygen and ICU beds for the patients signals the collapse of our system. Apparently, it is an uphill task to save lives and execute massive vaccination campaign to inoculate all above the age of 18 years. Though efforts are being made to rope in all resources to negate the ferocity of virus, a lot more needs to be done to check the spread. Another serious issue that needs to be resolved is the black-marketing and hoarding of drugs that are in high demand and also oxygen cylinders. Lockdown or curfew have been reinforced to break the chain in some districts by the local authorities but the situation is no better. Under the given circumstances, the administration has to strategise two-pronged action. People too should act responsibly and follow the norms religiously to curb the virus.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathScale up production within the nationIt is devastating to see that the country which won international applause for successfully tackling the Covid outbreak last year is now on its knees amid the second wave. While other nations ramped up their efforts to build a robust healthcare infrastructure to tackle any further eventuality, we wallowed in self-esteem, misplaced nationalism, aggressive vaccine diplomacy, complacency and skewed priorities. After the first wave receded, we lowered our guard and massive public events from election rallies to festivals and other religious functions were held, all by not adhering to safety norms. This led to a more virulent second wave. Despite the Centre’s claims, there is an acute shortage of vaccines and other medicines, oxygen cylinders, ventilators and hospital beds throughout the nation, courtesy abject apathy, callousness and criminal negligence of the healthcare system. Hundreds of people are dying everyday and critical patients are turned away from hospitals and vaccination centres due to this alleged crunch of medical facilities. The whole health system is overwhelmed to the extent of near collapse and the state administration is unable to stall the transmission of the virus. When various countries are sending liberal medical aid to India, the Central Government should scale up vaccine, medicine and oxygen production and ensure their availability to all hospitals and health centres with uniformity of prices, post the Supreme Court intervention. The Punjab dispensation has put a blanket ban on supply of oxygen to industries and invited retired medical faculty to help in the Covid nightmare. Hoarding and black marketing of essential vaccines and drugs, fleecing by private players and laxity in preventive measures should be strictly checked. Otherwise, the worsening situation will inevitably attract a complete lockdown, whatever its impact on livelihoods and economy. Hopefully, the prevailing humanitarian crisis will pass. Only a strong public healthcare system, massive vaccination programme and Covid-appropriate behaviour will eventually prepare us for future adversity.DS KangAct strictly against hoardersThe second wave of Covid has shaken the nation. Hospitals have been facing an acute shortage of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators ever since the number of critical patients started rising. A number of patients have been left stranded outside hospitals for hours gasping for air and sometimes they also collapse due to non-availability of medical facilities. Even doctors are feeling helplessness in handling the situation. As hospitals are full to their capacity with no beds and innaddition to vanishing vaccine doses and oxygen supply, there is also a shortage of doctors and nurses. The government should turn schools and colleges into make-shift hospitals to increase the number of beds available for critical patients. It is a war like situation and the help of Army, paramilitry forces and even Railway should be taken to fight the virus. Adding to the people’s woes, some anti-social elements have started hoarding oxygen and drugs like Remdesivir to sell them at exorbitant prices. Such activities need to be checked so that the available facilities could be provided to the needy patients.Shashi KiranNeed to boost mass production of drugsAs second wave of the Covid pandemic is sweeping over the state, the supply constraint in ICU beds, vaccines, drugs and oxygen in public as well as private hospitals has raised serious concern. The governments, both at the Central and state levels, have miserably failed in their responsibility to make adequate arrangements of these medical facilities. Moreover, there is insufficient medical staff, including doctors, nurses and technicians in government hospitals. As a result, the district administration everywhere finds it difficult to mitigate the daily increasing caseload of Covid cases. A large number of active patients succumb to the virus for being unattended and those above 45 years are waiting for their first and second doses return disappointed from hospitals and health centres owing the shortage of beds and vaccine doses respectively. This has also hit the new vaccine policy for the 18 to 44 age groups May 1 onwards and most healthcare centres have been closed. Despite placing orders, the vaccines are not reaching the state. The Centre and the state governments should devise a more strategic, well-orchestrated, coordinated and comprehensive policy to boost mass production, ensure equitable distribution and regular supply of the required generics at affordable prices. It is gratifying that New Delhi has allowed states and private entities to import these directly. It will not only help repulse the present disastrous viral invasion but also protect us against the challenge of the coming waves as well.Tajpreet S Kang QUESTIONDo you think people living in congested places and quarters with limited toilets can protect themselves from contracting the virus. What steps the administration and the Health Department must take to protect them?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 13).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/boost-vax-production-and-strengthen-medical-infra-250669
10-05-2021||Jalandhar||IMA vice-chief files plaint against Baba Ramdev||Indian Medical Association national vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya today lodged a complaint against yoga guru Baba Ramdev and accused him of being “insensitive and inhumane” for allegedly mocking Covid victims for not breathing properly and even blaming the medical fraternity for misguiding them.“In a video, he is seen mocking Covid victims for not breathing properly and the high death toll,” Dr Dahiya said, while lodging an FIR with DCP Gurmeet Singh. He said Baba Ramdev deliberately tried to misguide people on the role of medical fraternity and even blamed the hard-working doctors for excessive medication of Covid patients leading to their death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-vice-chief-files-plaint-against-baba-ramdev-250459
