11-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Just 10 days into May, 93 deaths, 7K cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 10The rising death tally due to Covid this month in Jalandhar is certainly bothering everyone. While there were 166 fatalities in April this year, the death toll in the first 10 days of May has already touched 93.This means that an average 9 to 10 persons are losing their lives daily in the district due to coronavirus. Even the spurt in the number of positive cases has gone up significantly this month. While there were 13,361 cases in enitre April, the number of Covid cases has already reached close to 7,000 in just 10 days of this month. The month saw the highest spike in Covid cases so far with the single-day positive cases touching a figure of 950.But despite Covid clearly assuming an alarming situation, people are not ready to stay indoors. After non-essential item shops remained shut for a week, all markets were allowed to remain open today with restricted timing. Most readymade garment shops remained open from 9 am to 1.30 pm and people were seen out to grab the fashion stuff. Popular markets of Rainak Bazaar and Model Town seemed happening like any normal day, even during these otherwise odd hours. People did not mind trying a couple of dresses in the try room before taking the final pick.The main sabzi mandi at Maqsudan, which was to close at 11 am, saw more than the routine rush of visitors. People did not mind even undergoing the random Covid testing by the health team to be allowed in. Not just the hawkers, even residents were seen bargaining with the wholesalers and buying their week’s green grocery. Even the rainfall around 8 am did not disrupt the working at mandi as the wholesalers quickly shifted their stuff inside the shops or in the sheds of the mandi.Sadly, despite being aware of the state of affairs, shortage of medicines, oxygen cylinders and beds in the hospitals, the residents are not ready to settle. A priest in the Model Town cremation ground said: “It was for the first time in my life that I had to get a cremation done outside the designated sites last Thursday. We have 12 platforms but all got full that day. We usually carry out cremation for non-Covid deaths before 5 pm. After this time, the government officials and NGO take over the cremation work. That day, we had six non-Covid cremations and seven for Covid. There also have been days, when we have had to tell the families to take the bodies to other cremation grounds including those in Kishanpura, Harnamdaspura or Mithapur.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-10-days-into-may-93-deaths-7k-cases-in-jalandhar-district-251229
11-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Healing garden at home!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 10Her morning begins by admiring the beauty of her garden and ends by wishing them goodnight! Rajwant Kaur is a perfect example of a true nature lover. Her life revolves around plethora of plants she has planted in her house. She has a wide variety of decorative, flowering, herbal, aromatic plants that keep her elated throughout the day.Kaur, a housewife, says even for a small area, she has worked very hard in making the house look like an abode of a person who belongs to nature. There is not even a single corner in the house which is not ‘green’.“My kids live in Canada, and I miss them. These plants keep me away from getting depressed whenever I miss my children,” she said.She has been using oxygen plants at her home such as snake plant, spider plant and money plant. During the Covid times, such plants help in keeping the environment safe and clean, fresh air.Kaur said sometimes people make fun of her extra love for nature and comment on how she has changed her home into a jungle. “But I don’t care. All these greens help me breathe. I have some plants with great medicinal effects, with which my husband’s allergy also got better. He used to take a nebuliser because of the allergy but since the time I got the plants, he has recovered a lot,” she said.He garden is also adorned with artificial decorative pieces. There is a nest too, that attracts a lot of birds, and now she plans to install more.Although Kaur has a gardener who looks after her garden, she ensures that she remains with him whenever he comes and does cutting and ploughing. “It is not easy to see any of my plant dying. Kaur expressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/healing-garden-at-home-251230
11-05-2021||---||Kalia writes to CM against MLA Beri for flouting norms||Jalandhar, May 10Ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia has written to Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh levelling allegations against Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri for showing utter disregard towards lockdown restrictions imposed by the state government.In his communiqué, Kalia said while the CM had announced weekend lockdown in the state, his own MLA violated it by inaugurating an open gym in Dhannowali village and even circulated his photographs from the event on the media. In his letter to the CM, the BJP leader said, “Keeping in view the second wave of Covid-19, your good-self has rightly decided to impose a two-day weekend lockdown. Yesterday was the second weekly lockdown and Rajinder Beri, an MLA from Jalandhar Central constituency, inaugurated an open gym in the Dhannowali area. The photocopy of the news cutting published today, depicting the photograph of inauguration, is enclosed herewith.”Kalia says, “There is no objection in regard to the opening of an open gym, but the main point is that it could have been dedicated to the public without a formal inauguration too. If an ordinary person violates Covid instructions, he is booked immediately. Now that an MLA has violated the decision, will the Punjab Government treat him at par with an ordinary person and take action against him?”“A criminal case was registered against comedian Sugandha Mishra in Phagwara, whose marriage ceremony was solemnised at a palace for violating instructions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kalia-writes-to-cm-against-mla-beri-for-flouting-norms-251231
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Man arrested with four illegal pistols, bullets||Garhshankar, May 10In a special checking drive, the Garhshankar police, under the supervision of ASP Tushar Gupta, on Sunday arrested a man with four country-made pistols and some bullets.A press note, issued here on Monday on behalf of SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, stated that on Sunday, Inspector Iqbal Singh (SHO, Garhshankar) along with a police party was conducting checking at Akalgarh village. During the checking, a man named Amarjit Singh, alias Sonu, was detained.On frisking, one country-made .315 bore pistol was recovered from him which had a live round in its chamber. He was further questioned and on the basis of the information received from him, one more country-made .315 bore pistol and two country-made 12 bore pistols with two live rounds and one used round were recovered from his home.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. According to the police, Amarjit Singh is a habitual offender and three cases, two under Section 324, IPC, and one under the NDPS Act, had been registered in the past against him at the Garhshankar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-with-four-illegal-pistols-bullets-251232
11-05-2021||---||Yuva Morcha activists sanitise markets in city||Jalandhar, May 10The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Yuva Morcha (BJYM) led by state convener Arjun Trehan on Monday sanitised markets in the city. The youth wing activists sanitised shops at Chhoti Baradari-Phase 2, Golden Avenue-Phase 1 and 2, PIMS market and Garha market. Animal activist Shweta Singh, social activist Vishal Chopra, advocate Ratan Kumar and Karan Sidhu, were also present.Chopra said to prevent further surge of the virus, work related to sanitising houses and markets has to be done from time to time. Only a concerted effort along with awareness can help in breaking the chain, said Shweta.Trehan said the Congress was failing people on all issues, including keeping a check on spread of the pandemic. Promises made by Capt Amarinder Singh before forming the government have not been fulfilled, he said and added that the Congress leaders were too busy with their infighting.Targeting the Aam Aadmi Party, Trehan said Kejriwal, who has been unable to take care of Delhi, was is dreaming to become a chief minister of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yuva-morcha-activists-sanitise-markets-in-city-251233
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Day 1: 238 construction workers jabbed||Hoshiarpur, May 10As many as 238 construction workers on Monday received the first dose of the Covid vaccine on the first day at four different locations in the district. Launching the inoculation drive for the construction workers falling in the 18-44 age group, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Monday said every worker and labourer living in the state would be vaccinated.The minister said the Punjab Government had already placed an order for 30 lakh doses and the vaccine would be given to all beneficiaries in a phased manner as it would receive the vaccine.Adopt Covid appropriate behaviour: MLAArora said it was a commendable step of the government to keep these workers and labourers in priority sector. He said these workers are the backbone of development in each sector.Replying to a query, Sunder Sham said there was no dearth of oxygen, remdesivir and other vital drugs. He said the hoarding of these medicines and oxygen would not be tolerated at any cost and strict action would be taken against those who indulge in profiteering or black marketing.In Hoshiarpur, a total of 306,057 doses have been administered to beneficiaries. Out of this total, 9,027 and 4,662 health workers got the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. Similarly, the first and second doses had been given to 31,758 and 7,795 frontline workers, respectively, along with 143,095 beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group received the first dose and 19,846 got the second dose. Further, 72,443 beneficiaries above 60 were given the first and 17,431 got the second dose of the vaccine. On the occasion, Mayor Surinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Pawan Kumar, SMO Dr Jaswinder Singh and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-1-238-construction-workers-jabbed-251234
11-05-2021||---||Only 40 labourers take jab on Day 1||Jalandhar/Kapurthala, May 10Even as a special drive for vaccination of the construction labourers of age group 18 to 44 years was launched today in Jalandhar district, only 40 labourers took the jab on day 1.The turnout remained low despite the fact that the officials of the Labour Department kept on calling the builders, contractors and labour union leaders asking them to send in workers for taking the vaccination. To facilitate the labourers and to ensure that they had to travel less distance, seven sites were set up at different locations in the city areas.Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation Officer, Jalandhar, said: “Since it was the first day, the response remained relatively less. After calls made by the labour department today, we are expecting a better response for this drive from tomorrow onwards. We have even told the department that we were ready to take the teams to a site of construction where 50-100 labourers were involved for work. We are even trying to convince the labourers that we will give them a preference at least for one week over other categories of people and that they should avail the maximum benefit”.The drive was also launched today at Civil Hospital Kapurthala and four other sub division hospitals of the district. Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal said that under the guidelines of the state government a free vaccination campaign has been launched in the district to vaccinate the workers class so that the economic activities must continue in public interest as well as to cater the workers class.She said that under this campaign Punjab Construction and Other Workers Board would vaccinate the registered workers and the workers of engineering department. Uppal said that the eligible categories of immunisations would be informed by the state government from time to time so that the immunisation centres would not be crowded.She also said the vaccination of construction workers would help in resumption of activities in the construction sector which would not affect the employment of the needy sections of the society. Dr. Parminder Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, has appealed to the people to follow the government guidelines and wear masks and refrain from going to crowded places. District Immunisation Officer Dr. Randeep Singh said that for this vaccination campaign five sites have been set up in the district under which Civil Hospital Kapurthala, Sub Divisional Hospital Phagwara, Sub Divisional Hospital Bholath and Sultanpur Lodhi besides ESI at Phagwara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-40-labourers-take-jab-on-day-1-251235
11-05-2021||---||8 die, 619 down with virus in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 10The Covid cases continued to show a spike in Jalandhar district with as many as 619 new cases and eight fatalities.The death toll today touched 1,175 and the total number of cases so far stand at 49,856. The district today reported 13 per cent positivity rate. There are a total of 7,404 active cases in the district now even as the active cases were slightly over 4,000 till last week.Gandhi Vanita Ashram, which saw inmates falling ill two weeks back, continues to be in the containment zone. The areas which fall under the micro-containment zone in Jalandhar are some houses in Bank Colony, Mandi Road of Noormahal, New Raja Garden, New Isharpuri Colony, Top Khana area in Jalandhar Cantonment, Deol Nagar Jalandhar and Mohalla Chaudharian Phillaur.4 deaths, 171 new Covid cases in KapurthalaAt a positivity rate of 6.19 per cent today, Kapurthala district witnessed 171 new coronavirus cases on Monday. Four persons from the district lost their life to Covid. All four persons were in the age group between 67 to 93 years. With this, the total number of cases so far in the district now stands at 13,660. Nearly 369 patients lost their battle against Covid-19 so far. The number of active cases in the district as of today was 1,156.9 fatalities in HoshiarpurThe district health authorities reported nine Covid-19 related deaths on Monday, thus taking the toll to 793.The district witnessed 385 new cases today. With this, the tally reached 23,279.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said reports of 5,064 samples were received and out of them, 385 new cases were reported.The number of active cases stood at 2,530 while 19,956 patients recovered in the district. Hoshiarpur city reported 50 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks. Dr Ghotra said out of 205 Level-II beds, 45 beds were vacant, and 11 beds were vacant at Level-III facility at various hospitals in the district.Apart from this, the District Magistrate has issued orders to open toy and shops dealing in sporting equipment every Thursday from 11 am to 5 pm.She said if any category of shops have been left in the orders issued on May 7, those shops can be opened every Friday from 11 am to 5 pm.22-yr-old dies in NawanshahrThree persons died of Covid in Nawanshahr today, taking the toll to 257. With this, the death rate in the district now stands at 2.65 per cent. The deceased persons include a 22-year-old youth from Muzaffarpur and two 70-year-old women from Sujjon and Balachaur blocks.Meanwhile, 85 persons tested positive for the virus, pushing the number of active cases in Nawanshahr to 859 (833 from Nawanshahr and 26 from outside the district). As many as 775 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-die-619-down-with-virus-in-jalandhar-district-251236
11-05-2021||---||Odds over: Powerlifter gets Rs 80,000 aid||Jalandhar, May 10The much-needed financial aid finally reached international para powerlifter Ramandeep Kaur who needed Rs 80,000 to participate in a tournament commencing next month in Dubai.A former member of the Punjab Public Service Commission and city-based lawyer Dalbir Singh Mahal on Monday handed over the entire amount. A jubilant Ramandeep Kaur said she now felt that her dream to get back to the game seemed to come true. “I had already got onto a rigorous practice schedule under a trainer in Ludhiana. Now that all financial constraints have got over, I am practising with even more zeal and confidence,” she said.Ramandeep, who is the 2017 gold medal winner in Commonwealth Para Powerlifting and Benchpress Championship, said, “Tomorrow morning, I will send the draft to the RAW Powerlifting Federation, India. I will be leaving for Dubai on June 19. Ramandeep has been selected for the benchpress event in the Single Lift International Powerlifting Championship in the women master’s category of physically challenged players.Hailing from Ghorewahi village of Bhogpur here, polio-afflicted Ramandeep had been running a small shop selling sweets, chips and other items in her 50-yard house to make ends meet. She had been out of game ever since her newborn baby passed away last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/odds-over-powerlifter-gets-rs-80-000-aid-251237
11-05-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers paid Rs 1,067.67 cr: DC||Illicit liquor seized, 1 heldJalandhar: A team of the CIA staff-II arrested a person with 96 bottles of illicit liquor from the Bhargo Camp area. The team had laid a naka on a tip-off that a dealer was involved in such activities and on being intercepted, the bottles were recovered from the accused. A case under various Sections of the Excise Act was registered against the accused. tnsMan held with 10-gm heroinJalandhar: A 64-year-old man was arrested with 10-g heroin by the city police on Monday. The accused, during interrogation, said he was involved in drug smuggling since the last five months. A case under various Section of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused. The city police have started a special drive to nab those involved in drug smuggling. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-paid-rs-1-067-67-cr-dc-251238
11-05-2021||---||CP opens door of Police Hospital for civilians||Jalandhar, May 10In order to tackle Covid-19, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police, have started inoculating civilians at the Police Hospital. Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said earlier, the police personnel (frontline warriors) were being administered vaccine at the hospital.He said as the cases surged, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police realised its responsibility towards people and opened the hospital for residents. Bhullar said beneficiaries were getting them inoculated at the hospital.The Police Commissioner said apart from maintaining law and order in the district, cops were going all out to give a healing touch to people.He said, a total of 3,168 persons have been vaccinated at the hospital, out of which, 789 were police personnel, 143 were their family members and 2,236 were civilians.DCP Gurmeet Singh has been given overall charge of this camp. Since March last year, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has distributed 5.73 lakh packets of dry ration and 44,932 packets of cooked food to the needy and underprivileged persons.The police have registered 2002 FIRs for violating curfew/ lockdown norms and collected around Rs 4.50 crore from violators. Welcoming the initiative, Usha, a resident of Ladowali road, said this step enabled her to to get vaccinated near her home. She said due to old age, , it was difficult for her to get vaccinated at a distant place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cp-opens-door-of-police-hospital-for-civilians-251241
11-05-2021||---||10-bed centre for needy set to be opened tomorrow||Jalandhar, May 10Former senior deputy mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia would inaugurate the Covid-19 health care centre on May 12 at the Chanpreet Memorial Charitable Hospital. Bhatia is the CEO of the hospital.Rising deaths, plight of the needy and their helplessness, prompted Bhatia to take this step.The centre would have 10 beds, experienced doctors, ambulance, lab and X-ray facilities. Bhatia said patients would be given bed tea and healthy food, including three meals, turmeric milk, fruits, juice and coconut water free of cost.He said, “The centre will have better facilities than any other private hospitals. The services will be provided to those who are destitute, who don’t have anyone to take care.”Several NGOs, including Tera-Tera Hatti, Agaaz, Guru Nanak Mission Naujawan Sabha and Punjab Medical Representative Association, have come forward to help. Around 25 volunteers would assist patients.Dr Richa Chatrath has been appointed the nodal officer.Earlier, Bhatia had organised langar for 62 days under the Chanpreet Memorial Charitable Hospital. Organisations, including the Sewa Ashram, Sri Guru Ravidass Mandir and Sri Krishna Welfare Society, assisted him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-bed-centre-for-needy-set-to-be-opened-tomorrow-251243
11-05-2021||Jalandhar||Mother’s Day celebrated||Kalakari Film FestivalKaranvir Singh, a student of BSc Animation and Multimedia Technology from department of media studies, CT Group of Institutions, participated in the “Kalakari Film Festival” and has received the Certificate of Achievement. His photography work got featured in the top 50 selected amongst 2,000 entries received from all over India. Kalakari Film Festival awards new talents, artist, professionals across Indian subcontinent in the various categories like films, animation, visual effects, photography etc. and has become a springboard to showcase talent. A budding photographer Karanvir has already worked for many reputed brands and organisations. He has also won many prizes in the various media fests held previously in the region. CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh and Dean Academics Dr Sangram Singh congratulated the student for his achievement.Teachers FelicitatedKapurthala: At a felicitation ceremony organised by Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, Principal Dr Archna Garg, felicitated Inderjit Bal for best compering and Prof Ramandeep Kaur for best reporting for recently concluded seven-day capacity building workshop. Addressing teachers, she said, workshop had been a very successful venture and every stakeholder had praised it. She also appreciated the contribution of Prof Paramjeet Kaur, Sunali Sharma, workshop convener Dr Kulwinder Kaur and office superintendent Sanjeev Bhalla and exhorted others to be remain active like them, always. Principal Dr Garg said that recordings of all these sessions have been uploaded on YouTube channel and Facebook pages of college and whosoever is interested in NAAC accreditation, can consult the same.Kanya Maha Vidyalaya ToppersKanya Maha Vidyalaya has introduced many academic reforms and has shown good results. The result of BSc Home Science (Sem III and V) has been outstanding. Manpreet Kaur from (Sem V) bagged first position by securing 494/550. Tanya Handa stood second with 484/550 and Harman bagged third position with 457/550. Neelambra Banaati from (Sem III) bagged the first position with 449/500 and Neerajpreet Kaur bagged the second position by scoring 428/500. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of Department of Home Science.Workshop on Personality DevThe department of physical education at DAV University organised national workshop on “Personality Development”. The workshop was conducted via online mode. The workshop was divided into three sessions with three expert keynote speakers for each session. The workshop commenced with DAV Gaan followed by welcome address by Kunnal Sethi, Assistant Prof, department of physical education. Dean Academics (Officiating) Dr RK Seth introduced and welcomed the resource persons. Registrar (Officiating), DAV University, Dr KN Kaul addressed the participants and congratulated them to be a part of the national workshop which shall help them understand the need and importance of both physical and mental fitness. Vice-Chancellor (Officiating), DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi gave her blessings and said that self introspection is must for continuous improvement in ones personality.Webinar on BehaviourismPhagwara: The psychology department of Kamla Nehru College for Women in collaboration with Internal Quality Assurance Cell organised a webinar on “Behaviourism: Theoretical and practical perspective”. Dr Vimple Chopra, Assistant Prof, was the keynote speaker. Dr Vimple threw light on the theory of behaviorism and its practical implications. She talked about the concepts such as conditioning, reinforcement, how we learn and unlearn things during the course of life. She imparted her valuable knowledge on the role of reward and punishment in modifying human behavior.Students get jobsBajaj Allianz Life Company Ltd. conducted placement drive at Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus for the students of management department in which seven students of MBA Final year namely Rohit Jassal, Daman Rana, Grace, Nanki Devi, Sumit Nijawan, Gurpreet Singh and Sushil got selected as ASO at a pay package of up to Rs 2.4 lakhs per annum. Selection process consisted of group discussion followed by interview round. The drive was conducted by Varun Aggarwal-Chief Branch Manager and coordinated by Dr. Sonu Dua (Associate Prof –Mgmt) and Dr Tarunjit Singh. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs), Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC) and Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) congratulated the students and their parents on their remarkable achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mothers-day-celebrated-251245
