12-05-2021||---||9 more lose life in Jalandhar district, toll 1,184 now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11The district on Tuesday saw a slight fall in the number of Covid-19 positive cases as 571 fresh cases were found in the district. In terms of the tally of today’s positive cases, Jalandhar was sixth in the state with Ludhiana and Mohali continuing to top the chart and Fazilka taking the third slot, which was occupied by Jalandhar for weeks. Bathinda and Patiala too had more patients today than Jalandhar.There, however, was no respite in the number of fatalities in Jalandhar as nine persons lost their lives today. The tally of Covid infections in the district has crossed half a lakh mark at 50,427. The district had 5,662 active cases as of today. The positivity rate remained at 15.37 per cent.In the past one year, around 1,184 persons have succumbed to the virus. While over 4,000 people are under home isolation in the district, 104 are receiving treatment in the Civil Hospital.Despite repeated requests made to people not to venture out unnecessarily, the markets remained crowded more than usual. There was a huge rush in markets just before 3 pm when shops were about to shut as many people reached markets just in the nick of time.Kapurthala reports six deaths, 318 fresh casesThe health authorities of Kapurthala district today reported 318 Covid cases. Six fatalities, including three of women, were also reported in the district. Those who lost their lives were aged 49, 53, 57, 68, 74 and 75. The death toll in the district has reached 374. As of now, a total of 42 deaths have been reported in the district in May. Meanwhile, 2,809 persons were vaccinated against the infection today and the total number of people who have been inoculated has now crossed 1.14 lakh. The total number of positive cases in the district has now reached 13,969 and the number of active cases as of today is 1,347 after the discharge of 113 patients.Highest single-day surge in Hoshiarpur: 9 die, 466 casesIn its highest single-day surge in new cases, the district reported 466 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 23,745, while a 17-year-old boy was among nine deaths due to Covid pushed the fatality count to 802. Giving information about Covid in the district, Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra, Civil Surgeon, said the number of active cases was 2,542, while 20,201 patients had recovered.The Hoshiarpur city reported 58 new cases, while eight were reported from other districts and 400 were related to other health blocks in the district. Of the nine deaths, four patients died in Hoshiarpur hospitals while three died at Jalandhar Hospitals and one each at a private hospital in Ludhiana and the PGIMER, Chandigarh.Nawanshahr reports four deaths, 42 new casesNawanshahr is again seeing high rise in number of deaths due to Covid. Four persons, including a 57-year-old woman from Muzaffarnagar block, a 77-year-old man and a 70-year-old woman from Saroya block and an 88-year-old person from Urban Rahon succumbed to the virus today.As many as 42 patients tested positive for Covid today, of which 20 cases came from Balachaur. The district has 844 active cases at present (822 from Nawanshahr and 22 from outside the district).The district tally now stands at 9,715 and the recovery rate is 88.85 per cent. More than 700 patients are in home isolation. A total of 72 patients are admitted in L-2 Covid care unit and 15 in L-3 Covid care unit. Schools to call only 50% staff on rotationThe Jalandhar district administration on Tuesday issued fresh Covid-related guidelines to the schools. While the state government had earlier given liberty to the schools to call in entire staff on daily basis, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has now issued orders saying that all schools, which have more than 10 staffers/teachers, should call only 50 per cent staff on rotation basis. The orders have been issued for all schools, including government, aided, recognised and private schools.Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal quarantinedKapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal quarantined herself after her maternal grandmother and a house help tested positive for Covid. The health authorities have also tested all her family members, staff and helpers for the virus. The district has been seeing a constant rise in number of Covid cases for the past two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-more-lose-life-in-jalandhar-district-toll-1-184-now-251761
12-05-2021||---||MC drivers go on strike, city stinks||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11The Municipal Corporation Jalandhar Drivers’ Union went on a strike on Tuesday.Arun Kumar, chief of the union, said many employees were appointed on contract as sweepers, but they were working as drivers. “These employees get a salary of a sweeper. They should be promoted and must be given salaries on a par with drivers,” he said.Meanwhile, JCB operators said they were paid a monthly salary of Rs 8,500 and they have not been paid for the last eight months.Pardeep Kumar, a JCB operator, said he has been working with the MC for the past 23 years and he has never received his payment well on time. “I have a loan of Rs 45,000 on my head. Now, lenders are also not giving us money as we are unable to repay,” he said.The JCB operators said whenever there’s a work related to razing illegal structures, they remain on the forefront. Last year, while carrying out a drive of removing illegal structurescontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-drivers-go-on-strike-city-stinks-251762
12-05-2021||---||Man dies after being run  over by unbridled horse||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11In a bizarre incident, a 30-year-old man riding an Activa scooter was killed after he was run over by an unbridled horse in the Basti Sheikh area here this morning.The deceased has been identified as Tarsem Singh, alias Sonu. He used to work as a sewerman in the office of Jalandhar Municipal Corporation. The incident took place at around 11.15 am near the Basti Sheikh Adda area.Sonu was deployed at the Bhargo Camp office of the MC. He was reportedly heading to the Babrik Chowk office for some official work when the incident took place. The horse went berserk after one of the tyres of the cart it was pulling got punctured.Unfortunately, Sonu was crossing the same road on his Activa scooter. He was not only hit by the cart but was run over by the horse. Commuters rushed him to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The victim is survived by his wife and a son. His colleagues told the police that he was regularised in the MC office recently after working on a contract basis for years.The SHO, police division No.5, said a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC had been registered against horse cart owner Amarjit Singh, a resident of Mochianwala colony in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-dies-after-being-run-over-by-unbridled-horse-251763
12-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||City’s ‘Phogat’ sisters can’t  wait to step into ring again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11Two young, upcoming wrestlers and daughters of a tempo driver, Anjali (13) and Kajal (20) are missing out on their wrestling practices because of the Covid. The girls, who wish to become successful players in their lives, say with all akharas lying closed, they have been eagerly waiting for everything to get back to normal. Belonging to a humble background, the girls are high in spirits and are confident of making it big in their lives. Perhaps, they get it from their father who is also a pehalwan!Their father Bittu Pehalwan (who himself used to wrestle in childhood), wishes to fulfill his dream of wrestling though his daughters.Both his daughters have played tournaments and have won medals. Ask if they practice at their homes, the father says that there is no space in the house where the girls can practice freely.Bittu Pehelwan shares his life journey. “I am illiterate. I had a horse cart initially, then I started riding the auto-rickshaw. Now, I ride tempo and transport goods. I also used to wrestle in akharas, hence I was named ‘Pehelwan’. It still gives me a sense of strength,” tells Bittu.Pehalwan says that there is less work these days because of the ongoing situation. No goods are getting transported outside, so he mostly remains at home. “Mushkil hi hai ajjkal, kamm nai hai kuch (It’’s difficult these days because of no work at all).”His 10-year-old-son is suffering from a rare disease called haemophilia. These days, Bittu’s focus is on providing his children with a balanced diet so that their health doesn’t suffer. As he wants his children to attain great heights, he is trying to work hard to help them get a good diet, even when there are several problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/citys-phogat-sisters-cant-wait-to-step-into-ring-again-251764
12-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ban on flights: Punjabis, back from Australia, lose hope of return soon||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11A large number of Punjabi youth, who came to India on a vacation last year, have been stuck here as Australia has not withdrawn travel restrictions for more than a year. With the Australian government now getting stricter by imposing a ban on all flights from here till mid-May, they have lost all hope.Some of the Punjabis, who were studying or were on work permit in Australia and had come to India for meeting their families or getting married just ahead of the pandemic, said they had not been able to return abroad for the past few months. Punjabis say that they have been visiting their agents repeatedly for help but the strict provisions in the country are not allowing them to return.Those who have spent Rs 25 lakh or more in the past three-four years to pay for the college fee there and get work permit say that they are facing hurdles in the way of their career. Some of them even say that their work permits have expired and they now feel that they are only wasting time in retrying for their entry.Baljinder Singh from Mehatpur town in Jalandhar said, “I had returned home in the first week of March last year. I had gone to Melbourne in 2015 to do a course in automotive mechanics. I had got a work permit as well and began doing a job. Within weeks of my return, the lockdown started and I could not return. The Australian government did not allow people without PR to return and I kept waiting for the right time.“My father and brother are engaged in agricultural work and I have been helping them since. This February, I got married and am doing IELTS so that I can try my chance to get a Canadian visa.”Almost similar is the story of Ranjit from Jalandhar, who was on work permit in Brisbane. “I had done BTech in electronics engineering from here and pursued an MBA in Australia. I got a work permit too and my family fixed my marriage here. I returned in February last year and have been stuck here since. I have not been allowed re-entry in Australia and my work permit too has expired. Despite having degrees, I could not get a job here for the past one year as there has been no recruitment happening anywhere. I really do not know what to do,” he seemed clearly upset.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ban-on-flights-punjabis-back-from-australia-lose-hope-of-return-soon-251765
12-05-2021||---||Price list of fruits, veggies revised||Jalandhar, May 11A day after releasing price list for retail sale of fruit and vegetables, the district administration on Tuesday revised the list in order to get it rationalised properly.While vegetable prices were slashed a bit, fruit prices, which were pegged too low, were almost doubled in the revised list today. Per kg rate of mango, which was kept from Rs 20- Rs 50, was raised to Rs 50 to Rs 90.Vendors at the Old Sabzi Mandi near Charanjitpura alleged, “Fruit prices announced on May 10, were quite less. We had a harrowing experience arguing with customers the entire day. People insisted that we give them fruit at new controlled prices, which was not feasible. Even the wholesale mandi prices were double.”Fruit vendors said apples had been much in demand since people were unwell and they found it to be digestive and a good nutritive option. The Old Sabzi Mandi remains open till 3 pm daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/price-list-of-fruits-veggies-revised-251766
