13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Stubble burning goes unchecked amid raging Covid in Jalandhar||Even as the agriculture-cum-environment experts cautioned against the stubble burning last year amid rising Covid cases, there seems to be no check on the stubble burning incidents in the district. Ahead of the sowing of the kharif crops, farmers in the region have started burning wheat crop residue.As many as 45 incidents of stubble burning cases were reported in the district in just one day alone, on May 9. In the last 25 days, around 180 stubble burning cases were reported. Around 106 cases of stubble burning were reported up to May 12 last year.Environment Engineer, Kuldeep Singh, while confirming the rampant cases of stubble burning in the district, said, due to the farmers’ protest, action couldn’t be taken against those setting their fields on fire.Sanjeev Nagpal, an adviser to the Union and Punjab Government on crop residue management, last year stated that if alternate arrangements to stubble burning were not made, pollutants such as particulate matter and toxic gases such as carbon monoxide and methane could give rise to severe respiratory problems which could worsen the Covid-19 situation as the virus attacks the respiratory tract.Considering the deadliest second wave of coronavirus, which is impacting lungs directly, immediate attention needs to be paid to curb the burning of crop residue.On a visit to some villages near Kartarpur, it was found that the fields were set on fire. Agriculture officials said according to the NGT guidelines, the pollution board will get information about stubble burning through remote sensing devices. “Owing to the pandemic, an action taken report application has been put into effect to keep a tab on stubble burning. Nodal officers get alerted through remote sensing devices. They further inform about the location to the patwaris of the villages,” said Naresh Gulati, an agriculture department official. In addition, as per the claims of the officials, area-wise local officials are also visiting the fields on regular intervals. Farmers are encouraged to use wheat stem leftovers as manure and fodder.Meanwhile, farmers said, crop residue management machines failed to help them.The delay in disbursal of subsidy amount has apparently also forced farmers to resort to the stubble burning practice.“I cannot afford to buy costly machines of straw management, hence, I asked the farmers in cooperative societies to lend their machines but they are charging Rs 1,200-Rs 2,000 per hour for the usage of the same. Hence, without any government aid how would I manage to destroy the crop residue,” said, Rana, a farmer.Moreover, the farmers who managed their crop residue on their own are also yet to receive the government aid. Farmers with 2-5 acres would be given Rs 5,000 per acre and farmers with over 5 acres would be given Rs 15,000 per acre. However, nothing happened in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stubble-burning-goes-unchecked-amid-raging-covid-in-jalandhar-252226
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||9 lose life to virus; 799 fresh infections in Jalandhar||As many as 799 persons on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, taking the tally to 51,248. Of the new cases, as many as 48 persons are from other districts. With nine more deaths today, the death toll in the district has risen to 1,193. As many as 44,220 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district while the number of active cases in Jalndhar is 5,835.8 succumb in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 263 people tested positive in the district, taking the tally to 14,226. Besides, eight persons died due to Covid-19. The victims have been identified as a woman (67) from Sultanpur Lodhi; a man (95) from Phagwara; a woman (65) from Pamma village; a woman (34) from Domeli village; a 70-year-old woman from village Busowal; a man (66) from Fattu Dhinga; a man (70) from Begowal and a woman (64) from Kapurthala.Eight die in HoshiarpurThe district reported eight more Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 810.Besides, the district also witnessed 387 fresh cases taking the infection tally to 24,132. Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,908 and 20,414 patients had recovered from the virus. Of 387 positive cases, 17 were reported from other districts, 80 from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 290 from other health blocks of the district. Six patients of the district died at Hoshiarpur hospitals while two more died at Jalandhar hospitals. As many as 29 level-2 and nine level-3 beds are available at district hospitals.6 dead in NawanshahrNawanshahr has been witnessing a rise in deaths and Covid cases. Today, six deaths were reported in the district, taking the tally to 267. The death rate is now 2.71 percent. Those who lost their lives are a 47-year-old woman from Sujjon block, a 57-year-old woman and 63-year- old man from Mukandpur block, a 51-year-old man from Urban Nawanshahr, a 74-year woman from Muzaffarpur block and a 80-year-old woman from the Saroya block. As many as 134 persons contracted the virus. The active cases now stand at 917, and the total number of positive cases till date stand at 9,849. As many as 820 patients have been getting their treatment at their homes. The recovery rate in the district has been reduced to 88.26 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-lose-life-to-virus-799-fresh-infections-in-jalandhar-252227
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Officials of 3 districts go extra mile to dispatch Oxygen to Amritsar hospitals||Responding swiftly to the oxygen SOS call by two Amritsar-based hospitals, the administration of three districts, including Amritsar, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, exhibited a perfect coordination last night to save precious lives by ensuring a timely delivery of life-saving oxygen to the health institutions.On being informed about the shortage of oxygen by two hospitals, ADC Amritsar Dr Himanshu Aggarwal dialled Hoshiarpur administration for the supply of oxygen on the instructions of Chandigarh oxygen control room on Tuesday late night. The absence of a technical expert, who could perform decanting from tank to tanker (reverse operation), posed a challenge in oxygen supply to Amritsar. Thus, the higher-ups in Chandigarh asked Jalandhar ADC (Development) Vishesh Sarangal to find a technical expert.Acting promptly, Sarangal, who along with SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, and GM Industries Deep Singh located Rashpal, a technical expert of PIMS and a team contacted him at his residence around 2.45 am. The administration team explained the whole situation to him and requested him to perform this crucial exercise in Hoshiarpur, following which, the team also arranged a vehicle and logistic support for him. Rashpal immediately left for Hoshiarpur oxygen plant, where he started decanting oxygen from tank to tanker within an hour and liquid oxygen supply of 5 metric tonnes was dispatched to Amritsar at 4 am on Wednesday.ADC Vishesh Sarangal said, “Saving lives was paramount than anything and we as a team were determined to deliver the oxygen timely to the hospitals by putting best efforts.” He also highlighted the special efforts made by Jalandhar police Commissionerate for locating the address of technical experts, adding that DC Hoshiarpur Apneet Riyait, Showkat Ahmad Parray, IAS and in-charge oxygen monitoring and supply, Punjab, personally monitored the whole event and ensured the best of the coordination between authorities until oxygen was dispatched to Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/officials-of-3-districts-go-extra-mile-to-dispatch-oxygen-to-amritsar-hospitals-252229
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Amid pandemic, Manav Sehyog Society doing yeoman service||A free food packet containing dal, sabzi, roti, rice and curd is being delivered at the homes of those under home isolation during the Covid-induced pandemic by the Manav Sehyog Society.Since last Friday, volunteers of the society have been running to and fro across the city delivering food packets to those under home isolation. The society also provides an ambulance service from 8 am to 8 pm. Started last Friday, the society has catered to 40 families so far and the number of beneficiaries is increasing.Vinesh Jain, general secretary of the society, said, “We get many calls every day. A home-cooked meal is a great service to those persons or families whose two or three members are Covid positive. With homemakers also contracting the virus, it becomes very difficult for the family to prepare food at home with so many members under home isolation.“Hence our job is to ensure that everybody gets food amid the pandemic. We have a tie-up with a restaurant and a hospital which have been preparing food free of cost for the residents who are under home isolation. Till now, 40 families have placed orders of lunches and dinners with us. The food is being delivered to areas as far as Adarsh Nagar to Focal Point.”The society’s ambulance service has also provided assistance to eight patients so far. The food service is being made available to people after seeing their Covid positive tests first so that only genuine beneficiaries avail the service. The society has provided service to areas like Ashok Nagar, Focal Point, Harbans Nagar, Ladowali Road, Krishan Nagar, Mohalla Gobindgarh, Mandi Fenton Ganj, Kot Kishan Chand, Central Town and others.The society’s staff members and volunteers also undertake tasks to serve Covid-19 patients with ration kits or other groceries if need be. At many homes where Covid positive patients have other dependents, bananas or other fruits are also being provided in addition to food so that no one stays hungry.The society can be contacted for lunch up to 10 am and for dinner up to 3 am. For Covid patients, the ambulance service offers free pick up and drop services to hospitals from 8 am to 8 pm.Registered in 1973, the society is a charitable society which has been working in the fields of health and education. It is running three charitable dispensaries in Jalandhar and one mobile dispensary which renders health care services in surrounding villages. Besides, the society is also running a Shaksatrta educational programme and skill development programmes for poor children and women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-manav-sehyog-society-doing-yeoman-service-252230
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Man’s body found in vacant plot||400 NCC vacancies for Pvt schoolsJalandhar: The Ministry of Defence has given approval for grant of additional one lakh vacancies for out of turn allotment to junior cadets studying in Class VIII and IX of private schools on self-finance basis. Brigadier Advitya Madan, Commander, Jalandhar Group of NCC, while expressing happiness at proposal, opined that with this important government announcement, 13 private schools of Jalandhar region which were earlier on the waiting list, will be offered an opportunity to opt for the scheme, strictly as per the turn on the waiting list. He said a total of 400 vacancies have been allotted to the Jalandhar Group. So, a maximum of eight schools can be allotted NCC at junior wing level with 50 vacancies for each school. OCMuslims to pray from homesJalandhar: In wake of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the Muslim brethren have decided to pay Namaz from their homes to mark the holy festival of Eid. A decision to this effect was taken in round of meetings held at Eidgah and the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Gurmeet Singh, during which many prominent leaders of the Muslim community were present. During the meeting the Deputy Commissioner of Police said that owing to the global pandemic, people have been forced to celebrate major festivals of India like Ram Naumi, Easter, Baisakhi and others from home. He said that as the danger of spreading of this pandemic was still hovering so utmost care needs to be taken while celebrating the festival of Eid. Singh urged the delegation to celebrate the festival with full religious fervour by offering prayers from home. TNS‘Maintain your mental health’Nawanshahr: “These are tough times, so, I request everyone to maintain your mental health,” Civil Surgeon Nawanshahr Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur appealed to the residents. He said that during such critical times, it is very important to indulge in physical exercises, and eat healthy. He also asked everyone to adopt some interests and carry on their hobbies like reading, painting etc. The Civil Surgeon said that the situation in Nawanshahr is still not stable, so everyone must take care of themselves. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mans-body-found-in-vacant-plot-252235
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||In four months, 113 POs held in Kapurthala dist||The Kapurthala police have arrested 113 POs in a span of four months. These POs were wanted in cases of smuggling narcotics, fraud, murder and other heinous offences. A special team under the supervision of SP (Investigation) Vishaljeet Singh and DSP Sarabjit Rai was constituted for the purpose.Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said from January to April 2021, a total of 113 POs had been arrested, 37 under Sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC and 76 under Section 299 of the CrPC.Further tightening the noose around criminals, movable and immovable properties of as many as 17 POs worth Rs 5 crore have also been attached through court. This confiscated property includes property worth Rs 3.61 crore of POs from Sadar police station, Kapurthala, property worth Rs 79.31 lakh of POs from Sadar Phagwara, property worth Rs 35.30 lakh of POs of PS Begowal, property worth Rs 22.41 lakh of POs of PS Bholath, property worth Rs 2 lakh of POs of police station Talwandi Chaudhrian and property worth Rs 32,000 of POs of PS Fattu Dhinga.The district police have also published the list of POs on its website. The drive against the POs would continue in coming days too and more properties of such POs would be got attached.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-four-months-113-pos-held-in-kapurthala-dist-252240
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||PIDB okays Tanda Road RUB, more projects worth Rs 53.23 cr||The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) has approved the construction of Railway Under Bridge (RUB) at Tanda Road railway crossing along with two other road projects amounting to Rs53.23 crore.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is also Chairman of PIDB, has approved this project, which would give much-needed relief to the city residents from the traffic jams at this railway crossing falling on the Amritsar-Delhi rail route.He mentioned that the RUB was proposed by the district administration at Tanda Road crossing in January 2021 and after the in-principle approval from the railway authorities, the project was sent to PIDB for administrative approval and requisite funds.The DC said an RUB with a length of 350 metres and a width of 5 metres would be built at the site for which required land and other infrastructure was also available. He added that service lanes at both sides of the crossing have also been proposed apart from RUB.Thori said this railway crossing at the site remains closed most of the time due to frequent movement of trains which causes long queues of traffic jams here. Sometimes, this crossing remains shut for over 30 minutes, leading to major inconvenience to people, he said, adding that the RUB would facilitate a large number of commuters, traders, and residents while ensuring smooth and hassle-free traffic flow.The PIDB’s approval also encompassed two road projects including four-laning of Lamba Pind-Jandu Singha road and repairing of Phillaur-Apra and Phagwara-Dosanjh Mukandpur Road to facilitate massive traffic flow on these roads, he said.The DC said these projects would ensure the development of Jalandhar by easing out traffic movement both inside and outside the city besides facilitating a large number of people using these busiest traffic routes. He also added that the projects would be executed in a time-bound manner in the larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pidb-okays-tanda-road-rub-more-projects-worth-rs-53-23-cr-252242
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Noble job: Serving with a smile in Covid times||By paying tribute to Miss Florence Nightingale and by saluting all the nurses who have been working day and night in this pandemic, the nursing students of St Soldier Nursing Training Institute, Khambra, observed International Nurses Day.Students and staff paid tribute to Miss Florence by lighting candles and took an oath to always serve the patients. On this occasion, a rangoli competition was organised on the theme of increasing the courage of the nurses and medical staff, awareness and responsibilities among the people.Aanchal, Jessica and Sakeena gor first, second and third positions, respectively in the contest. Vice-chairperson of St Soldier Group, Sangeeta Chopra said people were in fear of corona, but medical and nursing professionals were serving greatly and it is everyone’s responsibility to support them and follow the guidelines of the government. She inspired nursing students to serve the people by taking inspiration from Miss Florence’s life.Meanwhile, students of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya also acknowledged the contribution of nurses in the present Covid times with enthusiasm. The celebrations were organised by the Department of Student Welfare. During the celebrations, KMVites expressed their love and affection for the nurses all over the world and came up with wonderful presentations to convey gratitude to the nurses for their relentless services to mankind especially during the pandemic.Students displayed their gratitude by designing unique posters, slogans and also shared their videos depicting their gratitude. Posters made by Khushboo, Gurdev and Khushpreet were appreciated a lot for their uniqueness.Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV salutes all nurses for going an extra mile in their efforts to nurse the world during the pandemic. She further maintained that their commitment to provide efficient and effective care founded on professionalism, skills and deep compassion is much inspiring and commendable. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare, for successfully organising the celebrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/noble-job-serving-with-a-smile-in-covid-times-252246
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||25-bed Covid care facility opened at resort in Bholath||In line with the trend that started in Gurgaon and other cities with high number of Covid cases, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Jagir Kaur on Wednesday opened a 25-bed L-2 facility Covid care unit in Bholath.While owner of the resort, Gurmail Singh, offered the place be used as a health centre. Jagir Kaur, who has been MLA in the constituency, got the facility started by providing 25 beds with 10 oxygen concentrators, an ambulance, eight doctors and 13 staff nurses from the SGPC side. Today, two Covid patients took admission in the centre, which will function 24x7.Jagir Kaur’s son-in-law Yuvraj Bhupinder Singh said that the new L-2 facility had been started at a time when the spread of Covid had increased in the rural belt. He added though Bholath had a 100-bed four-storey government hospital, it does not have any ventilator facility. “Most patients still need to go to Civil Hospitals in the adjoining districts wasting the much crucial time and money. We are ready to arrange for a ventilator but there are no trained experts available to make it operational,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-bed-covid-care-facility-opened-at-resort-in-bholath-252250
13-05-2021||MLA Nawanshahr Angad Singh met Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and apprised him of the Covid situation in the district. He asked the minister to make a visit to Nawanshahr. The MLA also told the minister that not just in urban areas||‘Covid spreading like wildfire in rural areas’||Reining in the covidiotsSeveral cases were registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act against shopkeepers and salon owners for not opening their shops according to the fixed roster. Notably, a high number of cases are being registered against the violators in Nawanshahr on a daily basis. Challans are also being issued to those opening the liquor vends during the curfew hours. Even when the virus has surged and people are losing their lives, suffering daily, there exist the careless ones who pose a threat to everyone. Recently also, eight cases were registered against the violators for not following the lockdown norms.New tech: Now, stubble no trouble for farmersNawanshahr Agriculture Officer Dr Raj Kumar has invited applications from the farmers to apply for machinery under https://agrimachinerypb.com. Keeping in mind the hazard posed by the stubble burning, a crop residue management scheme was launched three years ago by the Centre. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had launched ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh and the NCR of Delhi’ for in-situ management of crop residue. Various equipment and machines such as super straw management, system (SMS) attached with existing combine harvester, happy seeder, mulcher, rotary slasher, reversible plough, super seeder, baler and rakes, crop reapers, etc, are developed and are given to farmers under this scheme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-spreading-like-wildfire-in-rural-areas-252259
13-05-2021||Jalandhar||Story telling contest||Seminar on National Technology DayDIPS chain organised an online seminar on National Technology Day. During the seminar, HoD, Computer Science, made students and their parents aware of different interactive applications. IT head Manjit of DIPS told parents and grandparents about Skype, video calling etc. MD Tarwinder Singh stated that technology has brought three generations together which is what these testing times demand. “We are miles apart yet connected to one another”, CEO Monica Mandotra said. She added that Technology Day is considered to be a hallmark of technical, innovative and scientific advancement. She also wished for DIPS students to excel in scientific fields and make their institutions as well as their country proud.Lecture on Emergence of TechnologyHMV Collegiate Sr Sec School celebrated the quintessential role of technology that extends to all facets of life by organising international expert lecture on “Emergence of Technology” observed as the National Technology Day. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen averred that technology has become imperative for the young minds to be innovative in their approach. She heartily welcomed the core speakers of the webinar Archit Handa, graduate student from Georgia Technology University, USA and Tanmay Soni, graduate student from North Carolina State, University of Raleigh, USA. The school coordinator Meenakshi Sayal emphasised that young talent throbbing with inventive mind is what the need of the hour as we can witness the indispensible role of technology in this testing time of pandemic. The lecture provided the prospective of technology ranging from future of automobile industry in which we will have autonomous cars.SPIN A YARN contestMayor World School organised a virtual Inter-House “Spin A Yarn” competition for classes III to V. Four participants from each team represented their respective houses — Shakespeare, Keats, Wordsworth and Dickens. The young vibrant storytellers came forth with wonderful tales. While some stories provided food for thought, some reinforced moral values and some were humorous. Each team enthralled the listeners with their extraordinary narrative skills. Beginning of the story was provided on the spot to the participants and 2-3 minutes were given to each team to weave the story. The stories were adjudged on basis of content, creativity, cohesion, presentation, confidence, language and pronunciation. Wordsworth House comprising Agassi Rattan Singh of III A, Maulik Mittal of IV A, Saeema Mankotia of V B and Amay Mahajan of V B emerged victorious. The winners of the competition were presented with e-certificates.Alumni Talk SeriesDepartment of Mechanical Engineering of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology has come up with an Alumni Talk Series. Pragyaan, an odyssey from curiosity to prosperity, is aimed at connecting the alumni with current students of the institute and will comprise of several interactive sessions and workshops from the distinguished alumni and will be carried out in online mode. A brainchild of Prof Gaurav Dhuria, HoD, mechanical engineering department, Pragyaan features series of talks from distinguished alumni of the department to bring the current and former students on a common platform.Online workshopThe department of mechanical engineering in association with Training and Placement Cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised an online lecture on the seven deadly lean wastes (TIMWOOD)- Destroying your profits in manufacturing. The speaker of the day was Dr Dharmvir Uppal, PhD in Lean Manufacturing (Business Coach and Certified Master NLP). Students from all the departments participated in the event with a strong zeal. Dr Uppal discussed about types of losses in industries, hospitals and malls which adds no value to the customer but adds overheads to the industry and other organisations. The overall coordinator for the event was Sarbrinder Pal Singh. Dr Vikas Rattan (HoD of Mechanical Engineering) welcomed Dr Dhramvir Uppal. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director (Academic Affairs, KCL Group) congratulated the department and encouraged to organise such kinds of webinars in future also.Bains appointed DeanDr Palwinder Singh Bains, Assistant Prof, has been appointed as the Dean, Cultural Activities, of Lyallpur Khalsa College. College Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra made Dr Palwinder Singh formally assume the office. Dr Samra said that Dr Singh was made Dean after the promotion of former Dean Dr Tarsem Singh as principal in another college. He expressed a hope that Dr Singh would fulfil the responsibility assigned to him efficiently and effectively. Dr Palwinder Singh expressed his thanks to the principal for showing his faith in him and said that he would do his best to prove truthful to the expectations of the students and the staff. The occasion was witnessed by the presence of senior teachers of the college. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/story-telling-contest-252260
13-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Found overcharging for tests, Jalandhar hospital told to refund amount||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Two days after The Tribune did a sting operation on overcharging by private labs and hospitals for conducting RT-PCR tests, the district administration on Wednesday recommended the Commissioner of Police to register an FIR under the Epidemic Diseases Act against a private lab for overcharging. In the inquiry report submitted by the Civil Surgeon, the lab was found guilty.A private hospital had also “erroneously” overcharged Rs 150-450 from over 90 patients for the RT-PCR test. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori directed the hospital to refund the excess money to all the patients.In addition, the hospital management has also assured the district administration of strictly adhering to the guidelines fixed by the state government with regard to fee being charged for various services.In its probe, the administration found that Tagore Hospital had charged Rs 900 for Covid-19 tests whereas the state government has fixed Rs 450 for the same. The DC had marked an inquiry to Public Grievance Officer (PGO) Randeep Singh Gill, who summoned the management for further probe.“Over 90 patients were overcharged for the test, who will receive a refund. The administration has also asked the hospital management to display government rates for RT-PCR tests and other Covid-19 related services so that people are aware about the government rates,” the DC added.In another case, the administration has written to the police for legal action against Atulya Labs, which prima facie was found to be overcharging for RT-PCR tests. The PGO said some other discrepancies were noted like no separate room for vaccination and lack of biomedical waste disposal mechanism. The DC said keeping in view the second instance of overcharging, the administration would seek cancellation of the lab’s franchise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/found-overcharging-for-tests-jalandhar-hospital-told-to-refund-amount-252006
