14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Messed up: Covid waste dumped in open at Civil Hospital||At a time when the cases are seeing a surge and all sorts of precautions are needed to snap the chain of contact, the district administration and the Civil Hospital authorities seem to have miserably failed in handling the waste emanating from the wards.Safety gear, after a yearThe waste, which includes used PPE kits, beddings of the deceased patients, empty meal packs given to the patients, coconut shells, etc can be seen lying along the passage hardly 50 yards away from the Covid-19 testing centre and the Mother and Child Care unit of the Civil Hospital. The volume of the waste, which according to the staff has been lying for the past three days, has been piling up.This mound is now spilling onto the passage from where hundreds of patients and their attendants walk by on daily basis. Stray dogs which tend to feed on this waste can be seen further leading to spread of the infection. The onlookers too were seen commenting that it was sheer carelessness on the part of the staff to throw the waste and risk the lives of the people like that. “If the staff cannot handle on its own, how can the authorities then act against private hospitals for any similar mismanagement?” questioned Subhash Sood, an attendant of a patient at the hospital.Cleaning up somebody’s messThe Municipal Corporation authorities maintain that even though it is the obligation of the Civil Hospital authorities to handle the waste on their own but they were still helping them off and on. “Ideally, any office or organisation which produces more than 50 kg of waste daily is expected to manage its waste on own by various processes, including segregation, setting up pits, etc. We are not expected to lift but we are still doing it for them whenever they ask for it. Now, that you have pointed it out, we will send a vehicle tomorrow to collect the waste,” said Dr Shri Krishna, Municipal Health Officer.He, however, added, “The bio-medical waste generated by the hospital, including PPE suits, masks, etc have to be segregated which their staff sometimes does not do. This is to be picked up by vehicles of a company managing the waste from the hospitals for the PPCB and disposing it off in an incinerator.”600 MC garbage pickers at riskEver since the second wave of virus began, there has been no plan with the Municipal Corporation to handle the Covid-19 waste being generated at homes.The government stopped pasting stickers outside the Covid-affected houses, and now nearly 600 door-to-door garbage picking staff is clueless as to which house has Covid patients with home isolation.Neither list of the Covid-affected houses is provided to the safai karamcharis nor any supervisors who can ensure that the garbage pickers do not mistakenly turn up and there is no such mixing and direct contact for them.Since the Municipal Corporation’s plan to segregate waste has gone completely haywire since the last year, the garbage pickers can be seen separating the domestic waste, including used masks with bare hands. The MC does not have any separate vehicles to pick the Covid-19 waste from the affected houses. Its staff is no longer getting any PPE kits while collecting waste from the Civil Hospital or infected households.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/messed-up-covid-waste-dumped-in-open-at-civil-hospital-252694
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Beneficiaries turned away as no Covishield supplies in Jalandhar||“Corona da teeka uplabdh na hon karke ajj vaccination centre band rahega (due to non-availability of the vaccine, the vaccine centre will remain closed today),” read a sign outside the vaccination centre at the Civil Hospital on Thursday which is invariably teeming with people queued up to receive the jab.While the message has been there for three to four days since the drive to vaccinate those above 18 years formally started in the district, the shortage has adversely hit the vaccination drive in Jalandhar. Days ago a shortage of vaccinations was last reported, today again, many who had turned up at the Civil Hospital went home disappointed.In all 4,48,394 people have been inoculated in the district ever since the drive started last year. Since April-end, the vaccine shortages forced the Health Department to recall vaccines from all private hospitals where they were previously being administered. As a result, it has been over 10 days now that private hospitals are not receiving any vaccines from the Health Department.In addition to this – from the 130 to 150 centres running in the district – the number has come down to 24-25. Of these sites, 18-plus people are being vaccinated across 10 sites. A vaccine shortage in the middle of rising cases is thus causing concerns among health experts, who have been stressing that large-scale vaccination is required to reach herd immunity.1,000 workers inoculatedIronically, the state-supplied Covishield is being administered to construction workers above 18. Officials informed that in the past three days 1,000 workers had been vaccinated in the district. Vaccination camps for 18-plus construction workers took place today even as the Civil Hospital vaccination centre remained closed.Distrsict Immunisation Officer, Dr Rakesh Chopra cleared the air, “The Civil Hospital is vaccinating those above 45 with supplies from the Centre. We are awaiting this supply hence the centre was closed today. We are expecting it soon, in a day or two. However, the drive for 18-plus people is being run by the state supplies. We had received 8,600 doses of which 1,000 have been administered. Vaccine is administered to the 18-plus in a phased manner. On the first three days, we have vaccinated about 1,000 construction workers. From tomorrow onwards, those above 18 with co-morbidities shall also be included. Meanwhile, vaccination at the Civil Hospital will resume when the central supplies arrive.”Aged couple returns dismayedWhile those over 45 years of age and those getting the second dose of the Covishield vaccine are being vaccinated at the Civil Hospital, the centre ran out of all doses today. Queues of patients snaked at the centre since morning but the rush subsided until afternoon as beneficiaries were aired the news.Among them were 84-year-old Des Raj and his wife Darshana who had come all the way from the Deol Nagar area to get vaccinated but were in for disappointment. Des Raj said, “We have no vehicle or means to travel. We managed to reach here after a lot of hassles and efforts to get jabbed. I have been standing here for an hour and we were being told we won’t be vaccinated. They are telling us to come back in a day or two…it will be a huge task for us.” Other hopefuls who were to get their second dose also had to return home without the shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beneficiaries-turned-away-as-no-covishield-supplies-in-jalandhar-252695
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||10 die, 577 down with virus in Jalandhar||As many as 577 persons tested positive for Covid in the district today, taking the total district tally to 51,825. Of these 577, as many as 49 are from other districts. With 10 more deaths today, the death toll in the district has risen to 1,203. As many as 44,898 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalndhar is 5,724.Six deaths in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 363 persons were reported positive in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 14,591. There has been a dramatic rise in deaths at Kapurthala in the past days too. The district has been reporting an average of 6 to 8 cases for the past few days. While eight persons died in Kapurthala yesterday, six died in the district today. The deceased also continually include young people. The deceased at Kapurthala today include a 52-year-old man from Autholi village, a 78-year-old woman from Fattu Dhinga village, a 70-year-old woman from Chachoki village, a 65-year-old man from Talwandi Palli village, a 66-year-old woman from Phagwara and a 49-year-old man from Phagwara.Five die in HoshiarpurThe district reported five more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 815, while 277 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 24,409. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,785 and 20,809 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 277 positive cases, 45 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 16 were reported from other districts and the remaining cases were from other health blocks of the district. Three patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals while one each died at Medical College Amritsar and a Jalandhar hospital. Dr Ghotra said 72 Level-2 beds and seven Level-3 were available in the district hospitals.Nawanshahr reports 4 deathsThe district reported four Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, while 80 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 9,929. The deceased have been identified as 41-year-old man from Rahon, 65-year-old man from Muzaffarnagar block, 58-year-old woman from Nawanshahr and a 65-year-old man from Balachaur. There are 905 active cases in the district, out of which 825 are under home isolation. Maximum cases are being reported from Balachaur block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-die-577-down-with-virus-in-jalandhar-252696
14-05-2021||---||Door-to-door is the way for shopkeepers now||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13“No one likes to beg or sit idle. No matter what is happening around, we have to earn bread for our families”, says Gurkirat Singh, a 13-year-old boy. Trying to mask-up the sufferings and struggles accompanied with the pandemic, he is among many garment traders who have now resorted to door-to-door selling of garments in these miserable times.Deprived of their livelihoods and meager earnings, the local traders whose major source of earning was ‘Sunday market’ are scattered in the city. Considering themselves as ‘shop on foot’, the traders said it’s been over a month since they haven’t been able to sell their stock.Learning the lessons from the previous lockdown, Mukesh Kumar, another retailer, tells that some had even started vending out their stock even before the commencement of the weekend lockdown.“Rebuilding lives and livelihoods came to a standstill again. As all economic activities except essentials halted post surge in Covid infections, we were unable to continue our business. While we don’t have fixed shops in the market, but we have been assigned few spots where we sell clothes and other accessories. Considering the locals visiting the markets during weekends, a large proportion of our earning comes from Sunday markets. However, we don’t expect it to resume in the next two months. Therefore, resorting to door-to-door selling of clothes seemed only possible option,” adds Mukesh.Gurkirat, who bands with his brother, carries a bag and a few items to display on his hands. “We start our day early in the morning and try to make some deals before the curfew timings. While my school is closed due to restrictions, I preferred to earn some extra money to support my family income. Wearing a mask and maintaining a safe distance from customer remains our first responsibility to ward off the virus,” he shares.Most of these shopkeepers-turned-salesmen only hope to bring life to normalcy and want the government to find a way out so that their livelihood won’t be snatched from them. As the time drifts by, each day becomes a fight for survival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/door-to-door-is-the-way-for-shopkeepers-now-252697
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||PSPCL not to take cash above Rs20k||Helping farmers in tough timesJalandhar: Deputy Director Horticulture Dr Harbhajan Singh Bhullar on Thursday said to ensure that vegetable and fruit growers did not suffer any problem regarding transporting of their produce, the department had taken several initiatives. WhatsApp groups are being made of the farmers residing in various areas and the Horticulture Development officers have been appointed as nodal officers. The officers will remain in contact with the growers and will keep on updating them regarding various initiatives. Assistant Director Horticulture Dr Sukhdip Hundal said, “In case of any problem the farmers can approach the respective nodal officers and no one can stop the growers from transporting the vegetables or fruits. Some phone numbers have also been given by the department where the farmers can contact”. TNSProcurement season endsKapurthala: The district has procured 3,91,711 metric tonnes of wheat as against 3,59,971 metric tonnes of wheat procured in the last season. With this the procurement process for wheat in the district has come to an end. DC Deepti Uppal thanked farmers, arhtiyas and officials of the procurement agencies for their role in the procurement of wheat during the second wave of Covid.The Deputy Commissioner has asked the officers of the concerned procurement agencies to clear the outstanding lifting as soon as possible. She said the government deposited Rs 7737.90 crore in the bank accounts of farmers. TNS17,000-kg lahan destroyedJalandhar: On the direction of Assistant Commissioner Excise Jalandhar-2 Dr Harsimrat Grewal, another raid was conducted under ‘Operation Red Rose’ in the Mand areas of Bilga, Bhode, Burj Hassan and Sangowal villages. The raid was carried out by Excise Inspector Ravinder Singh, Excise Inspector Resham Mahi and Excise Inspector Ram Murti along with excise and local police staff. During checking, the team confiscated unclaimed 19 small and big taurplines and approximately 17,000-kg lahan that was destroyed on the spot. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-not-to-take-cash-above-rs20k-252698
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Oxygen concentrator bank set up for Covid patients||Amid an unprecedented surge in the Covid cases that have led to a high demand for oxygen, the district administration today set up an oxygen concentrator bank at the Red Cross Bhawan.Starting a new initiative, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said around 30 oxygen concentrators have been kept in the bank and any Covid patient could take it for home use from the bank on the doctor’s prescription and guarantee of device’s functioning under his supervision.Only after hospital’s prescriptionThori said the oxygen concentrator taker has to pay a minimal daily rent of Rs 200 to the administration and submit refundable security of Rs 5,000 to the Red Cross Society. The DC said the concentrators would be given only after hospital’s prescription and concerned hospital has to ensure machine’s operation under its monitoring adding that the beneficiaries have to arrange for power backup for smooth and uninterrupted oxygen supply to the patients.He added that if demand exceeds the available stock, the patients can take this facility at the post-Covid recovery ward in the Civil Hospital. A 30-bed ward has been set up by the administration to facilitate patients requiring oxygen support, he said.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said an oxygen concentrator was a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air and this machine captures and filters the air.He said with the growing demand for life-saving gas, the concentrators can be useful in the treatment of patients in home isolation having mild symptoms and will be helpful to reduce the caseload on the hospitals. The needy patients can contact the Red Cross Society for concentrators at mobile number 9876502613 or control room number 0181-2224417.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-concentrator-bank-set-up-for-covid-patients-252699
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||30-bed recovery ward set up at Civil Hospital||The district administration has come up with a 30-bed post Covid-19 recovery ward in the premises of Civil Hospital, where patients who have recovered from Covid-19 but still require oxygen support will be shifted for speedy recovery.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, while visiting the new ward, directed the health officials to ensure the availability of all requisite facilities and equipment in this ward for smooth and better treatment of patients. He also asked officials to not discharge such patients whose oxygen saturation level was still unstable and keep them in this post Covid-19 recovery ward until they are fit and fine.The DC also mentioned that this ward with 30 beds would exclusively cater to the needs of patients who have reported negative but still having lower oxygen saturation. He also directed health officials to deploy oxygen concentrators in this ward to help patients improve their oxygen level, adding that 30 oxygen concentrators were being given to civil hospital through various NGOs. Thori said the Savi Sports was also donating 13 concentrators for better Covid-19 management.The DC again urged all hospitals in the district to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the administration to keep patients in the hospitals until their oxygen level improves as there have been restrictions over the selling of oxygen cylinders for individual usages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-bed-recovery-ward-set-up-at-civil-hospital-252700
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Youth Congress stages protest||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Punjab overwhelming its medical infrastructure, almost 90 per cent of the 320 ventilators received through the PM CARES Fund at the three government medical colleges were found defective and non-functional. Angad Dutta, Youth Congress president, took the centre stage amid a protest on Thursday, urging the Centre to stop playing dirty politics to save precious lives.Dutta said, “Despite the testing times when the hospitals are already reeling from a dearth of medical apparatus, receiving non-functional and faulty machines is going to be another liability to the state’s health support. It will put further pressure on the staff to get them repaired and further using them with caution.” Moreover, professional advisor to Punjab’s Covid-19 response and procurement committee, Dr Raj Bahadur have reportedly claimed that the ventilators are still not being used because the anesthetists are not confident lest they should breakdown at critical time.He said the Medical College of Patiala received 98 ventilators whereas medical colleges of Amritsar and Faridkot received 109 and 113, respectively, but it was found that only 35 were operational.Dutta further added: “At this crucial time when the world is reeling under a swelling human catastrophe, the Centre should not play politics and manage the outraging number of cases in the country impartially regardless of which state is ruled by which party.”He also said the Centre is trying to put undue pressure on the Punjab Government for tackling the crisis as earlier also the state had received scant amount of vaccine doses and oxygen cylinders as compared to the neighbouring BJP-ruled state Haryana. He further demanded that a judicial inquiry must be conducted and wrongdoers be booked immediately as this could result into loss of human lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-congress-stages-protest-252701
14-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Youth join hands with admn to tide over Covid crisis||Joining hands with the district administration in Covid management, a group of youngsters came forward to ensure the proper counselling, isolation and medical help in positive cases so that precious lives could be saved. Disclosing this here this evening, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said this group included intern doctors, professors, nursing students and students of other colleges of district, who would extend all possible assistance and services to positive cases for their speedy recovery. The Deputy Commissioner also interacted with these youngsters during a training session held at District Administrative Complex and termed this humanitarian gesture of the said youngsters as a great help to the Covid patients in this tough time.Accompanied by Assistant Commissioner (G) Kirpalveer Singh, the Deputy Commissioner said the training organised by the Meraki Foundation was attended by students of government colleges of the district, Meritorious Nursing College, Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Institute besides Professor of DAV College, seven intern doctors etc to get detailed information of services to be given to Covid positive patients under home isolation. The expert doctors briefed the volunteers about the execution of services and Covid-appropriate behaviour during isolation, said the DC, adding that these volunteers would remain constantly in touch with the patients over phones and make daily calls to them to know about their actual condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-join-hands-with-admn-to-tide-over-covid-crisis-252702
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Hoteliers meet MP Chaudhary,  demand  easing of Covid norms||Seeking relief in restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic, hoteliers and restaurants owners of the city led by chief patron of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Punjab Paramjit Singh met Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary at his residence here today.Submitting a memorandum to the Lok Sabha MP, Paramjit Singh said the hotel and restaurant industry has been hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic and the government’s restrictions were making the survival of the sector difficult.“No social event like wedding, ring ceremony or shagun is possible with the restriction of 10 persons. Banqueting revenue is the main source of income on which the hotels survive. The practical way is to link the number of persons allowed to the capacity of the banquet hall,” Paramjit Singh said.The members of the delegation further stated that the hotel and restaurant sector employs thousands of persons directly and indirectly. “Other than people directly employed at the hotels, the industry provides work to casual waiters, decorators, drivers for vallet parking, DJ players, etc. Therefore, the restrictions adversely affect those workers too,” they added.They also emphasised that the industry pays a significant amount of taxes to the government. MP Chaudhary assured the delegation that he would take up the hotel and restaurant sector’s grievances with the government and seek relief. Mohinder Paul Shoor of Majestic Grand Hotel, SP Arora of Ambassador Hotel and Som Dutt Kalia of Best Western Hotel were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoteliers-meet-mp-chaudhary-demand-easing-of-covid-norms-252703
14-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Jalandhar admn sails ‘Mr clean’ initiative||In a bid to ensure employment opportunities for deserving youths, the district administration has come up with a unique initiative called ‘Mr Clean’.While holding the first round of interviews at the District Bureau of Employment Generation and Enterprise (DBEE), Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Thursday interviewed as many as 28 aspirants under the new programme. Divulging details, the DC said the scheme would prove to be a boon for the unemployed youths, especially those who were deprived of higher education.Riyait also said the project would start from Hoshiarpur and Garhshankar town under which car- washing services are being offered to people at their doorsteps. She added that the project aimed at providing employment opportunities to deserving candidates on one hand and offering such car-washing facilities, at nominal rates, to the people at their doorsteps.The DC further mentioned that the administration would impart free-of-cost car-washing training to the selected candidate besides providing them with high-tech washing kits given by the Sonalika Tractors under CSR initiative. “The list of customers willing to avail this home-service would be shared with the selected candidate by the administration,” she told.The district administration has taken slew of measures to provide employment opportunities to needy and deserving applicants amid the ongoing pandemic, which in turn has infused a sense of confidence among youths. She also lauded the efforts being made by the team of DBEE for providing employment opportunities to unemployed youth in these trying circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-admn-sails-mr-clean-initiative-252704
14-05-2021||Jalandhar||Seminar on teaching model||Hubs of LearningEklavya School conducted a meeting under CBSE-approved programme “Hubs of Learning”. Eklavya School had been named as a “Lead collaborator School” by the CBSE Board. Principal Komal Arora conducted a well-planned, organised meeting with all member schools. The motive behind this meeting was to create a culture of support and healthy interdependence across different areas of teaching learning viz. curriculum planning, teaching-learning activities and other school practices. Activities were finalised in the meeting to create an ecosystem for the schools to effectively take up all round self-improvement. All the participants of different schools shared their ideas. They were happy to start a joint reflection culminating in creation of new knowledge and designing novel pedagogical strategies to provide holistic education.Placement driveThe students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got placed at Infosys. The students appeared in first round of interview which was on online aptitude basis test. The second round of interview was scheduled last month. The selected students are Vani Midha from BCA, Disha Arora and Priyanka from BSc (Non-Medical). They got selected for the role of ‘Operations Executive’. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the selected students, Placement Cell In charge Jagjit Bhatia and Gullagong.Webinar on Theory of MetalPhagwara: The department of physics of Kamla Nehru College of Women conducted a webinar on the topic “Free Electron Theory of Metal”. Prof Sukhwinder Singh, Department of Physics, Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, was invited as the resource person. Dr Savinder Pal, college principal, greeted the resource person with a formal welcome. Priyanka, (HoD) Department of Science, introduced and welcomed Prof Sukhwinder Singh. The resource person discussed the concepts of free electron theory and its relationship in graphical form with other statistical theories. He focused on the concepts of density of states, free electron gas in three dimension and many more. Dr Savinder Pal, the college principal, emphasised that such webinar plays a significant role to understand the concepts of physics deeply. Priyanka, (HoD) Science Department, proposed a vote of thanks. More than 100 participants including professors and students attended the webinar.Challenges in Learning EnglishKapurthala: Department of English of Hindu Kanya College organised a webinar on “Challenges in Learning English” in which Dr Gurupdesh Singh, Prof (Retd) from Department of English, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, presided over the session as the resource person. Dr Gurupdesh highlighted the importance of seven main challenges in learning the international language, ie English which included teaching correct pronunciation to students, knowing the stress in words, strong and weak part in sentences, framing words and sentences on one given topic with the help of clue words and good vocabulary. While satisfying the queries of the participants, he also emphasised on the relevance of translation method to synthesise two languages and to make young students understand complex English vocabulary easily.Webinar on rehabilitating landHoshiarpur: The department of biology and agriculture, DAV College, Hoshiarpur, conducted a webinar on ‘Big Problems- Simple Solutions- Applying Science, Common Sense and Awareness (of law)’ to rehabilitate land. Dr Rajesh Jalota, senior environmental law officer, Queensland, Australia, was the keynote speaker. In his presentation, he laid stress on cheapest and local resources to mitigate the environmental crisis. He showed the efforts done by him to convert barren eroding slopes into green pastures by using waste wood of nearby forest. The webinar was attended by over hundred students and staff members. The students very enthusiastically interacted with Dr Jalota with their local environmental problems. Dr Anoop Kumar, president, CMC and Principal (retd) DL Anand, secretary, CMC, appreciated the efforts. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seminar-on-teaching-model-252705
