15-05-2021||Jalandhar||Video of man carrying body of his 11-year-old 'Covid-positive' daughter in Jalandhar goes viral||Hours after the video of a man carrying the body of his 11-year-old "coronavirus positive" daughter on his shoulders and walking on a road in Jalandhar's Ram Nagar went viral, the district administration said the girl did not die due to the virus.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered a probe into the whole incident and said it was found that the minor did not succumb to Covid-19.Dilip, father of deceased Sonu, on Saturday interacted with the media and shared that his daughter was ill for the past nearly two months with symptoms of indigestion.He said on someone’s recommendation, he took her to Amritsar for her treatment where the doctors told that her Covid-19 report had come positive but she passed away on Sunday last.He said the video dates back on Monday last when he returned with the body and went to the cremation ground with his son to perform her last rites.Asked as to why no one including the authorities came forward for the last rites of his daughter, Dilip said, “I am an illiterate, poor man. I do not know anything about the protocol. I had no time to contact anyone including the area councillor or the MLA. No one came forward for help from the area owing to the coronavirus positive report.”He shared his grief, “A Class IV employee of the Amritsar hospital just wrapped her body in the sheet on which she was lying and handed it over to me. I was just given her death certificate but no PPE kits. I cremated her without any protective gear as I was not aware of any such measures to be taken. I took Rs 1,000 financial help from someone in my area, bought the wood and went along with my son for her last rites.” However, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered a probe into the whole incident and said it was found that the minor did not succumb to Covid-19.Divulging the details, the DC said as per inquiry report conducted by the Sub Divisional Magistrate, the cause of death was not Covid-19.He added that the girl was admitted in Jalandhar Civil Hospital from where she was referred to Amritsar Medical college.An ambulance carried the patient to Amritsar, where she remained admitted in the surgical ward. After the death, an ambulance again dropped the dead body back in Jalandhar at their house.Pointing out further, Covid Patient Tracking Officer (CPTO) Navneet Kaur Bal said that no one in the family or anyone in the area came forward to seek help in the cremation.She said that in normal cases (other than Covid-19 deaths), once the dead body is handed over to family, they take care of the last rites, however, in present case no one approached her for the help in cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/video-of-man-carrying-body-of-his-11-year-old-covid-positive-daughter-in-jalandhar-goes-viral-253257
15-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held for snatching cash||Four smugglers held with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police have nabbed four persons from different places and seized drugs from them. According to the information, cops at the Model Town police station seized 21 bottles of liquor from vegetable market Rahimpur resident Mohan Singh. The Garhdiwala police have arrested Gaurav, a resident of Johlan village, and seized 72-gm intoxicating powder from him. Similarly, the Mehtiana police have arrested Karam Singh, a resident of Ahirana, and seized a large quantity of intoxicating pills from him, while the Dusuya police have arrested Ghogra village resident Gurpreet Singh and seized 30 gm of intoxicating powder from him. Cases have been registered against all accused. OCDowry: Husband among 3 bookedHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a dowry harassment case against the husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law of a woman. According to the information, Jaspreet Kaur, daughter of Bakhshish Singh, a resident of Badowal village, told the police that she was married to Jande Sarai district Kapurthala resident Jagdeep Singh. The victim complained that her in-laws allegedly started demanding more dowry. When their demands were not met, the accused kicked her out of the house. The police have registered a case against the three. OCFour held with poppy huskJalandhar: Jalandhar CIA staff (Rural) arrested five persons and recovered opium, poppy husk in heavy amounts and a motorcycle. The accused are identified as Inderjit Singh alias Monu, Balwinder Kumar, Amarjit Singh, Ranjit Singh and Charanjit Singh. Two kg and 500-gm opium and 10-kg poppy husk was recovered from the accused. During the interrogation, accused Inderjit Singh confessed that he used to supply vegetables to sabzi mandi, but during the lockdown, because of no work, he along with his friend started smuggling opium. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-for-snatching-cash-253179
15-05-2021||Jalandhar||Swachhta Saarthi Fellowship||Declamation on teachings of 9th GuruIn a series of activities held to commemorate the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, an Inter-Department Online Declamation Competition was held at Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus at Ladhewali here today. Students from various departments of the campus participated enthusiastically in the competition. The theme of the competition was the ‘Life and Teachings of Guru Teg Bahadur’. Sandeep Kumari from the Department of Laws (LLB 2nd Semester) was declared first, Meherdeep Sethi from the Department of Computer Sciences and Electronics ( B.Tech, 6th semester) came second and Umangdeep from Department of Computer Sciences and Electronics ( B.Tech, 2th Semester) achieved the third position. Dr Jyoteesh Malhotra, Associate Dean of the Campus, said that the teachings of the Guru are relevant even in the modern times and students should learn from his life and teachings. Dr Pankajdeep coordinated the online event. Dr Namarta Joshi, Dr. Rupam Jagota, Dr Varinder Singh, Dr Vanita Khanna, Dr Harminder Kaur and others attended the event.International Day of FamiliesEklavya School observed “International Day of Families”. The purpose of holding International Day of Families was to offer an opportunity to spread awareness about the issues that relate to families and to enhance knowledge of the economic, demographic and social processes that affects the families. Science educator Inderpreet Kaur shared the information about International Day of families with the students of on Google Meet. She told that the day has been celebrated as International Day of Families on May 14, at the headquarters of United Nations and around the world. The students were told about the importance of families. The purpose for this international observance day was to acknowledge the significance of family and to heighten awareness on the issues affecting families worldwide. The students were shown a video comprises of importance of family. Primary and pre-primary students made beautiful family trees. Chairman of the school J.K. Gupta said that it’s important to teach the children about significance of family.Show your gratitude day observedIVY World School organised the “Show your gratitude” day in the kindergarten wing. With an aim to stimulate imagination and enhancing their social development skills, young Ivyians celebrated “Community Helpers Day” virtually with great pomp and show. The celebrations began with a special awareness message about the community helpers and the kind of roles they play in our daily live. Children chose their favorite helper and demonstrated his work with great confidence and a smile. Students were dressed as a doctor, nurse, fire-fighter, policeman, teacher, baker, etc. to act out their responsibilities and display their contribution to our society. Children also performed role play modelling frontline workers with deep interest to show much gratitude for their selfless contribution in today’s Covid-19 trying times. It could be seen in their initiative of proper dressing, and use of props as well as creation of helper tools, etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swachhta-saarthi-fellowship-253176
15-05-2021||On the occasion of International Nurses Day an event was held at the Civil Hospital||Nurses: An embodiment of hard work and patience||Vax drive for 18-plus begins at civil hospitalIn keeping with the guidelines of the state government, vaccination for those in 18-44 age group with comorbidities was started at Kapurthala on Friday. The vaccination drive was started at five places in the district. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the first phase of the Covid vaccination in the 18-44 age group was started for the labourers. Now adding upon it, the vaccination is also being started for those with comorbidities. She said as per the list of comorbidities, those in these age groups who are eligible to get themselves vaccinated include people with heart diseases who had been admitted to a hospital in the past one year, other comorbidities include diabetes, heart disease, hypertentions, cancer, HIV/ AIDS patients, kidney, cirrhosis of the liver or transplant cases, those with serious respiratory illnesses, handicapped persons, acid attack victims with respiratory conditions, obesity, angina, sickle cell disease, bone marrow transplant, etc. It was also directed that it was essential that patient with comorbidities getting themselves vaccinated also get the prescripiton for their ailments. The civil surgeon said the vaccination under this drive was being held at Civil Hospital Kapurthala, sub divisional hospital Phagwara, sub divisional hospital Sultanpur, sub divisional hospital Bholath, ESI hospitals Phagwara, Radha Soami Satsang Dera Markfed Chowk Kapurthala and Radha Soami Satsang Dera Bypass Phagwara. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-an-embodiment-of-hard-work-and-patience-253174
15-05-2021||Jalandhar||2 men kill wives over suspicion  of having affair||In two separate cases, two husbands murdered their wives on suspicion of infidelity here on Friday.In the first case that took place in Ambedkar Nagar near Chugitti here, Mahinder Pal killed his wife Raj Rani by hitting her many times with an iron rod.Manmohan Singh Raju, councillor of the area, said, “Mahinder Pal used to drive a three-wheeler since he had reportedly been suffering from depression for the past few weeks. After committing the crime, he went to the police station and admitted to having murdered his wife early this morning. The couple has two children, one of whom came to the aid of her mother but to no avail.”Residents of the area, however, said the accused suspected that his wife was having an affair with a man. The victim worked in an office. The duo indulged in a fight which led to the death of the woman. In a similar case, a resident of Bhaur village of Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala strangulated his wife to death. The body of the victim, identified as Manjit Kaur, was found from the fields. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-men-kill-wives-over-suspicion-of-having-affair-253172
15-05-2021||---||DC inaugurates Oxygen plant at pvt hospital||Jalandhar, May 14Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori inaugurated an oxygen plant based on the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology at NHS Hospital, Kapurthala Road, here on Friday. The plant can produce medical oxygen at the rate of 750 litres per minute.While opening the oxygen plant, the DC lauded the efforts of NHS Hospital to tackle the shortage of oxygen, especially when the demand for oxygen has increased manifold. He said the hospital management had started working on this project following the administration’s appeal to all major hospitals and industries to install PSA-based plants.The DC called upon other healthcare and industrial establishments to follow the same course of action by setting up such plants on their premises. He stated that this would not only reduce the demand for oxygen but also make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in terms of oxygen production, besides bailing out oxygen generation plants burdened with soaring demands.He said if other institutions installed such plants, the oxygen saved could be given to other patients who are in dire need of this life-saving gas.Thori said installing such plants was a one-time investment, which is aimed at enabling such establishments to be self-reliant in production, which is the need of the hour. He urged other institutions to install such plants or buy oxygen concentrators so that soaring demand could be met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-at-pvt-hospital-253171
15-05-2021||---||140 participate in online global bhangra contest||Jalandhar, May 14The Division of Student Affairs, CT Group of Institutions, organised an online worldwide bhangra competition season two in which more than 140 participants under three age categories, six-12 years, 12-18 years and 18 years and above participated.The contestants from India, Italy, UAE, New Zealand, Canada and Australia sent their bhangra videos which were later uploaded on social media platforms. The judges namely Amrit Dhillon, member of International Dance Council, France (UNESCO), Jashanjit Singh, actor and postgraduate in Punjabi folk dance from Punjabi University Patiala, Neeti Verma (Canada) winner of zonal and inter-zonal youth festival of GNDU and IKG-PTU and Ravideep Kundan (Italy), ex-captain DAV College Jalandhar, had a tough time in adjudging the contestants.Out of the total participants, 55 were shortlisted on the basis of number of maximum likes and judges’ decision. Out of these, the top-3 winners under age category six-12 years were Manavjot Singh, who stood first, Inderjeet Singh and Varishabh stood second and Harjai Singh, Manmeet Kaur and Angadveer Singh were third, whereas, under age category of 12-18 years, Sehajpreet Singh was first, Jasmine and Meybal Verma came second and Yuveesh Thapar and Aditya Nahar stood third and under 18 years and above category, Varun Bhutte won, Mohit Bhutte and Shubhneet Singh was second and Gurpreet Kaur and Milky third.The event was supported by Soul Shakerz Academy, Jalandhar. CT Group managing director Manbir Singh congratulated the winners and appreciated the efforts of department’s Davinder Singh in organising the worldwide competition for the second time. He also thanked participants from outside India who participated and showed their love for traditional Punjabi dance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/140-participate-in-online-global-bhangra-contest-253168
15-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man arrested with pistol, Rs 2.90 lakh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-with-pistol-rs-2-90-lakh-253167
15-05-2021||Jalandhar||Saifabad school to get new block||Jalandhar Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary laid the foundation stone of a new block of Government Primary School, Saifabad, here on Friday.The block is being constructed by Bector Foundation as a corporate social responsibility project at a cost of Rs 50 lakh. Speaking on the occasion, MP Chaudhary thanked Anoop Bector, managing director of Bectors Food Specialities Limited, and lauded the group for taking up the project of developing the school.He said that to make quality education accessible to everyone, the CM is focused on establishing smart schools to ensure all round development of students. “We are bridging the gap between government and private schools by developing state of the art infrastructure and providing all necessary facilities. English as a medium of instruction is also offered in government schools now,” he said.Highlighting the contributions of private groups and NRIs, he stated that their contributions in improving the infrastructure of schools were commendable.MP Chaudhary further extended his thanks to programmes like Padho Punjab and smart schools, government schools now have better results in board examinations also, adding that excellent public education for everyone in Jalandhar Lok Sabha constituency was a priority for him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/saifabad-school-to-get-new-block-253166
15-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Needy +ve patients need not worry about food||Hoshiarpur, May 14The district police on Friday started its ‘Covid canteen’ at the local Police Lines to make prepared food available at the doorsteps of needy and poor positive patients. Formally starting the canteens at Police Lines, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said this initiative has been launched on the directives of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta and receiving calls on helpline numbers 112 or 181 from the poor patients, the teams exclusively deputed for this purpose would provide the food to them at the earliest.Mahal told that the operations will be supervised by the SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu along with DSPs Jaspreet Singh and Madhavi Sharma at the Police Lines, the SSP said, adding that this canteen would cater to the positive patients in Hoshiarpur and its adjoining villages.He also stated that all the DSPs in the sub-divisions of the district have been directed to ensure that the food will be provided to patients at their doorsteps after receiving calls on helpline numbers.What will a ‘police canteen thali offer’?The food will contain a dal, vegetable, salad and chapattis, cooked with proper care and hygiene. After preparation, these are to be taken in food delivery vans of Hoshiarpur police.First call comes from TandaThe SSP told the reporters that maiden call has been received from Tanda area, where a positive patient and his wife were not having food. Getting information on helpline, a police team reached there and provided them food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/needy-ve-patients-need-not-worry-about-food-253165
15-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||As Covid grips Balachaur, an MLA comes to rescue||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 14Since May 1, Balachaur block has shown a maximum number of cases in Nawanshahr. Fourteen days have passed, and the block residents continue to contract the virus. There are nine blocks in Nawanshahr, Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Urban Banga, Sujjon, Muzaffarpur, Mukandpur, Balachaur and Saroya. Of all, Balachaur is reporting the highest Covid cases.On Friday, a 32-year-old man from Balachaur succumbed to the virus and on Thursday, a 65-year-old man died. As many as 383 cases have been reported from the block. The virus has spilled onto the villages too. At Surapur village, 17 persons have been infected and this has troubled the officials and MLA Balachaur.Seeing the circumstances bending wickedly, MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur started an initiative today where distributed a special medical kit for those needy patients who are self-isolating. He has named the kit as ‘angraskshak’ which contains a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, a three-layered mask, essential medicines, tulsi leaves, etc. The kits are being given so that the patients’ health doesn’t turn serious and could be saved before that happens.Also, a helpline number 72932-00088 has been released where the patients could reach for help. He said that being an MLA of the block, he is there for the residents. “I have started this initiative for those who cannot afford costly treatment. The idea is to control the spread of the virus,” he said. The MLA added that the reports from villages regarding rising cases is troublesome and worrying at this point. “Once spread in the villages, it will become difficult to control the spread.”Since the start of the pandemic, Darshan has been meeting people and visiting almost every village. “I make sure that people don’t gather around when I meet them. But at the same time, I have to listen to everybody’s problems,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-covid-grips-balachaur-an-mla-comes-to-rescue-253164
15-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Rising cases in Kandi belt a cause for concern||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 14With Covid cases also being reported from far-flung areas of the Kandi belt falling in Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, it has become a cause for concern for villagers residing here.Villagers say that they have to travel a distance of 15-30 km to reach a health centre to get their check-up done. Given the long distance, most of them avoid timely treatment and prefer to stay back at home. The dithering results in a serious health problem, which sometimes leads to the death of patients.Rajwinder Singh Lucky, an activist from Balachaur, said, “We get to know about five to 10 cases daily in many villages of Kathgarh and Saroya blocks, which fall in the kandi area. While these are the official figures, there are many who do not even go for getting their tests done.“Owing to carelessness and lack of health facilities in their vicinity, some lives are also being lost. The Kathgarh hospital, which caters to a population of 50,000, has no doctor. There are no proper facilities at Saroya. Patients have to rush to Balachaur town, which is 15-25 km away from the kandi area. For the past two days, we have seen two deaths in Balachaur villages and thing seem to be going worse.”Things seem to be getting worse in the kandi area of Hoshiarpur. Sarpanch Gurbachan Singh of Kukanet village said the nearest medical facility for them was at Hariana or Banga, which is 25 km from here. “There is a dispensary at Dehria village, which is 11 km away, but there is a jungle and a water body falling on the way and no one prefers to go that way. A new dispensary has been set up at Janauri village, about 16 km from here, but the facility is only for vaccination,” he said. Manit Malhotra, who represents the welfare society of Kukanet, said, “As Covid-19 is surging in rural areas of Punjab, it will be difficult to save lives of people living in the vicinity of these villages as no medical facility is provided there.“Immediately oxygen concentrators need be installed for emergency along with other basic infrastructure. Kukanet, which has a population of 2,200, has a building available but no medical facility is provided here. We have written to the authorities repeatedly but to no avail. The dispensary at Dehria used to cater to about 55 villages and nine nearby villages of Kandi but it is not functioning owing to lack of doctors, affecting the health of more than 20,000 people. After sunset, no one can go downhill as there is no road and provision of electricity, besides the lurking danger of wild animals.”Ex-MLA Sham Churasi Mahinder Kaur Joshi said, “As per today’s report, there have been 13 cases in the area. So far, the situation is okay but if tomorrow this area gets affected, it will be very difficult to handle it. Even today, patients have to commute by bikes on uneven roads to reach hospitals situated around 20 km away. There are just rural buses plying in this area, which are of no use in emergency situations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rising-cases-in-kandi-belt-a-cause-for-concern-253163
15-05-2021||---||13 die, 551 new cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 14As many as 551 people tested positive for Covid in the district on Friday, taking the tally to 52,376. Of these, 54 are from other districts. With 13 more deaths, the toll has risen to 1,216. As many as 45,545 people have recovered in the district while the number of active cases in is 5,615.Five dead in KapurthalaAs many as 166 persons were reported positive pushing the tally to 14,754. There has been a dramatic rise in deaths in the past days as well. Five people died today. The deceased include a 65-year-old woman from Watawali Tibba village, a 76-year-old and 32-year-old women from Phagwara, a 60-year-old woman from Nangal Majha village and a 70-year-old woman from Kapurthala.Eight die in HoshiarpurThe district reported eight more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 823, while 358 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 24,676. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 3,020 and 20,924 patients had recovered from the virus. Out of the 358 cases reported today, 40 were from Hoshiarpur, 18 from other districts and the remaining 300 from other health blocks of the district. As many as six patients died of Covid at Hoshiarpur hospitals, while one each at a Jalandhar hospital and Medical College Amritsar.Nawanshahr: Cases cross 10KThe district reported 110 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the infection tally to 10,039. Six persons also lost their lives in the district on Friday. The deceased have been identified as 32-year-old men from Balachaur and Mukandpur. Also, a 46-year-old man from Muzaffarpur, 67-year-old woman from Saroya, 82-year-old man from Nawanshahr and a 52-year-old woman from Urban Banga died. The death rate in the district is 2.74 per cent and the recovery rate now stands at 88.34 per cent.A total of 921 (894 in Nawanshahr and 27 out of district) active cases are in the district, while 824 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-die-551-new-cases-in-jalandhar-253116
15-05-2021||Aparna Banerji||Harivallabh committee shows deep concern for Covid positive teacher||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 14When a 16-year-old student turned up at Ajay Kant’s doorstep, her music teacher, he did not open the door. Little did she know that an unfortunate incident had befallen when repeated knocks went unanswered. So, she went around the back of the property, sought aid from a helper and got the door opened to find Ajay Kant lying on the bathroom floor – unable to move.A member of the Harivallabh committee, kurta clad religious attendee of the festival, he is a familiar face for all those who have been attending the sammelan for many years. However, on Sunday, the committee was in for a shock when a student informed office-bearers that his health was deteriorating thrusting the Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha to step in to ensure treatment of the 85-year-old classical music aficionado.Admitted to the Civil Hospital first, he has now been admitted to PIMS in Jalandhar where he tested positive for Covid on Friday.Previously a teacher with a school in Jalandhar for over a decade, post retirement Kant’s services were enlisted at the Harivallabh Sangeet Academy. Accorded pension by the sabha, he also lived on the same property.General secretary of the Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha, Deepak Bali, who has been attending to Kant since Sunday said his condition came as a surprise. “On Sunday after a call from the student we realised Ajay Kant ji was very unwell. While he has been staying at the Harivallbah Academy for years, he is a dedicated member who has lent years of service to the sabha and his contributions are precious to us. Since he lives all alone, we deemed it our duty to lend him help.”While Bali – who also previously tested positive himself – has been regularly visiting Kant along with other members of the committee. To ensure proper care, an attendant has also been hired to monitor his health at all times.CEO PIMS, Amit Singh, while speaking to The Tribune, said, “An issue had arisen regarding the patient last night. We had run out of level 3 beds due to which it was getting difficult to provide a bed for him. However, we later had an opening in the Covid ward after which the patient was shifted there. He is being treated there now and proper care of the patient is being taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harivallabh-committee-shows-deep-concern-for-covid-positive-teacher-253117
15-05-2021||---||New method for water quality testing evolved||Jalandhar, May 14 The scientists and researchers at Lovely Professional University (LPU) have earned a patent for an invention entitled ‘a novel method for water quality parameter evaluation using machine learning.’ Pulsing that water quality testing is an important part of environmental monitoring, LPU scientists used an innovative way of parameter monitoring using ‘machine learning’. They feel when water quality is poor it affects not only aquatic life but the surrounding ecosystem as well. Water quality parameters include chemical, physical, and biological properties. Through novel machine learning technique, LPU scientists have measured a variety of properties to determine the quality as per the wants of society. These include temperature, acidity, dissolved solids for specific conductance, particulate matter, dissolved oxygen, hardness and suspended sediment. They especially emphasised on more important biological parameters which determine the quality of drinking water, in terms of a direct effect on human health. Here, they also identified quality affecting bacteria, protozoa, virus, algae and more. LPU’s research and innovation team, comprising executive dean Prof Dharam Buddhi, Assistant Dean Dr Runjhun Tandon and Dr Sandeep Bansal, informed that machine learning (ML) was used for accurately specifying the importance of parameters in the evaluation of water quality. For example, the ‘pH’ parameter contributes more than the temperature of water in modifying the quality of water. Also, the usage of ML works efficiently in different environments and conditions. Chancellor Ashok Mittal holds that LPU is ever focused on finding solutions for social and real-time challenges. He adds that the varsity has regularly been contributing towards technological advancement with a vision to empower Indian and global citizens. He said that the Central Instrumentation Facility (CIF) at LPU houses a wide range of high-end instruments for leading research in science and technology to higher levels. “These help the faculties, research scholars and students to carry out globally competitive research in basic, applied and medical sciences. Some of the social problems solving patents by LPU are sugar-free ayurvedic asava – a chemical-free herbal solution for diabetics, algae-based air purifier, cost-effective bio-filter, smart drug delivery system, flying farmer for smoothening agricultural processes in the fields, pendant kavach to maintain social distancing amid the pandemic, and many more”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-method-for-water-quality-testing-evolved-253118
