16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Now, anti-fungal medicines go out of stock||After reports of shortage of anti-viral Remdesivir and Tocilizumab vials, the attendants of coronavirus patients are now running around for medicines needed to cure black fungus. After it has been found that the Covid-19 patients have started contracting mucomyrcosis, the anti-fungal injections too have gone short in supply.Though there are not many cases of black fungus being reported in Jalandhar, some hospitals have said they have seen a few instances of the same in the post-Covid stage of some patients. Dr HS Pruthi, chairman of Capitol Hospital, said, “So far, there have been eight-10 cases of black fungus reported at my hospital. While earlier, there was not much problem for the attendants to get the vials of Amphotericin needed to cure such cases but this medicine too has gone short since the past one week.”The attendants of the patients said that getting the injections from the market had become a herculean task. “My father is admitted at a private hospital for post-Covid treatment as he developed multiple infections. The doctors have tried a variety of antibiotics on him but no major relief has been felt. They have conducted some tests and today told me to procure Amphotericin injections for the next line of treatment. I contacted a number of chemists and pharmacies all across the city but to no avail.”Indian Medical Association vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya also commented, “Though the fungal infection cases are fewer as of now, surprisingly, the availability of medicines remains an issue.”The doctors discussed that while the supply of Remdesivir injections had become quite comfortable now, Amphotericin and Tocilizumab injections were not getting available to the patients. Dr BS Johal of Johal Hospital said he was comfortable with the supplies of Remdesivir as of now. He added, “Black fungus cases are found in patients with post-Covid complications for which they usually visit an ENT specialist.”ENT expert Dr Sanjiv Sharma mentioned that fungal infections were more common in patients who have taken a high dose of steroids during the Covid-19 period and are immuno-compromised now. “This kind of infection is also common in the kidney transplant patients,” he added. Almost all doctors said the sudden spike in demand for the injections, which were earlier rarely used, had led to the short supply.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-anti-fungal-medicines-go-out-of-stock-253572
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||573 fresh cases and 11 deaths in Jalandhar||Eight die in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district reported eight more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 831, while 267 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 24,943. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,838 and 21,365 patients had recovered from the virus. Out of the 267 cases reported today, 40 were from Hoshiarpur, 11 were from other districts.Kapurthala sees 5 deaths, 157 new casesKapurthala: The health authorities on Saturday reported five deaths due to Covid-19 in the district. Besides, the district recorded 157 fresh new cases. The district has had 14,802 positive cases, of which 1,662 cases are still active. The death toll in the district now stands at 393.Four die, 56 test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr: The district on Saturday reported four deaths and 56 new positive cases, of which 17 were from Balachaur block and 12 from Muzaffarpur. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/573-fresh-cases-and-11-deaths-in-jalandhar-253587
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Admn performs last rites of Covid suspect||Close on the heels of an incident in which the administrative authorities had to face flak on Saturday after the video of a poor man from Ram Nagar locality surfaced in which he had to carry the body of his 11-year-old daughter on his shoulders for her last rites, the officials seem to have begun taking corrective measures.The officials today got conducted the last rites of another Covid-suspect patient in a dignified manner today. His family members were not around and villagers were hesitant to perform the last rites because of fear contracting the virus.Behind the scenesOn Saturday, the administration received a call on its control room that a migrant, who was working as caretaker of an old woman and a Covid patient at Birring village, had passed away. The villagers suspected that migrant had also contracted the infection and succumbed due to virus.The caller requested for cremation of the migrant as his family was away to Bihar, following which Deputy Commissioner asked SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh to ensure dignified last rites of the migrant.The SDM formed a team headed by Kanungo Butta Singh, Patwari Kulwinder Singh and others to perform cremation of the body adhering to Covid protocols. An NGO, Aakhri Umeed Welfare Society, helped administration in wrapping the body of victim.Singh added that cremation was done by team members while wearing PPE kits, gloves along with other necessary precautions, considering this a service to humanity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-performs-last-rites-of-covid-suspect-253588
16-05-2021||Nawanshahr||Rivals question Balachaur MLA over starting parallel kit scheme||A day after Balachaur Congress MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur announced to make his personal arrangement to offer kits to Covid patients, his political rivals on Saturday questioned him asking if he and the accompanying health staff actually felt that the state had failed in its promise to deliver the ‘Fateh kits’ to the patients.Taking a jibe on the issue, SAD leader Rajwinder Singh Lucky said, “The MLA’s move to have his independent scheme to distribute kits to the patients with the same items is a clear-cut signal that he does not have faith in his own government. He has even attempted to create his independent, alternate scheme naming it ‘angarakshak scheme’.”Lucky alleged that when Mangupur launched his personal scheme on Friday, the area SMO was sitting along with him, which meant that even the health authorities had little faith in the government’s Fateh kit scheme.Clarifying his position on the issue, MLA Mangupur said, “I had to start the scheme after the government announced that from now on one family would get one kit only. Since my constituency comprises of backward, poor people, I have to ensure their welfare. I started the scheme when some of my supporters suggested that the kits were in a little short supply owing to rising number of Covid cases in the state and that we could set up our own kit scheme as a back-up plan. My idea was just to ensure welfare of my constituents and support the ongoing scheme rather than creating a perception of having started a parallel scheme, an allegation that my rivals are making against me”.The MLA said that so far he had purchased 200 kits and would order more according to the need of the people of his area.Meanwhile, several residents of Jalandhar too have been ruing non-availability of the kits. Gurcharan Singh Channi, a city-based political leader, said, “We have been daily getting calls from the health officials asking us if we had got the kits. They are telling us to get kits from Garha centre. There are three patients in our family. When my son, who had already recovered, went to get the kits from the centre, he was returned empty handed. I don’t have much issue as we can afford all medicines and apparatus but I really pity the condition of the poor, who too won’t have been getting any kits.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rivals-question-balachaur-mla-over-starting-parallel-kit-scheme-253589
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||The super(b) dancer!||From getting selected for the reality show ‘Super Dancer’ to entering top-12 and garnering praises from choreographers Remo D’Souza, Geeta, and director Anurag Basu, Jalandhar’s Sanchit Chanana can now soak in the meaning of being on top of the world.While the 10-year-old, accompanied by his father, is busy impressing big celebrities with his dance moves as he shoots for the reality show in Daman and Diu, his mother, a government schoolteacher is in Jalandhar, taking care of her younger child and managing work, apart from wishing for her son’s victory and success.Neetu Bala, the mother, said one of the proudest moments for her is when people recognize her as Sanchit’s mother. “There is nothing better than being recognised by your child’s name. It wasn’t easy to take this decision of letting him go during these tough times, but his talent is also something we couldn’t compromise on.” As mothers are, she never forgets to ask about his health.Sanchit is a Class V student studying at Mayor World School and is equally killing it academically. Apart from his brewing love for dance, he is also a cricket buff. Neetu shares that before becoming part of ‘Super Dancer’, Sanchit had never been away from her even for a single day. “But for his growth it was important,” she added.Father Sunil Kumar, a university lecturer, too, was into dancing and used to follow Michael Jackson. “I have always believed that one has to be perfect and serious when one gets on stage,” he told.Sharing future plans, Sunil wants Sanchit to perform at internationally. “Bollywood is not my motive, but making him an international dancer is what my dream is.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-superb-dancer-253590
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Court restrains MGN Trust from conducting elections||As the dispute in the Montgomery Guru Nanak Educational Trust, Adarsh Nagar, rages on the court of Civil Judge (Junior Division) Harmeet Kaur Puri has restrained it from conducting the elections on May 17. The matter pertains to the trust which runs MGN schools and colleges in the region.In the orders issued by the court on Thursday, it has been stated, “As per the contention of parties, the election of trust is going to be held on May 17. The court has deemed it necessary to provide congenial atmosphere to both parties for conducting fair and impartial election of trust. So, a direction is issued to both of the parties if they have got any plans for conducting election on May 17, then the plans are order to be shelved till further order of courts. The court is of further view that at this stage if the relief of the temporary injunctions restraining defendant (Charanjit Singh Rai) from conducting election except under the observations of the receiver or according to the rules is not passed in favour of the plaintiff (Jarnail Singh Pasricha), then certainly irreparable loss or damage would be caused which cannot be compensated in the terms of money.”On the petition filed through lawyer Mandeep Sachdev, the court also observed, “There is also a prima facie case or balance of convenience in favour of the plaintiff on the basis of the documents produced and contention raised. Moreover, if the relief of the present nature is not granted in favour of the plaintiff the whole purpose of filing the present suit shall stand defeated. The defendant’s rights can also be protected on merits at later stage after leading evidence from the both sides. So, in view of the above said discussion the defendants are restrained from conducting any elections of the trust which is duly registered society except under the observation of receiver or independent government observers as per the rules of the trust which were applicable in the year 2018 and also as per the life trustees in existence thereof till the further orders of the court.” The case has been adjourned to May 20 for the consideration.A petition had been filed last year in the Punjab and Haryana High Court but it was disposed of with the direction to Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar to consider and decide it. The DC had on November 27 passed orders, “Taking cognisance of a situation where half of the trustees are showing no confidence in the incumbent office-bearers of the trust, it will be appropriate that an impartial court-appointed functionary takes charge of the trust with limited mandate of presiding over election of new management passing of budget of 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 as per rules and getting financial audit conducted under his supervision to fix responsibility of any misappropriation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/court-restrains-mgn-trust-from-conducting-elections-253592
16-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five nabbed for violating curfew||Two arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two accused recovering intoxicants from them in two separate cases. The Hajipur police have arrested Rocky of Sandpur village, Talwara, recovering 19-gm of intoxicating powder from him. Also, Talwara police have arrested Tarsem Lal of Datarpur village and recovered 110 intoxicating capsules from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused by the respective police stations. TNSSewa Kendra timings changedJalandhar: The timings of Sewa Kandras have been changed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 from May 17. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said that the Sewa Kendras will open from 7.30 am to 3 pm. Also it will now be mandatory to get an appointment in order to take service in Sewa Kendras and no service would be provided without an appointment. The appointment can be taken by visiting through mobile App M-Seva, Cova App and website of the District Administration. She appealed to the people of the district to adopt the online appointment system and get smooth service. She said that Covid protocols were being strictly followed in Seva Kendras, so visitors should cooperate in the compliance of all rules. ocScooter stolen from houseGarhshankar: An unidentified man stole scooter and two bags of wheat from a house in Garhshankar town this afternoon. Ashok Kumar, a resident of Ward No. 2, Jauriyan Mohalla, told the police that he was on the first floor of his house at around 4 pm today. An unidentified masked thief entered the house and escaped after stealing his scooter (PB-07-AV-9247 ) parked inside the house. The thief also stole two bags of wheat lying in the house. This incident was captured in the CCTV camera. The police are tracing the footage of CCTV cameras. oc‘Awareness on Covid need of hour’Chabbewal: Dr Raj Kumar, MLA Chabbewal, on Saturday held a meeting with the SHOs of the police stations under his constituency and asked them to undertake the work of convincing people to not to make large gatherings and to wear double masks while getting out of the house. “The police will have to take strict steps,” he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-nabbed-for-violating-curfew-253593
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Young couple commits suicide in Rama Mandi||A couple in their mid-20s reportedly committed sùicide under mysterious circumstances here on Saturday.The incident was reported at Upkar Nagar colony in Rama Mandi. The deceased have been identified as Radha (24) and Sagar (26).As per information, the couple got married around four years ago. However, Radha was residing at her parents’ house due to some family issues with her in-laws. For the last one month, Sagar had also been living with her at her house.SHO Sullakhan Singh, Rama Mandi Police Station, said while Sagar was admitted to a private hospital on Friday night after he consumed poison, Radha also complained of stomach pain and started vomiting on Saturday morning.She was also rushed to the same hospital where doctors declared her dead. She had also consumed poison. The police received the information regarding the suicide at around 8.30 am.The police are investigating the matter. The SHO said inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC had been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/young-couple-commits-suicide-in-rama-mandi-253594
16-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Over 2,800 jabbed during mega vaccination camp||The district administration on Saturday organised a mega vaccination camp for the beneficiaries of the age group of 18-44 years at the Services Club Hoshiarpur in which 2,819 beneficiaries were vaccinated by 10 teams of the Health Department. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, encouraged the teams of the Health Department and people who had come for vaccination. As many as 3,574 beneficiaries of this category were vaccinated in various camps organised in the district today.The DC said so far total 3,23,071 doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in the district out of which 9,159 jabs have been given as the first dose to health workers and 4,711 as second dose. As many as 34,706 frontline workers have been given first and 8,546 have been given second doses. Also 1,46,356 beneficiaries in the age group of 45-59 years have been given first dose, while the second doses have been given to 22,910. Among the beneficiaries in the age group of 60 years and above, 75,583 have been given first dose and 2,11,00 have been given second dose. The DC added that on May 16, in Shri Sat Narayan Mandir near SD School Kanak Mandi a vaccination camp will be organised in which at risk professionals such as shopkeepers, bank employees, government employees besides beneficiaries aged 18-44 age would be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-2-800-jabbed-during-mega-vaccination-camp-253595
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Ludhiana girl gangraped in Jalandhar, 1 arrested||A minor girl of Ludhiana was allegedly gangraped in a commercial building of the posh Model Town area reportedly owned by a city-based councillor.The incident dates back to May 6 but came to light on Friday after the girl shared the matter with her mother, who then lodged a complaint here. The 15-year-old girl had come to Jalandhar with a woman from her locality for shopping. The duo went to the market after which she brought her to the building where four men reportedly gangraped her. The four accused intoxicated her before sexually assaulting the girl, who is studying in Class X in Ludhiana.SHO Division No. 6 Surjit Singh said a case had been registered against the woman who brought her here and the four men involved in the crime. “We have arrested one accused, Sahil, while the other accused, who are from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Phagwara, are on the run. The crime took place in a spa, the owner of which too is an accused in the case,” said the SHO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ludhiana-girl-gangraped-in-jalandhar-1-arrested-253596
16-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Garhshankar, Mukerian villages become micro-containment zones||The district administration on Saturday declared Rampur Sainian village in Garhshankar subdivision and Dharampur village in Mukerian subdivision as micro-containment zones. District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zone. Teams of the Health Department would conduct a door-to-door survey and contact tracing in both these villages.In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocols. The areas had been declared a micro-containment zone for 10 days. She said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against violators.Cop’s kin gets Rs50L ex gratiaNawanshahr: The family of Head Constable Joginder Ram, who was posted in the ‘Quick Response Team’ of Nawanshahr and had passed away in March due to Covid-19, was yesterday given a grant of Rs 50 lakh through cheque by SSP Alka Meena.She said Joginder Ram had died on March 10 at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, due to Covid-related complications. The state government provides Rs 50 lakh as a grant to the family of an employee, who loses his life to Covid while performing duty. She said that Raj Kumar, son of deceased cop Joginder Ram, has also been recruited as constable in the police department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-mukerian-villages-become-micro-containment-zones-253597
16-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Vaccination centre remains closed due to shortage of vials||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 15Two days after the vaccination centre at the Civil Hospital went dry due to shortage of vaccines, the beneficiaries were again returned on Saturday. People over 45 years of age remained disappointed.Welcomed with notice outside the vaccination centre that ‘the vaccination process has been discontinued temporarily due to shortage of Covishield doses’, the residents found themselves on the receiving end. An elderly said, “We should have been notified earlier about the dry state of vaccination centre as it was riskier to step outside our homes amid surge in Covid positive cases.”Most of the visitors who had reached the centre were to receive the second dose.This is the second time when the centres were closed for people above 45, since the drive to vaccinate those between 18 and 45 age group formally started in the district. The shortage has adversely hit the vaccination drive in Jalandhar. From 130 to 150 centres running in the district – the number has come down to nearly 20. Of these sites, 18-plus people are being vaccinated across 15 centres.As per the Health Department, as many as 4,50,000 beneficiaries have so far been administered Covid jab in the district. District Immunisation Officer, Rakesh Chopra, while confirming about the empty stack of vaccines, said, the district is facing shortage of Covishield vials, which were sent by the Centre. “However, the vaccines which were delivered from the state-run Health Department are still in stock and keeping the above 18 age group vaccination drive running. About 2,000 beneficiaries, including construction workers and daily wagers were given their first dose on Saturday. It is still not clear when the vaccination drive would resume at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-centre-remains-closed-due-to-shortage-of-vials-253598
16-05-2021||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiJalandhar||NCC cadets playing pivotal role in testing, tracking of patients||The cadets of Jalandhar NCC are playing a pivotal role to implement the state government’s strategy of test, track and treat Covid patients. Under the command of Brig Advitya Madan, the Group Commander of the Jalandhar NCC Group, cadets have devised own strategies to contribute their best for the benefit of society, while remaining locked within the their homes.Brig Madan told the Tribune that the cadets of 21 Punjab NCC Battalion Kapurthala led by Col Hitesh, are serving as the Covid warriors working from their homes when they are done with their online college classes. “On daily basis, Senior Medical Officer of Kapurthala sends the list of approx 400 patients to the syndicate leader, cadet Jaspreet, who divides the responsibility to contact the patients to her team of cadets,” told Brig Madan.Each cadet is then supposed to contact all patients assigned to them on mobile in a given time-frame and seek answers to some very relevant questions. Queries pertain to their well-being, temperature and oxymeter readings throughout the day. The patients whose condition is deteriorating or who need a hospital referral or an oxygenated bed are given immediate medical attention by nearby medical centres.Every cadet is also supposed to do a thorough contact tracing. Umpteen calls are made to the people who have come into contact with the patient. At times, wrong contact numbers are sent to the police for tracing at their end. Even unanswered calls are also recorded and reported to the police. At the end of the day, a detailed report is compiled on an MS Excel sheet and sent to the SMO for medical analysis and further treatment of the patient.Brigadier Madan added, “Though there are a large number of volunteers in Jalandhar group but the cadets to assist Kapurthala civil administration have been personally handpicked by me, along with the Commanding Officer of the battalion, based on their qualities of integrity, honesty and dedication. Their task is cut out and very sensitive which has to ensure an authentic data analytics and management for further professional analysis by professionals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-cadets-playing-pivotal-role-in-testing-tracking-of-patients-253600
16-05-2021||Jalandhar||Int’l Day of Families observed||Enjoy Family Time TogetherOn the occasion of International Day of Families, young students of KG II of Innokids, the Pre-Primary School of Innocent Hearts, had fun while having snacks with their families. This activity 'Snacks Time' was organised with the theme "Enjoy Family Time Together". They shared photos of their families playing indoor games on the school's official Facebook page. To explain the importance of family to children, a video prepared by pre-primary wing teachers was sent to the children, explaining to the children that each member of the family has an important role in their physical and mental development. Director of Innokids Alka Arora said that the tiny tots of Innokids and their parents perform all activities organised by the school very carefully. In this difficult time of Covid-19, all family members must cooperate to keep the atmosphere of the house positive and contribute to the overall development of the children. The purpose of organising such activities in school was to reduce the mental stress in the stressful environment of lockdown and encourage children to spend time with each other by explaining the importance of family.DIPS schools celebrate Family DayTo make students understand the importance of family, all branches of DIPS schools celebrated International Family Day. Students shared happy memories with their families' online as well as family photographs. Students recited poems and sang songs in praise of their families. Some students constructed a family tree at home and shared its picture online. School teachers joined students and their families in the celebration by making them play online games. MD Tarwinder Singh has said that a person is born in a family which is part of his or her family. A person learns different qualities and virtues from one's family. CEO Monica Mandotra stated that the prime reason behind celebrating International Family Day was to emphasise the significance of family and spread awareness on issues surrounding family structure so that all members of a family could live happily and peacefully.he school organised a cleanliness drive in which students participated with enthusiasm. As many as 200 students and 10 staff members took out a rally. Students holding placards reading ‘Don’t litter, don’t be so bitter’, ‘Go clean, go green’. They also cleaned the Sector-15 market area.Online Zoom classes on CovidTo remind the precautions to be taken to check the spread of coronavirus, the staff of Nobel School conducted an online activity about the deadly disease. Chairman CL Kochhar said the activity was organised for grade I to XII students through online Zoom class during first and second period. Students were asked: What is Covid -19? What kind of precaution should be taken by us? What are the symptoms of this virus and which wave is currently going on? How many doses of vaccine are needed for a person? Where this virus was originated? The students were made aware about model good practices such as sneezing and coughing into your elbow, washing your hands and maintaining social distancing. Kochhar said that the activity was held to make sure that everyone deals with the situation with positive attitude and positive energy and there is no hindrance in the studies of students.Coming Together SymposiumApeejay School Model Town organised a coming together communion to collectively pray to the Almighty to help the mankind tide away the difficult times. Students, parents, grandparents, teachers all came together, virtually and recited bhajans, shabads and shlokas. The unique communion that had people from different faiths coming together and connecting spiritually. Principal Sinia Sajith said that the Almighty is closest to the heart of the children. When children raise their hands to seek the blessing of God, he is sure to be moved. She told everyone, "There is so much we can do beyond medicine for our health and well-being. Let medicines do their work but, there are plenty of other tools that can improve our quality of life. One such tool is prayer, provided it is done the right way. Neither do you have to be a religious person nor do you need to visit a religious place to do a prayer. It is all about honest spirituality and true prayer."Lecture on Multimedia Tools, TricksHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya is organising a 10-day induction programme. On the sixth day of this programme, Ashish Chadha from post-graduate department of multimedia was the resource person who delivered a lecture on 'Multimedia Tools and Tricks'. Ashish Chadha shared his knowledge about various tools used in multimedia which act as the back bone of any digital media production. He made the students aware about the various free online services which can be used along with their emails. He also gave a practical session on how to use these free tools, websites to get their work done in day to day life and making it very easy and less time consuming. He made them aware about use of G-Drive, docs, jamboard, slides, form, keep, mind master, canva and other various online apps and websites available free on the internet. Other recording tools like OBS Studio and Open Shot were also explained. In-charges of this programme, Meenu Kohli and Shallu Batra delivered a vote of thanks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intl-day-of-families-observed-253601
