17-05-2021||---||Punjab Congress MLA Pargat Singh alleges threat call from CM's adviser for raising voice on sacrilege, police firing cases||Chandigarh, May 17The crisis in the Punjab Congress has deepened further with Jalandhar Cant MLA Pargat Singh on Monday alleging that Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, threatened him of a police case for raising voice against the CM on the issue of sacrilege and police firing.Also read: Capt Amarinder 'baiter' Punjab minister Channi faces trouble in over 2-yr-old woman IAS officer harassment caseAddressing a press conference, Pargat Singh alleged the political secretary, while conveying the message of the Chief Minister last week, said he should be ready to face action.“Being a former captain of the Indian hockey team, I was shocked to have got such a message. But if speaking truth on sacrilege and police firing cases was not acceptable to them, let them do whatever then want,” said the MLA.Capt Sandeep Sandhu did not respond to calls to know his version to the allegation levelled against him by the MLA. There has also been no reaction from the Chief Minister's office so far. Pargat Singh was among those participating in a meeting of MLAs and ministers to pressurise the Chief Minister to act against the perpetrators of sacrilege and police firing cases. He had held ameeting with ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Charanjit Channi, MP Partap Bajwa and MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu among others on the issue.He alleged other MLAs and ministers too were being arm-twisted as senior adviser to the CM, BIS Chahal was the de facto DGP, Vigilance. “If Vigilance has to do something, it should take irrigation scam involving an XEN to its logical conclusion. But efforts are being made to save the big fish,” he said, alleging other cases were not being probed by the Vigilance.Pargat Singh said being a former hockey player, his efforts were always to work as a team for the betterment of Punjab, but discussing important issues was now being taken as a "rebellion". He said he was left with no option, but to raise voice. He said the party high command should have taken note of the issue.Congress MP Partap Bajwa also reacted to the developments. "Would have been pleasing to the eyes and ears of Punjabi's had the Vigilance knocked at the doors of Badal’s for their acts of omission & commission from 2007- 2017 . Sudden spurt against Sidhu and colleagues is ill advised, ill timed & detrimental to interest of the Congress.'' he said.Pargat S being threatened by advisors of CM for doing his duty to the people & raising his voice is extremely distressing.I stand with him & his democratic right to speak about issues affecting Punjab.This continuous attempt to browbeat INC MLAs for raising their voice must stop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-congress-mla-pargat-singh-alleges-threat-call-from-cms-adviser-for-raising-voice-on-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-254143
17-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Police nab five drug peddlers||Two held with illicit liquorGarhshankar: The Garhshankar police have arrested two persons from Pandori Beet village on the charge of running a still and seized 21 kg of lahan and 4,000 ml of illegal liquor from them. In-charge of Beenwal police post ASI Lakhvir Singh got information that Shankar Das, Mohan Lal and Roshan Lal were extracting liquor by installing a still in their haveli (cattle shed). ASI Lakhvir Singh conducted a raid and found one running still, LPG gas burner and cylinder, pots, one drum of illegal liquor and 21 kg of lahan from the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act against the trio. Shankar Das and Mohan Lal were arrested, while their third accomplice fled the spot. OCFive booked in 2 dowry casesHoshiarpur: The police have booked five persons in two dowry harassment cases here. Chhatta Bazar resident Chhavi in her complaint to the city police said she was married to Love Agneesh, a resident of Lajpat Nagar, Delhi. After marriage, her husband, father-in-law Manohar Lal Sharma and mother-in-law Sarjeevan Sharma, allegedly demanded more dowry and began to harass her. The victim alleged that they tortured her and threw her out of the house. The police have registered a case. In another case, Rajiwinder Kaur of Abhowal village lodged a complaint with the Hariana police that after marriage her husband Navdeep Singh of Dhoot Kalan and father-in-law Paras Ram allegedly harassed her and demanded more dowry. A case has been registered. OCTravel agent bookedHoshiarpur: The police have booked a travel agent for allegedly duping two persons of Rs4.55 lakh on the pretext of sending their sons abroad. According to information, Surjit Singh and Resham Singh, both residents of Dhoot Khurd village, had complained that the accused Lakhwinder Singh of the same village allegedly took the money from them for sending their sons Gurpreet Singh and Jaswinder Singh to Dubai on a work permit. When their sons reached there, they were sent to some other firm and were not offered work and food there and later the accused had also allegedly stopped cooperating. The police have registered a case and investigation is on. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-nab-five-drug-peddlers-254117
17-05-2021||Residents say govt must install mobile Covid testing labs near such areas so that the virus could be contained ||People must play by the rules to combat deadly virus||Increase testing in slum areasApropos pictures used on front page of the Jalandhar Tribune on May 11, the tale of complacency and negligence among people can be guessed amid these harrowing times. The virus is affecting all sections of the society equally and badly, be it children, youth, adults or elderly. Despite repeated restrictions imposed by the government and various guidelines issued to prevent the spread of the virus, people can be seen flouting the norms and putting their own and others’ lives at risk. It has been almost a year that we got to know about the pandemic but we still have not adopted Covid preventive behaviour and the result of this carelessness is before us when the case-load is increasing at record high number daily that too with an alarming death rate. There is a tsunami of Covid-19 infection in the country but people are out in the markets as if all shops will run out of stocks the next day. Amid this alarming situation, even garment shops are doing a brisk business. The people who are at risk the most are the ones living in congested places and quarters. They share their living spaces with comparatively a larger number of people which are also poorly ventilated. These people generally use public toilets which too are not in good state and very unhygienic. The government and the administration should come to their aid by commissioning community toilets with proper water and sewerage arrangements. Due to these reasons, there are increased chances of Covid blast at such places and spread of infection to masses is feared. This will also add to the burden of the health facilities which result in the spread of infection in tier-2 and tier-3 towns and even in rural areas. In many areas people defecate in the open and even urinate and spit in the open.This is worry some and cause of spread of infection.The physical hygiene and cleanliness individually and in community is the need of the hour.Dr JS WadhwaInstall mobile labs near such areasAs per the phrase: “Jiske sir upar tu swami, so dukh kaisa paave”, people living in congested places and quarters easily escape deadly invasions of viruses and diseases. If the virus manages to penetrate such areas, the impact is not the same as that of in urban areas as people living in such areas have higher immunity to foreign agents which enter their bodies and their immune systems is more efficient to fight antigens because the environment they live in makes them capable of fighting pollutants and contaminants efficiently from the beginning itself. Diseases can be fought in such areas even with the slightest efforts of the Health Department. People easily understand the pros and cons of the diseases and also learn how to effectively fight it. They take government guidelines seriously and keep themselves aware of the government issued guidelines.As vaccination drive is on and the second wave of Covid-19 is in full swing, the Health Department should leave no stone unturned in visiting such areas door-to-door and get the beneficiaries inoculated. Mobile labs should be installed near such areas for the convenience of such people and they should also be provided clean and hygienic environment to live. The government should also launch awareness drives at such areas to keep these people aware and prevent the spread of the pandemic.Rajat Kumar MohindruVaccinate people living in congested areasThe need of hour is to chalk out a plan and work in this direction firmly. The administration must think of ways to deal with the second wave of Covid and also prepare itself for the inevitable second wave of the pandemic which is predicted to be hitting children more than previous two waves. The Health Department make teams and send them for door-to-door vaccination is such areas, where population density is more than other pockets of the city. Covering most of the population under the vaccination drive will definitely help in curbing the pandemic. People living in these congested areas should also be provided with the facility of mobile toilets to ensure hygienic conditions there. People should be made aware of Covid-appropriate behaviour and should be made to understand the significance of the government-issued guidelines to contain the virus. The administration should also prepare a list of areas where vaccination drive will be carried out and also announce it in public in advance so that maximum number of people could be informed and inoculated to contain the raging pandemic in an effective manner.Simmi MohindruIdentify vulnerable localities in cityDespite contradictory claims by medical experts, there is a close association between Covid-19 transmission and population density. Along with maintaining physical distancing, self-sanitisation and masking, it is important to keep ourselves away from high-risk crowded places that can facilitate the spread of the scary disease. The central and state governments across the country are limiting large gatherings at public events to rein in and cushion the blow of the ambiguous pathogen. But high density deprived urban areas face umpteen health and safety challenges due to space limitations within and between households and inadequate water, sanitation and hygiene infrastructure. People confined in these narrow, congested places and quarters, perforce, share common water, handwashing and toilet facilities. Since they cannot maintain the requisite physical distance, they, wittingly or unwittingly, often touch contaminated surfaces like pump handles, faucet or spigot knobs, wash basins, door handles, etc. They are more prone to the virus risk than those living in wide, open spaces. The pandemic is a nightmarish public health emergency. With rapidly increasing positivity rates, faltering inoculation drive and shortage of vaccines, drugs, oxygen and other medical facilities during the second wave, the prospect of a more potential third wave cannot be denied. All of us –government, organisations and individuals – are morally and socially enjoined to make collaborative, coordinated efforts to fight the ongoing contagion. The administration and Health Department should undertake a massive door-to-door exercise to identify vulnerable localities, trace and isolate probable positive patients before these become hotspots for Covid-19. It should engage sufficient number of operators or community health workers to enforce mandated precautionary measures, properly clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces, and ensure improved supply of water, electricity, soaps and sanitisers.D S KangThird wave closing in, all need to act fastNo, people living in congested places with limited toilets cannot protect themselves from contracting the virus. In fact, they are disproportionally at greater risk because of a definite positive correlation between Covid-19 and related mortality with population density. As the unseen virus transmits via close human contact, common toilets can be extremely dangerous as residents use them a number of times daily. In spite of making best efforts, they are unable to strictly adhere to physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask-wearing. They will inadvertently touch the infected facilities and very likely catch the dreaded infection. Because the state government’s awareness campaign about safety guidelines such as decreased social interaction, quarantine and self-isolation is also meaningless for the poor, marginalised people living in dense, crowded areas, it should increase surveillance, testing, tracing and treatment of Covid patients. If need be, the entire area should be declared a containment zone and sealed. It should also make arrangements to clean and disinfect the overwhelmed toilets and washrooms after every use and keep a tab on people’s inappropriate Covid behaviour. Though it is a herculean task, it must be undertaken on priority basis. Will the authorities and private individuals realise that reducing the severity of the present infection is the ultimate key to checking the magnitude of the postulated potential third serve in the coming months and serve the entire population and return to normalcy?Tajpreet S KangEnsure hygiene at public toiletsThe local administration and the police should fan out across the Jalandhar city and educate the locals, including migrants, about wearing mask when out in the public, and wash their hands with soap and water whenever they return home from outside, all food items brought from markets should be washed and wiped before use and other such healthy practices. Hygiene at public toilets should be maintained. Any person who breaks the rules and endangers the lives of other people too should be dealt strictly despite his social or public image.Sunny MisseraHygiene should be ensuredAs of now, the government’s vaccination drive is being rolled out on the basis of certain age groups, whereas the local administration and the Health Department should inoculate rickshaw-pullers, auto-rickshaw drivers, street vendors and daily wagers etc. living in congested areas, on priority. The move will also help in containing the virus as people from these areas interact with a large number of people due to the services that they offer. A more stringent cleanliness drive should also be started in such areas to ensure hygienic conditions in the city.Harsh N JoharCivic bodies must ensure cleanliness of public toilets & garbage disposal sitesHygiene and vaccination are the only ways to contain the pandemic. Despite big rhetorics to take the pandemic head on, we seem to have failed somewhere in strategising our approach to save many precious lives. Scarcity of vaccine andessential emergency drugs such as Remdesivir, erratic supply and black marketing of medical oxygen and insufficient ICU beds in hospitals exposed inherent weaknesses of our systemAs the country grapples with the ferocity of the wave, we have to be more equipped to fight the inevitable third wave of Covid. For this,everyone will have to be self-disciplined and imbibe Covid-appropriate behaviour meticulouslyIt is extremely worrisome that people living in congested localities lacking sanitation and basic facilities, are highly vulnerable of getting exposed to this contagion. Though under the manual scavenging and open defecation abolition schemes, efforts were made to provide toilets at all public places and tenements, yet due to poor maintenance and neglect these facilities have turned into garbage dumpsRag-pickers, often seen segregating trash at such places, run the highest risk of exposure. Moreover, inadequate number of toilets in houses and those available being collectively used by many inhabitants, make people more prone to contracting the virus for being exposed to a large number of peopleThough people are being sensitised by the administration and the Health Department at every platform to observe proper sanitisation, repeated hand washing and avoiding social mixing, yet, it needs vigorous action to look up to this aspect as human lives are to be saved at any costAll civic bodies must ensure cleanliness of public toilets and garbage disposal sites apart from spraying of insecticides and disinfectants at regular intervals. The government will have to accelerate inoculation drive to cover the entire population as per the protocol. The task is huge, but not invincible before concerted and determined efforts!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathQUESTIONComplaints against private hospitals fleecing Covid patients have increased and the patients are preferring home isolation. Do you think the trust and belief in the health system has shaken?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 20).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/people-must-play-by-the-rules-to-combat-deadly-virus-254116
17-05-2021||Our Correspondent||5 more succumb to virus in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 16The district reported five more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 836, while 355 new cases pushed the infection tally to 25,298. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases was 2,984, while 21,569 patients had recovered. Of the total cases reported today, 39 patients belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while 16 cases were reported from other districts and remaining 300 patients were from other health blocks of the district.The total number of samples collected in the district till date is 5,12,083, of which, 4,85,9077 were negative, while 4,019 reports were still awaited and 336 samples were invalid. Among the five deaths, four were reported from Jalandhar private hospitals while one was from Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. Of the 290 level-II beds, 55 were vacant and of 35 level-III beds, only four were available at various hospitals across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-more-succumb-to-virus-in-hoshiarpur-254115
17-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Changharwan, Musahibpur are micro-containment zones||Hoshiarpur, May 16The district administration on Sunday declared Changharwan village in Hajipur block and Musahibpur village in Budhabarh block as micro-containment zones.DC Apneet Riyait issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zones. Teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to-door survey and contact tracing in ward No. 1. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocol.The District Magistrate said the area had been declared a micro-containment zone for 10 days. She said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against the violators.3 FIRs for violating curfewThe district police have lodged three separate FIRs for violating curfew and large gathering at cremation of a Covid victim.The Mahilpur police have arrested Mitthu Ram of Kittna village of Garhshankar sub-division who had opened his shop during the curfew. The Mehtiana police have arrested Mam Hussain of Hukran village while he was roaming around late at night and the Mukerian police have arrested Pawan Kumar, his son Sourav and Shamsher, all residents of Khurshidpur, Mukerian and booked 20-25 more unidentified persons who had gathered at a cremation ground for last rites of a Covid victim. Separate FIRs have been lodged at respective police stations against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/changharwan-musahibpur-are-micro-containment-zones-254114
17-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Youngsters roped in to tackle Covid spread in villages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 16High number of Covid-19 positive cases and unreported deaths in villages has become a cause for concern.Adampur MLA Pawan Tinu said, “People in villages are still not getting their tests done. They are not getting themselves admitted to the hospitals. Patients stay at their homes and only go to the hospitals when their oxygen level decreases drastically.”“Rumours regarding vaccination are also floating around in villages. People say health deteriorates after the vaccination. This is another challenge to make them believe that everything will be fine. As an MLA, whenever I meet anyone, I ask them to get vaccinated,” he said.As a result, the police have taken several initiatives in rural areas. Ravi Kumar, SP (Headquarters), said during the second wave, cases were being reported from rural areas in high numbers. “There are unreported deaths, which is why the initiative has been taken. We are looking for accurate data,” he said.The SP said the rural police have decided to rope in locals to help panchayats report about sick patient in villages.“Two youngsters per village and ward are being identified to keep a tab on sick persons in their respective areas as well as to liaison with medical teams through panchayats. They will also be responsible to liaison with VPOs regarding any issue arising in their areas, including black marketing of medicines,” said the SP.Even sarpanches and panchayat members were being encouraged to pass resolutions regarding restricting entry of outsiders into their villages, especially those having Covid-19 symptoms, step up vaccination and testing, among others.Recently, Balachaur MLA Darshan Singh Mangupur, had raised the issue that reports coming from villages were worrisome. “Once Covid spreads in villages, it will become difficult to tackle the pandemic,” said Mangupur.According to the police, more than 20 resolutions have already been passed by villages and wards. Also, WhatsApp group related to Covid-19 have been created to enable sarpanches and panchayat members play a better role, including countering misinformation and fake news.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youngsters-roped-in-to-tackle-covid-spread-in-villages-254098
17-05-2021||---||Grim stats: 140 deaths in 15 days||Jalandhar, May 16In the past 15 days, 140 patients have succumbed to Covid in the district. A total of 12 persons died and 673 fresh cases were reported in the district on Sunday. Out of the total deaths reported on Sunday, 41 were from other districts. With this, the toll has increased to 1,239. The number of active cases has also crossed the 5,000 mark taking the count to 5,477.Under the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, 9,92,927 samples have been collected in the district, out of which 53,622 people have tested positive so far and the maximum number of cases has been reported this year.Meanwhile, having performed the last rites of a suspected Covi patient at Barring village on Saturday, the district administration today once again ensured the cremation of a migrant labourer at the Maqsudan crematorium.SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh asked the management committee of the Baba Dada Mal Shamshan Bhumi Sudhar Sabha to make arrangements for the last rites of a 40-year-old migrant labourer, Jai Kishore Yadav of Darbhanga, Bihar. DC Ghanshyam Thori said the deceased was admitted to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital on April 28. “He had tested positive for Covid and died the next day. His body was kept in the mortuary by the hospital authorities but nobody came forward to claim it,” he added.Thori said the police traced the whereabouts of the deceased’s family, who when contacted, refused to claim the body and requested to cremate him as per the medical protocol.6 fatalities in KapurthalaA total of 156 fresh cases and six deaths were reported from Kapurthala district today. With this, the district tally now stands at 14,957 and total number of active cases is 1,577. Those who succumbed to the virus include a 72-year-old woman from Khuhrain village, an 80-year-old man from Phagwara, a 50-year-old woman from Adnawali village, a 76-year-old man from Kapurthala city, a 61-year-man from Adalat Chak village and a 70-year-old man from Phagwara.103 new cases in NawanshahrA total of 103 cases were reported and two patients succumbed in Nawanshahr today. The deceased include a 69-year-old man from Muzaffrapur block and a 44-year-old woman from Mukandpur. Maximum number of cases continued to be reported from Balachaur block at 26. Total number of positive cases in Nawanshahr is 10,198 and the active cases are 838 and 745 are under home isolation.Restrictions extended||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/grim-stats-140-deaths-in-15-days-254099
17-05-2021||Ashok Kaura
||Demand to make Phagwara new district grows shriller||Phagwara, May 16  After the announcement of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state, now demands for making Phagwara a new district are being raised by politicians.  Though forming Phagwara  a new district remained an active agenda in poll promises made by politicians during the last several Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, no party or politician remembered to fulfill his poll promise after coming to power. Former union ministers Santosh Chaudhary (Congress), Vijay Sampla (BJP), Som Parkash (BJP) and former Punjab MLA Joginder Singh Maan (Congress), Swarana Ram (BJP) and present MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal were among those politicians who always assured the voters of upgrading Phagwara to the status of district. Though Phagwara has a municipal corporation and is being administered by the ADC and SP-level officers, the people of the city are forced to travel over 50 km from Phagwara to the district headquarters of Kapurthala for their works as the entire civil or police administrative powers are vested with the Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner and the SSP. As the Punjab Government has announced to make Malerkotla a new district on Eid, demands to make Phagwara a district are being raised by different politicians. Union Minister of State Som Parkash and Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation Chairman Joginder Singh Maan in their statements have urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to announce Phagwara a new district to facilitate its people. Maan said he had raised the demand before the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/demand-to-make-phagwara-new-district-grows-shriller-254100
17-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Residents flout norms with impunity despite rise in cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 16Despite the fact that the administration has imposed the weekend lockdown in the district from Friday 5 pm to Monday 5 am, residents are openly flouting the norms with impunity.At several places, local residents can be seen standing together in large numbers giving two hoots to the social distancing norms. The absence of policemen to take control of the situation leads to the worsening of the situation. While there is no let-up in the rising number of cases and fatalities, the careless attitude of offenders is only adding to the tally of active cases.Disappointed by the lack of concern among violators coupled with the administration’s apathy, some responsible residents do not hesitate to share pictures and videos of the violations on social media groups.Referring to a rush of street vendors on the Focal Point road and Pathankot Chowk, Rajan Sharda enquired as to why there was not any check on the violations in the area when it was contributing largely to the Covid tally.“The market is frequented by vegetable and fruit vendors even during the curfew hours. Local residents can be seen roaming about on roads and streets could also be seen surrounding vendors cart. Apart from vegetable vendors, carts of street food and clothes can be seen surrounded by residents,” added Sharda, who is also president of NGO Bhartiya Sarwahit Parishad.The vendors selling vegetables claimed that they didn’t know the exact timing of curfew hours. Surviving on hand to mouth job, the vendors sought permission from the administration to operate in residential colonies. A chaotic situation could be witnessed on the road adjoining the Focal Point area. The vehicular rush from the Focal Point-Pathankot bypass chowk also makes the road crowded.Keemti Saini, a resident, says being away from the city, Covid safety protocols mostly goes unabated in areas, including Kali Mata Mandir, Sodal Road, Gujja Pir Road, Doaba Chowk and the Focal Point sabzi mandi. “While the threat of infection looms large and any complacency can prove to be fatal. Hundreds of people are testing positive every day and succumbing to the virus on a daily basis, hence a strict vigil is needed to prevent people from venturing out.Meanwhile, Ravinder Kumar, SHO, police division No.8, stated that the police were keeping an eye on violators through nakas and patrolling vans. He assured them of taking action against rule breakers in his area and appealed to the residents not to step out during the curfew hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-flout-norms-with-impunity-despite-rise-in-cases-254104
