18-05-2021||---||COVID-19 PANDEMIC: 13 fatalities, 586 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 17The district reported 586 fresh cases and 13 fatalities due to Covid on Monday. Of the total number of persons who tested positive for the virus today, 43 belonged to other districts.With the total number of deaths reported today, the death toll has increased to 1,252. In the past 17 days, as many as 165 patients have succumbed to the virus. The caseload of active cases also stayed above the 5000-mark at 5,400.Under the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, 9,96,354 samples have been collected in the district, out of which 54,208 people have tested positive for the virus so far, the maximum number of which have been reported this year only.Fall in cases, no let-up in fatalities in KapurthalaThe district on Monday saw a fall in the Covid-19 cases though 38 persons tested positive. With new cases, the tally rose to 1,390. But there has been no let-up in fatalities.The district, which has been reporting three to six casualties for the past month, reported six deaths due to the infection even today. Doctors at private hospitals shared that while we were seeing a fall in Covid-19 cases in urban areas, the virus had moved towards rural areas where people were landing in the hospitals directly to L3 facilities. They said the chances of survival of such cases were only 30 per cent.The positivity rate in the district also saw a fall at 1.84 per cent. The total active cases here were 1,390. The micro containment zones of the district fall in RCF residential area of Kapurthala, and Onkar Nagar and Bhagatpura localities of Phagwara.Five die, 220 new +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported five more fatalities on Monday, taking the toll to 841, while 220 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 25,518. The Civil Surgeon said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,748 and 22,020 patients had recovered so far. Of the cases reported on Monday, 30 were from Hoshiarpur city, six were from other districts and the remaining 184 were from other health blocks of the district and of the five deaths reported, one each was from a Jalandhar and Dasuya hospital, while three died in Hoshiarpur. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-13-fatalities-586-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-254540
18-05-2021||---||Jalandhar: Oxygen Express brings 40 MT O2||Jalandhar, May 17The first consignment of 40 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen for Covid patients loaded on an Oxygen Express was welcomed here by MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today.The MP and the DC said out of 40 MT oxygen, 20 MT was for Jalandhar district where as remaining the stock would be distributed among Amritsar, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur districts. They said the state had an 804 MT oxygen quota from Bokaro.They said to address the shortage of oxygen due to the surge in Covid cases, earlier, the state government was sending vehicles by air or road for getting them filled at these plants, which was taking around five to six days. However, they said in the larger public interest the government then roped in the services of the Railways for starting this Oxygen Express which chugged off from Dappar (Mohali) to Bokaro. Markfed is the nodal agency for this supply and it was operating this Oxygen Express in collaboration with the Railways, they said.They said from here, the tankers would be shifted on vehicles, which would move to oxygen plants at Jalandhar for decantation and further supply. They said after decantation, the empty container would be loaded back on train for refilling. A viable mechanism has already been put in place for expediting the process of decanting and sending back the container as fast as possible for loading it again on the train, they said. On the occasion, SDM Vineet Kumar and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-oxygen-express-brings-40-mt-o2-254543
18-05-2021||---||Jalandhar MC drivers’ union drive home the ‘not-so-Smart City’ point||Jalandhar, May 17Five days after the MC drivers’ union strike work and did not lift garbage, on Monday, the Driver and Technical Works Union raised issues regarding old vehicles and tyres. Lifting of garbage was also stopped for sometime as the union wanted to send a message to the MC officials that they were having trouble in absence of proper and new tyres.Devanand, president of the union said 418 tyres were sanctioned, out of which 163 have come, that too for more than 200 vehicles. “The drivers go through various problems as the tyres often get punctured,” he said, adding that these are long-pending demands but nobody listens.The members have been complaining that the vehicles were not in good condition and haven’t been used for a long time and no one was ready to look into the matter.“The tyres of the vehicles are in poor state and require service at the earliest,” they said.Recently, the union had also raised that many employees were appointed on contract as sweepers, but they were working as drivers. “These employees get a salary of a sweeper. They should be promoted and must be given salaries on par with drivers,” the members had said.Few months ago, Mayor Jagdish Raja along with health and sanitation ad hoc committee chairman Balraj Thakur had held a surprise inspection of the sanitation works. While examining, Thakur had pointed out that the vehicles used to lift the trash were 15 years old and not fit to be used on roads. “They should be dealt with immediately and the Transport Department must check this, because it is vulnerable to accidents,” he had then said. “Many vehicles don’t even have registration numbers. Because of heavy rush and one-way traffic towards Wariana, these vehicles take longer time to come back, so, there must be another way to lift more waste from the city,” Thakur was quoted as saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-drivers-union-drive-home-the-not-so-smart-city-point-254546
18-05-2021||---||AGENDA 2021: Righting the wrongs||Jalandhar, May 17Punjab State Information Commissioner Maninder Singh Patti is peeved over the fact that as many as 30 per cent activists filing applications with the commission do not come with clean hands.Patti, who belongs to the 1977 batch of Sainik School, Kapurthala, and became RTI Commissioner in October last year, says his agenda in his three-year tenure with the Information Commission will be to screen such elements, who try to seek information from various departments just with an agenda to blackmail the officials. “They are not using RTI for a genuine reason but have been found to be simply using it as a tool to extract money from the officials. With more of such seemingly factual complaints coming to us from the departments, we are now wary of intentions of such people and try not to entertain such elements,” explained the official.Sharing his journey to the commission, Patti said his father Kashmir Singh Patti, who was the chairman of the Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission, always wanted him to acquire a good school education. “In those days, we had only two choices – Sainik School, Kapurthala and PPS, Nabha. I preferred the first one. The lifestyle and discipline that I learnt at my school has always helped me throughout my career. In fact, I owe everything that I am today to my schooling,” he was all praise for his alma matar.Patti said he made a point to attend all alumni meets that his school organised. “I am also a part of the WhatsApp group of school pass-outs. We are all in touch and we keep on planning our meets and doing something for the school,” he said.The RTI Commissioner said he studied law from Punjabi University Patiala. “I completed my BA-LLB in 1993 after which I even joined the office of senior advocate and former Advocate General Punjab HS Mattewal.” The official has also served as the Assistant Advocate General, Punjab, from 200-07, as Commissioner in the Right to Service Commission in 2016 and as chairman of Punjab GENCO Ltd till it got abolished last year.Asked about the most impactful judgment he has delivered so far, he said, “It certainly was regarding declaration of Thapar University as the public authority and thus making its officials answerable to all queries being put up by the various stakeholders. “Our observation was that the university was established by the then Pepsu Government in 1955. Besides funds, land was provided by the erstwhile Pepsu Government free of cost. The state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) also gave grants to the institution and hence it could not escape its liability to reply to the various appellants.”His most impactful decision so farIt certainly was regarding declaration of Thapar University as the public authority and thus making its officials answerable to all queries being put up by various stakeholders. “Our observation was that the university was established by the then Pepsu Government in 1955. Besides funds, the land was provided by the erstwhile Pepsu Government for free. The state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) also gave grants to the institution and hence it could not escape its liability to reply to various appellants,” says Punjab State Information Commissioner Maninder Singh Patti (pic).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agenda-2021-righting-the-wrongs-254549
18-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five held with liquor, drugs||Driver injured as car hits treeTalwara: The driver of a car was seriously injured in an accident when his car collided with a roadside eucalyptus tree near Jheer Da Khuh bus stop on the Hajipur Road. Talwara police station in-charge Ajmer Singh Chahal said that Puneet Sharma of Namoli Har village was going towards Hajipur. He lost control over the car and the vehicle collided with a eucalyptus tree near Jhir Da Khuh bus stop. Chahal said the seriously injured car driver was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Hajipur and later referred to a Jalandhar hospital after his condition started deteriorating. OCCareer portal by Education DeptJalandhar: The Education Department will launch ‘Punjab Career Portal’, aimed at hand-holding students in selecting their career, the most confusing decision in a student’s life. A virtual training session to sensitise the District Education Officers and Deputy District Education Officers was held on Saturday. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar presided over the event. In his inaugural address, he said the department had been working out the modalities for helping the students make right career choices. “The portal will prove of great help to the students as well as teachers. It would further strengthen the department’s initiatives to improve the quality of education in government schools,” the secretary said. tnsMan booked for stealing dataHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police have booked a man for fraudulently uploading photos on Instagram. According to information, Qila Road Mukerian resident Sangamjit Kaur in her complaint to the police said that Dasuya resident Nirmal Singh had fraudulently transferred the data on his mobile phone and uploaded on Instagram. The police have registered a case against the accused under the IT Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-held-with-liquor-drugs-254551
18-05-2021||Our Correspondent||As virus spills into villages, Hoshiarpur district administration forms special teams to keep it at bay||Hoshiarpur, May 17In order to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission, motivating general masses towards vaccination and keep a close vigil on health problems in villages, the district administration on Monday constituted five-member teams for respective areas to ensure effective implementation of Covid guidelines.Led by a supervisor, these teams will work directly under the supervision of concerned SDMs and DSPs with a sole purpose to involve maximum people in fight against the deadly virus. Besides a supervisor, these teams will be comprised of executive officers/booth-level officers, Asha workers, who will visit their respective villages to take stock of situation on daily basis with the help of panchayats and sarpanches youth clubs, members of social and religious bodies.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said it is high time to focus on rural areas with rising number of infection by taking to ‘Mission Fateh’ to the grassroots level to effectively contain further spread. All the villages will be covered by the said teams by ensuring vaccination of all eligible beneficiaries, proper adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour at villages especially wearing of masks and follow gathering instructions. These teams will disseminate the message of requisite health safety protocols by distributing printed material to villagers, said the DC, adding that villagers would also be apprised about different helplines launched by the administration to provide information of availability of beds, oxygen and any other emergency services.Asha workers to have kitsApneet Riyait informed that the Asha workers will carry Covid care kits and in case of any exigency they can provide the facility to the needy patients.Also, sarpanches and social/religious bodies will encourage vaccination in different areas. The DC said the teams would liaison with sarpanches, panchayats and representatives of social and religious bodies for special vaccination camps. She said the administration had four mobile vaccination vans, which would be sent to different villages for vaccination. “Teams can carry out vaccination at four-five villages in a day,” she said, adding that residents of rural areas should beware of rumour mongering related to vaccination, etc.Riyait further said the teams would update daily details of cases, vaccination, sampling and deaths.Meanwhile, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal pointed out that there should be no gatherings violating the guidelines beside the police teams would further encourage people to wear masks and avoid roaming outdoors without any valid reasons. Along with ‘thikri pehras’, the SSP said youth clubs active in rural areas could be involved in the campaign ‘Mission Fateh’ to save precious lives. “Breaking transmission chain is call of the day,” said Mahal, adding coordinated efforts can pave a way to tackle the virus efficaciously so the village representatives should also come forward.Return pulse oximeters: Civil surgeon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-virus-spills-into-villages-hoshiarpur-district-administration-forms-special-teams-to-keep-it-at-bay-254555
18-05-2021||---||10-11 deaths every day in May due to Covid in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 17The deadliest second wave of Covid has hit one and all in the district and this alarming surge in infections and death rate has become a cause for concern for the Health Department. As per the figures provided by the department, 609 persons have already lost their lives this year so far, while 643 lost battle to the virus last year. Moreover, against about 19,000 positive cases in 10 months last year, more than 34,000 people contracted the virus in over four months this year.ALARMING SURGEOn an average, 10 to 11 persons are succumbing to the virus daily, as around 165 patients have died in 17 days.The spurt in number of positive cases has also gone up significantly this month. While in April, 13,361 persons tested positive for the virus and 167 died due to the deadly virus, as many as 11,385 fresh cases have been reported this month with 152 fatalities. The highest spike in cases so far, with the single-day tally over 950 has also been witnessed in May, when the number of daily fresh cases fluctuates between 550 and 700.This year, highest number of deaths were reported in March i.e. 214. With 8,053 fresh cases reported in the same month alone, it is also considered as the time when the second wave of Covid emerged. A total of 1,037 cases and 31 fatalities were reported in February and with 718 fresh cases, January witnessed the least number of infections this year and 32 people died due to it in this month.All ICU beds with ventilator occupied at Civil HospitalOut of 284 total L-2 oxygen beds, only 182 are available at the Civil Hospital. Similarly, out of 38 total L-3 ICU beds (without ventilators), 23 are available. However, all 18 L-3 ICU beds (with ventilators) are occupied. Similarly, at the Military hospital and the BSF hospital, none of the L-3 beds are available. As per sources, most of the private hospitals are also running out of the L-3 beds with ventilators.Nawanshahr gets 10 new sites for vaccination driveNawanshahr: As many as 65 fresh cases were reported in the district and five persons, including a 32-year-old woman from Saroya block who breathed her last at DMC, Ludhiana, succumbed to the virus today. The total number of cases in the district has increased to 10,263.As per information, owing to heavy rush at government hospitals for vaccination, 10 new sites of vaccination have been established in the district.The number of fresh cases and fatalities reported this months is comparatively higher than that of in the last month. In the first 12 days of April, nearly 600 cases were reported, while in the same number of days in May, nearly 880 have been reported. The death rate has also increased. MLA Nawanshar Angad Singh along with DC Dr Shena Aggarwal inspected the vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-11-deaths-every-day-in-may-due-to-covid-in-jalandhar-district-254558
18-05-2021||---||‘Digital push helped achieve development goals amid Covid’||Kapurthala, May 17Pushpa Gujral Science City observed the World Telecom Day by organising a webinar on differentiating features of 5G technology. Around 150 engineering college students from across the state participated in it through virtual mode. The theme for the day this year was “Accelerating digital transformation in challenging times”.Dr Neelima Jerath , Pushpa Gujral Science City Director-General Millions of people depend on these networks access real time information when they need it the most. Telecom networks have enabled masses to keep themselves safe during the ongoing pandemic by working from home, attending online classes, e-health and online doctor consultations among others. Further, telecom sector played a significant role in the economic growth globally.Dr Swades De, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT-Delhi, was the key speaker. He said 5G network is regarded as the most significant jump in the history of wireless communication due to its differentiating features such as cost and energy efficiency, hyper fast, low latency and reliability. He gave an overview of edge computing in Internet of things, energy sustainability, green communication and network coexistence. He highlighted the research work conducted on 5G as a part of capacity building initiative of the Department of Telecommunications and discussed research efforts made on wireless radio-frequency energy transfers, developing industry-collaborative communication systems, capacity building for more hands-on and field-worthy product development oriented technology at IIT-Delhi.Science City Director-General Dr Neelima Jerath said the World Telecom Day is the occasion to celebrate power of telecommunication and its importance in building relationships across cultures around the world and focuses on using advanced technology to fulfil the sustainable development goals in the next few years. “Millions of people depend on these networks access real time information when they need it the most. Telecom networks have enabled masses to keep themselves safe during the ongoing pandemic by working from home, attending online classes, e-health and online doctor consultations among others. Further, telecom sector played a significant role in the economic growth globally,” said Dr Jerath.Science City Director Dr Rajesh Grover said telecom services were a lifeline for the nation. He urged the participants not to be misled by false messages being spread on various social media platforms claiming linkage of second wave of Covid-19 with 5G technology as these had no scientific basis. As such the Department of Telecommunications is already taking up several steps to bring awareness about scientific facts on health effects of electric and magnetic forces emissions from mobile towers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/digital-push-helped-achieve-development-goals-amid-covid-254561
18-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Traders to cut down on working hours voluntarily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17These are depressing times for every sector in the market. Even the industrialists and manufacturers are not untouched by the Covid blow. Now, they have decided to run their units for four or five days a week. The industry may soon head to a self-imposed lockdown! The industrialists share that because of no orders, there is hardly any sale, which is why they plan to run their units for four-five days a week.This decision of running the units for five days has just been taken because they wish to retain their workers.The sky high price of the raw material has aggravated the problem.Charanjit Singh Maingi, Chairman, Jalandhar Chamber of Industries and Commerce, shared that today any raw material supplier demands immediate payment for the the raw material. “The trust is lost. Earlier this was not the case. There was an understanding between the supplier and the buyer and we would pay the money in 10-15 days, but now, the scenario has changed,” he said.“Lockdown has been imposed in Hyderabad, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Bengal, everywhere the lockdown has been imposed and the market is allowed to open for a few hours, so, doing business in this scenario is not even possible,” he added.Maingi shared his personal experience. He said for the past 20 days, two of his induction machines have not been working, for which, essential parts are available only in Delhi, but, because of the lockdown, he is unable to get the parts, and thus the machines are lying as it is.Talking about the difficult situation, Chairman, Northern Region of Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) Kamna Raj Aggarwalla said these days, the domestic business is very slow. “We are not seeing any orders. There is an anxiety where the business is headed. There is no light at the end of the tunnel. We cannot even plan our own business, because we don’’t know when will the normalcy return,” she said, adding that predicting the future is difficult right now as there is no direction and lack of optimism in the marketplace.“The prices of raw material have gone through the roof, and that too without any warning. This is troublesome for us,” the Chairman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-to-cut-down-on-working-hours-voluntarily-254562
18-05-2021||---||Jat Mahasabha officially declares appointments void||Jalandhar, May 17All India Jat Mahasabha’s national vice-president and president All India Jat Mahasabha, Punjab, Harpal Singh Harpura, on Monday said that all appointments made prior to January 2021 to the post of vice-president, general secretary, secretary and all other posts would be considered null and void.He said that all branches of Majha, Malwa and Doaba zone under the organisation would be declared null and void. He said that the All India Jat Mahasabha’s Punjab unit had started the work of restructuring the organisation. He said the restructuring of Punjab unit and district units would be completed by June 10.“Fresh appointments will be made strictly on the basis of the aspirational persons willing to work for Punjab and Punjabiyat. All India Jat Mahasabha will continue to address the farmers protest like other states. In relation to this, a Kisaan Mahapanchayat will be organised in Punjab in June and to address the rally farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and All India Jat Mahasabha’s national vice-president will be present”, Harpura said, adding that meetings will be done at village-level to raise the voice against sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and firing on the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jat-mahasabha-officially-declares-appointments-void-254564
18-05-2021||Jalandhar||World Telecom Day celebrated||Leadership in telecomEklavya School celebrated World Telecommunication Day. A video was shown to the students which raise awareness of the possibilities that the use of the Internet and other information and communication technologies. They also celebrated this day by performing an act on ‘World Telecommunication Day’. Chairman JK Gupta said that this day was important to be observed as it was aimed to educate the people about the use of technology in communication for this world. Director, Seema Handa, Principal Komal Arora and administrator Dimple Malhotra said that we all should be aware of the various advancements in the field of communication technology and how it can be used in the development of society.Online declamation contestInnocent Hearts School organised an online declamation contest to celebrate World Telecommunication Day. The topic of the contest was “Accelerating Digital Transformation in Challenging Times”. The contestants expressed their views on online communication devices and their importance in the current scenario that from education to banking, everything is online. In Grade IX, Satyam Sharma stood first, Trisha Mittal secured second position, Yashleen Kaur got third place, Navya and Sarvinder got consolation prizes. In Grade X, Amoldeep stood first, Mehak, Yasmin Khatun, Shivali Karwal secured second position, Shreyaskakkar, Jessica Mehta got third position, Devansh Verma, Shubhika, Sehajbir Kaur got consolation prizes. Sharmila Nakra (cultural head) congratulated all winners and their parents on their achievement.Lyallpur College students shineLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus BTech students performed excellently in IKG Punjab Technical University exams. Twenty one students got a score of above 80 SGPC. From the mechanical engineering department, six students —Adarsh Kumar (9.56 SGPA), Harshit Dhiman (9 SGPA), Mukesh (9 SGPA), Simarjit Kaur (9 SGPA), Ramandeep (9 SGPA) and Sachin (9 SGPA)— gave outstanding result. Seven students including Priya (10 SGPA), Ekjot Singh (9.56 SGPA), Tushar Mahajan (9.56 SGPA), Kajal Salwan (9.56 SGPA) also managed top positions. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director academic affairs, KCL Group, congratulated the students and their parents for their incredible achievement.Webinar on nutritionThe NSS unit of DAV Univeristy organised a webinar on “Nutrition and Malnutrition”. Dr Premlata started the event with welcome speech followed by Gaytri Mantra. Dr RK Seth, dean academics (officiating) introduced the speaker Dr Paras Sharma, serving as senior scientist in Food Chemistry Division, ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad. The Vice-Chancellor (officiating), Dr Jasbir Rishi, welcomed the speaker and emphasised on the importance of nutrients and role of NSS in tackling the problem of malnutrition. Dr Paras Sharma explained the importance of balanced diet, eating right and staying fit and effects of food that we consumed on our body.Business fest at GNA varsityPhagwara: GNA University organised ‘Vivid Management-Business Fest-2021’ for two days through its online virtual platform with an objective to bring out the budding and hidden talents of the students of GNA Business School. The fest was a blend of nine academic and co-curricular activities namely business plan, logo designing, case study analysis, turn the coat, ad mad show, 15 seconds to win, presentation day, business quiz and singing. Over 200 students of GNA Business School took part in this business fest. The fest was organised under the guidance of event convener Dr Ashutosh Verma, associate professor, GNA Business School. The first day witnessed the happening of business plan, logo designing, case study analysis, turn the coat, ad mad show and 15 seconds to win. The second day witnessed the students competing for presentation day, business quiz and singing. The events were judged by the internal and external faculty of GNA University. The session concluded with the concluding remarks of dean academics, GNA University Dr Monika Hanspal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-telecom-day-celebrated-254565
18-05-2021||---||No vaccination for 45+, but 5,200 above 18 inoculated in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 17While the health authorities kept the vaccination centres for those falling in the 45+ age category shut on Monday, the centres for vaccination for the 18-44 age group remained open.Since the centre at the Civil Hospital caters to the 45+ category, it remained closed today due to no supply of vaccination being sent by the Centre for the past many days. The centres like Red Cross Bhawan, IMA House and those set up at the Punjab Armed Police and Radha Soami Satsang Beas centres at Pathankot Chowk, Jail Chowk, Cantt Road and 120-feet road, PHCs and CHCs of Nakodar and Shahkot, which were set up for the 18-44 age category, witnessed a rush of beneficiaries. Nearly 5,200 beneficiaries below 45 were vaccinated.District Immunology Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “As per the government orders, the priority groups, which are to be given vaccination, include construction workers (both registered and unregistered), healthcare workers and their families and people with co-morbidities in the 18-44 age group. Though we have not started vaccination for everyone falling in this category, but we cannot be sure for each and every case.”Dr Chopra said the vaccination for the 45+ age group would be resumed only after supplies from the Centre would be sent. “We expect the supply will resume soon. We are vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from the stock available with the state,” he added.Vax camp for PwDs todayThe state Health Department is going to organise a vaccination camp for persons with disabilities (PwDs) in all districts. Nearly 150 beneficiaries would be administered Covishield vaccine on Tuesday. Amarjit Anand, the disability rights activists, had sent a proposal to the Health Department regarding a seperate vaccination camp for differently abled.After receiving approval for the same he said, “He had appealed to the concerned department that PwDs are more vulnerable to any disease and hence immediate attention needs to be paid for their vaccination. While they cannot stand in long queues with other beneficiaries at the Civil Hospital and other health centres, seperate camps needed to be organised for them where they would have enough sitting arrangement, drinking water, toilets and sanitised rooms, therefore seperate vaccination camps would help them getting vaccinated without any difficulty”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-vaccination-for-45-but-5-200-above-18-inoculated-in-jalandhar-254536
18-05-2021||---||Jalandhar resident robbed of scooter, mobiles near Jandiala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17A Jalandhar resident was robbed of his scooter, purse and mobiles by four car-borne persons when he was going to Amritsar here. The incident occurred near the Tarn Taran bypass road on the main GT Road in Jandiala around four days ago though a case was registered by Jandiala police on Saturday.The victim, Swaraj Bhagat, a resident of Basti Sheikh Sant Nagar, told the police that he was going to Haripura locality in Amritsar on May 13 on his scooter to attend a religious programme. He was riding an Activa scooter (PB-08-DX-8618). He said when he reached near the Tarn Taran bypass road in Jandiala at around 11pm, a car came and hit him from the rear. Following this, he fell off the scooter.He said around four occupants of the car came to him. They had covered their faces. He said they pointed a pistol at him and asked him to raise his hands. He said they took out his bag having important documents and also snatched his purse containing Rs 4,000 cash and two mobile phones. They took away his scooter and fled towards the Jalandhar side. He said due to darkness, he could neither identify the car make nor read the number. He said as he got scared following the incident, he could not report the matter to police that day.The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against unidentified persons.In a similar incident, a health worker was seriously injured when three bike-borne miscreants hit her scooter in an attempt to snatch it. The victim, identified as Usha Rani, was returning home after finishing her duty on Friday evening.The same modus operendi was used by them if we go by the statement of the victim’s husband Raj Kumar. The unidentified accused hit her scooter following which she lost her balance and fell on the road and sustained serious injuries. She was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. The accused fled from the spot. Kulwant Singh, investigating officer in the case, said they were analysing CCTV cameras on the route where the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-resident-robbed-of-scooter-mobiles-near-jandiala-254538
