19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 99-year old veteran donates Rs 1 lakh to Army at Jalandhar headquarters||A 99-year-old former soldier, from the British times, donated Rs 1 lakh to the Indian Army for fighting against the global coronavirus pandemic.The soldier— Lance Naik Kesho Lal Verma—visited the Sub Area Headquarters in Jalandhar on Wednesday, and hand-delivered the cheque to senior Army officers.In conversation with The Tribune from his Jalandhar Cantonment residence, Verma revealed that he has spent 16 years in the Army after enrolling in 1942.Verma had served with the erstwhile Royal Indian Army Service Corps, and was deployed with the British Army's South East Asia Command.He witnessed action against the Japanese during the Second World War, and was taken as a prisoner of the war.He even served in the North-West Frontier Province—now, in Pakistan—and underwent a technical course in Meerut.After leaving the Army, he was employed with the state-run Pepsu Roadways in Punjab. His son passed away. Now, he lives alone with a cook.According to Army officers, there have been many cases where ex-servicemen have made contributions towards the Army’s efforts in combating the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-99-year-old-veteran-donates-rs-1-lakh-to-army-at-jalandhar-headquarters-255289
19-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||#Trending: Covid is thirsty for some young blood now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18A 26-year-old woman from Lakhan Kalan village of Kapurthala and another 24-year-old youth from the city lost their lives to coronavirus on Tuesday. Among the seven casualties reported from the district, two were less than 30 years old.In Hoshiarpur, of the 10 fatalities today, four were of the 30-40 years age group. These included a 32-year-old man from Nangal Kalan village and three women aged 36 from Rahimpur, 37 from Talwara and 40 from Adarsh Nagar.From Nawanshahr, a 24-year-old youth and a 37-year-old doctor were among the two fatalities reported in the past two days. In Jalandhar, more than 25 youths have reportedly lost their lives in the month of May. The doctors who have been watching the younger age group falling prey to the virus are terming it a very disturbing trend. Says Dr Parminder Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, “The younger age group is increasingly getting vulnerable to the virus. This observation is being made all across the country and is indeed quite worrying for everyone. That is why the state government is giving priority to the 18 to 44 years of age group for vaccination.”Asked about the possible reasons for the same, she said, “This could be because of the fact that the youth keep on loitering around and sometimes go casual about illness. They generally do not show initial signs of illness as their body fights well to the infection. They perhaps are taking medical treatment quite late.”Nodal officer for Covid in Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, told, “In May, 15 per cent of the casualties in Jalandhar are of those aged less than 45 years. In most of these cases, we did not find any co-morbidities. More kids have fallen ill to the infection in the second wave but thankfully there have been no fatalities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trending-covid-is-thirsty-for-some-young-blood-now-255017
19-05-2021||---||COVID-19 PANDEMIC: 9 die, 663 new cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18The coronavirus infections continue to rise in the district. As many as 663 people tested positive on Wednesday. Among these, 44 are from other districts. With this, the infection tally has reached 54,871.In addition, nine more people succumbed today. The death toll is now 1,261. In the last 18 days as many as 173 Covid patients lost their lives. However, the caseload of active cases has slightly lowered to 5,387 from 5,400. As part of the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, as many as 10,01,796 samples have been collected from the district, out of which 54,871 people have tested positive. The maximum number of cases has been reported this year only.7 die in KapurthalaThe tally of positive cases in Kapurthala again jumped on Tuesday with 302 people testing positive against only 38 yesterday. The positivity-rate also jumped from just 1 per cent yesterday to a high of 13.95 per cent today. The health authorities reported seven casualties. Those who lost their lives were aged 24 to 87 years.While two of the victims were admitted at Jalandhar hospitals, the other five who succumbed were taking treatment from Amritsar. The total positive cases have touched 15,262. The total deaths reported so far are 411. After the discharge of 180 patients, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,494.10 succumb in HoshiarpurThe district on Tuesday reported 10 deaths due to Covid, pushing the toll to 851. Meanwhile, with 262 fresh cases, the tally has increased to 25,280 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 3,416 samples were received and out of them, 251 persons, who tested positive, belonged to the district, while 11 patients were from other districts.The number of active cases in the district stood at 2,791, while 22,229 patients recovered from the infection. Hoshiarpur city reported 16 new cases, while the remaining were reported from various health blocks of the district.Of the 10 deaths reported due to the virus today, three patients died at private hospitals in Jalandhar and as many died in Patiala, while two each died at various hospitals in Hoshiarpur, one at Dasuya and one more died on the way after being referred to another hospital from the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.2 deaths in NawanshahrAs many as 80 persons tested positive for Covid in Nawanshahr today and two died of the deadly virus. The maximum number of cases continued to be reported from Balachaur at 21 and the two fatalities reported on Tuesday also belonged to the same area. The victims included an 82-year-old woman and a 77-year-old man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-9-die-663-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-255018
19-05-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration suspends L-II facility at Shamsher Hospital||Jalandhar, May 18Adopting a tough stance against a private hospital over alleged malpractices in the treatment of a Covid-19 patient, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday suspended Level-II Covid Care facility (for new admissions) at Shamsher Hospital. A preliminary report submitted by the health authorities flagged malpractices and overcharging.The DC said a complaint was filed by family members of a patient, who died in the hospital’s Covid care ward, following which an inquiry was marked to Deputy Medical Commissioner Jalandhar, who recommended suspension of Level-II facility for new admissions. The DC further formed a four-member committee to probe other discrepancies such as overcharging, drug procurement, distribution and others as alleged in the complaint within a period of three days.As per complaint, a patient was rushed to Shamsher Hospital, where he was admitted to Level-II Covid care ward without RT-PCR test. The patient was also given treatment which is only given in Level-III that too in consultation with expert group. The complainant also levied allegations of overcharging of medicines and injections, which was also a matter of investigation. The DC has directed the committee to furnish inquiry on all such points and submitted a detailed report within three days. The committee comprised Sub-Divisional Magistrate-1, Civil Surgeon, Sonal Licening Authority, and Dr Ashoke, Senior Medical Officer, Wadala.The DC warned all healthcare institutions against resorting to malpractices in the time of crisis.Covid status of patient not confirmed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-suspends-l-ii-facility-at-shamsher-hospital-255019
19-05-2021||---||DCs chalk out plans to curb virus spread in rural belt in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 18Two days after Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced a unique Covid Fateh programme under the ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan’ to tackle the worrying spread of the pandemic in rural areas, various districts have started adopting measures to control the transmission of virus.Like other districts, Nawanshar has also seen a rise in number of infections in the villages. For this, the DC has initiated various steps to curb the spread. Nawanshahr DC Dr Shena Aggarwal said as compared to the previous wave, the number of cases reported in villages are more.“Mobile teams have been constituted for a successful vaccination drive,” she said, adding that awareness was also being created among the villagers. “Announcements are also being made from gurdwaras and other religious places,” she said.The Jalandhar DC today said an intensive sensitisation drive in villages was the need of the hour to curb the spread of the pandemic by educating rural folks about the symptoms and importance of testing and treatment at the initial stage of infection. He directed the officials to engage sarpanches, panches, school teachers, anganwadi workers, Asha workers, volunteers of the National Service Scheme, village-level youth clubs and red-ribbon clubs in this battle against the pandemic.The DC said as per medical experts, delayed reporting by patients in rural areas was a cause for concern; however, early testing can change the scenario by enabling authorities to initiate treatment of positive patients within stipulated time-frame.The officer stated that the campaign would help identify the cases at the primary stage and break the transmission chain by isolating infected persons before he/she transmits the virus to other persons. He said these joint teams of volunteers would act as ambassadors for carrying forward the message of early testing and treatment besides, vaccination of eligible beneficiaries.The DC said these teams could play a significant role in the drive as only awareness can help in keeping the pandemic under check.In Kapurthala, DC Deepti Uppal too has chalked out a comprehensive plan, under which every house in the village would be reached to create awareness about Covid.She made an appeal to the villagers to set up “theekri pahras” on the entrances to the villages to check the entrance of any Covid-affected outsiders into the village.She also said boards displaying emergency contacts and awareness information would also be set up at common places in villages.Mobile teams formed for vax drive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dcs-chalk-out-plans-to-curb-virus-spread-in-rural-belt-in-jalandhar-255022
19-05-2021||---||Over 200 persons with disabilities vaccinated in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 18After the recommendations of a city-based disability activist, the state Health Department organised a special vaccination camp for persons with disabilities (PwD) in all districts. Over 200 beneficiaries and their caregivers under the 18-44 age group were administered Covishield vaccine today.Amarjit Anand, the disability rights activists, had sent a proposal to the department regarding a seperate vaccination camp for differently-abled persons on April 30.Joint-Coordinator of the camp Manish Aggarwal said the camp was organised at the Chaanam Association, Vocational and Physiotherapy Centre, Wadala. While it was held under the guidance of industrialist and businessman Bhupindsr Singh Makkar, District Sessions Judge and District Legal Services Authority secretary Dr Gagagndeep Kaur inaugurated the camp.Sitting arrangement, drinking water, toilets and sanitised rooms, were put up in place to vaccinate beneficiaries without any difficulty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-200-persons-with-disabilities-vaccinated-in-jalandhar-255023
19-05-2021||Jalandhar||FIR against Atulaya lab in Jalandhar for overcharging||Following the recommendations of the Deputy Commissioner, the Commissionerate of Police has registered an FIR against Atulaya lab for overcharging for conducting RT-PCR tests.The matter came to the fore after The Tribune in its sting operation highlighted about double the amount charged from residents by the laboratory, situated at the Green Park, opposite to the All India Radio office.After conducting a district-level inquiry, a report of which was submitted by a district-level Investigation Committee, including, Civil Surgeon, Sub-Divisional Magistrates, District Family Welfare Officer and Joint Commissioner MC, the lab was found guilty of overcharging.As per report, the lab was charging Rs900 for conducting RT-PCR tests, whereas the state government had capped the charges to Rs450 for private labs and hospitals. Earlier, the lab was charging Rs1,200 per test at its office and Rs1,500 for home testing, against the fixed price of Rs900. A case under sections 1,897 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act 2005 and 188 of the IPC has been registered at the Police Division number six. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-against-atulaya-lab-in-jalandhar-for-overcharging-255024
19-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A story to remember:  Took war-like life full of ailments head on until Covid got her, Rattika’s life is....||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18For almost three decades Rattika Takhar (44) battled ovarian malignancy. Despite various medical complications and struggles in life, her soul never sagged. She continued with this spirit for the past three weeks, till the wicked hands of fate, and Covid, snuffed life out of her on Sunday.Her family and friends recall her as a “girl power sort of a person”. Despite problems, she was herself much enthused with life that she motivated others as well. “She was a patient of coronary artery disease, cancer, hypothyroidism and morbid obesity. She did not get married because of her too many health issues but all these years we never saw her cursing her fate or having even the slightest of regrets from life. She made it a point to always stay active and just kept on inspiring everyone around her. In fact, she was that bubbly fellow without whom all parties would be dull,” recalled her buddy and a city-based artist Manpreet Khanna.A resident of New Jawahar Nagar here, Rattika studied at St Joseph’s Convent School. She was in her secondary classes when diagnosed with cancer. Granddaughter of former Cabinet Minister and Rajya Sabha MP Lacchman Singh, she was taken abroad for treatment. She returned, completed her schooling and graduated from HMV College. But her passion was cooking, which she followed professionally.“She was the best baker that I know of and made sure that all the kids in her circle got a birthday cake surprise from her every year,” recalled Nitin of Ashwani Bakers. She had helped him set up his bakery. “You can imagine the kind of passion she had from the fact that while she was taking treatment at Shrimann Hospital here, she ensured to take all orderes and delivered cakes for Mother’s Day worth Rs37,000,” he said.Ruhani Sondhi, a city-based entrepreneur, recalled her meeting with Rattika. “When I met her, I had just started my business of designer boxes and was going to be a mother soon. She advised me not to leave my career owing to my pregnancy status and instead gave me an order of boxes worth Rs50,000 just to encourage me to continue on…I cannot forget that gesture. When I came to know of her demise, I just could not bear with the pain of having lost one of the rare gems in my life,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-story-to-remember-took-war-like-life-full-of-ailments-head-on-until-covid-got-her-rattikas-life-is-255026
19-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman among 4 held with drugs||LPG delivery man robbed of Rs 8,500Hoshiarpur: An LPG delivery man on Monday was looted by car-borne robbers by making him sit in the car on the pretext of showing the address for delivery. Rakesh Kumar, who is working as a LPG cylinder delivery man at Shaheed Joginder Singh Gas Agency, Miani, told the police that he was returning to the agency after delivering cylinders. A car stopped beside him near the Miani bus stop. A man, who was driving the car, asked him to deliver the cylinder to their office. They made him sit in the car on the pretext of showing their office. The car stopped near a “chappal” (slipper-making) factory and the man sitting on the back seat brandished a weapon and snatched Rs 8,500 from him and fled. There was also a woman in the car. The police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC against the unidentified persons. OCFarmer dies in road mishapGarhshankar: In an accident that occurred on Tuesday afternoon on Shri Anandpur Sahib Main Road, Garhashankar, a cement-laden truck hit a bike near the Vishvakarma Temple, seriously injuring a farmer, who was riding the bike. The victim later succumbed to his injuries at the Garhshankar Civil Hospital. Balvir Singh (61) of Garhi Matton village was returning on his bike when the truck hit him. Balvir had returned from the peasants’ struggle at Singhu border two days back. The truck was driven by Gurmukh Singh of Fatehpur, Kathgarh (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar). The police said investigation was on in the incident. ocTwo nabbed with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The district police on Monday arrested two persons with illicit liquor. In the first case, Dasuya police arrested Bhupinder Singh, alias Sonu, a resident of Kawanwali, and seized a gunny bag having 30 packets (22,500 ml) of illicit liquor. In the second, the Model Town police arrested Banu, a resident of Nai Abadi, who was carrying a plastic bag containing 24 bottles of illicit liquor. Separate cases under the Excise Act have been registered against both the accused by respective police stations. OCOnline class on map workJalandhar: Though the pandemic has forced the closure of schools, it has failed to dampen the spirit of the government school teachers. With a view to hone up skills of Class X students in map work, English and social studies teams of the State Council for Educational Research and Training has started a weekly class on Zoom app accompanied with a YouTube link. The inaugural virtual class by Jalandhar-based teacher Omeshwar Narayan was taken on Tuesday. TNSAgri Department holds webinarJalandhar: The Agriculture Department has been reaching out to farmers to encourage them to switch to Direct Seeding of Rice technique. Department officials said last year, 10 per cent of the total area was sown by using this technique. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh held a webinar on Tuesday with at least 50 farmers and encouraged them to adopt the technique. TNS‘Covid hits BP patients more’Jalandhar: In Shahkot block, Senior Medical Officer AS Duggal held a meeting with the health officials and asked them to conduct regular checkup of people suffering from hyper-tension. He said Covid was attacking people with comorbidities such as hypertension more. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-among-4-held-with-drugs-255027
19-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour in villages: Sarpanch urges people||Hoshiarpur, May 18Participating in a virtual awareness drive launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday, sarpanch Surjit Kaur of Sarangwal village, said awareness, vaccination and strict compliance of the Covid guidelines should be a foremost task, which could pave a way to control the spread of deadly virus.Sunder Sham Arora, Industries and Commerce MinisterIt is high time for all villagers, panchayats, social, religious and other organisations, especially youth clubs, to join hands with the administration to keep the virus at bay. During the first wave, panchayats played a pivotal role, which is again necessitated amid surge in positive cases in rural belts. The state government would accomplish ‘Mission Fateh’ in rural areas with cooperation and support of panchayats.Surjit, who herself got vaccinated, while sharing her experience during the virtual interaction pointed out that they had organised three camps to make more and more people sensitise about the virus and its effects.She informed around 70 per cent beneficiaries have been vaccinated in her village and the remaining would being jabbed at the earliest.Not only ‘thikri pehras’ at night, but villagers also remain on alert during the day and only allow those persons to enter the village who have valid reasons, said Surjit. She said they have implemented all the health guidelines, including wearing of masks, practising social distancing and avoiding gathering.Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora while talking to the mediapersons at the District Administrative Complex said it was high time for all villagers, panchayats, social, religious and other organisations, especially youth clubs, to join hands with the administration to keep the virus at bay.Arora said during the first wave, panchayats had played a pivotal role, which was again necessitated amid surge in positive cases in rural belts. He said the state government would accomplish ‘mission fateh’ in rural areas with cooperation and support of panchayats.MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal urged people of rural areas that eligible beneficiaries should not skip vaccination. He said the pandemic can be contained only by timely vaccination, besides following Covid- appropriate behaviour daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-covid-appropriate-behaviour-in-villages-sarpanch-urges-people-255030
19-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 42 crore to be spent on development of Kandi areas||Hoshiarpur, May 18Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 42.79 crore for the holistic development of the Kandi areas in Hoshiarpur district.Disclosing this here on Tuesday, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said these areas would get a new look after their development. Accompanied by Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar, the Industries and Commerce Minister said, “These funds would be spent on development works, especially healthcare, education, water supply and sanitation, agriculture, etc. The scarcity of potable water will be solved as the state government has made a plan to provide clean drinking water in all the affected areas, said the minister, adding that the basic infrastructure would also be strengthened with the construction of link/approach roads, tourist centres, bridges, etc, in the Kandi belt. The small-scale industries with local inputs would also be encouraged so that the industrial boost could be ensured, he added.Giving a break-up of funds to be allotted for respective constituencies, the minister said out of total 42.79 crore, a sum of Rs 456.57 lakh would be spent on Kandi areas falling in the Hoshiapur segment while Rs 409.50 lakh and Rs 424.05 lakh would be earmarked for Sham Churasi and Chabbewal areas, respectively.Similarly, the Kandi areas falling in Dasuya will get funds to the tune of Rs 1059.90 lakh, Urmar Tanda Rs 232.78 lakh, Garhshankar Rs 686.78 lakh and Mukerian Rs 1009.42 lakh. He said these areas would also get a major fillip in development of agriculture and its allied sectors.Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar said the step was aimed at the all-round development of Kandi areas and would eliminate several problems being faced by residents of these areas. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait was also present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-42-crore-to-be-spent-on-development-of-kandi-areas-255031
19-05-2021||---||Jalandhar's PIMS accused of negligence in treatment of Covid victim||Jalandhar, May 18After the tragic incident of the death of a 24-year-old youth, who lost his life at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) hospital, created waves across the state, Angad Dutta, Jalandhar Youth Congress president, has submitted a complaint against the hospital to the Chief Minister’s Office. Apart from this, he has strictly demanded a legal action against the hospital authorities for the alleged negligence in the treatment and misbehaviour with the patient’s kin.24-year-old youth succumbed to deadly virus at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences due to ‘oxygen shortage’Dutta said, “I received a phone call from Kamaljit Kaur, mother of Gursewak Singh who was suffering from Covid and later succumbed to it. “She told us that her son died due to the hospital’s negligence, where another Covid patient, Radha Rani, had died due to shortage of oxygen supply. Gursewak got admitted at the hospital on May 13, where he was tested positive for the virus. Within two days of admission, he complained about being mistreated at the hospital. His health started deteriorating and while texting his mother on WhatsApp he mentioned that he was not being provided oxygen there. He had also sent his video and pictures showing the difficulty that he was facing in breathing. When his mother approached a doctor about the same, he allegedly misbehaved with her. Eventually, Gursewak lost his life on Monday morning due to unavailability of oxygen,” he said.The Youth Congress president also approached the district administration to take the hospital authorities to the task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-pims-accused-of-negligence-in-treatment-of-covid-victim-255032
19-05-2021||---||Fashion design students showcase fusion wear contemporary outfits||Jalandhar, May 18The final year graduating students of Department of Fashion Design of CT Group of Institutions created a design collections on various themes like Rajasthani art, tie and dye effects, retro, historical architecture, musical instruments and hippy, etc by using screen printing, block printing, colour effects with textile techniques, surface ornamentation and fabric manipulation.They created a range of fusion wear contemporary outfits along with smart casuals and modern office wear attires. Coordinator of department Ankita Kararia and overall design mentor Suman said, “As a part of their final semester project, the students created these collections in a span of three months. The designers sourced fabrics as well as developed various fabrics on their own using a range of different embellishments. This project reflects the essence of entire learning that the student goes through at our department during the three-year graduation programme.”The garments included lehangas, blouses and tunics with innovative cut and pattern development, and a wide range of unconventional office wear.” The designers also documented the workflow and development process of the collection through fashion boards, mind maps and swatch files. The documentation concluded with a professional photoshoot that would be a significant part of their design portfolios.CT Group managing director Manbir Singh congratulated the students for putting their best foot forward by creating these collections. “The students are well prepared for industry and can efficiently start their own boutiques and work as freelancers considering the current scenario,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fashion-design-students-showcase-fusion-wear-contemporary-outfits-255033
19-05-2021||---||Hoshiarpur: Gang of robbers busted, 3 held||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, May 18The police have arrested two men and a woman who robbed people on the pretext of selling goods.SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said the accused have been identified as Chintapal alias Sabi, Maninder alias Rahul and Manjot Kaur, all residents of Badapind village.He said a car and Rs 25,000 have been recovered from the trio. On May 11, they looted Rs 30,000 and a mobile phone from Ram Kumar Muhato of Nandachaur village.A case under Section 379 B of the IPC was registered by the Bullowal police in this regard.During interrogation, the accused revealed that they have committed 30 robberies in Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Majitha, Kapurthala and Batala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-255034
19-05-2021||Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Friday reviewed the ongoing developmental works at the villages of his constituency and appealed to the people to strictly abide by the Covid protocols to avoid contacting the virus. Considering the surge in cases in rural areas||Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal reviews development works in rural areas||Caring for covid warriorsLauding the efforts and duties of healthcare workers during these challenging times, members of Hinduja Welfare Society organised a blood donation camp. The camp was devoted to International Nursing Day. Following all the Covid norms, as many as 45 blood units were collected in the blood donation camp. To appeal residents to come forward to donate blood in order to cope with the shortage of blood for thalassemia patient, vice-president and president of the society, Harjinder Gogna and Vitin Puri appreciated the contribution of nurses to treat Covid patients. They said their efforts were laudable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-mla-balwinder-singh-dhaliwal-reviews-development-works-in-rural-areas-255042
19-05-2021||Jalandhar||Toppers of St Soldier Law College||Power to point contestThe PG department of computer science and IT, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, organised a series of co-curricular activities at the departmental level to uplift the mood and boost the morale of the students in this scenario. The first online activity in this regards was “The Power To Present” - a PPT presentation competition. In this the students were given a topic “Online Education”, in which they expressed their thoughts in the form of a presentation. The event was coordinated by Shivan Soni, Assistant Prof, PG department of computer science and IT. This activity was basically organised for the first year students. Jasmeen from BVoc (Sem 2) got the first position, Gunjan from BSc IT (Sem 2) was second and Lagan from DCA (Sem 2) was third. Principal Dr Navjot congratulated the winners. She also appreciated Dr Raman Preet Kohli, Head, PG department of computer science and IT for her endeavor and her team comprising of staff members Amanpreet Kaur, Chandanpreet Kaur Sangha, Ritu Rai and Gurline Kaur.Physics series chapter organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an International Series (Physics Chapter). Under this series, students will be taken to world’s renowned research laboratories like CERN, ENEA etc. virtually. The first chapter of KMV International series was attended by more than 100 participants through Zoom platform and many more joined the virtual event through other social media platforms like YouTube and Facebook. The series started with the inaugural address by Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi. Prof Dwivedi welcomed key speaker of the event Dr Alessia Cemmi, ENEA FSN-FISS-SNI, Italian National Agency for New Technologies Rome (Italy). Dr Alessia Cemmi gave overview of her research laboratory ENEA, Italy. In her presentation, Dr Cemmi introduced Calliope gamma irradiation facility at ENEA, Casaccia RC and organised a virtual visit to 60-Cobalt irradiation plant, research laboratories. Further she introduced Calliope activities like Nuclear, Space and High Energy Physics qualifications; experimental researches. She also showed videos based on external view of laboratory, internal view of irradiation cell, control room and up-down source operation. The Principal lauded the efforts Dr Gopi Sharma, Dean, International Affairs for successfully organising the international series.Swachhta Saarthi FellowshipStudents of HMV Collegiate Sr Sec School are encouraged to actively participate in INSPIRE camps organised by the Children Science Congress to instill research aptitude among them. In this context to be one step ahead, student of SSC-II (Medical) Diya Ahuja got selected for “Swachhta Saarthi Fellowship” sanctioned by the office of Principal Scientific Advisor, DST Govt. of India. She becomes the only student who got selected from Punjab. This fellowship is an initiative to empower young innovators to their innovative and sustainable solutions for conversion of waste to wealth. Diya Ahuja will work under the supervision of Meenakshi Sayal and Vandana to develop the technology for converting paddy straw into wealth which would be beneficial to the society and will also motivate young minds. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Diya and mentors Meenakshi Sayal and Vandana for this brilliant achievement. Meenakshi Sayal, School Coordinator, apprised that the inventive ideas of students can be perceived at the Eco-Garden of HMV Collegiate School which has been established with the efforts and creativity of the students where they have used waste tyres, plastic bottles, flush tanks, water taps, paint boxes, bags, cycles etc. in beautiful and appealing manner that speak of their ingenuity.Alumni Meet at DAV UniversityDAV University is going to conduct alumni meet from May 19 to 24. The alumni meet will foster a sense of community among the alumni and they will feel connected with the university. The alumni meet will be held through virtual mode by various departments of DAV University in a phased manner. The registration for the event has already begun and students are showing overwhelming response by registering themselves for the same. Vice-Chancellor (Officiating), DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi said that she is proud of her alumni who are placed at reputed positions working in both national and multinational organisations. She said that alumni meet will help young students to interact with the alumni and form new acquaintances. She further said that more than 2,500 students have registered for the meet which will take place in phases scheduled on different days. Registrar (Officiating), DAV University, Dr KN Kaul said that he feels happy as the alumni meet will act as a common platform where our alumni will share their stories of success and growth. Dean Academics (Officiating), DAV University, Dr RK Seth stated that the success stories of our alumni will motivate and inspire our students to perform best and achieve their dreams with hardwork and determination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/toppers-of-st-soldier-law-college-255059
