20-05-2021||---||13 fatalities in Jalandhar district, but bed occupancy is falling||Jalandhar, May 19Like on many occasions earlier, today’s Covid figures do not clearly tell the present picture of the viral infection. While the administration claimed that it saw the biggest drop in hospital caseload with the overall L-2 occupancy falling by 111 cases on a single day, the other figures do not support a conclusion of any situation improvement.As against 663 cases on Tuesday and 586 cases on Monday, even today the number of corona positive cases was 661. Like day before, there were 13 fatalities from the district even today. The positivity rate was 13.03 per cent and the number of active cases stands at 5,443, which is the usual trend for the past nearly a week.Returning to the bed occupancy data, the number of patients admitted in L2 facility today were 636, as against 747 yesterday and hence the drop. However, there was no significant change in the L3 bed occupation with 410 patients availing it today in contrast to 418 patients yesterday. According to the data available from the administration, the biggest peak in terms of L2 and L3 bed occupancy so far has been on May 15 with a total number of 1,226 patients (792 in L2 and 434 in L3) admitted to these facilities. The combined L2 and L3 occupancy as of today was 1,046, which perhaps makes the administrators feel that there could be a possible fall in the number of cases in the coming days.ADC (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, who is the nodal officer for the purpose, tweeted the data this evening while commenting, “Biggest drop in hospital case load in Jalandhar today. Early signs of hard work put in by our doctors, paramedics, administration and everyone involved. Level 2 occupancy has come down by 111 cases in Jalandhar today”.5 succumb in KapurthalaThe health authorities today reported 127 fresh cases. The persons who contracted the virus on Wednesday include three children. Meanwhile, five patients succumbed to the infection with the death toll rising to 422.A total of 15,360 residents of the district have got infected so far. The district now has 1,494 active cases after 182 patients got discharged today. As many as 3,004 new samples were collected today, the report for which is expected by tomorrow evening.4 deaths in NawanshahrFor the second consecutive day, 80 cases were reported from Nawanshahr district and four persons succumbed to the virus. The deceased include a 70-year-old and an 80-year-old woman from Muzaffarnagar block, a 61-year-old woman from Saroya block and a 65-year-old man from Urban Nawanshahr. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 10,423 and out of them, 776 are active cases. As many as 684 patients are getting treatment in their homes. The death rate in the district is 2.81 per cent and the recovery rate is 89.96 per cent. DC Dr Shena Aggarwal said the positivity rate in the district was quite less than that of in the state.Seven die in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven more deaths due to Covid, taking the toll to 858 on Wednesday. Besides, the district also witnessed 292 fresh cases. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,696 and 22,633 patients had recovered from the virus.Of the seven deaths reported today, five patients died in Hoshiarpur hospitals, while one each died at a private hospital in Mukerian and PGIMER, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-fatalities-in-jalandhar-district-but-bed-occupancy-is-falling-255704
20-05-2021||---||28 permanent vaccination centres set up in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, May 19To prevent people contracting the virus due to overcrowding at Civil Hospitals, 28 permanent vaccination sites have been established in Kapurthala district which have started functioning.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said in view of the large number of people turning up at the Civil Hospitals for testing and other treatment, there is a fear of further spread of Covid. Hence, these permanent centers have been set up outside the hospitals for vaccination. These centres have been equipped with dedicated staff and emergency response system.The sites include Radha Swami Satsang Dera, Markfed Chowk, Kapurthala; Rani Ka Mandir, Amritsar Road, Kapurthala; Radha Swami Satsang Ghar, Bhadas Road Bholath; Bhagwan Valmiki Mandir, Bholath; Public High School, Panchta and Government Senior Secondary School, Athauli. Others include Government School, Bhullarai; Primary School, Ranipur; Government High School, Palahi; Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Begowal; Mansa Devi Nagar, Phagwara; JCI Association, GT Road, Phagwara; Senior Secondary School, Dhilwan; Panchayat Ghar, Tibba; Govt School, Paramjitpur; Government School, Dadwindi; Gurdwara Sahib, Urban Estate, Phagwara; Phagwara JCT; Gurdwara Sahib, Model Town, Phagwara; Radha Swami Satsang, Dera Kala Sanghian; Radha Swami Satsang Dera, Hussainpur; Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala; Bhadarkali Mata Mandir, Sheikhupur; Gurdwara Sahib, Fatudhinga; Primary School, Kheeranwali; Gurdwara Sahib, Surakhpur; Government School and Bhara Mall Mandir, Sultanpur Lodhi.‘File FIR against Remdesivir blackmarketeers’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/28-permanent-vaccination-centres-set-up-in-kapurthala-255706
20-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||All in 18-44 age group in Naya Jattpur village are vaccinated now||Naya Jattpur village in Chabbewal assembly segment here has achieved the 100 per cent vaccination target in the 18-44 age group.Special teams, formed by Special Duty Magistrate for Chabbewal assembly-cum-Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner Avtar Singh Kang, conducted a special awareness and vaccination drive in the village motivating people to get the jab. Most of the villagers had come forward to take the jab and 29 people were left and these remaining beneficiaries were vaccinated on Wednesday (today) during a special camp organised in the village.Kang told The Tribune that a special drive had been initiated in the area for achieving the 100 per cent vaccination target. Twenty teams had been working hard for it. He said each team consisted of an Asha worker, an anganwadi worker, a policeman, BLO of the booth concerned/village, besides supervisors and nodal officers are taking care of the drive.Kang said 10 camps were held in the area where 1,514 persons were vaccinated. Five to six more villages were fast progressing towards 100 per cent vaccination and in a couple of days these villages will also achieve the target.The Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, during a meeting with the nodal and special duty officers appointed for the Chabbewal assembly constituency to check the spread of Covid-19, said the state government would also launch a “Corona Free Village Campaign” to stop its spread in rural areas of Punjab.Under this campaign, each village achieving 100% vaccination target will be given a special development grant of Rs 10 lakh. Special Duty Officers Kamal Khosla, Rajneesh Kumar Guliani, Honey Raja, Kashmir Singh and Sandeep Singh were also present in the meeting. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-in-18-44-age-group-in-naya-jattpur-village-are-vaccinated-now-255708
20-05-2021||Jalandhar||Now, Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku draws flak for flouting norms||At a time when the state government has imposed restrictions on holding functions amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Congress MLA from Jalandhar West Sushil Rinku went ahead to inaugurate work on Government Senior Secondary School at Lasuri Mohalla in Basti Danishmandan here on Wednesday.The function was held in violation of the norms laid down by the state government as there was a gathering of more than 35 persons. The event took place at 3.30 pm when all premises, including shops and commercial centres, are supposed to be closed.During the function, it was noticed that most of the invitees did not follow the social distancing norms and a few of them did not even wear masks. Later, everyone was served coffee and pakoras. Last week, Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri had inaugurated an open gym in a park, which drew flak from every quarter.When contacted, Rinku said, “I had invited only 15 persons to the function. Since it is a mohalla, more people turned up. There was neither any public address system nor any chairs. We only got tents installed so that people and PWD officials did not have to wait for me in the sun. It took us just minutes to get some pictures clicked after which everyone left the venue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-jalandhar-west-mla-sushil-rinku-draws-flak-for-flouting-norms-255710
20-05-2021||---||Kapurthala: Officials set up WhatsApp groups of sarpanches and panches to enforce Covid norms in rural areas||Kapurthala, May 19In a unique initiative to curb the spread of Covid in villages, the police have started patrolling. Sarpanches will also rope in watchmen who will have records of persons coming from outside. Also, the contact information of nearby health centres in the villages has also been shared for testing an outsider with symptoms.Kanwardeep Kaur, SSP, KapurthalaThis time more number of cases are getting reported from rural areas and people are still reluctant, but with the motivation of sarpanches, the testing has definitely increased in the villages. I hope the efforts now reflect in the numbers too.WhatsApp groups of sarpanch-panchs to make people aware about Covid rules have also been formed at village level. The groups will also help in enforcing the rules strictly. Two weeks ago, SSP Kapurthala along with the DC had held a meeting with sarpanches on block level. She had asked the sarpanches to ensure that there is proper reporting of people who are sick and sarpanches were also advised to ensure high number of testing.Kanwardeep Kaur, SSP Kapurthala, said the youngsters are also taking turns to be a part of this initiative. “We are getting a very good response. Thikri pehras are being held on daily basis. I hope the efforts now reflect in the numbers too,” she said.“This time more number of cases is getting reported from rural areas and people are still reluctant, but with the motivation of sarpanches, the testing has definitely increased in the villages,” the SSP said.She made an appeal to the people and especially the youth to come forward and save lives from the second dangerous wave of Covid. The needy are further advised to contact the ‘food helpline’ numbers 112 and 181.District administration Kapurthala is all set to launch a 15-day campaign from tomorrow onwards to expedite testing in every village to prevent further spread.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Wednesday said the high mortality rate in the villages was a matter of great concern. She said it was come to notice that the people sought treatment from nearby unauthorised doctors and did not get the tested in time which further pushed them to the critical situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-officials-set-up-whatsapp-groups-of-sarpanches-and-panches-to-enforce-covid-norms-in-rural-areas-255712
20-05-2021||---||Jalandhar's Chanpreet Memorial Charitable Hospital with all its might is helping +ve patients||Jalandhar, May 19At a time when Covid has been at its peak, the role of former Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia in providing relief to the poor patients has been lauded in the city by one and all.Bhatia, who had already been running a hospital in the name of his deceased son Chanpreet Memorial Charitable Hospital at the gurdwara premises of Basti Guzan for past nine years, said he had now got allocated 10 beds for the poor Covid patients who are provided everything, including Covid testing, treatment, medicines, meals, etc free of cost. The facility started last week and has already got nine patients.A philanthropist, he aimed at developing an all-new concept for treating patients, “We do not allow any person from well-off families to take treatment here as there are a number of private hospitals around. We admit only the needy patients in the Level-I facility available with us. Any patient who comes to us only has to bring own clothes for change, we provide him everything else from our end. The moment he is admitted with us, he gets a kit of his daily use items which includes two sets of towels, comb, toothbrush, all toiletries, sanitiser, mask, etc. He gets all meals free through an NGO which has tied up with us. We are also providing the patients with fresh fruits, coconut water, channas (roasted gram), tea, kadha twice a day.”Bhatia said, “We also have provision of oxygen cylinders with us. Khalsa Aid has provided us with two concentrators. We are even providing physiotherapy, yoga and meditation training to the patients, besides giving them TV connection on which they can play bhajans and attend spiritual discourses. Various other NGOs are also helping us in managing everything. We are paying Rs1.6 lakh salary to four doctors including an MD specialist with us. We also have a group of 25 young volunteers with us, who are on two-hour duty in the Covid centre daily donning PPE kits, masks and following all protocols.”An Akali leader, he added, “We have six patients taking treatment under home isolationand have provided oxygen facility at home. We are even providing them meals at home on demand.” It is a 24x7 facility. “I come here at 6.30 am and leave at 10 pm personally monitoring all the arrangements. I have left all political activities to devote all my attention for a better cause.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-chanpreet-memorial-charitable-hospital-with-all-its-might-is-helping-ve-patients-255713
20-05-2021||---||16-year-old girl raped by ‘uncle’ in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, May 19A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by the man who she used to call ‘taya ji’ (uncle). The incident took place at Mahla Khurd village in Aur block of Nawanshahr on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as a former sarpanch of the village. The girl is admitted to the hospital.In her statement to the police, she said the accused came to her house and told her that his daughter-in-law was calling her. When the girl reached his house, the accused took her into a vacant room where he raped her. The wife of the accused is dead and his daughters are married abroad. The accused lives with his son and daughter-in-law and both of them were not in the house at the time of the incident.The police have registered a case under Section 376 (Rape) of the IPC and the POCSO Act. Later the police nabbed the accused. The police said there was no blood relation between the victim’s family and the accused. “The accused would often visit the family members and there was a strong bond between them,” the police said.The investigating officer (IO) said the victim was out of danger and was stable, but the incident left her terrified. “We would wait for her to give out more information regarding the matter. We have already recorded her statement, but once she is comfortable and is recovered, she might reveal something more,” said Sub-Inspector Neelam Kumari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-year-old-girl-raped-by-uncle-in-nawanshahr-255714
20-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||5 arrested for smuggling liquor in Hoshiarpur||Coop society secy booked for fraudGarhshankar: The Garhshankar police have booked Makhan Singh, a resident of Lehra, who was secretary of a cooperative society, for allegedly embezzling a sum of Rs 12,48,892 from the society funds. A complaint in this regard was filed by the Sub Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Garhshankar. ASI Raj Kumar, the Investigating Officer, said that the accused was secretary of the society and he embezzled the money deposited by the members in their accounts. He issued receipts to the account holders but did not deposit money in the bank. A case under Section 409 of the IPC has been registered against him. The accused is absconding. OCThree arrested with narcoticsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three persons and seized a large amount of narcotics from them. According to information, The Mehtiana police arrested Toni Masih, a resident of Khanaura village, and seized 35 gm of intoxicating powder from him. Meanwhile, the Hariana police arrested two smugglers, including a woman, and seized 205 gm of intoxicants from them. The accused have been identified as Kakkon village resident Gurmeet Kaur and Khuda village resident Tilak Raj. The police have registered cases under the NDPS Act. OC2 arrested for violating normsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested two persons for violating night curfew. The Mahilpur police arrested Rajinder Singh last night while he was found roaming near Civil Hospital. The Garhdiwala police arrested Nihal Sonkar for keeping his meat shop open at 9 pm in violation of the Deputy Commissioner’s orders. Separate FIRs under Section 188 of the IPC have been registered against them by the respective police stations. OCAiry is chief of Garhshankar MCGarhshankar: Tribhank Dutt Airy, who was recently unanimously elected as president of the Municipal Council Garhshankar, took charge on Wednesday in the presence of former MLA Love Kumar Goldy and MLA Jai Krishan Singh Rodi. He expressed the gratitude towards all councillors and said that he would work in consultation with all councillors for the development of the city. MLA Jai Krishan Singh Rodi said, “We will all work together for the development of the city.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-in-hoshiarpur-255716
20-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Unleashing the inner musician||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 19Sportsman-turned-lyricist and a music composer, a city-based youth is carving a niche for himself in the field of Punjabi music industry. Gurpreet Singh (28), popularly known as Guri wrote his first song in the year 2015 with the help of his mentor “Rangla Punjab” fame Roshan Cheema.Gurpreet SinghAfter leaving cricket, I didn't know what else to do. I knew that I could write couplets but making a switch towards music industry was completely unpredicted. However, when I started, I began to receive good response. So far, I have written 16-17 songs.Sung by Garry Sandhu, the song ‘bapu di cycle te ghum ke pind da litta nazara si’ made him stand out in the market. His song was widely shared.A resident of Central Town, Guri has done MA Punjabi. He aspires to become a well-known music composer. “After leaving cricket, I didn’t know what else to do. I knew that I could write couplets but making a switch towards music industry was completely unpredicted. However, when I started I began to receive good response. So far, I have written 16-17 songs. “Mere wala sardar” in 2018 was my first music cover in which I took the lead. The song was sung by Jugraj Sandhu. It went viral on social media overnight and garnered over four million views on YouTube. Owing to his popularity, the viewers also demanded for its female version. Hence, within a few months, I released ‘meri wali sardarni’. After this, ‘jatta teri care’ was another hit,” Guri said.Completely against songs portraying guns and drugs, he prefers to write and compose only romantic songs or those with a touch of cultural heritage. “There isn’t any big creativity other than imagination,” he pointed out. While struggling to choose a career to earn a living for himself, he decided to follow the path of creativity. Even he wasn’t aware of his creativity until he finally started writing. “Apart from moving ahead in life, youngsters need to sit and relax sometimes to explore their real talent”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unleashing-the-inner-musician-255717
20-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Wild wild best!: Dr Khokhar likes her garden less manicured, like a jungle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 19Unlike most big houses, which have a proper manicured garden and timely pruning of all bushes, Dr Kawaljit Kaur Khokhar’s house is a little different. She does not like to use much of scissors around and wants the plants to come out naturally, find their own space and take their own shape. She has not even planted many seasonal plants for she prefers evergreen kind of plants which require minimal care.PhD in genetics and principal of Mata Gujri Khalsa College, Kartarpur, Khokhar, resides at Rose Park in the city. “Everyone who comes to my house tells me from the gates that they get a feeling that this is the house of a biologist. I enjoy multiplying my plants. I have a variety of plants, including spider plants, kalanchoe, lemon grass and schefflera which can be seen in multiples for I have propagated them vegetatively,” she showed shoots of plants kept in bottles here and there for developing of roots.A passionate garden lover, she tells, “I am not for spending much on designer pots and artifacts for decorating my garden. Everything, including disposable containers, broken mugs, condemned kitchenware, used strawberry boxes, used oil cans and curd matkas are pots for me. I keep them everywhere I find space.”She shows a small poolside area in her outer open space where she has kept plants all around the edges. All such pots line up the staircase leading to the first floor of the house. The balconies, walls and in fact every nook and corner of the house, where there is light or even shade, have plants. She has even made pots out of waste, broken tiles and grown pothos with variegated leaves in them.Khokhar likes the look of rangoon creeper hanging up to the top floor of the house and the monstera plant climbing up the trees are her favourites. “I also enjoy taking care of my plantations of kinnows, pomegranates, grapes, mangoes, chikoos and grapes. My medicinal plants like giloy, tulsi, lemongrass as well as air-purifying plants like spider plants, snake plants, areca palms and aloe vera are all getting special attention these days because of Covid times,” she shares.The academician-cum-plant lover tells that she had passion for gardening since her childhood. “I feel that my plants talk to me. I have a gardener but he keeps telling me that you are my senior gardener,” she laughs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wild-wild-best-dr-khokhar-likes-her-garden-less-manicured-like-a-jungle-255718
20-05-2021||Jalandhar||Post-matric scholarship a relief for students: Association||Lyallpur Khalsa College Principal and Principals’ Association president Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra expressed thanks to the state government for crediting post-matric scholarship money for the 2020-21 session into the accounts of students.He said in March 2021, 40 per cent money of the scholarship was credited into the accounts of students and now the remaining 60 per cent had also been released.Samra said the aid was a relief for the students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-matric-scholarship-a-relief-for-students-association-255724
20-05-2021||Kapurthala||PSEB examination results||LPU signs MoUsPhagwara: Lovely Professional University has recently signed MoUs with top universities of the US, Canada, Germany, Italy, and Romania. MoUs have been signed with University of Idaho (UI), USA; Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (SAIT), Canada; South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSMT), USA; IU University of Applied Sciences, Germany; University of Macerata (UNIMC), Italy; and, University of Agronomic Sciences and Veterinary Medicine of Bucharest, Romania. These MoUs are to follow student and staff exchange programmes; joint research activities and publications; continuing education and professional development; participation in seminars/conferences; and more. Associate Director Aman Mittal at LPU’s Division of International Affairs said: “We will strive to make the best out of these tie-ups for the ultimate benefit of the students. Working with the top universities across the world will help provide a truly global experience to the students.”Sensory activity performedJalandhar: DIPS Urban Estate performed a sensory activity for the children of pre-wing in which the children were blindfolded and learned about the test and fragrance of various things and felt the texture of various things like paper, stone, water, cotton, cotton cloth, etc. In this, the children tested various things of the food and told about its taste whether it is earthy, sour, bitter, salty or there is no taste at all such as cucumber, tomato, lemon, chilly, salt, banana, apple etc. During this online activity, teacher Blessy encouraged the children to eat homemade food instead of fast food, so that their development could be complete. School Principal Neelu Bawa said that through such activity, children get the power to turn their dreams into reality. Students are lost in their own imaginary world with closed eyes. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra stated that at a young age children learn easily new things so they should enhance their learning process for all times so that for their holistic development is enhanced and also activated.Conference on Plant BiodiversityThe PG department of botany of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Punjab Biodiversity Board is organising an e-International Conference on “Plant Biodiversity and Environment Conservation”. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen illustrated that conference aims to bring together leading academic scientists and research scholars to exchange and share their experiences and research results on various aspects of plant biodiversity, environment conservation and all branches of plant sciences. Eminent speakers like Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Puspha Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, Karnesh Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, Rohit Mehra, IRS, Dr Gurharminder Singh, Principal Scientific Adviser, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change and Punjab Biodiversity Board, Punjab, Dr Sangeeta Rajbhandary, Tribhuvan University, Nepal, Dr Ngueyen Bao Quoc, Reserach Institute of Biotechnology Environment, Vietnam and many other will share their knowledge in different plenary sessions.Bammi is NCC commissioned officerNavodita Bammi, assistant professor of mathematics at Trinity College, Jalandhar, has completed her three-month ANO training at Officer’s Training Academy Gwalior. She is now a commissioned NCC officer with Lieutenant rank. The course was started on February 8 and it was scheduled to end on May 8 but due to Covid-, the course ended on April 9. A total of 76 trainees were commissioned as NCC officers at OTA Gwalior and Lieutenant Navodita Bammi was one of them. Lt. Navodita excelled in the course and was awarded with six Certificates of Excellence. Rev. Fr Peter, Director Trinity Group of Institutions and Dr Ajay Prashar, Principal Trinity College Jalandhar welcomed the newly commissioned officer with warm wishes and blessings. Brig. Advitya Madaan, Group Commander, NCC Jalandhar Group and Col NPS Toor, Commanding Officer, 2 Punjab Girls Battalion also expressed appreciation on the performance of ANO.Students complete NPTEL CourseIt’s a matter of immense pride that three students from the Department of CSE of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus have successfully completed 12-week NPTEL Course, by MHRD, Government of India initiative. Students of CSE (SemVI) Muskan, Shivam and Pawandeep Singh, have been awarded with NPTEL Elite certificate for successfully clearing online certification course on Data Science and Data Analytics using Python.Data science has emerged as one of the most alluring professions in the world. Sardar Sukhbir Singh Chatha , Director Academic Affairs, KCL Group encouraged the students and the faculty of CSE Department to participate more frequently in such productive activities. He congratulated the department for the successful accomplishment of the task.Virtual interaction with scientistsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a virtual interaction with the scientists of National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR), New Delhi, under DBT Star College Status through Science Setu Programme of Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. It was a unique opportunity for science students at undergraduate and postgraduate level to get an exposure to such a high-level research. The resource person for the event was Dr Alok K Sinha, scientist VII, NIPGR. Dr Sinha commenced his lecture with brief introduction on signal transduction in plants by giving an outline of signals, receptors and reverse phosphorylation. He introduced general points of signals, types of signalling, amplification, role and classes of receptors and ligand binding etc. Dr Amarjeet Singh, Scientist, NIPGR attended the questions of the participants and also gave vote of thanks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pseb-examination-results-255740
