21-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||All about affection: 98-yr-old’s gesture for fellow  ex-servicemen wins hearts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Defying his age and other constraints, a rare gesture shown by 98-year-old Lance Naik Kesho Lal Verma (retd) to walk down to the Sub Area Headquarters of Vajra Corps for handing over an amount of Rs1 lakh for Covid-affected fellow ex-servicemen has won everyone’s heart.In return, he too received an overwhelming gesture from the Corps officials. The Station Commander treated him reverently and got himself snapped. The picture went viral last evening via the WhatsApp groups of veterans, who were also motivated to not just sit back at home during the Covid times and donate generously.Reciprocating his gesture, Station Brig HS Sohi on Thursday went to his place at Lal Kurti Bazaar in Jalandhar Cantonment and felicitated him. He presented him a bouquet of flowers and a basket of fresh fruits. Later in the day, Col Dalwinder Singh (retd) from the District Welfare Office visited his place and took him to his office for another function to honour him.The nonagenerian is seemingly quite fit as he did not have much difficulty in mobility though he wobbled a bit. He also seemed full of life despite solitude. He shared that he lost his only son, who was a naval officer, in 2011 and his family lives in Vishakhapatnam. Here he was living with his cook.The veteran was born on November 22, 1922. He had served with Royal Indian Army Service Corps (MT), South East Asia Command, prior to the Independence and continued to serve the Indian Army until retirement in September 1965.Recalling all dates and chronological incidents correctly at this age, Lance Naik Verma shared the journey of his life, “I originally hail from Arra village of Pakistan. I got inducted in army near Islamabad in November 1940. Thereafter, army took me to Pune. I did several trainings and even went to Burma. I used to serve as a driver for many officials, drove military ambulances and vehicles for ration supplies.”On his donation, he said, “I draw a pension of Rs35,000 a month and have a reasonable saving. I wanted to utilise this amount for some good cause and hence though to donate for the well-being of my fellow brethren.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-about-affection-98-yr-olds-gesture-for-fellow-ex-servicemen-wins-hearts-256216
21-05-2021||---||7 die, 382 test +ve in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Amid soaring Covid-19 infections in Jalandhar district, the authorities heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday. For the first time this month, the total number of positive cases didn’t cross 400-mark.Showing a downward graph, 382 people tested positive today. With this, the tally has increased to 54,914. The health authorities reported seven Covid-19 related deaths in the district today. The toll has reached 1,281.The caseload of active cases has lowered to 5,242 mark from 5,443. As a part of the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, as many as 10,12,289 samples have been collected from the district, out of which 54,914 people tested positive. Maximum number of cases have been reported in the month of May.6 die, 144 infected in K’thalaThe district reported six more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 428, while 144 new cases pushed the infections count to 15,526 in the district. Five deaths were reported from the rural belt of the district. Among those who lost their lives were two 47-year-old men, one hailing from Begowal and the other from Bhulana village. A 48-year-old woman from Bhet village, a 78-year-old from Kuka village, 70-year-old from Lakhan-ke-Padde village and 80-year-old from the city were among the deceased. A total of 134 persons discharged today and active cases stood at 1,421.7 die in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven more deaths due to Covid, taking the toll to 865 on Thursday. Besides, the district also witnessed 237 fresh cases. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district now stood at 2,467 and as many as 23,086 patients had recovered from the virus.Of 237 positive cases, 12 were reported from other districts. Among the seven fatalities reported today, three patients died at Jalandhar hospitals, while as many succumbed to the virus at Hoshiarpur hospitals and one patient died at a Nawanshahr hospital.5 deaths in NawanshahrNawanshahr district has reported five deaths and 110 fresh Covid cases today. The victims have been identified as a 24-year-old youth from Muzaffarpur block, a 36-year-old person from Urban Nawanshahr, a 47-year-old from Mukandpur, a 52-year-old and a 70-year-old person from Sujjon block. Maximum (39) cases were reported from Balachaur block and minimum (one case) was reported from Rahon. Total number of positive cases has now increased to 10,533 and the number of active cases is 830. There are two containment zones in the district and the recovery rate is 89.46 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-die-382-test-ve-in-jalandhar-256219
21-05-2021||---||Orphaned due to Covid-19, kids get a shelter home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20After reports that as many as 40 children from the city have got orphaned and helpless due to Covid, the Government of India and the District Child Welfare Committee have designated Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan as the shelter home for such children.Ajay Bharti, District Child Protection Officer, said, “We have procured a list of 40 such children but they are reportedly still in the custody of their guardians. Besides orphan children, Nari Niketan will also remain open for those who have lost a single parent due to Covid and cannot be looked after well. We have opened 1098 child helpline for sharing such information.”Gurjot Kaur, general secretary of Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan Trust, said, “We will happily serve all such families who have got victimised due to Covid, and take good care of the children.” Since it also runs an adoption centre, Gurjot Kaur said anyone willing to adopt a child from Nari Niketan could apply online for the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/orphaned-due-to-covid-19-kids-get-a-shelter-home-256220
21-05-2021||---||Kingpin of Jalandhar spa centre gangrape arrested||Jalandhar, May 20In a major success, the Commissionerate of Police on Thursday arrested a woman named Jyoti of Ludhiana, who was a mastermind behind the gangrape case that took place at Cloud Spa Centre, Model Town, Jalandhar, last week.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police teams have arrested kingpin Jyoti (30), a resident of New Patel Nagar, Vaddi Habbowal from Jalandhar bus stand, adding that another person, Sohit Sharma (29), a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, was already arrested by the police a week ago.The CP further added that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted in this case, which was working round-the-clock to probe the whole incident and arrest the accused. “During investigation, Jyoti was found to be the kingpin, who revealed that she had brought the victim from Ludhiana to this spa centre where four persons raped her. She also revealed that she had been lodged in Ludhiana Jail as she was already booked in two different cases of the NDPS Act and was out on bail. Notably, she was running a salon and is presently working in an export company,” added Bhullar.He also stated that the raids were on to arrest the other accused, Ashish Bahal, a resident of Amritsar district, Arshad Khan and Inder alias Bunty, residents of Jalandhar. He also mentioned that the police remand of the kingpin Jyoti would be sought from the court to ensure in-depth investigation in this case and to arrest the remaining suspects. He stated that the SIT would furnish its investigation in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kingpin-of-jalandhar-spa-centre-gangrape-arrested-256222
21-05-2021||---||Nawanshahr: Tutor booked for teaching at home||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 20A tuition teacher was booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (however unlawfully or negligently does any act that is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) 270 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act-2005, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act for violating the Covid norms. The police had got intimation that a private school teacher was not following the Covid rules.The police official said the teacher was teaching 10-12 small students at her home without wearing any mask. The police said, “The case has been registered against the teacher so that others also get a lesson. It is strange that people are still not following any norms.”Accompanied by various medical teams, the district police conducted Covid-19 tests on 1,108 persons, while challans on 47 persons without masks were also imposed.The SSP Nawanshahr said apart from making announcements in the villages by the police, the media van of Saanjh Kendra was continuously educating people to take precautionary measures against Covid. The SSP said wearing masks at all times, maintaining mutual distance and following the guidelines and instructions issued for Covid should be ensured so that the district could be made Covid-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-tutor-booked-for-teaching-at-home-256223
21-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Level-III facility begins at Nawanshahr Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 20Level-III facility for severe Covid-19 patients started after installation of two ventilators at the Nawanshahr Civil Hospital on Thursday.Level-III facility provides treatment to very critical patients who require ICU or ventilator support, have dipping oxygen level & difficulty in breathingCivil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said the needy do not need to pay extra as they would get best treatment at the Civil Hospital.The Level-III facility for critically ill patients commenced with two ventilators and the Health Department has sought two more ventilators from private hospitals.At present, 15 patients have been receiving treatment at Level-III facilities in private hospitals.As per information, the district received five ventilators on Wednesday and all of them were found non-functional. The Civil Surgeon then took up the matter with the Health Department. “An engineer from the Health Department will visit and install the ventilators,” said the Civil Surgeon.Due to limited ventilators and shortage of staff, the Level-III facility could not be started earlier in the district. Now, the Health Department has planned to outsource nurses and sweepers for the Level-III unit.Earlier, the district authorities had received 10 ventilators, of which three each were given to Mohali and Jalandhar. Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal visited an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital and reviewed the treatment being provided to patients. She urged the staff to provide best treatment to patients. The Civil Surgeon said positivity rate in rural areas was increasing at a rapid pace for the last two weeks.Dr Kapur said ASHA workers would go door to door in every village to check for Covid-19 related symptoms.He said pulse oximeters were being provided to ASHA workers and villagers should cooperate with them and other medical staff in order to tackle the pandemic. “The Health Department is working day and night to ensure safety of people during the pandemic. Masses should cooperate with the department,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/level-iii-facility-begins-at-nawanshahr-civil-hospital-256226
21-05-2021||The rural skyline in this part of Punjab is a little different. Since it is the NRIs who dominate the Doaba region||Doaba’s outlandish Water Tank Art||Over the years, the shape of the water reservoirs has evolved from airplanes to ships, army tanks, trucks, birds like eagles and hawks, horses, kangaroos (marking relocation to Australia), bullock carts and of late more popular tractors, bhangra-performing Punjabi couple and sports figures. Since all the shapes desired cannot be used for water storage, some villagers also prefer to install them as artwork only.More recently, people have also started preferring having iconic figures of their choice as larger than life statues. For instance, a house at Dhanoa village near Jalandhar has the statue of Rani Laxmibai riding a horse. Two houses in the ancestral village of Bhagat Singh at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr have his statues atop an already constructed water tank. The idea of having statue of Dalit icon Dr BR Ambedkar is also a favourite among many.Having a unique showpiece on the house has become such a matter of prestige for some families that they do not mind even if the local artisans or fabricators ask for hefty amount for the work. Their only demand is getting a finely chiseled piece with bright colours such that it makes their house stand apart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doabas-outlandish-water-tank-art-256227
21-05-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Overwhelmed with bodies, crematoria feel the heat||With an increasing number of cremations taking place in the district during the second wave of Covid-19, the demand for wood has increased at the cremation grounds. To add to the problem, there isn’t any electrical cremation system in the region.Operators at the cremation grounds said it took 3-4 quintals of wood to cremate a body. Besides, Raj Kumar Mago, president, Baba Dadamal Shamshanbhumi Sudhar Sabha, Maqsudan, said: “From 20 to 25 cremations a month, the average has increased to 40-50 a day.”NGO pitches inAakhri Umeed Welfare Society, a Jalandhar-based NGO, is cremating persons who die of Covid for free. A team of 15-20 volunteers not only performs the last rites of the Covid patients, but also provides PPE kits to the families. Society founder Jatinder Singh said they were cremating eight to 10 Covid bodies a day at different cremation grounds.Gurdayal Bhatti and Harbans Lal, in charges at a cremation ground, said though they weren’t facing any shortage right now, considering the increasing wood consumption due to more deaths, the possibility looms large. “Last week, we cremated five to six bodies, including that of Covid patients, every day,” said Harbans Lal.Amid information on inflated cremation rates, it was discovered that Rs 2,800-3,500 is being charged for cremating a body at present.Shaym Lal, head, Haranamdas Pura Cremation Ground, said: Last Friday, they cremated 20 bodies a day, against the daily average of three to six.Besides, the attendance at funerals is beyond the permissible limit, with 50-80 persons thronging the cremation grounds, increasing the fear of infection. “Due to the unavailability of health staff or any administration official, a large number of people participate in the cremation,” said Harbans Lal.With the surge in Covid fatalities, the pressure to handle the dead has also gone up. Dr Kamraj, in charge, Civil Hospital morgue, said: “We have to increase the staff strength. The bodies need to be sanitised completely and packed in two layers before cremation. Before handing over the bodies, PPE kits are also given to the family members as per protocol.” Due to shortage of PPE Kits, only two family members are being given the kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-overwhelmed-with-bodies-crematoria-feel-the-heat-255890
