22-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur DC: Armed forces preparatory institute will be ready by Dec||The construction work of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute will be completed by the end of December as the 30 per cent works of the project has already been completed.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, who along with other officers concerned, visited the site of this prestigious institute at Bajwara village and informed that the work was in full swing and the pace of construction would be accelerated in days to come. She also directed the officers to maintain quality in each and every aspect of the project, which would be immensely helpful to facilitate more youth from Punjab to join defence services as a career.Reviewing the status of construction work, the Deputy Commissioner said the project would be completed at a cost of Rs 27 crore spread over 12.75 acres. She said that ultra-modern training would be provided to as many as 270 candidates by fulfilling the dream of boys and girls from the region to serve the nation in defence services. SDM Amit Mahajan and other official of the PWD Department were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dc-armed-forces-preparatory-institute-will-be-ready-by-dec-256773
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Meet black fungus, Covid’s partner in crime||Hoshiarpur, May 21“Having second largest diabetic population globally and nearly 70 per cent of these cases being those of uncontrolled diabetes, India has a strong risk factor for mucormycosis or black fungus.”Dr Navdeep Kaur Boparai, ENT expert at Ivy Hospital, addressing an online awareness programme, said that second Covid wave has been worse than the first and has led to the increase in usage of steroid, which not only worsens the sugar control but also increases the risk of developing mucormycosis.She added that most of the hospitalised patients require oxygen and contaminated cylinders, humidifiers, steamers which are becoming a potential source for the infection.Poor oral-nasal hygiene in hospitalised patients and use of the same mask for prolonged periods is also becoming a cause for mucormycosis. The major route of infection is via inhalation of conidia and other routes include ingestion and traumatic, she said.“When spores are deposited in the nasal turbinate the rhino cerebral disease develops. When spores are inhaled into the lungs the pulmonary disease develops, when ingested the GI disease ensues, and when these agents are introduced through interrupted skin, cutaneous disease develops.”Dr Navdeep said infection spreads along vascular and neuronal structures and infiltrates into the walls of blood vessels. It can erode bone through walls of the sinus and can spread into the orbit and the retro-orbital area, thereby extending into the brain. “We are witnessing patients with foul smelling nasal discharge, nasal stuffiness, nasal bleed, nasal hypoesthesia, headache, nausea, fever and lethargy,” she pointed out.All cases of post-Covid infection with such symptoms should be subjected to imaging to confirm sinus involvement and beyond.She said symptoms of pulmonary (lung) mucormycosis include fever, cough, chest pain and shortness of breath. The symptoms of gastrointestinal mucormycosis include abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting and gastrointestinal bleeding.Disseminated mucormycosis typically occurs in people who are already sick from other medical conditions, so it can be difficult to know which symptoms are related to mucormycosis.The disease is clinically fatal as no survivors of mucormycosis were reported before 1955. A review of published mucormycosis cases found an overall mortality rate of 54 per cent. The mortality rate was 46 per cent among people with sinus infections, 76 per cent for pulmonary infections and 96 per cent for disseminated mucormycosis.The prognosis of mucormycosis may improve with rapid diagnosis, early management, including combined antifungal drugs, aggressive surgical interventions and reversal of underlying risk factors. “Let us all fight this pandemic and the menace of mucormycosis collectively,” the doctor remarked.What is black fungus?The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. Mighty mucormycosisThe disease is clinically fatal as no survivors of mucormycosis were reported before 1955. A review of published mucormycosis cases found an overall mortality rate of 54 per cent. The mortality rate was 46 per cent among people with sinus infections, 76 per cent for pulmonary infections and 96 per cent for disseminated mucormycosis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-black-fungus-covids-partner-in-crime-256738
22-05-2021||---||‘Corona-free village’ drive begins, 598 samples taken on first day||Kapurthala, May 21As part of the 15-day campaign of ‘corona mukt pind’ launched by the Punjab Government, 14 teams of the Health Department in collaboration with the Rural Development and Panchayat Department and Punjab Police have started collecting samples on Friday. On the first day, these teams covered 26,473 people of different villages, out of which 598 persons with Covid symptoms were sampled and 11 tested positive.The villages covered on the first day of the campaign include Kokalpur, Badshahpur, Bhawanipur, Nurowal, Sujokalia, Thatta, Tibba, Akbarpur, Narangpur, Kala Sanghian, Nurpur Dona, Jalowal and Kesarpur.The purpose of this campaign is to test every person with symptoms of Covid, contact tracing of those concerned and make them aware of the adherence to the prescribed medical protocols for the prevention of Covid.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said under the 15-day campaign all the villages of the district would be covered so that this pandemic would not be spread in the villages. She said all the medical officers, SDMs, officers of the Rural Development Department have been directed to make direct contact with all the sarpanches and panches to ensure testing at common places.Uppal said Asha workers, health personnel would visit every house to check the health of suspected patients of Covid and the information would reach the concerned medical officer who would take necessary action.Teams will also inform the public about the proper management of bio-medical waste as it carries the highest risk of spreading the virus.It may be mentioned that 3.49 lakh tests have been conducted in the district till Thursday. The number of daily sampling is over 3,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/corona-free-village-drive-begins-598-samples-taken-on-first-day-256739
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||‘Butterflies play vital role in ecosystem’||Pushpa Gujral Science City is observing International Bio-Diversity week by holding series of webinars for students and general public.The first webinar in this series was organised on “Diversity in Butterflies and Moths and their role in Ecosystem”. Around 300 students and teachers from all over Punjab participated in it. Dr HS Rose, former Pro-Chancellor, Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo, was the key speaker on this occasion.During his talk, he said basic objective of celebrating this day is to create awareness about conservation of biodiversity and its importance on account of planned/unplanned urbanisation, industrialisation, monoculture and ever-growing needs of the vast human population. He said butterflies and moths have a lot of diversity and play a very important role in our ecosystem, act as a pollinator, a food source and an indicator of the ecosystem’s wellbeing, whereas quite a good number of moth species are pests of various agricultural and horticultural crops.Further, butterflies are diverse insects found in many colours and sizes and there are more than 28,000 species of butterflies worldwide with about 80 per cent in tropical regions. Their survival depends on nectar that is produced in flowers and also extra-ripe fruits, he added.Dr Neelima Jerath , Director-General, Science City, in her introductory remarks said butterflies were one of the most conspicuous species of Earth’s biodiversity and are identified as useful bio-indicators due to their responsive behaviour to any changes in the environment — temperature, humidity, light, rainfall patterns etc. Further, butterflies are also called flying flowers, displaying their beauty. These insects enhance the aesthetic value of the environments by their exquisite wing colours. She urged the participants to minimise chemical use in the gardens as pesticides and chemicals are lethal to insect biodiversity.On this, Dr Rajesh Grover, director, Science City, said there has been an alarming rise in industrial and automobile pollution in Indian metropolitan cities. He stressed on the need to include a variety of nectar producing plants in the gardens so as to ensure that butterfly-friendly food was available throughout the year thus conserving biodiversity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/butterflies-play-vital-role-in-ecosystem-256740
22-05-2021||---||Rs 61 lakh to shift high-tension wires from Jalandhar’s residential colonies||Jalandhar, May 21In a bid to ensure safety and security of people living in localities where high-tension electric wires are hanging around their houses, the state government has approved a grant of Rs61 lakh to shift and replace these live cables in various residential colonies of the city.Notably, there are several incidents because of which people have suffered in the past and still continue to suffer. An 11-year-old boy had sustained nearly 90 per cent burn injuries due to an electric shock after his kite’s string got entangled with an overhead high-tension wire in the city in February this year.Dangerously suspended electricity wires are a common sight in various congested areas in the city and the area residents have also taken up the matter with the authorities several times.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the funds would be incurred to shift and replace these wires with the safe and secured cable lines. He added the Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has approved a grant of Rs61,00,391 from his small-savings discretionary funds 2021-22.Pointing out further, the DC said a total of Rs23,93,000 would be spent on changing high-tension wires in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar in Ward no. 72, including laying of new cable lines in the locality. He mentioned that people had been demanding to remove these wires which were hanging close to the houses thus posing a great risk to their safety and security.Similarly, in Ward No 36, Bhargo Camp locality, wires are to be replaced with new cables at an outlay of Rs 2,11,000 followed by another project worth Rs27,55,000 to shift 11 KV lines of Basti Danishmanda and Basti Gujan, which goes through Joshan Avenue. Thori stated that an amount of Rs7,41,000 to be spent on removing 11 KV wires hanging over houses at village Rasulpur besides laying of three XLPE core cables.The DC said this grant would fulfill the demands of people living in these localities while infusing a sense of security among them after shifting of these dangerous hot wires. He directed the officials of Power Corporation to immediately start these projects so that shifting of wires from houses could be completed within the stipulated time-frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-61-lakh-to-shift-high-tension-wires-from-jalandhars-residential-colonies-256741
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||After chase, Garhshankar police arrest car snatchers within hours||Garhshankar, May 21The Garhshankar police arrested three armed robbers when they were escaping after snatching a car on the Chandigarh Road this evening.According to information, Sajan of Rodamjara village under Garhshankar police station told the reporters late this evening that he was employed in an IELTS centre and consultancy in Nawanshahr (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar). He was on way back home in his car at around six o'clock. When he diverted the car towards petrol pump on the Chandigarh Road he got a call from a relative who wished to go home with him, so he stopped the car a little behind the petrol pump and started waiting for him. Meanwhile, a car stopped near him and three young men came out of it. Coming to him, they pointed a pistol at his head and asked him to come out of the car. Before he could understand anything, they forcibly pulled him out of the car and managed to flee in his car. A passerby seeing all this informed the police. The police immediately rushed to the spot, took him in the car and started chasing the snatched vehicle on the Chandigarh Road. The cops informed the Samundra police post and asked them to lay a blockade on the Chandigarh Road. The Samudra police laid a blockade on the Chandigarh Road immediately. Meanwhile, the miscreants in the snatched car reached there and police stopped it. Chasing the car snatchers, the Garhshankar police too reached there. The three robbers were arrested and brought to the Garhshankar police station. Police station in-charge Inspector Iqbal Singh said they had arrested the armed robbers and recovered the car from them. Iqbal Singh said after investigation of the matter, a case would be registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-chase-garhshankar-police-arrest-car-snatchers-within-hours-256742
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||3 arrested with 1.6-kg charas||Two booked for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Model Town police have booked two unidentified persons for illegal mining. Harminder Pal Singh, JE-cum-mining inspector, complained to the police that he, along with staff members of the department, was on a special drive to check illegal mining in the area. During this, they saw a tractor-trolley in Dagana Khurd Choe. On seeing the Mining Department officials the tractor driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. The police have impounded the tractor-trolley and registered a case against unidentified driver and owner of the vehicle. ocCommon centre at MehatpurJalandhar: With the objective of providing Aadhaar card related and other essential services to the people in a better and timely manner, a common service centre (CSC) was inaugurated at Mehatpur. DM Gurpreet Singh said this service would facilitate those who want to apply for their Aadhaar cards or want corrections in it. He said apart from this, the CSC would also provide other online services like electricity bill payment, PAN card, etc. He called upon the people to avail maximum benefits of this service centre on time. He said in the future, many more important services will be provided to the people in a smooth and timely manner. TNS2 held with 6,800 banned tabletsJalandhar: The Jalandhar police on Friday arrested two drug peddlers and seized 6,800 tramadol tablets from them. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a police party, led by Sub-Inspector Bhagatveer Singh, had set up a special naka at T-point near Lal Rattan Cinema. He said the police got a clue that Ashwani Sharma of Krishna Medical Store was supplying tramadol drugs in his car. Bhullar said the Sub-Inspector accompanied by Drug Inspector Anupam Kalia raided the shop and conducted the extensive checking of the car and found 3,800 tramadol tablets in the car. He said the policy party conducted a raid at Shakti Trader Medical Shop and seized 3,000 tramadol tablets from the shop. The police have arrested its owner Samrat Sabharwal and registered a case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-arrested-with-1-6-kg-charas-256772
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||Track of Raag Bandish released||Conference on law and tech heldThe inaugural session of a two-day National Conference on Emerging Trends in Law and Technology (ETLT-2021) began on a virtual mode by the Department of Engineering and Technology and Department of Laws, GNDU Regional Campus, Ladhewali, here today. The conference includes a series of expert lectures and sessions dedicated towards understanding the inter-relationship between law and technology, under different categories and contexts. The conference has been organised under the guidance and patronage of Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. In the inaugural ceremony, Prof Jyoteesh Malhotra, Associate Dean of the Campus, welcomed the chief guest, Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Vice Chancellor, PTU Bathinda, and Guest of Honour, Justice Rajive Bhalla, Justice (Retd.) Punjab and Haryana High Court. Patron of the event, Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean Academics GNDU, presided over the function. Organising Secretaries of conference, Dr Deep Kamal Randhawa, Dr Butta Singh and Dr Varinder Singh welcomed and thanked all the participants. Various speakers emphasised on the holistic approach between technology, innovation, and resolving potential threats. Dr Rupam Jagota, Head, Department of Laws, Dr Namrata Joshi, Head Department of Journalism and Mass Communication and other faculty members were also present.Virtual Tour of LabKanya Maha Vidyalaya is organising interactive sessions with scientists of international repute. In the second episode of KMV International series, Dr Mauro Falconieri from ENEA, Italian Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Economic Development (Italy), was invited as the key speaker. Dr. Falconieri presented the virtual tour of “Ultrafast Spectroscopy Laboratory” at ENEA, Italy. During his presentation, he gave the overview of molecular mechanism of Raman scattering, Raman spectroscopy instrumentation and their applications. He acknowledged the contribution of great Indian physicist Dr CV Raman in the study of spectroscopy. Raman spectroscopy can provide both chemical and structural information, as well as the identification of substances through their characteristic Raman ‘fingerprint’. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the efforts of PG. Department of Physics for organising such an interactive live talk with renowned scientists and also the virtual visit to international laboratories.Yellow Day celebrated“Yellow is the brightest and lightest of all colours, and this brilliance is its most noticeable characteristic, which accounts for the way it is used practically and thought of symbolically.” State Public School Jalandhar Cantt, gracefully organised online Yellow Day celebration for the Nursery to UKG kids. It was worth celebrating as all the teachers and students were adorned in yellow attire. Teachers also told the importance of yellow colour and illustrated them different yellow coloured items. Young learners also enjoyed various yellow cuisines. President of the group of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh along with Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated the efforts done by the students and encouraged them to attend more online activities.Free education to Covid-hit familiesGuru Amar Dass Public School, Model Town, has taken a novel initiative of free education for its school students of Nursery to Class XII who belong to Covid-hit, financially weak families. Ajit Singh Sethi, president and all the members of school managing committee made the announcement. Such initiatives have already been taken by the school management by providing huge concessions to the students during the pandemic crisis. On this occasion, Mohinderjeet Singh, Kanwaljeet Singh Kocchar, vice president Dr Sonika Singh and Sandeep Veena were also present.Panel discussion contestPhagwara: A virtual brainstorming discussion took place among the students of Saffron Public School, Phagwara for Classes XII students of all streams in a Panel Discussion Competition. The topic was how online classes are affecting the students and how schools can work on the situation to make it better.It was an eye opening session as the students participated zealously and substantiated their ideas and opinions with facts and figures. Where some students were against the idea of online classes and were waiting for the schools to open, many others understood the relevance of online classes in this pandemic and how this is our only source of education. Sarthak Jalota (XII Commerce), who stood out in the discussion had some valid points, data and reasonable suggestions to make the online classes more effective. Principal Dr Sandeepa Sood was an integral part of the discussion and finally she concluded by sharing her views on the relevance of online classes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/track-of-raag-bandish-released-256771
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||Mahila Congress distributes masks to women||Commemorating the 30th death anniversary of ex-PM Rajiv Gandhi, the District Mahila Congress on Monday distributed masks to the women travellers at the local bus stand here on Friday.President of District Mahila Congress Committee and MC councillor Dr Jasleen Sethi said since there is a rapid rise in the number of cases in the rural areas, it had become extremely important to make the rural women aware of the importance of wearing masks. She said today was the best day for holding the awareness campaign as this was the day to commemorate the loss of the ex-PM, who is remembered for his contribution towards strengthening of the Panchayati Raj system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mahila-congress-distributes-masks-to-women-256770
22-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||5 held with intoxicants||The district police arrested five persons with a large quantity of intoxicants while six others were booked in the last 24 hours. According to information, the Mehtiana police seized 40,000 ml of illicit liquor during a raid at Dhyangarh village, while the accused, Gurdeep Singh, fled the spot. The Hariana police seized 105 gm of intoxicating powder from two people riding a bike near Chotala village. The accused have been identified as Manish Kumar of Chotala and Sohan Singh of Indira Colony in Amritsar. The Mukerian police nabbed Harjinder Singh of Ghasitpur and seized 82,500 ml of illicit liquor from him. The Tanda police nabbed Hardev Singh of Rada village and seized 15 plastic pouches containing 22,500 ml of illicit liquor from him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-held-with-intoxicants-256769
22-05-2021||SAVITA DHAMIJA (29) got infected with the virus on April 18. While she started developing symptoms like dry cough||‘Exercise & stay +ve to beat the virus’||“Initially, I was put on some medicines like multi-vitamins, calcium and vitamins. Due to adequate immunity in our body, the doctors instructed to observe home-quarantine for one week, which I strictly followed. Experiencing minor body aches and weakness, I kept myself isolated from my family. After they also tested positive, we stayed in different rooms. Though we were in a little panic and fear, we preferred to focus on recovery. Motivating my mother and my brother to have patience, we remained connected. Avoiding solid intake, we tried to increase fluids and protein in our diet. With the help of oximeter and thermometer, we regularly tracked our temperature and oxygen level. However, due to the age factor, the oxygen level of my mother dropped, retained after taking oxygen supply.”Though the recovery period feels tough but anyone can tide over the virus with little exercise and positivity, and this is what they did. “Even if we were having body cramps except my mother, we never skipped our breathing exercise and understand how the virus attacks our body through our family doctor. Herbal drinks remained a major part of our diet.”“Complete precautions should be taken but once any symptom is experienced (varies from person to person) don’t generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment can be started at once to prevent an unexpected serious situation. Proper sleep, good food and necessary amenities such as proper ventilation and TV were a big boost to keep the stress away,” added Savita, a resident of Shakti Nagar. She also recommends to go for RT-PCR test with CT value to determine the infection rate. (As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/exercise-stay-ve-to-beat-the-virus-256768
22-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Question mark over collegiates’ exam pattern||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 21While this used to be the time for the conduct of examination for the semester batches in colleges as per the pre-Covid university calendars but this year the situation as of now hangs in the air with regards to the examination.The collegiates have said with the pandemic at its peak they still do not know as to when their examination would be conducted. “We don’t even know whether our examination would be taken online or offline. We also are completely uncertain as to whether the examination pattern this time would be the usual subjective paper kind or the newly-floated MCQ style,” Priya Bassi, a student of BCom fourth semester said.Guru Nanak Dev University authorities are learnt to have recently told the colleges to take the student preference on the kind of mode of examination and the pattern they want. While some colleges are learnt to have preferred online, MCQ kind, majority of the students it is learnt have opted for subjective, offline examination. With a completely mixed reaction, even the college and the university authorities are learnt to have not been able to make a mind as to which system should be evolved for this semester’s assessment.Divyanshi, a BA final year student, said, “For the past five semesters, we have been tuned for subjective type question paper. Changing the pattern in the last semester is completely uncalled for. In the last four months of this semester we have been preparing ourselves only according to subjective type paper. Even our teachers are confused now and have said that even they have no clue on how the examination would be conducted and what kind of preparation they should go ahead with.”Principal HMV College and vice-president of the principals’ association, Dr Ajay Sareen, said, “We are expecting the examination to be held somewhere around June-end or July-beginning. We have got the choice filling form from the students done and sent to the university. So far, no final decision of the university has been conveyed to us.” Staff to work from home till May 31||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/question-mark-over-collegiates-exam-pattern-256767
22-05-2021||---||Jalandhar admn extends closure time of shops by two hours||Jalandhar, May 21In a major step to boost business activities in the district, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Friday extended functioning time for all non-essential shops, establishments and offices by two hours. Now, these will operate from 9 am to 5 am on weekdays.The district administration had issued curbs a few days ago, which were in force till May 21. Reviewing these orders, the working hours for non-essential category have been changed from the earlier timings of 9 am-3 pm to 9 am-5 pm.Thori said all categories of goods/services, including private enterprises, businesses and offices, which fall under the category of non-essential services, can function from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday till further orders.The services falling under the category of essential services are allowed to open from 7 am to 5 pm daily, which would follow the same timings till fresh orders are issued. The DC said the step was aimed at giving a boost to business activities in Jalandhar amid this ongoing health crisis as a large number of representatives from trade and industry had been demanding relaxations.Thori called upon people to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the virus at bay. He urged shopkeepers to ensure proper adherence to the norms like social distancing, using masks at the marketplaces while ensuring business activities in a segregated manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-admn-extends-closure-time-of-shops-by-two-hours-256766
22-05-2021||---||Control room set up  to lodge complaints regarding Covid||Nawanshar, May 21For any information or complaint regarding Covid-19, a control room has been set up where people can contact on the number 01823-227471. Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said at the control room, family members or relatives of Covid patients admitted to hospitals can lodge a complaint regarding any kind of difficulty.Help desks have been set up at private hospitals for the family members of the patients so that they could get accurate information about the condition of their kin. Various contact numbers of various private hospitals have been given. If a patient is admitted at Karan Hospital, the staff can be contacted on 8427458700, 9815953831 and 9996032407. In the same manner, 8427957988 is the contact number for Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, 9115900991 for Raja Hospital, Hope Hospital has 8699796936, Suri Hospital has 9803184007 and Navnur Hospital has help desk number 9878817166.As per the information, a district-level committee has also been constituted under the chairmanship of Assistant Commissioner to monitor and resolve the grievances related to Covid. Apart from the senior police official representative, the committee also includes Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Civil Surgeon, District Development and Panchayat Officer and executive officers of Municipal Councils. He said this committee would be responsible for monitoring and resolving the grievances related to pandemic.Instructions regarding black fungusAfter the government notified mucormycosis (black fungus) disease under the Epidemic Act, Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said the hospitals have been directed to change the saline/distilled water in the humidifier bottle attached to the oxygen cylinders every 12 hours in a sterilised manner and a register of complete record will be maintained by the duty doctor to prevent black fungus.Similarly, in hospitals where oxygen concentrators are being used, they will be used from one patient to another only after they have been completely sterilised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/control-room-set-up-to-lodge-complaints-regarding-covid-256765
22-05-2021||---||Positive cases dip, but L3 bed occupancy still a challenge in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 21Even as there has been a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases in the district, L3 bed occupancy is creating problems. The doctors handling serious Covid cases at private hospitals said while the number of patients requiring L1 and L2 beds had fallen in the past week or so, the bed occupancy of L3 facilities remained largely the same. The doctors said the patients, who had been put on ventilator, were taking too long to recover.The physicians said now more and more cases were being reported from rural areas of the state. Many critical patients were being admitted directly on L3 facility. “Villagers are not taking the infection seriously. They are delaying tests, medicines, etc. By the time, they reach us, their lungs are badly infected and they have to be immediately put on L3 facility,” said Dr BS Johal of Johal Hospital.As against nearly 660 cases found positive in the district, the number stood at 486. There were nine fatalities in the district on Friday. The positivity rate came down to 9.6 per cent. The number of Covid cases has reached 56,400 so far and the total casualties due to the infection have touched 1,290. The active cases were 4,931.The area falling under containment zone includes Manjit Nagar in Basti Sheikh. The micro-containment areas are Ravidass Nagar, Deol Nagar and some pockets in Shahkot.5 die in HoshiarpurThe district reported five more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the toll to 870. Besides, the district also witnessed 282 fresh cases. Giving information about the cases, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,441 and 23,389 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of the total number of cases reported on Friday, 14 patients were reported from other districts and the remaining from various health blocks of the district. Of the five deaths reported, one from MH Pathankot, two each from Jalandhar hospitals and private hospitals in Hoshiarpur.3 deaths in NawanshahrThe district on Friday reported three deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 301. Besides, the district recorded 779 new cases, taking the tally to 10,597. The deceased have been identified as 65-year-old and 54-year-old men from Banga and a 55-year-old man from Sujjon. Of 64 cases, Balachaur again reported 20 cases. No cases were reported from urban Rahon and urban Banga. The number of active cases stands at 779, out of which 761 are from Nawanshahr and the remaining 18 are from outside the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/positive-cases-dip-but-l3-bed-occupancy-still-a-challenge-in-jalandhar-256764
