23-05-2021||Jalandhar||Conference on law & tech concludes||Webinar on challenges for academiaA webinar on “Current challenges for the academia - When the going gets tough” was organised by Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar under the aegis of Grievances Redressal Cell of the college. Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, was the chief guest. Dr Sarabjeet Singh, Head, Department of Agricultural Journalism, Languages and Culture at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, was the key speaker. In his opening remarks Dr Samra emphasised that we need to address the challenges on scientific lines. Dr Gagandeep Kaur, convener, grievances redressal cell, introduced the speaker and conducted the webinar. Dr Sarbjeet Singh dwelt upon the challenges posed by the Covid pandemic and adoption of novel ways of teaching and learning in the online mode. He dwelt upon overcoming depression and anxiety among the students through a positive attitude towards life. Dr Sarbjeet emphasised upon developing healthy habits and social values among the young students, role of meditation and breathing exercises to overcome anxiety, and maintaining an ever-smiling demeanor which go a long way in dispelling depression and developing a pleasing personality under the current challenges. Prof Jasreen Kaur, Dean, Academic Affairs, Lyallpur Khalsa College, proposed the vote of thanks.Webinar on Inspirational talksKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised inspirational talk by the PG Department of Fashion Designing. The main motive behind this webinar was to inspire students and give them motivation that they can fulfil their dreams and how they can be multi-taskers. The guest speaker for the webinar was Neha Waraich Grover, Miss India first runner up by Bluerecords. She has also been a student of BSc and MSc Fashion Designing at KMV and an assistant professor, designer, model and a makeup-artist. During the webinar, Neha Waraich Grover shared her own experiences of life and her journey of becoming an entrepreneur in a very interesting and simple manner. Students participated in the webinar and interacted with Neha Waraich Grover. The student co-ordinator Ruchika had also encouraged many students to participate and helped in organising the webinar. Grover also guided the students on the fine nuances of making a vibrant career in fashion and glamour industry. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV has empowered the women by giving them the required skills in fashion designing and other disciplines so that they should become self-reliant in this highly competitive world. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Harpreet Kaur, Head, PG Department of Fashion Designing, and all the faculty members of PG Department of Fashion Designing for organising this inspirational talk.Poster-making competitionDIPS School Karol Bagh organised a poster-making activity on the biodiversity day. In this activity Rajveer, Amarpreet, Sunveer, Harkirat, Jaswant, other students participated and explained the various aspects of biodiversity and the save environment beautifully in a captivating and attractive manner. During this activity, teachers stressed and conveyed to protect environment for a better and safe tomorrow. Moreover, to save environment is a health and social issue. MD Tarwinder Singh remarked that the increase in air pollution has its impact not only on humans but also on animals insects etc. CEO Monica Mandotra stated that the man is plundering trees due to his needs due to which forests are being diminished to a great extent. Earlier, animals were facing this grave problems but now it is effecting even the human beings CAO Ramneek Singh and Jashan Singh advocated that it is necessary for the coming generation not only to save water and air but also make an effort to save a biodiversity to maintain a healthy and safe environment.Students spread positive vibesChildren of Apeejay Rhythms Kinderworld did small effort to spread the positive vibes where students, parents, grandparents, teachers all came together virtually and recited bhajans, shabads and shalokas together. Special zoom session “let’s spread positivity with power of prayer” was organised for our little buds to pray together and watch its power. Principal Sinia Sajith and Headmistress Nidhi Ghai also joined this special session.Literary, art events organisedInternational Biodiversity Day was observed by Sanskriti KMV School. Promoting integrated subject knowledge and sensitising towards the environment, students voiced for the global support for biodiversity through jaw dropping literary and art events. The prominent ones were, making birdhouses, flower pot creations, posters, article writing, slogans and promoting healthy diet by decorated salad platters. Rachna Monga, Principal, gave virtual appreciations and mentioned that students’ keenness is apt as per this year's theme — “We’re a part of the solution”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/conference-on-law-tech-concludes-257210
23-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Villagers take traditional route to keep pandemic in check||Hoshiarpur, May 22Laying thrust on the adoption of the principle of isolation for keeping a check on the spread of Covid, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal on Saturday claimed that 60 per cent villages had already opted for self-imposed lockdown aka ‘thikri pehras’.Divulging the details, SSP Mahal said police and civil administration were pulling all the stops to ensure the virus is kept at bay by holding thikri pehras. He said isolation was the sole way of combating the virus effectively due to which officials were making the people aware of the need for thikri pehras.The SSP informed that to date, 60 per cent of villages under Hoshiarpur Police had installed thikri pehras in their villages. He said ensuring self-isolation and restricting the entry of outsiders would help in curbing the spread of infectious disease in the rural areas to a great extent. “All DSPs of the Police Department were conducting regular meetings with sarpanches and villagers in this regard and a major focus was being laid on holding thikri pehras.Mahal said sarpanches had been either sensitised to ensure the outsiders should have got the first dose of vaccination done 15 days before or they might have had a negative Covid report 72 hours before.Lauding the rural youths for their enthusiasm, he said youths had indomitable energy and were ensuring proper check outside the boundaries of the villages. He gave examples of villages Uchi Bassi and Fatehgarh where such nakas are proving effective with the help of active participation of youths. He appealed to remaining sarpanches to install thikri pehras for ensuring their safety and support administration by staying at homes to break chain of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villagers-take-traditional-route-to-keep-pandemic-in-check-257209
23-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five held for violating norms||The district police have arrested five persons for violating night curfew. The Mahilpur police have arrested Sagar Singh of Kaindowal village while he was roaming around last night at 10 pm. The Garhdiwala police have arrested Mani Ram of Anganwadi Chakki, Tanda, while he was selling eatables and allowing customers to dine at his vend at around 7.30 PM on a road near Khalsa College here.Also, the Tanda police arrested Gurjit Singh of Mohalla Lubana here for selling juice at his shop at 9.48 pm, violating the night curfew. The Talwara police arrested Ajay Kumar of Bhated village last late night, while he was roaming around on his bike at 6.30 pm near a vegetable market. Separate cases under Section 188 of the IPC were registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-held-for-violating-norms-257208
23-05-2021||---||421 positive cases in Jalandhar, nine deaths||Jalandhar, May 22As many as 421 people tested positive for Covid in the district on Saturday, taking the total district tally to 56,831. Of these cases, 62 are from other districts. With nine more deaths today, the death tally in the district has risen to 1,299. As many as 50,736 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 4,796.Meanwhile, in Kapurthala 208 people were reported positive taking the total number of cases to 15,787. Two peope died in the district today. The deceased include a 61-year-old man from Phagwara and a 70-year-old woman from Masita village.Six die in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district reported six more fatalities on Saturday taking the death toll to 876, while 277 fresh cases were reported in the district. Giving information about the cases, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,657 and 23,444 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today's 277 cases, seven patients were reported from other districts and remaining 270 from various health blocks of the district. Four patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals, while one died at Jalandhar Civil Hospital and at Dasuya Civil Hospital.4 deaths at NawanshahrNawanshahr: The health authorities of Nawanshahr district on Saturday reported 52 cases. The district also saw four fatalities, including those of three persons aged 45, 55 and 61 from Sujjon block. The block, however, had only five new positive cases. The fourth fatality was of a 48-year-old in Balachaur block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/421-positive-cases-in-jalandhar-nine-deaths-257207
23-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Critical patient pulls through, courtesy ‘green corridor’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 22The city police on Saturday created a ‘green corridor’ for a critical Covid patient. With 60 per cent damaged lungs, the patient had to be shifted to SPS Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana. While he failed to respond to the treatment here at Shrimann Superspeciality Hospital, near Pathankot Chowk, the timely response of city police helped in saving the life of the patient.The patient was identified as Ankur Gupta. He got infected with the virus on May 5 and was receiving treatment here. Owing to his critical condition, he had to be shifted to an Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenayion (ECMO) bed which is effectively considered as an artificial lung. The treatment is used when respiratory system fails to respond. Due to unavailaibility of bed here, the doctors managed to get him a bed at SPS Apollo Hospital on Ludhiana-Chandigarh road. With the help of the green corridor, the ambulance in which he was taken to the hospital took 40 minutes to reach, covering over 70 km distance. SHO Police Division eight, Ravinder Kumar said, he had received information about the patient at around 9.45 am. All arrangements were made to escort the ambulance which left Jalandhar at 10.15 AM today.After escorting the ambulance to PAP and Rama Mandi, Ludhiana Police was also informed about the patient and made the app arrangments to clear the road for the ambulance, added the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/critical-patient-pulls-through-courtesy-green-corridor-257203
23-05-2021||Our Correspondent||11villages register100% vaccination in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 22Intensifying pace of the ongoing vaccination, testing and awareness drive in rural areas, the district administration organised special camps in more than 780 villages to inoculate maximum beneficiaries, besides conducting RT-PCR tests.On fourth day of the drive, 11 villages of the district, including Nawan Jatpur, Poonga, Punj, Nathuwal, Lalota, Ulaha, Chakriyal, Padolian, Ramgarh Sikri, Rawalpindi and Nazarpur, inoculated 100 per cent beneficiaries with the first dose.Expressing satisfaction, Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said requisite healthcare facilities would be ensured for Covid-19 patients. “The district administration will take stringent action against the hospitals found overcharging patients,” she added.The Deputy Commissioner on Friday visited Jahan Khelan village and interacted with panchayat members. She urged villagers to get vaccinated. Replying to queries of villagers, Riyait apprised them that the administration and health teams were visiting villages to educate people regarding Covid-19. In case of any symptom related to the virus, people should get themselves tested without any delay, she said.Added that 100 per cent vaccination has already been done in several villages and Jahan Khelan would also be part of these villages in a few days. Riyait said overcharging of Covid patients would not be tolerated and if any hospital or doctor exploits the situation, the district administration would be forced to take stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. “The government is empowered to shut the hospital or take control over the medical institute,” she said.The Deputy Commissioner said private hospitals should not indulge in overcharging in these difficult times.She said one could file a complaint on the Health Department’s helpline number 104 and the Deputy Commissioner’s office in case of overcharging for treatment.Hoshiarpur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Mahajan and officials of the Health Department were also present on the occasion.The Deputy Commissioner has been conducting daily virtual meets with the SMOs in the district to get the actual ground report and know about well being of patients.Riyait said a district-level call centre has been established for constant monitoring of positive patients by calling them, besides appealing them to strictly stay in isolation at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11villages-register100-vaccination-in-hoshiarpur-257127
23-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Black fungus is closing in fast||Hoshiarpur, May 22Amid the rising cases of Covid-19 in villages of the district, a suspected case of mucormycosis (black fungus) has been reported in Hoshiarpur. Sources in the Health Department on Saturday told this correspondent that the first ever patient of mucormycosis was reported in the district today.The patient was a 55-year-old woman who had recovered from Covid-19 recently. While the patient has been told to be referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, the Civil Surgeon of the district at first denied having any information in this regard. Later in the evening he said that it was a suspected case with many other complications.According to the sources, a 55-year-old woman from Randhawa Barota village in the district had recently recovered from Covid-19. As she suffered from some post-Covid complications, she had come to the ESI Hospital for treatment. As doctors detected symptoms of black fungus in her, she was referred to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, from where she was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.When contacted, Civil Surgeon Ranjit Singh Ghotra at first denied having any information in this regard. He said the ESI Hospital should have informed his office, but there was no such information with him. “I am not aware of any such case as I have received no information in this regard. Now if you are saying, I will check it,” said the Civil Surgeon. Later, he said though the case apparently seemed to be of mucormycosis, it was not declared yet so it can be mentioned as a suspected case of mucormycosis as she was having so many other complications like hypertension and type-II diabetes.Admn demands 100 Amphotericin injectionsJalandhar: Jalandhar has started seeing downward trend in Covid-19 cases due to flattening curve of the pandemic, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday while participating in a virtual review meeting presided over by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.The DC stated that the administration had placed demand for 100 Amphotericin injections to effectively tackle the surging case of Mucormycosis disease prevailing throughout the country. He stated that the district administration is keeping a close tab over the situation and taking daily reports from the concerned authorities.The DC added that as many as 2010 beds in both L-II & L-III facilities across the district are available with oxygen stock for around seven days amid declining this trend. He said the bed occupancy and oxygen demand is also decreasing daily, which is a positive sign. He stated that now the special emphasis is being laid on this Mucormycosis or black fungus disease besides sensitising people to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep virus spread under check.The DC thanked people of Jalandhar for their cooperation with district administration to tackle this second wave, while appealing to them to not lower their guard.Covid, diabetes, steroids fuelling outbreak, say DocsJalandhar: During a formal meeting of the Health Department on the present scenario of mucormycosis or black fungus, health teams reported at least 24 such cases in the district. Doctors are alarmed at the frequency of the cases being reported in the district during the second wave of Covid. The state government had declared black fungus as a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act on Wednesday. According to sources, so far, two deaths have been reported from the disease. The department says the entire picture will be clear when all private hospitals send in their data by Monday. Health sources also claim that around 24 to 25 cases had been reported in a meeting held recently and the number of cases was now about 30 to 35 in the district. Doctors said there was a dramatic rise in number of cases of the rare disease, of which merely three to four cases were reported every year. Dr Sandeep Goyal, DM, Neurology, NHS Hospital, said, “We have been treating mucormycosis cases for the past 25 years but have witnessed an unprecedented rise in number of cases during the second wave of Covid. Earlier, only three to four cases were reported in a year. But amid the second wave, 15 to 20 cases have already been reported this year. Last year, the first case of black fungus was reported in July. In all, three patients were reported in as many months during the first wave and a total of six cases were reported in 2020. “One of our patients suffering from mucormycosis also died. At present, we have three patients suffering from the disease at our hospital,” he said. Dr Vijay Mahajan, Tagore Hospital, said, “We have three cases of mucormycosis with us currently. Patients who are on steroids are more prone to get the disease.”— Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/black-fungus-is-closing-in-fast-257128
23-05-2021||---||‘Follow ABS provisions under Biological Diversity Act’||Jalandhar, May 22 Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), on ‘Industry and Access and Benefit Sharing (ABS) provisions under the Biological Diversity Act’ on the occasion of International Biodiversity Day. The webinar was supported by Punjab BioDiversity Board and National Biodiversity Authority. It was attended by 300 industrialists, experts, researchers, biology students and teachers from across the country. Addressing the participants, Dr VB Mathur, chairman, National Biodiversity Authority, underlined that ABS could become a powerful tool to achieve the objectives of conservation and sustainable use of bio-resources and its adoption could lead communities towards the path of sustainable growth. He informed that India was a world leader in enacting and implementing the Biological Diversity Act and countries were looking up to us for implementing the ABS mechanism also. He, however, expressed his concern over the slow implementation of the ABS provisions in the country as called for under Articles 15, 16, and 19 of the CBD. Bhavdeep Sardana, eminent industrialist and chairman, CII Punjab, in his opening remarks, said like many key resources in the world, genetic resources were not evenly distributed and countries rich in bio-resources needed to use them judiciously to ensure sustainable economic growth. Plants, animals and microbes together make complex and delicately-balanced ecosystems and could contribute significantly to the country’s economy. The way in which genetic resources are accessed, and how the benefits of their use are shared, could create incentives for their conservation and sustainable use, and contribute to the creation of a fairer and more equitable economy to support sustainable development. Sharing his views during the webinar, J Justin Mohan, secretary, National Biodiversity Authority, underscored the importance of awareness on procedures for gaining access to genetic resources and the provisions under the ABS guidelines. He noted that several industries were now coming forward voluntarily to implement these guidelines and their achievements needed to be acknowledged, appreciated and emulated. Such industries could become role models for their counterparts. Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Pushpa Gujral Science City, informed that it has been estimated that bio-resources provide services worth US$125 trillion per annum globally. Hence, there is importance of recognising sovereign rights of every country on its biological resources. India is in the elite group of mega-diverse countries. She said human actions, including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture, and acceleration of climate change, have pushed nature beyond its limit. If we continue on this path, biodiversity loss will have severe implications for humanity, including the collapse of food and health systems. Further, the emergence of Covid has underscored the fact that when we destroy biodiversity we destroy the system that supports human life. Nature is sending us a message which we need to decode and take collective action, she added. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Geetha Nayak, GIZ, emphasised that protecting nature supports global economy, creates jobs and protects livelihoods. An investment of $1 in conservation can yield a return of $9. Access and benefit sharing is therefore, integral to the sustainability of bio-resource-based industry. Sanjay Kumar, country manager of Valagro Biosciences, Hyderabad, which received the India Biodiversity Award, 2021 in the ABS category, said the aim of ABS was to enable fair distribution of benefits between the users and providers so as to open the doors for innovation, as well as create incentives for conservation. Therefore, access to genetic resources in general, and benefit-sharing from that access, is a key to sustainable development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/follow-abs-provisions-under-biological-diversity-act-257129
23-05-2021||---||Kapurthala chemists not to sell paracetamol sans prescription||Kapurthala, May 22Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has directed the chemists in Kapurthala district not to sell paracetamol salt or any other similar drug and azithromycin-related drugs without the doctor’s prescription.The officials said that it had come to light that many symptomatic persons were taking paracetamol and azithromycin directly without taking the tests, which worsened their condition after a few days. The officials said that it was important to take tests, follow the doctor’s advice and then take the medicine. Also without taking tests, the suspected Covid patients were roaming around instead of following quarantine, which could lead to the spread of Covid.Deputy Commissioner directed the Drug Controller Kapurthala, all SMOs and SDMs to ensure that the above drugs were not sold without medical advice. The district administration has also issued a letter to the chemists associations asking them to fill up a prescribed proforma for the name and address of the medical store selling the drugs, name of the doctor, name of the person buying, address and contact number, quantity of the drug to keep a record of sale of these medicines. Associations told to fill up a proformaThe district administration has also issued a letter to the chemists associations asking them to fill up a prescribed proforma for the name and address of the medical store selling the drugs, name of the doctor, name of the person buying, address and contact number, quantity of the drug to keep a record of sale of these medicines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-chemists-not-to-sell-paracetamol-sans-prescription-257130
23-05-2021||Jalandhar||We care for you: Community has a soft spot for healthcare workers||In order to help and support healthcare staff working on the frontline, Surinder Singh Lally, president of Fikar-e-Hondh NGO, and Anil Arora, president Market Committee Model town, have donated mobile tent units to the Covid sampling teams of the Civil Hospital.While a large number of healthcare workers are on roads to intensify testing, the noble gesture would help them to beat the heat. The tents would provide temporary shelter to the sampling teams wrapped in PPE kits, conducting RT-PCR tests of the residents at different locations and nakas of the district.To inaugurate the special initiative started by the NGO head and businessman, Civil Surgeon, Dr Balwant Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, Dr Varinder Kaur Thind and District Sampling Nodal Officer, Dr Manav Midda were present at the mobile sites of Wadala Chowk and Milk Bar Chowk in Model Town.While appreciating the sampling teams, Civil Surgeon said, the health workers are working tirelessly to make our city virus-free and to save precious lives.100 PPE kits donatedAmid the shortage of PPE kits, three veteran Olympian hockey players, Gundeep, Jaideep and Ajay on Saturday donated 100 PPE kits to the Civil Hospital. District Health Officer Dr Arun Verma, said, the kits would be utilised in the cremation of the patients. Around four kits are being given to the healthcare workers and the family members of a Covid fatality, however, due to the shortage of the kits only two were being provided at present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-care-for-you-community-has-a-soft-spot-for-healthcare-workers-257131
23-05-2021||Jalandhar||Admn fails to check crowding at vaccination centres in Jalandhar||The district administration has failed to evolve a system to check crowding at vaccination centres, earmarked for the 18-44 age group, at various locations in the city.  Almost all the centres, especially IMA House, Parvati Jain School and the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre at Pathankot Chowk, are witnessing crowds of beneficiaries daily. Most of the beneficiaries have to stand in the queue for hours waiting for their turn to get the jab. Some of them return disappointed after having nasty verbal duel with authorities. Since vaccine stocks are being received in small numbers by health authorities daily, residents are getting impatient. As the vaccination programme is not open for everyone in the 18-44 age group in Punjab and is being administered only to specific groups, including those with disabilities, co-morbidities, kin of health workers, scribes and construction workers. But still everyone in the age group is taking the dose. Parvati Jain School, which had received just 200 doses of the vaccine, saw almost double the amount of people queuing up today ignoring even the social distancing norms. The health teams said they repeatedly told everyone that they should return as there were not enough doses, but no one listened to them. Police help would have to be sought daily, said staff. Sujan Singh from Mohan Vihar locality suggested that there should be a proper display system outside the centres. Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunology Officer, said, “So far, there is no system of prior online registration which is why there has been crowding at the centres. People need to understand that everyone will get a chance and need to keep some patience. Crowds cannot be controlled even if we put up a display system.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-fails-to-check-crowding-at-vaccination-centres-in-jalandhar-257132
23-05-2021||Jalandhar||Excise Dept officials seize 35K litres of lahan||During a joint search operation along the banks of the Sutlej river, teams of the Excise Department of Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts succeeded in seizing 35,000 litres of lahan on Saturday. The teams searched around areas of eight villages falling within the riverbed, including Veran, Dharme Dian Chhanna, Bute Dian Chhana, Akkuwal, Gorshian Khan Mohammad, in both districts.Excise Officer Harjot Bedi said on the directions of Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Jalandhar, Harsimrat Kaur and Assistant Commissioner, Ludhiana, Rajesh Ahri, the joint search was conducted under Operation Red Rose. He said during the operation, 35,000 litres of lahan was recovered from these places following which an FIR was got registered against accused Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Ludhiana district under the Mehatpur Police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/excise-dept-officials-seize-35k-litres-of-lahan-257133
23-05-2021||Garhshankar||Revolver seized from carjackers||Two arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested two persons from different places and seized intoxicants from them. The Hajipur police arrested Avtar Singh of Srain village, under Garhdiwala police station, and seized 24-gm intoxicating powder from him. Similarly, the city police arrested Gurmej Singh of Narunangal village and seized 60 gm of intoxicating powder from him while he was going on foot near Ganja School in Bahadurpur. The police have registered cases under the NDPS Act. ocBlast in factory, woman injuredJalandhar: Panic gripped a residential colony in Basti Sheikh area after a blast in an electric Oven in a hand tool factory. While there was no loss of life in the incident, a woman worker in the factory received injuries on her face after one of the pieces hit her. Sub-Inspector Mohan Singh, Police Division number five, who had reached the spot after the incident, said, the blast took place after the woman inserted an iron tray inside the oven of the Murad hand tool factory. She was rushed to a nearby hospital for the treatment. TNSGuard dies as truck rams cycleHoshiarpur: A security guard Rupinder Singh, a resident of Kathana village in Dasuya, was killed in an accident that took place on the Phagwara road near Shivam Hospital on Friday. His uncle Jasvir Singh told the police that he had gone to meet his nephew who's working as a security guard. Rupinder was coming out of the hospital riding a bicycle after finishing his duty when a speeding truck hit him. He was seriously injured and died while being taken to hospital. The people nabbed the truck driver Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Palli Uchi village of SBS Nagar district, and handed him over to the police. TNSFake FB account of IG createdJalandhar: Amid soaring incidents of cyber crime in the district, now the name of Inspector General of Police (IG), Jalandhar Range, Kaustubh Sharma’s name has also been added to the list of victims. As per information, Sharma’s fake Facebook account was recently created by some unknown cyber fraudsters. With his name and picture on the profile, money was being demanded. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revolver-seized-from-carjackers-257134
