24-05-2021||---||7 fall prey to virus, 459 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23As many as 459 people tested positive for Covid in the district today, taking the district tally to 57,290. Of these, 62 are from other districts. With seven more deaths reported today, the death toll in the district has increased to 1,306. As many as 51,310 people have recovered from the disease in the district, while the number of active cases is 4,674.4 die in NawanshahrAs many as 86 Covid cases and four deaths have been reported in the district today. With the cases reported on Sunday, the total number to date has increased to 10,735 and the positivity rate is 4.99 per cent. Maximum number of cases have again been reported from Balachaur at 26.Meanwhile, with the death of four persons on Sunday and the death toll in Nawanshahr now stands at 309. The victims include a 50-year-old woman and a 67-year-old man from Sujjon block, a 56-year-old woman from Saroya, and a 72-year-old man from Rahon. Active cases in Nawanshahr now stand at 742, out of which, 652 are under home isolation. The recovery rate in the district is 90.37 per cent.5 succumb in KapurthalaAs many as 116 persons tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala today pushing the tally to 15,897. Meanwhile, five persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday. The deceased persons include a 42-year-old man from Raiour Arayan village, a 55-year-old woman from Khukrain village, a 62-year-old man from Kapurthala, a 75-year-old woman from Phagwara and a 72-year-old woman from Kapurthala.Hoshiarpur reports 6 deathsThe district reported six more Covid fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 882, while 264 fresh cases were reported. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,208 and 24,151 patients had recovered from the virus.Of the cases reported today, 13 patients were reported from other districts and the remaining patients were from various health blocks of the district. Three patients had died at Hoshiarpur hospitals, while as many died at Jalandhar hospitals.Meanwhile, with 172 more Covid-related fatalities, the toll in the state has reached 13,281, while 5,094 fresh cases took the tally to 5,38,994 in the state on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-fall-prey-to-virus-459-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-257633
24-05-2021||---||Agriculture  Department cancels dealer’s licence for selling unauthorised pesticides||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23The Agriculture Department has started taking strict action against those dealers who dupe gullible farmers. Recently, the department had issued a warning to the dealers indulging in malpractices that their licences would be cancelled. Now, the department has cancelled the licence of a dealer selling unauthorised stock of pesticides in the Nurmehal area.Officials of the department said the dealer had violated the Insecticides Act, 1969, and 1971. As per information, the dealer had not got the map of the centre approved from where he was selling the pesticides.Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Dr Surinder Singh said during investigation, he got suspicious of the stock being sold by him. “Moreover, instead of opening the godown, the dealer started giving excuses to avoid opening it and hence it was sealed. Also, he took time to produce records,” he said.The CAO said the Agriculture Officer, Nurmehal, was asked to dispose of the unauthorised stock in the next 30 days. Also, the samples would be sent to the laboratory for further investigation.“I appeal to all the seed, pesticides and insecticides dealers to sell according to the act. I have asked my Agriculture Officers from every block to keep on paying surprise visits to the dealers and stern action will be taken against those found indulging in wrongdoings,” he said.Earlier, on a tip-off, the department had busted a gang involved in supplying spurious pesticides to farmers by seizing eight quintals of spurious Imdeclopreed 0.3 GR medicine. The pesticide by the name of Indian Crop Science Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, was being sold to farmers. Farmers were being duped in the name of cheap medicine which was, in reality, a spurious one. The company was not recognised by the Agriculture Directorate, Punjab, for its operations in the state.After seizing the pesticides, it was sent to the Pesticides Testing Laboratory in Chandigarh, where the samples had failed. Subsequently, cases under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property), 274 (adulteration of drugs) and 120-B (whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the IPC and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act were registered against suppliers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-department-cancels-dealers-licence-for-selling-unauthorised-pesticides-257634
24-05-2021||---||Fresh exemptions, curbs in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, May 23District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Sunday evening issued fresh orders of additional restrictions and exemptions in the district with effect from May 24 till further orders. As per the orders, bars, cinema halls, gyms and spas, swimming pools and other sports complexes, all educational institutions, including schools and colleges, will remain closed on all days of the week. Shops selling milk, fruits, vegetables markets, grocery shops, sweet shops, bakeries, wheat flour mills, eggs, poultry, meat, fish shops and animal fodder will remain open from 5 am to 4 pm all days, including Saturday and Sunday.Chemists, hospitals, clinics, diagnostic centres, medical laboratories, veterinary clinics, industrial units, LPG and petrol pumps will remain open on all days, with no time restrictions. Hotels, dhabas, cafetarias, restaurants and eateries, retail and wholesale liquor vends will function from Monday to Friday from 11 am to 9 pm for home deliveries and takeaway. Banks will work from Monday to Friday with 50 per cent staff from 11 am to 4 pm. Private offices and all other shops selling non-essential goods will open from 11 am to 4 pm from Monday to Friday. E-Commerce and home delivery will be allowed all days including Saturday and Sunday between 9 am to 9 pm. All the medical and nursing colleges will remain open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fresh-exemptions-curbs-in-hoshiarpur-257635
24-05-2021||---||Now, dial 104 to report fleecing by private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceNawanshar, May 23The cases of private hospitals fleecing patients have increased in Nawanshahr too. The district administration has announced that if any private hospital charges extra from Covid-19 patients, strict action will be taken against them.Complaint in this regard could be lodged on the 104 helpline of the Health Department and at the office of the Deputy Commissioner.Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said if any hospital or doctor exploits patients suffering from Covid, action will be taken under the Epidemic Diseases Act. She said the government has the right to close or take control of such hospitals. “No private hospital would be allowed to take advantage of the patient’s compulsion. Our government and private doctors and para-medical staff have set a good example by serving the people diligently during these difficult times but there are some people in the system which are taking unfair advantage of the situation and deceiving the people. It was unfortunate that such people were tarnishing the image of the entire profession,” she said. The state and district-level committee would soon conduct a detailed audit of the treatment of Covid-19 patients by the private hospitals.Meanwhile, the DC, Dr Shena Aggarwal, said service centres in the district have been providing uninterrupted services to the citizens in a better and safer environment even during the pandemic. She said the centers have provided services to 9,11,246 persons in a period of one year during Covid. He said that during the period from May 21 to May 20 this year, as many as 93,326 applications were received for various services in the service centres out of which 91,246 have been disposed of while the rest are under consideration. The DC said at present 17 Seva Kendras were providing services in the district.She cleared that in order to avail any service from the service centers, it was now mandatory to get prior approval and no service was being provided to any applicant without prior approval and advance approval can be obtained by contacting the mobile app ‘M-Seva’, ‘Cova’, or by contacting the mobile numbers 8968593812 and 8968593813.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-dial-104-to-report-fleecing-by-private-hospitals-257636
24-05-2021||Jalandhar||Man who made the most of white canvas is no more||The evenings of the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan used to be incomplete without his easel, canvas and a sterling portrait of the performing artists, such was his aura. City-based painter Amit Zurff (51) breathed his last on Sunday. He succumbed to Covid.Prof Sarita Tiwari, actor, writer and academicican whose memoirs of her academician husband Dr VK Tiwari bore a portrait made by Amit, said, “It is shocking and sad. The untimely death of such a painter and a fine human being has left me numb. His mother had read my memoir and he had promised to bring her to my house. He left without fulfilling his promise. There was kindness in his art and aptness in his portraits. The art scene in Jalandhar will not be the same ever. Amit will be sorely missed.”Amit religiously painted artists, vocalists, instrumentalists who performed at Harivallabh. A few years ago, an exhibition of his portraits was also held on the sidelines of the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan.He held workshops for students and taught them the craft of painting and papier mache . He famously vented his ire on the huge press club wall often questioning the government with his huge graffitis or banner-sized portraits on stinging issues. He also famously collaborated with many theatre productions and lent stage.Theatrist Gurvinder said, “I met him day before yesterday and thought that his condition would improve. He was a documenter of our times. His grief flowed out in portraits on the demise of painter MF Hussain and ace actor Om Puri. He painted countless classical music stalwarts creating a collection of sorts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-who-made-the-most-of-white-canvas-is-no-more-257637
24-05-2021||DO YOU THINK THE TRUST AND BELIEF IN THE HEALTH SYSTEM HAS SHAKEN?||Hospitals making Covid afflicted to pay through their nose||Private hospitals minting moneyThis is to suggest that as the second wave of Covid-19 has shaken the entire country and the reality of the healthcare system has also been vehemently exposed. The system instead of showing responsibility and compassion towards people has always disheartened and taken the crisis in the country as an opportunity for minting money through their business tactics. Due to the present difficult situation, hospital infrastructure especially that of government hospitals has been in poor state. Government hospitals also lack adequate number of responsible medical staff and fail to compete with private hospitals, owing to the facilities and infrastructure offered there. This is the reason why people prefer private hospitals over government ones for medical services, despite the fact that they charge hefty fee for the services provided by them. The private hospitals must also show some compassion and sense of professional ethics and accountability towards the general public amid these conditions. They are overcharging people irrespective of the fact whether the person survives the disease or not. Owing to the exorbitant charges by private hospitals, many people also prefer staying at home and getting themselves treated at cheaper expenses. Further it is suggested that the government should cap the prices of medical services under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and enforce it in more stringent manner. The hospitals which are found overcharging, their licences and NOCs should be cancelled and moreover, strict action under Section 304A of the IPC must be taken against them. The government should also provide minimum basic medical training to common people either through medical colleges or by organising training camps so as to handle such emergency situations on their own instead of seeking professional help in mild cases.Raja CheemaGovernment failed to regulate servicesThe healthcare infrastructure of every country is put on trial after the outbreak of Covidand only those with strong fundamentals have survived the onslaught. The healthcare system of our country has been inadequate even to meet primary medical requirementsduring normal times and to meet the emergency situation posed by the pandemic; the infrastructure appears to have collapsed to the worst for those who cannot affordtreatment under medical emergencies. Public health infrastructure is to be developedand maintained by the Central/state governments through their respective budgetarysupport but it being the lowest as compared to developed countries has resulted in the chaotic situation that we are facing today.Amid this situation, private medical players are exploitingthe patients to their advantage. Public healthcare system has nearly collapsedand miserably failed to meet the medical emergencies sequenced by the raging pandemic. The government, on the other hand, failed to regulate and streamlinevarious medical services being provided by private health sector. Though the governmenthas fixed the rates of various tests and treatments and other services, the same is not being enforced strictly and the public is left to fend themselves under tragic circumstances.This has definitely shaken public trust in the prevailing health systems both in public andprivate domains.Jagdish ChanderPatients now prefer home isolationIncidents of private hospitals fleecing Covid patients have added to the woes of the afflicted. Hefty hospital bills are disturbing their budget and due to this, many from middle class families prefer getting isolated at their homes than getting admitted to Covid care centres. Everyone knows that medical expenses at government hospitals are quite low, but the care provided at private hospitals is better than that of in government ones. Though the government had made prescribed a uniform rate for a Covid patient, some medicines which are required in emergency conditions are only available in black market and people are left with no other option but to buy them at exorbitant prices to save the lives of their dear ones. Undoubtedly, doctors and medical staff have also been working tirelessly for the past one year and exposed to the virus more than any other front line workers. But, the availability of medical requirements should be ensured by the government to keep the treatment of patients going on non-stop.Rajat Kumar MohindruGovt must fix rates of medical servicesIt’s axiomatic that greed is inherent in human psyche and doctors are no exception. Though there may be some black sheep who are fleecing Covid patients, it’s unfair to blame the entire medical fraternity for the same. The accused should be taken to task and the administration should put a cap on the payments made to the hospitals, which are treating Covid patients. The government too is responsible for the present crisis for not ramping up public healthcare system and infrastructure during the abatement of the first wave at the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021. Also, why blame doctors and hospitals when every essential thing concerned with the Covid treatment became prone to black-marketing, due to low supply and hoarding. Middlemen, hoarders, traders, transporters and chemists are all exploiting the situation amid the pandemic. Are these black marketeers being punished and put behind the bars? They should be taken to the task and their property should be confiscated. Since the past year, nearly 1,000 doctors have also succumbed to the deadly virus. Some of them were the luminaries and leading lights of the medical profession. So, it’s unfair to blame private hospitals alone for this sorry state of affairs in the city, state and the country at large.Dr JS WadhwaHealthcare system neglected in nationFor long, healthcare in our country has remained a neglected sector. Though a fewer super specialty hospitals and research centres have come up in both public and private sectors, still much needs to be done. Government hospitals render almost free services but mostly lack in equipment, medicines or credible care, whereas private hospitals charge heavily for the services in the absence of any prescribed rates notified by the regulatory regime. The aim of both is, however, the same i.e. to contribute significantly for better health of people. Majority of our population, basically falling in poor and mediocre category, can’t afford expensive medical treatment and thus has to depend upon government hospitals. But in case of chronic ailments such as cancer, cardiological and orthopaedic etc, despite all financial constraints, most of the patients approach private hospitals for a better outreach. Often, they have to bear hefty bills as health insurance cover is not mandated in our country and the grievances against erring institutions are seldom addressed to. As such, faith in our medical systems is substantially shaken.During the pandemic era, many complaints against private hospitals fleecing patients admitted for domiciliary treatment have been reported where they indulged in malpractices and charged lakhs of rupees out of the misery of the patients, forcing the infected people to prefer home isolation. Notably, rules do exist to prevent any exploitation but the authorities fail to exercise control against all-powerful lobby of private practitioners. In few cases, the sufferers have, however, sought some relief through consumer forums and courts.Under these circumstances, it becomes imperative to accord due priority to expand, upgrade and adequately equip government hospitals with required amenities and expert manpower to provide competitive edge. After all, good health of the citizens is vital and the government should not compromise this aspect at any cost!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathReforms must to improve systemIn these difficult times, when the number of people affected with Covid is increasing at an alarming rate, people are discouraged to avail medical facilities at government hospitals due to scarcity of staff and facilities there. Left with no other option, patients are forced to get admitted to private hospitals, which cheat them with hidden charges, and thus prefer staying in home isolation. Availing facilities at private hospitals is not feasible for all and only government employees who get government help in paying their bills of medical expenses can afford such facilities. Transparency in bills and charges laid should be increased. People should be made clear about all charges that they are paying. The success of the government and the nation lies in the health status of its citizens. The government should pay more attention in this regard and do the needful.Shashi KiranAuthorities paid no heed to solve problemIn the wake of the ongoing pandemic, both the Centre and state governments have dismally failed in their constitutional duty to protect the health of citizens and provide them the required medical treatment, irrespective of their capacity to pay. It is a shame that the medical fraternity has also not proved of any help to people. Among others, the role of private hospitals is highly condemnable. Since 1990s, successive governments have been giving facilities and concessions to private hospitals to strengthen healthcare system at the cost of civil hospitals which often remain ill-equipped and understaffed. Given the enormity of the crisis, people go to private hospitals for better treatment. But these hospitals fleece patients and their families in multiple ways to make quick fortune. The authorities have not paid any heed to complaints against their rampant unethical practices. As a result, people have lost trust and faith in the entire health system. While many of them prefer home isolation, others fall prey to unqualified and inexperienced practitioners and quacks who delay timely treatment. Poor and marginalised people are the worst sufferers. To streamline healthcare delivery system, the government should take punitive action against private players for overcharging, check hoarding and black marketing of vaccines, drugs and other medical facilities, enforce price regulation and focus on strengthening public hospitals. Addressing the raging pandemic should be our primary national concern. We should emulate Japan, Cuba, the US and Spain, and make earnest coordinated efforts to defeat the deadly virus.Tajpreet S KangFleecing incidents Add to patients’ woesThe Covidpandemic has posed numerous challenges for one and all across the world. The measures to keep the virus at bay include self-isolating oneself if mild symptoms occur, or to admit oneself in Covid-dedicated hospitals in case of severity, or just by practicing social distancing, remaining quarantined and washing hands and maintaining hygiene. Another aspect that needs immediate attention is fleecing of patients by some private hospitals and laboratories. Providing medical services at exorbitant prices in the light of special schemes, packages and plans for the treatment of Covid afflicted is a cause for concern. Such practices are adding to the mental and financial woes of the patients.Akshar Kumar SinglaMedical facilities at record-high pricesThe trust of people in the healthcare system is shaken. Though incidents of private hospitals fleecing patients have been reported in the past too, during the pandemic, hospitals have crossed all limits and many lives have been lost for not being able to afford treatment at such exorbitant prices. From hiring an ambulance to renting a room and charges for an ICU bed, all have been seen on record-high levels in these past few days. Even though thegovernment had fixed the rates of some treatments but in the absence of anytangible act, laws and also due to the connivance of political lobby,people are being made to pay hefty price for even minor treatments.The current Covid crisis hit our health system hard and left the patients gasping for the life saving medical oxygen at government-run hospitals. Inadequate supply of oxygen and life-saving drugs at government facilities left peoplewith no alternative but to seek refuge at private hospitals for want of emergencytreatment, which took advantage of the situation and started fleecing people. The faith of people in the healthcare system is badly shaken, leaving them in lurch orto seek home isolation or treatment at charitable run-hospitals.Since health is a fundamental right of every citizen, the government should ensure affordable healthcare to all. It should bring forth legislation oran act to curb ill-practices being followed by private hospitals. The government should also have its representatives in the management of big corporate private hospitals. Small and medium private nursing homes should also be covered under the Clinical Establishment Act.Rates of treatments should be fixed andbe displayed on a notice board outside the hospitals.Private hospitalsshould spare 20 per cent of the total bed capacity for economically weaker sections of the society.Government and private health providers must work in tandem to restore public faithin the healthcare system.AnilVinayakAdmn must act to restore public trustThere is a shortage of beds, oxygen supply and also medical staff at various hospitals. A number of people have died in the past few days owing to this scarcity of medical facilities. Even if these services are anyhow ensured at the hospitals, still a lot needs to be done to improve the quality of health infra and sanitation conditions there. People are gradually losing their trust in the health system. The administration can’t solely be blamed for the present situation of the health system as for the past one year, the health sector has been overburdened due to the Covid pandemic. The government had imposed various restrictions such as curfew and lockdown but in vain as there is no respite from the ever raging deadly virus. Amid these conditions, the trust of people in the healthcare system is shaken to the extent that people today prefer getting isolated at their home rather than availing hospital facilities. Many persons have also been seen avoiding the Covid vaccine due to this lack of trust and the situation is thus worsening. The administration must make proper provisions for the health and safety of the citizens to regain their trust.Izleen No transparency in medical billsDS KangQUESTIONCovid vaccination centres in the city are often crowded with chaotic scenes witnessed almost every day. What are your suggestions to improve the system at the centres?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 27).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hospitals-making-covid-afflicted-to-pay-through-their-nose-257638
24-05-2021||---||Deaf & dumb siblings get jobs, thanks to DBEE||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, May 23Physically challenged youth often get to hear ‘No’ from employers due to their condition. To overcome this challenge, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), Hoshiarpur, has come to their rescue by providing employment to differently abled candidates too.The DBEE helped in fulfilling the dreams of two deaf and dumb brother and sister of Dhootan village in the district. Sarabjit Kaur, who holds diploma in ECE, has been successfully placed as office clerk in dengue project of the Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur, while her brother Bharat Kar Singh Suman, who is ITI in electrical, is placed as a meter reader in PSPCL.Expressing happiness over the development, Kulwinder Kaur, mother of the two siblings, who runs a small Ayurvedic clinic here, said the jobs to her children would prove a big push to family’s growth. “My husband is also a physically challenged person, who is assisting her in clinic works. Bringing up of two special kids has always posed several arduous challenges before the family,” said Kulwinder, adding that despite all odds neither they got disheartened nor let their kids fall prey to inferiority complex. She said after completion of their technical education, I tried a lot for the employment of my children and visited several places but all efforts turned futile. One day I came to know about the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission of the Punjab Government and participated in a Rozgar Mela held at DBEE Hoshiarpur where the teams assured that both would be suitably placed shortly, she added.Lauding the efforts of DBEE for placements of physically challenged aspirants, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said that such kind of employment facilitations were real essence of Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission, which will continue in future too. She also expressed immense satisfaction over the tireless efforts being made by the DBEE team to get maximum youngsters employed in different sectors especially amid Covid crisis. Riyait congratulated the team, including Mangesh Sood placement officer, Aditya Rana career counsellor and Vikramjit Singh, clerk, who himself being PH understands the challenges of getting employment with disability and all have always been playing pivotal role in providing employment to this strata of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deaf-dumb-siblings-get-jobs-thanks-to-dbee-257639
24-05-2021||---||Hospital offers free treatment for Covid-hit EWS patients||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, May 23The management of local Shivam Hospital on Sunday offered five beds for free treatment of Covid level-II patients from economically weaker section(EWS). The hospital management has put these level-II beds at the disposal of the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The Covid level-II patients will get the entire treatment free of cost.Giving details of this welfare initiative, general manager of the hospital, Ashish Atwal, said, “The beds are equipped with ultra-modern equipment and apparatus to provide requisite treatment to Covid patients. The management has also decided to bear all expenses of medicines for the patients admitted on these beds”.Appreciating the endeavour of the hospital, DC Apneet Riyait said the administration had directed the office of Civil Surgeon to recommend the eligible patients from economically weaker sections to the hospital. She said teams of the civil and police administration as well as health department was working round the clock to get all requisite assistance in term of treatment, medicines and food, besides ensuring vaccination at their doorsteps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hospital-offers-free-treatment-for-covid-hit-ews-patients-257640
24-05-2021||Garhshankar||Two held with 50-gm heroin||Event to boost kids’ confidenceJalandhar: Under the aegis of English Booster Clubs, an innovative activity — “Show and Tell” virtual competition — is being organised for students of Class VI to XII in government schools. The event that began on May 20, will end on Tuesday. Under the event, students are making videos on various topics such as their favourite outfit, food, season of the year, plant or a book. They could also post a picture of someone special to them or an object that can be recycled and give its explanation in English. The students are allowed to speak on the topic of their choice for one to three minutes. The event is aimed at boosting confidence among students so that they can confidently comprehend and communicate in English language. TNSsteps to tackle floods reviewedNawanshahr: In view of the upcoming rainy season, MLA Angad Singh, accompanied by drainage officials, visited the villages along the river here. He reviewed the arrangements made for the prevention of possible floods in the respective villages. He directed the officials of the Drainage Department to take all possible measures in view of the possibility of damage to the nearby villages due to rising water level in the river during the monsoon season. He directed the officers not to tolerate any negligence in the arrangements made for the prevention of possible floods and to keep a constant watch on these arrangements in a coordinated manner. He said special vigilance should be exercised especially in sensitive areas and protection of life and property of the people should be ensured in case of any emergency. Meanwhile, officials said adequate arrangements have been made for the prevention of floods and there will be no negligence in ensuring the safety of citizens and monitoring of the dam. TNS29-yr-old hangs self to deathGarhshankar: A person on Sunday ended his life by hanging himself from the girder of the roof in his room due to some domestic problem at Boda village. According to information, the victim, identified as Mani Kumar (29), was disturbed over some domestic problem. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, where doctors declared him dead. The police handed over the body to the family members after a post-mortem. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-50-gm-heroin-257641
