25-05-2021||Aparna Banerji||Black fungus claims 2 lives in Jalandhar district, 22 cases reported so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 24Days after being declared a notified diseases in the state, 22 cases of black fungus have been reported in the district until today. At least two persons have also succumbed to the disease.While there is a decrease in number of Covid cases reported daily in the district, mucormycosis (black fungus) is a new cause for concern among health experts. Its treatment is tricky as doctors claim that it is difficult to diagnose.When the state government declared mucormycosis as a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act on Wednesday, information from private hospitals regarding the disease was sought by the health authorities.Until Saturday, barely seven cases were formally reported by the Health Department in Jalandhar but today the tally has been reported to be 22. Of these, four cases were reported today while the rest 18 were reported earlier. Among the two fatalities, both have been reported at various district private hospitals.At the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, only one case of black fungus has been reported so far and the said patient was also referred to Amritsar for treatment. Of the 22 cases reported in the district, about 10 cases are from other districts and states.District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta said, “We are watching the situation closely. As many as 22 cases and two deaths have been reported in the district so far. One person from Ludhiana and another from Shahpur are among the deceased. Low immunity, high sugar, coupled with excessive steroid use are seen as the prime cause for the spread of the disease during the second wave of Covid. Low immunity and high steroid use especially in diabetic patients creates a favourable environment for the development of the fungus. Patients with high sugar and immuno-deficiencies are more prone to it. As a result, Amphotericin-B injections for anti-fungal treatment of the disease are in high demand and are presently being provided to hospitals by the government.”Dr SPS Grover, MD, New Ruby Hospital, said, “One of the causes of relatively lesser cases of the virus being reported is the difficulty in diagnosis. Either a doctor does an MRI or gets a microscopic report of the secretions, both of which are difficult in critical patients. The secretions are also dry. On the other hand, conducting bronchoscopy for every black fungus suspect is also impossible. Hence, most of the cases are being detected on the basis of clinical diagnosis.”While various private hospitals report a dramatic increase in black fungus cases, the official stats are relatively low. The district is now rationing Amphotericin-B supply on the lines of Remdesivir. Every hospital treating Covid is currently demanding the injections and its demand has surpassed the number of cases formally recorded in the district. The medicine being provided by the government is high on the priority list of every hospital and its stocks are also running short in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/black-fungus-claims-2-lives-in-jalandhar-district-22-cases-reported-so-far-258130
25-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 8 deaths, 334 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 24The district reported eight more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 1,314, while 334 new cases pushed the infection tally to 5,7624. Of 334 tested positive on Monday, 30 were from other districts. As many as 51,823 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 4,487.6 lose life in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 78 people tested positive for Covid on Monday, taking the infection tally to 15,963, while six persons lost their lives on Monday. The deceased include a 60-year old woman from Phagwara, a 71-year-old woman from Bhanoki village, a 74-year-old woman from Mohablipur village, a 33-year-old man from Phagwara and a 80-year-old man from Bhagwanpur.3 die, 47+ve in NawanshahrThe district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 312, while 47 persons tested positive for Covid on Monday. The death rate in the district now stands at 2.89 per cent. Those who lost their lives were a 47-year-old man from Mukandpur block, a 77-year-old woman from Balachaur block and a 55-year-old woman from Mukandpur. The active cases now stand at 721 (704 from Nawanshahr and 17 out of district), and the total number of positive cases till date stand at 10,782. As many as 632 patients are home isolated and the recovery rate in the district is 90.57 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-8-deaths-334-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-258131
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||8 die of virus in Hoshiarpur, toll nears 900-mark||Hoshiarpur, May 24The district reported eight more Covid fatalities, taking the toll to 890, while 226 fresh cases were reported on Monday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,222 and 24,355 patients had recovered from the virus. Out of the total cases reported today, 11 patients were reported from other districts and the remaining were from various health blocks of the district. Among the casualties, four patients had died at Jalandhar hospitals, three died at Hoshiarpur hospitals and one died at an Amritsar hospital.The district administration on Monday also declared Langeri village in Paldi block of Garhshankar sub-division and Adamwal village of Hoshiarpur as micro-containment zones.DC Apneet Riyait issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zones. Teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to-door survey and do contact tracing in Langeri and Adamwal villages. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocol. The DC said the areas had been declared micro-containment zones for 10 days. She said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against the violators.100% vaccination in Ram Colony Camp villageWith concerted efforts of the district administration and health teams, Ram Colony Camp village has also become one of the villages with 100 per cent vaccination of eligible beneficiaries. Also, state Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora visited the village and appreciated the efforts of the panchayat, villagers and health team for the task. Besides eligible villagers, inmates of a juvenile home and an old age home have also been vaccinated.Lauding the panchayats which got their villages 100 per cent vaccinated, the minister also appealed to the panchayats of other villages to have all eligible beneficiaries inoculated at the earliest in larger public interest. The minister also interacted with villagers and medical teams regarding vaccination and emphasised that strict adoption of Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination of masses was the best way to keep the virus at bay.6 held for violating curfewThe district police have arrested six persons for violating weekend curfew. The Bullowal police arrested Santokh Singh of Mandialan village, Jatinder Singh of Chakk Raju Singh village, Nasib Singh of Bhela village, Jalandhar and Palwinder Singh of Madialan village, who were present at an electrician’s shop around 8.40 pm last night. The city police arrested Jaggu Rai of New Sukhiabad, Hoshiarpur, while he was selling fruits near Tagore Park at 6.40 pm on Sunday.Similarly, the Model Town police arrested Himanshu, manager of More Supermarket near Ramgarhia Chowk in the city at around 3 pm as the shutter of the store was half-closed but several customers were making purchases inside the store. Separate cases under Section 188 of the IPC were registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-die-of-virus-in-hoshiarpur-toll-nears-900-mark-258132
25-05-2021||---||Now, you can take health advice at e-Sanjeevani OPD||Nawanshahr, May 24In the wake of the growing threat posed by the second wave of Covid-19, the Nawanshahr Health Department has decided that on all working days, from 8 am to 2 pm, medical treatment would be provided to the patients needing help related to gynaecology or general medicine, through e-Sanjeevani OPD mobile app. Tele-consultation OPD services for psychiatric illnesses are also being provided.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor today said this step has been taken by the Health Department to ensure the safety of people. He said providing services of specialist doctors to patients online was proving to be helpful in reducing the overcrowding in the hospitals.The Health Department officials said since a person needed to have at least 2 Mbps space on his laptop or computer, hence people were facing difficulties in availing OPD services on computer, but now the Android mobile app is also available for patients, so there is no need to rely on laptop or computer. e-Sanjeevani OPD mobile app can be easily downloaded from Google Play Store.Explaining the easy and simple registration process, the Civil Surgeon said the patient has to verify his number on e-Sanjivani OPD mobile app, after which the token is ready. The beneficiary then receives a notification after which he has to go through the login process and wait for his turn. The patient can then seek medical advice and download the e-prescription recommended by the doctor.Elaborating further on the features of e-Sanjeevani OPD, Dr Kapoor said telemedicine would prove to be a boon for the patients of the district in future also as many people need medical consultation for chronic diseases on a daily basis.Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor further said pregnant women were at a high risk of infection during the first trimester of pregnancy and they should avoid unnecessary visits to the hospital. Therefore, in order to provide prenatal care and gynecological services to pregnant women and lactating mothers, the Punjab Government has introduced health care through e-Sanjeevani OPD.How to avail the services||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-you-can-take-health-advice-at-e-sanjeevani-opd-258133
25-05-2021||---||Bruised badly in lockdown, say gym trainers, owners; hold protest in Jalandhar||Jalanddhar, May 24A day after a gym trainer committed suicide in Ludhiana, members of the Jalandhar Gym Owners’ Welfare Association today held a protest at Bhagat Singh Chowk to highlight collapse of the fitness and gym industry in the city. When every shop selling non-essential items has been allowed to reopen, why is the fitness industry being singled-out? asked the trainers and gym owners.The association members said, from liquor vends to salons and barbershops, everything has been allowed to reopen, but why were they being kept out of the rules. “Even restaurants and shopping malls are open but the government is delaying reopening of gyms. The lockdown has pushed owners of over a 100 fitness centres and gyms towards financial crisis,” said, Jimmy Singh, owner of Power X4 gym.The protesters said, last year too, due to the restrictions, they suffered huge losses. Many were forced to remain out of salary for months. They said they were struggling to pay the rent and salaries of their employees, as they were unable to do any business.They held placards reading how to pay the rent? Gyms closed, liquor vends open! why?Fitness freaks, including both men and women participated in the protest. Mukesh Verma, a gym trainer, said, “It is because of gyms and fitness centres only that the youth have shifted their attention from drugs to physical fitness. There are many addicts who have now opted for the route of physical fitness. If liquor vends are opened, then gyms should also be permitted to reopen. Last year’s financial crisis is still fresh in our memories. And we are deeply saddened by the death of young fitness trainer, Varinder Kohli, who consumed poison. His wife told the police that he took the extreme step due to financial crisis.”The agitators therefore demanded the fitness industry to be allowed to resume as they could not bear more losses. The gym owners assured to take all the Covid safety related protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bruised-badly-in-lockdown-say-gym-trainers-owners-hold-protest-in-jalandhar-258134
25-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Four arrested with narcotics||Youth killed as bike hits treeGarhshankar: A youth was killed in an accident when his bike hit a roadside tree near Sant Nirankari Bhawan on the Garhshankar-Banga road on Sunday night. Balwinder Singh, a resident of Saroya village, told the police that his son, Jasvir Singh (29), who had been to his in-laws’ house in Chauhda village in Garhashankar was returning home when he suddenly lost the balance of his bike and it hit the tree along the road. Injured Jasvir was brought to the Civil Hospital here where doctors declared him dead. OCTwo held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested two persons riding a bike and seized 22,500 ml of illicit liquor from them. The accused have been identified as Manjinder Singh, alias Ladi, and Amrik Singh, both residents of Usman Shaheed village in Dasuya sub-division. The accused were riding without number plate bike when the police stopped them. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the two. OCWaive power bills, demands MLANawanshahr: Balachaur MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding the financial problems faced by the small shopkeepers due to the lockdown since last month. He said small shopkeepers of Balachaur were facing a lot of problems and most of them were running their business from rental shops. The MLA said their work was halted due to closure of shops, but were still paying electricity bills and shop rent, which was a major blow to them financially. TNSTake Covid tests, SDM to peopleNawanshar: Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Nawanshahr, Jagdish Singh Johal, on Monday said people were being encouraged to undergo corona testing in urban and rural areas with a view to check the spread of corona disease. While reviewing the functioning of Covid sampling teams at Rahon-Jadla T-point, Kanga and Bharta Khurd, Johal apprised the general public that testing must be done to check the spread of Covid-19 disease. He said testing could put a brake on the spread of the Covid. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-arrested-with-narcotics-258135
25-05-2021||---||e-discussion on likely 3rd wave of pandemic||Jalandhar, May 24The Centre for Career Planning and Counselling, CT Group of Institutions, on Monday organised a virtual health conclave on ‘Third Swing of Covid-19: Effects and Suggestions’. The session was joined by more than 400 attendees.The session was designed to spread awareness about the various aspects of third wave of Covid and how it can be avoided and what can be done. The guest speakers were advocate Vikrant Rana, Director Legal, International Human Rights Organisation; Dr Paras Khullar, MD, paediatrics and Dr Ashutosh Gupta, child specialist, talked on the various aspects related to it.Dr Gupta emphasised upon the children that they should be kept separately from the other family members who have got symptoms and also advised to use a surgical mask as well as to keep social distancing. He further said that the repeated mutation of the third wave of coronavirus is a matter of concern since it isn’t easy to predict for how long the pandemic will last or even slowdown.Advocate Vikrant Rana discussed about the various legal provisions and laws related to Covid. He threw light over the penalties which can be imposed on one person who bypasses the law and provisions made for Covid control like not wearing of a mask, not following social distancing or black marketing of medicines, or injections.Dr Paras Khullar talked about the control and preventive measures of Covid and also made everyone aware of the importance of testing and remaining calm during this time. He emphasised on the Covid patients that they should home quarantine themselves and take an adequate diet when they are at a mild stage. Thereafter, he apprised that the new diseases regarding third wave could emerge if individuals get careless and didn’t ensure themselves. The recurrence and sizes of such high points and low points should be decreased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-discussion-on-likely-3rd-wave-of-pandemic-258136
25-05-2021||---||Revolutionary Kartar Singh Sarabha remembered on 125th birth anniversary||Phagwara, May 24To commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of the great Indian revolutionary Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha, the Department of History of the Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, in collaboration with Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Chair, Punjabi University, Patiala, conducted a webinar on the topic “Learnings from the life of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha”.Eminent historians and personalities from the field of education, namely Dr Bhiminder Singh, chairperson, Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Chair, Punjabi University, Patiala, Prof Jagmohan Singh, chairperson, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Shatabdi Foundation, Ludhiana, and Prof Parminder Singh, joint secretary, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, Jalandhar, were invited as the resource persons at the webinar. They were all introduced by Nimratdeep and formally welcomed by Principal Dr Savinder Pal.The webinar commenced with an informative PPT on the life of Kartar Singh Sarabha. Prof Parminder Singh discussed the selfless sacrifice of Kartar Singh Sarabha and highlighted his role in the propagation of Ghadar Movement. He discussed how Kartar Singh tried to dismantle the military structure established by the Britishers to create communal disharmony in the country. Dr Bhiminder Singh talked about Sarabha as a pioneer of Punjabi journalism with reference to the publications of Gadar magazine to which he contributed even while being in the US.Prof Jagmohan Singh, nephew of martyr Bhagat Singh, discussed in detail the non-communal nature of the Ghadar Movement, of which Sarabha was a part of. He elaborated this with the example of simultaneous hanging of Sarabha and Vishnu- Ganesh Pingley. He also commented on the tireless spirit of Kartar Singh Sarabha as an empathetic, fearless and dedicated revolutionary towards the cause of a united and non-communal freedom movement leading towards ‘Inquilab’. He also urged the youth of the country to take forward the socialist and secularist spirit, staunchly supported by Sarabha.Dr Savinder said the students should seek inspiration to strive for the betterment and upliftment of society from the life of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha who was just 19 at the time of his martyrdom. Dr Savinder Pal expressed her heartiest gratitude to the resource persons for enlightening the audience with their valuable knowledge. She further congratulated the Department of History for conducting such an informative session which not only illustrated the events from history but taught major life lessons, too.Kamlesh, Head, Department of History, expressed her gratitude to the students and faculty members of her college and from other colleges for gracing the webinar with their presence. Almost around 100 participants including professors and students attended this webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revolutionary-kartar-singh-sarabha-remembered-on-125th-birth-anniversary-258137
25-05-2021||---||Medical institute conducts post-Covid e-consultation||Jalandhar, May 24The Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) took a new initiative of providing post-Covid consultation to its patients virtually.The authorities said they took the step to provide a hassle-free treatment to Covid patients, so that they don’t have to a visit hospital again and again. Dr Kulbir Sharma (Nodal Officer) and Dr Abhilakshya took e-consultation and also addressed the concerns of patients and their families.Dr Kulbir Sharma, Nodal OfficerNormally it takes two-three months to recover completely and patients should take all precautions till then. They should monitor their O2 level on regular basis and if they have any breathing concerns then they should get it checked from the nearest hospital.Dr Kulbir said normally it takes two-three months for recovering completely and patients should take all precautions till then. He said patients should monitor their oxygen levels on regular basis and if they have any breathing concerns then they should get it checked from the nearest hospital. Even minor problems also shouldn’t be neglected. He also added diabetic patients should keep their sugar levels in control, and monitor their sugar levels at least two-three times in a day.Amit Singh (Resident Director) appreciated the efforts of the doctors and said patients recovering from Covid need more care and attention. Such initiative brings patient in a better mental state and help in recovering even faster. In last few days, most of patients admitted at PIMS were of third level, which means they need high flow oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/medical-institute-conducts-post-covid-e-consultation-258138
25-05-2021||---||Roadways workers to protest outside cabinet ministers’ houses on June 5, 6||Jalandhar, May 24Members of Punbus workers’ union of the Punjab Roadways Depot 1 and 2 on Monday held a protest against anti-workers policies of the state government.Jasvir Singh, chairman of the Jalandhar Depot 1, and Daljit Singh, general secretary of Jalandhar Depot 2, stated that the state government was repeatedly rejecting their demands to ensure regularisation of contractual staff.“The government is making false claims of providing free bus services to people and did not even increase the fleet of roadways buses. No budget is being given to Punbus and PRTC. Plans are being hatched to shut down government transport services,” he said.The union leaders said while the income of buses had been exhausted, the monthly cost of fuel at one depot was Rs30-35 crore.The government has offered free travel facility only to gather votes, said Gurjit Singh, president of Punbus Depot Jalandhar 1 and Malkit Singh, treasurer of Jalandhar 2. “To give free travel facility, a special budget should be announced,” added Malkiat Singh.On June 5 and 6, the sub-committees of the Punbus will hold a protest outside the residences of Cabinet ministers. A gate rally will be organised on June 14. The union members also announced to hold a press conference on June 16, to organise a three-day strike on June 28, 29 and 30, after gate rallies on June 25 in Patiala, Chandigarh and Malerkotla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-workers-to-protest-outside-cabinet-ministers-houses-on-june-5-6-258139
25-05-2021||Jalandhar||School of management signs MoU||Online quiz competitionTo acquaint students with the latest awareness on general knowledge, an online quiz competition was organised by the DIPS Institute of Management and Technology. Students from all streams participated in the quiz competition with zeal and enthusiasm and performed well. HOD Vishal Khanna from IT Department asked questions related to various political and social issues of the country and abroad using MCQs on Google Form. IT stream secured the first position, MLS and fashion designing was the first runner-up and the management stream was the second runner-up. Principal Dr Simranjit Singh applauded the winning teams and encouraged the other teams to work hard. MD Tarwinder Singh said such competitions increase general knowledge of the students and make them aware of national and international affairs. CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated all students and appreciated their efforts.Paper reading competitionInnocent Hearts School organised a paper reading competition for the students of Class XII. The final round of the competition was conducted on Zoom. The students chose a topic from the given topics and presented their views. The school organised the competition to enhance the public speaking skills of the students. Ambika Pasrija, HOD English and activity in-charge, congratulated the winners and motivated students to take part in such activities. Vanshika Kochhar grabbed the first position, Parasmani the second and Khushi and Diksha Sodhi the third position in the competition.KMV students bring laurelsKanya Maha Vidyalaya has introduced many academic reforms and the students have shown good results in the recent past. In the results of MSc Botany, Mohita Sharma bagged the first position by securing 92.8 per cent marks, Urvashi stood second with 91.1 per cent marks and Kajal bagged the third position with 88.8 per cent marks. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of PG Department of Botany on this success and also appreciated them for their hard work. She expressed confidence that the students ably guided and mentored by the extremely qualified and dedicated faculty will continue their journey of success in the future as well.Students of HMV outshineStudents of BBA Semester-I of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, brought laurels to the institution by securing merit positions in the university exams. Gaurika bagged the second position in Guru Nanak Dev University by scoring 266 out of 350 marks. Akanksha Kaundal secured eighth position by securing 245 marks and Geetanjali bagged ninth position with 244 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Head of the Department Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, faculty members and the students for the achievement.Artistic skills at displayTo bring out the hidden talent in the students and instil confidence in them, Ivy World School organised art activities like clay modelling and paper origami. The primary section conducted "Play with clay" activity for Class I to III students and "Paper origami" activity for Class I to VI. Children participated in the creative venture with great zeal and high spirits. This activity triggered their imagination and enhanced their creative skills. Principal S Chauhan also shared her expression and said such activities are not only a fun filled experience, but it also prove to be a valuable means to develop artistic skills in the young ones. CEO Raghav Vasal applauded the efforts made by the students and also encouraged them to create their unique identity.Science Fiesta by DAV universityDAV University is going to organise Science Fiesta. Science fiesta is inter-college, inter-university science competition where winners will be rewarded with cash prizes. DAV University Vice-Chancellor (officiating) Dr Jasbir Rishi said such competitions help students think analytically, critically and creatively. It will also provide them with an opportunity to showcase their talent. The inter-college/inter-university science competition will be conducted in online mode. Only bonafide students of universities/colleges studying in regular mode will be allowed to participate in the competition. Moreover, a student shall not be allowed to represent more than one university/college in a single event. If student is participating in more than one event, then they will have to fill up a Google form for each event in which students wish to participate. All participants will be given e-certificates. Students can participate in various events during the fiesta such as poster presentation, declamation contest, power point presentation, model making and best out of waste. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-of-management-signs-mou-258141
25-05-2021||---||Administrator nurturing passion for gardening||Jalandhar, May 24While he is a hard task master when it comes to looking after his administration, he also nurtures a passion for gardening back home. Flowers in his verdant garden ease off his day’s stress that is likely to come as he shoulders the responsibility of the district amid the pandemic.Bustling with flowers, trees, plants, creepers and vines of the choicest varieties, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and his wife Joint Commissioner, Income Tax Gagan Kundra Thori sustain a sprawling garden at their Jalandhar home. They say it comes handy in ward off the Covid blues.A medical doctor and an IRS officer, Gagan Thori has had a penchant for gardening for decades, a passion which has left every official residence the couple has inhabited - greener than the one they got.Shifting houses, there is a permanent collection of 200 to 250 plants - including flowering plants and succulents - which has accompanied them to all their residences. While flowers are planted in the winters to prepare for a flood of blooms in the spring, Gagan Thori’s favourite all-season indoor plants are her succulents which ornament her art collection. Monsteras, aglaonemas dot the indoors and snake plants decorate myriad niches to inculcate positivity.While a carpet of Balsams welcomes one into a lush green lawn, the home and the surrounding grounds are lined with periwinkles and marigolds. Periwinkles bloom across in baskets and planters. Dahlias are also a hot favourite for the spring bloom as are Roses and marigolds flooding passages. The couple is also aided by her two able gardeners —their two daughters aged 4 and 6 — who help them paint pots, plant baskets and tyres. Gagan says, “My daughters know the names of hundreds of species of plants and their features. They source seeds and have knowledge about summer and winter plants. ”Speaking about her sustainable methods she says, “We make our own manure and have our own composting unit. There is a kitchen garden too which the girls regularly help out with.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administrator-nurturing-passion-for-gardening-258142
