26-05-2021||---||12 succumb to Covid, 536 new cases surface in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 25 The district on Tuesday reported 536 fresh cases of Covid. It is after a gap of five days that the daily caseload crossed the 500-mark. Besides, a sudden jump in the daily death toll has also been reported after around six days. With 12 new deaths, the Covid fatalities in the district have increased to 1,326. With the cases reported today, the total number of cases in the district is now 58,160. However, the number of active cases has lowered to 4,420 from 4,487, the previous day.  Under the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, 10,51,720 samples have been collected from the district, out of which 58,160 people have tested positive. So far, the maximum number of cases have been reported this year have been witnessed in May only. 3 die in Nawanshahr  The number of Covid cases are decreasing in Nawanshahr district again. As many as 30 Covid cases were reported today and three persons succumbed to the virus. The deceased include a 61-year-old man from Urban Nawanshahr, a 67-year-old man from Balachaur and a 65-year-old woman from Saroya.  7 deaths in Kapurthala  The district health authorities today reported 104 fresh cases and seven deaths. The total fatalities have now reached 452 and the total positive cases stand at 16,006. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said the district now has 1,036 positive cases, after the discharge of 183 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-succumb-to-covid-536-new-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-258348
26-05-2021||---||At last, family cremates NRI’s body after arrest of accused||Nawanshahr, May 25 At last, the family members of an NRI, Darshan Singh who was allegedly murdered by five persons by running a tractor over him on May 19 in Banga here, cremated his mortal remains on Monday evening.   The NRI, who had returned from Spain eight months ago, was living with his son Sarbjit Singh in his native village Gobindpur. The family members said the five accused, involved in the murder, were their distant relatives. After the murder, the family refused to cremate the body until the accused were arrested. On May 24, the police arrested one of the accused and the family cremated the body after five days. Sarbjit Singh (35), son of the victim, said it was a property dispute over land that was sold to his father during an auction. “I want justice. I live with my family here and the police must arrest all the other accused who are still at large. I am worried for my life too,” he said, adding that he did not want to cremate the body till the arrests were made, but the body was getting decomposed and the police suggested to them not to delay the cremation and assured that the accused would be arrested soon. Naresh Kumari, SHO, Sadar Banga, said the accused was arrested on Monday and search was on to nab the absconding accused. “We are raiding at different places and will soon nab the accused,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-last-family-cremates-nris-body-after-arrest-of-accused-258349
26-05-2021||Jalandhar||Hearse van for victims||The district administration has today launched a mortuary van to provide free-of-cost hearse related services to Covid victims from Civil Hospital here.  Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the funds for the van were released by the government under the Chief Minister Relief Funds. He stated that the van would provide free-of-cost hearse related services to the Covid deceased as per medical protocol. Notably, the kin of the deceased had to pay for the service till now.  Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the mortuary van costing Rs9.8 lakh had been deployed at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital to serve Covid victims. The van would take the body of the deceased to cremation ground, where last rites of the victim would be performed with full respects as per medical protocol. Prominent among others present on the occasion included District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra and Dr Rajiv Gupta.  It is pertinent to mention here that the district administration earlier had issued a helpline 0181-2224417 to assist needy and poor people in the last rites of Covid victims. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hearse-van-for-victims-258350
26-05-2021||---||Breather: Another hospital sets up oxygen generation plant||Jalandhar, May 25 In a move to make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in oxygen production, an oxygen generation plant based on pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology has been set up at New Ruby Hospital today. The plant can generate oxygen gas at the rate of 500 litres per minute.  Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori hailed the efforts of New Ruby Hospital to tackle its oxygen demand. He stated that the district administration had appealed to the hospitals and industries to install such plants so that they could become self-reliant in terms of oxygen generation.  The DC urged other healthcare and industrial establishments to emulate the move by setting up such plants on their premises. Thori said installing such plants was a one-time investment aimed at enabling such establishments to be self-reliant in production, which is the need of the hour to combat the third wave of the pandemic. He said a multipronged strategy was adopted by the administration encompassing installation of oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital, deployment of oxygen concentrators in Covid care facilities, setting up a post-Covid recovery ward in government hospitals, and an oxygen concentrator bank for patients requiring oxygen support at home. Throwing light on this project, New Ruby Hospital Director Dr SPS Grover said the oxygen generation plant can provide 80 cylinders daily, which would meet out 80 per cent of the daily requirement. He also mentioned that a storage tank with a capacity of 1,500 liters of liquid oxygen has also been set up along with the plant to further strengthen its operation. Notably, the hospital is also serving Covid patients with 40 beds at its Covid care ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/breather-another-hospital-sets-up-oxygen-generation-plant-258351
26-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Oxygen concentrator bank opens in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 25 The district administration, with the help of Red Cross Society, has set up an oxygen concentrator bank in the city for Covid-19 patients who have been discharged from hospitals. The Red Cross will provide oxygen concentrators free of cost to the patients, who will have to return the equipment after recovering. “People are facing problems in arranging oxygen cylinders at home. Even the price of oxygen concentrators is too high, which everyone can’t afford. So, the administration has started this service to help them,” said an official. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said to get the oxygen concentrator machine, it would be necessary to have recommendation of Dr Sunil Ahir, member of the committee to supervise this bank. Riyait said, “To procure the machine, a refundable security of Rs 5,000 will have to be deposited with the District Red Cross Society.” For further information, anyone can contact secretary Red Cross Naresh Gupta on mobile number 9855610345 and Agyapal Singh of Sun Foundation on mobile number 9855555285. “Normally, people need oxygen concentrators for a few days or a week or two, but they have to spend a lot to purchase a new one. The bank will ease the pain of such patients and their family members”, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-concentrator-bank-opens-in-hoshiarpur-258352
26-05-2021||Jalandhar||Women lawyers send notice to DGP, DC over lewd phone calls||As the matter pertaining to lewd phone calls being made to women lawyers of the city remains unresolved, they have now sent legal notice to Director General of Police, Deputy Commissioner of Jalandhar and Commissioner of Police Jalandhar. Notices have also been sent to the Ministries of Home Affairs, Central and Punjab. In a complaint moved through lawyer Mandeep Singh Sachdev, the women lawyers have alleged that despite making repeated complaints to the city police regarding their alleged harassment at the hands of some mischievous elements, no action had been taken in the matter.  The women lawyers said that the persons making telephonic calls were using internet phone or international call cards from various numbers. They alleged that the callers were not just making calls in the court time but also late night and using a very vulgar language. The complainants, who are practising licence holders and even members of the District Bar Association, have said, “The callers using Facebook or WhatsApp calling were even telling them what dress they were wearing and how they were looking while they are out even in the courts. Many among us have even given up legal practices or stopped coming to the courts unable to bear the harassment for so long”. Through the legal notice, they have mentioned, “We had got two FIRs lodged. No action has been taken by the police yet as they are either not ready to apprehend the culprit or are not well-equipped to go in for cyber crime investigation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-lawyers-send-notice-to-dgp-dc-over-lewd-phone-calls-258353
26-05-2021||---||Auto, taxi drivers seek Rs 5,000 financial aid||Jalandhar, May 25 Demanding Rs 5,000 financial assistance from the government, the auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers association on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. Suffering from financial crisis due to coronavirus, the auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers’ association, along with leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) appealed to the state government to provide them with Rs 5,000 as a monthly subsistence allowance in line with their Delhi counterpart.  Rajwindwr Kaur, president of the woman wing of AAP and district president Surinder Singh said for the past one year, the auto-rickshaw drivers suffered huge losses in their businesses, hence to save them and their family from starvation, we damand that immediate relief to be provided to both the auto-rickshaw drivers and the taxi drivers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-taxi-drivers-seek-rs-5-000-financial-aid-258354
26-05-2021||---||Ex-BJP MLA protests ‘police inaction’ in driver assault case||Jalandhar, May 25 A high drama was witnessed at the office of City Police Commissionerate here on Tuesday after former MLA KD Bhandari along with family members of a truck driver reached at the office to protest against the failure to take action against two transport operators. Started around 12 pm, the agitators continued the protest for over one and a half hours. The truck driver, identified as Satnam Singh, alias Billa, was brutally beaten up by the accused transporters around nine days ago. Apart from fracturing his one leg, the accused had inflicted deep cuts on his body.  KD Bhandari, a BJP leader, said even after passing of nine days the police did not arrest the accused.  “The truck driver, a resident of Hamirpur, was mercilessly beaten by the accused, owners of Sat Kartar Transport, due to a minor truck accident. Billa was not only kidnapped by the accused, Honey and Money, but was also attacked with a knife and a bat. The attackers didn’t stop here, even salt was poured on his wounds. Billa sustained several stitches on his body. We demand strict action against the accused transporters for their inhuman act”, said Bhandari. Billa, who had arrived at the Commissioner’s office with his wife and children, said, we were also left unattended by the police and cops also failed to arrest the accused. Harpreet Singh Harry, a resident of Hardayal Nagar and Surinder Prakash, a resident of Maqsudan, also reached the spot to narrate their ordeal. Previously, both employees of the accused had stated that one of their hands was fractured as they were badly thrashed by Billa.  Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar spoke to the victim, Billa, and assured him that the accused would nabbed shortly. A case has already been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-bjp-mla-protests-police-inaction-in-driver-assault-case-258355
26-05-2021||---||Admn to give job training to unemployed youth in Covid care||Jalandhar, May 25 The Jalandhar district administration has found a novel way to achieve two targets in one move. It has decided to train the unemployed youth in six types of jobs for Covid care wherein the hospitals are finding shortage in manpower. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal today announced the initiative that will help to streamline the Covid-19 treatment in the health facilities of the district. He announced that skilled medical professionals would be provided to the health establishments. He mentioned that under the Punjab Skill Development Mission, the administration will provide free training for these courses and will bear all the expenses.  The free training will be provided to the candidates in the job roles developed by Health Sector Skill Council related to Covid-19. The training of the candidates will be of 21 days with upskilling of seven days,” Sarangal added.  The Punjab Skill Development Mission, training will be provided for six job roles including Emergency Medical-Technician, General Duty Assistant, GDA-Advanced (Critical Care), Home Health Aide, Medical Equipment Technology Assistant, and Phlebotomist.  The administration has now asked all the health establishments to inform their requirements that will be fulfilled by the administration. The hospitals have been asked to fill in their requirements so that the newly training staff could be mobilised soon after accomplishment of the training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-to-give-job-training-to-unemployed-youth-in-covid-care-258356
26-05-2021||---||Dalit beating case: SC panel member asks Bholath police to probe||Kapurthala, May 25Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes Member Raj Kumar Hans has directed the Bholath police to conduct a probe into a complaint lodged by a Dalit youth getting beaten and insulted in Bhadas village here recently.The complaint was lodged by Ajay Singh to the SC Commission, which has now asked the police to submit its report to the commission before June 4.Arriving at Bhadas village today for a special hearing, commission member Hans said Ajay Singh had approached the commission that he was insulted by some persons during an annual function and was beaten and his hair was dishonoured.He said action was taken by the police against both the parties in which a case was also registered against complainant Ajay Singh under Section 452 of the IPC. Ajay Singh challenged the registration of case against him, on which the commission visited the spot today and took statements from the concerned parties.Hans said ASP Ajay Gandhi has been directed to thoroughly investigate the case, especially against Ajay Singh and submit a full report to the commission by June 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dalit-beating-case-sc-panel-member-asks-bholath-police-to-probe-258367
26-05-2021||Jalandhar||Youth hangs self to death||Four days before his marriage, a 20-year-old man ended his life by hanging himself from a tree outside his house in a vacant plot. The deceased was identified as Sameer Singh (20), who was about to tie nuptial knot on May 28.He was residing in Lamma Pind with his parents and siblings in a rented house. SHO Rama Mandi Sullakhan Singh said, on a statement of the deceased’s mother Shobha, inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC had been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-hangs-self-to-death-258727
26-05-2021||---||Admissions for BSc agri begin||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 25A 4-year BSc in Agricultural College is being set up at Balowal Saunkhari, Regional Research Centre, Punjab Agricultural University, for which the admissions have started, for which application forms will be received till June 16.Darshan Lal Mangupur, MLA Balachaur said that students of Class XII in medical, non-medical or agriculture subjects can get admission in this course. He appealed to the youth of the area to make the most of this golden opportunity as it was going to be a great facility close to their homes. The college was not only going to be a boon for the youth of Kandi area and Nawanshar, but would also cater to the needs of the students belonging to Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur and other districts. He said that this has paved the way for the youth to get quality education and employment opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admissions-for-bsc-agri-begin-258728
26-05-2021||Under the campaign “Farz Manavta Ke Lie”||‘Fateh Kits’ at Doorstep||Over 100 PwDs jabbedAn initiative has been taken to vaccinate physically challenged persons during the vaccination campaign against Covid at Phagwara . During the ongoing camp at Radha Swami Satsang, Banga Road, Phagwara, ESI Hospital Phagwara has made arrangements to vaccinate physically disabled. Senior Medical Officer, ESI, Dr Vipan Arora, said Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal had asked to cover the disabled people under the vaccination drive. Following which, the hospital provided wheelchairs, drinking water and immediate registration facility to such people. More than 100 PwDs were vaccinated in the 18-44 age group.noble gestureThe Arthiya Association, Phagwara, donated 30 quintal wheat to Sahni Old Age Home for langar. The president of the association, Naresh Bharadwaj, said the tradition was being followed for the last four years. While wheat is provided in the rabi season, rice is provided in the kharif season. The old age home members thanked the commission agents for their noble gesture.contributed by ajay joshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fateh-kits-at-doorstep-258729
26-05-2021||Jalandhar||Story narration activity||Valedictory ceremonyApeejay College of Fine Arts organised a valedictory ceremony for the students of skill enhancement courses. In these courses, not only the students from various cities such as Amritsar, Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr had registered but also from other states such as Haryana and Jammu. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra, addressing the young brigade, put forth that the institution was established under the name of Rajeshwari Kala Sangam with a motto to recognise artists and polish their art in the best possible way. She asserted that education is not just limited to theory and completion of syllabus but the student's entire personality is nurtured in order to prepare them for the competitive world. Dr Monika, HOD, Commerce, took the students on a virtual tour of the college and introduced them about its history and current stature - nationally and internationally; Rajni Kumar from the Department of Design played hosted the entire show. Organiser Supreet Talwar from the Department of Economics presented her vote of thanks and expressed her gratitude before everyone. The Principal congratulated and appreciated the efforts of all mentors and organisers of the three-week skill enhancement course.Missing Children's Day observedStudents of Eklavya School here observed the International Missing Children's Day. Over the past six years, the International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (ICMEC) has brought together more than 20 nations from around the world to commemorate the International Missing Children's Day. Hindi educator Anamika Nirmohi shared information about the day with the students. She said a number of children go missing daily around the world, which is a cause for concern. "While the majority of the children, who are reported missing, return on their own after a short period of time, the longer a child is missing, the more vulnerable he or she becomes. The ICMEC is a non-governmental, non-profit organisation, working to make the world a safer place for all children by eradicating child abduction, sexual abuse and exploitation. The students were told that they should be aware of the issues that put the children of their age at risk and were also told the ways to keep themselves safe. School's chairman JK Gupta said every person has a role to play in the protection of children.Int’l Biodiversity Day observedStudents of Shiv Jyoti Public School observed the International Biodiversity Day. As the world continues to grapple with the Covid pandemic, the theme of the day was "We're part of the solution". The biodiversity on our planet is declining more than ever before due to overuse of the Earth's capacity. Now is the time to change our relationship with the nature. We must protect our ecosystem and become a part of the solution for the replenishment of the nature. Co-associate teachers of Kirti House Ajay Dhingra and Ritu Mehan made the students aware about the day through online power-point presentation. All students participated in the activity with full zeal. The activity was performed under the supervision of the House Master of Kirti House.Online Placement driveLovely Professional University got 100 per cent placement for its School of Fashion' students during the pandemic. Leading fashion brands like Reliance Industries Limited, Khadi India, Under Armour, Orion, US Polo, Novica, Kabir Leathers, Hind Rubber and Samarth Lifestyle recruited from the LPU School with the placement process taking place virtually. Some of the positions for which LPU students have been selected include fashion designers and sample coordinators in garment export and manufacturing houses, Fashion stylists, fashion merchandisers, production managers, graphic designers and more. Dean at LPU's Fashion School Dr Bhaskar Mitra shared: "It gives me great pleasure that all of our students have already been placed, despite the ongoing pandemic. This is the result of the main focus on building a deep industry connection, thereby helping students to develop skills that are in sync with the demands of the industry. I wish the very best to our outgoing batch."BFA Sem-I resultThe students of Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) sem-I of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar scored 100 per cent result and got university positions. Bhavya Jain got 339 marks out of 400 and stood second in university. Bhawna got fourth position with 335 marks and Samandeep Kaur got seventh position with 323 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of Department Dr Rakhi Mehta and Dr Shailendra Kumar.Online Pool PartyTo beat the summer heat and to make the home environment enjoyable, students of DIPS at Hariana Bhunga enjoyed a pool party at home. After the pre-mid examination, students enthralled in this pool party along with their parents and friends. To make this activity more interesting, teachers organised online antakshri and dance activity. Pool party arena was artistically decorated with a beach like area. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/story-narration-activity-258730
