27-05-2021||---||11 fall victim to Covid, 337 test positive in dist||Jalandhar, May 26The district reported 11 deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. As many as 337 people tested positive for the virus in the district, taking the tally to 57,624.Of the new cases, 65 were from other districts. With this, the death toll has risen to 1,337. As many as 52,925 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 4,235.15-yr-old dies in KapurthalaA 15-year-old girl is among the five persons who died of the virus in Kapurthala on Wednesday. While a number of young people are already being reported dead from Corona amidst the second wave, the 15 year old is the second youngest person whose life has been claimed by Covid so far in the district. The first was a six year old.Epidemiologist Dr Rajiv Bhagat said, “The 15 year old was a diabetic and she had high blood sugar. She is the second person from such a young age to die of Covid in the district. The first Covid death in Kapurthala was also of a six to seven year old girl with a heart condition. So far we known only her to be Covid positive from her family. No other family member of hers who has tested positive.”At Kapurthala, today 70 people were reported positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 16127. Five people died in the district today. The deceased at Kapurthala today include the 15-year-old girl from village Khalwara at Phagwara, a 59 year old man from Shorian village, a 49 year old man from Kadupur village, a 65 year old man from Sujo Kalia village and an 82 year old woman from village Nangal. So far, 457 people have died of Covid at Kapurthala.Nawanshahr logs 60 casesThe health authorities on Wednesday reported 60 new cases of coronavirus, including 14 from Saroya block and 11 each from Muzaffarpur and Balachaur blocks. Coming as a major relief, no casualty was reported today. The district has already reported 315 deaths and 10,872 persons have contracted the virus since March last year. The active cases in the district now stand at 634. The L3 bed occupancy in the district stands at 15 with 63 patients in L2 bed facility. A total of 1.36 people in the district have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far.6 fatalities in HoshiarpurThe district reported six more Covid fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 899, while with 167 fresh cases, the infection tally crossed the 26,000-mark in the district.Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,082 and 24,882 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of 167 positive cases reported today, 15 patients were from other districts and the remaining patients were from various health blocks of the district. Among the six fatalities, five patients had died at various Hoshiarpur hospitals, while a 34-year-old patient from Mukerian died at a private hospital in Pathankot.Meanwhile the district administration on Wednesday also declared Ghasipur, Ajjowal and Fatehpur villages in Chakkowal block of Hoshiarpur sub-division as micro-containment zones.DC Apneet Riyait issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zones. Teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to-door survey and contact tracing in these villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-fall-victim-to-covid-337-test-positive-in-dist-259163
27-05-2021||---||Jalandhar residents realise its green dream amid Covid||Jalandhar, May 26Even as the residents have been increasingly adding greenery around their homes since Covid started, the civic bodies too seem to have realised the need and have come up with a plan to convert vacant spaces under flyovers into green belts.A project is coming up at a cost of Rs 50 lakh under the Smart City Mission wherein three green belts are being developed under Lamma Pind Chowk flyover, Pathankot Chowk flyover and Transport Nagar flyover. While such green belts also exist under the BMC Chowk flyover and Lyallpur Khalsa College flyover for the past over three years, it is after a long time that more green belts are being created. The sites till the past few weeks were being used by vendors, taxi stand owners and for dumping concrete, which had been imparting a bad look to the city at these points.A new feature in the green belts coming up now is the setting up of vertical gardens along the pillars of the flyovers which are imparting a completely new and greener look to the city. While pillars at all sites, including PAP Chowk, BSF Chowk and BMC Chowk, have been decked up with inspirational wall paintings or floral art, the residents have appreciated the new concept of using them for vertical gardens.The areas under the flyovers have been given water connection and proper drainage system too has been installed through the NHAI in the event of collection of excess water. While the Lamma Pind Chowk and Transport Nagar green belts are in advanced stages of work with a variety of palms, bushes and foliage herbs being planted, the work on Pathankot Chowk is yet to pick up. Along the sides along the green belts, well-paved footpaths too have been constructed for pedestrians wanting to cross the road.Area councillor Nirmal Singh said: “The shopkeepers around the areas are happier with a more pleasant look coming up. They have also appreciated the move of the MC to get the areas vacated from the squatters. The only point which worries us all is that till the time the work is with the Smart City Mission, we expect some good work but the MC which is devoid of a functional horticulture department or is facing shortage of gardeners might not be able to maintain it well later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-realise-its-green-dream-amid-covid-259164
27-05-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Stadium to get new AstroTurf||Jalandhar, May 26The Surjit Hockey Stadium is shortly going to have a new AstroTurf. Installation of a new AstroTurf in the stadium was the long pending demand of the players and the coaches. The development was confirmed by Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Surjit Hockey Society.Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi gave approval for this today, he added. The orders have also been issued to the concerned firm for laying new AstroTurf at the stadium at Bultron Park, Jalandhar.“Sports Minister also stated that he would be present personally to get the work started on June 11 at the stadium”, added Sandhu.Earlier, a special floral tribute was paid by the members of the Surjit Hockey Society to Olympian Balbir Singh (Senior) on his first death anniversary. The society also thanked Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi for naming Mohali Hockey Stadium after Olympian Balbir Singh (Sr.).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-stadium-to-get-new-astroturf-259165
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Sanitation workers of Hoshiarpur MC go on strike||Hoshiarpur, May 26 Sanitation workers of the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation went on a day-long strike seeking fulfilment of the demands raised by the Safai Mazdoor Union. The workers, led by union president Raja Hans and Safai Karmachari Commission constituency in-charge Kamal Bhatti, went on a strike and presented their demands to the Mayor and other officials.  Raja Hans and Kamal Bhatti said on the one hand, the government and the MC are not paying any heed to the demands of the sanitation workers and on the other hand, new orders were being issued to add to their woes. They said as some officials had been deployed for attendance and other arrangements of the workers in the MC, then why should they report to the Councillors. “This will also make them more prone to exploitation. Therefore, this decision is not acceptable,” they said.  Mayor Surinder Kumar heard the demands of the union and assured them that their problems would be resolved within a week. On the Mayor’s assurance, the union decided unanimously that if their problems were not resolved within a week, they would be forced to go on strike again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitation-workers-of-hoshiarpur-mc-go-on-strike-259166
27-05-2021||---||2.62L eligible for cashless Covid treatment in empanelled private hospitals in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 26As many as 2.62 lakh eligible beneficiaries are entitled to get cashless Covid-19 treatment in empanelled private hospitals in Jalandhar district under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (SSBY) after the state government announced to extend the ambit of the pro-people scheme to the underprivileged sections of the society.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the patients can seek treatment in private hospitals offering Covid treatment at rates ranging from 8000 to 18000 per day, the rates fixed for the private hospitals in the state. He added that the state government will bear the differential treatment cost derived after deducting the cost payable by the insurance company from the cap rates adding, the cap rates include bed, PPE Kits, medicines, consumables, monitoring/ nursing care, doctor’s fee, investigation, oxygen, etc.The DC further added that as per the state government’s directives the beneficiaries could directly visit the empanelled hospitals without any need for a referral from the public hospital. He said that this move would ensure quality treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals that too free-of-cost as all the expenses would be borne by the state government. Thori also mentioned that the Jalandhar district has enrolled 87.25 percent of beneficiaries under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, which would ensure maximum benefit to the people under this pro-people scheme.Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Jyoti said 29 already empanelled hospitals would offer the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-62l-eligible-for-cashless-covid-treatment-in-empanelled-private-hospitals-in-jalandhar-259167
27-05-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj
||Dealing with pregnant women wasn’t easy amid pandemic: Assistant Civil Surgeon||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, May 26 Being at the forefront, dealing with vulnerable pregnant women, guiding and counselling them is not easy amid the pandemic, but Dr Varinder Kaur, Assistant Civil Surgeon, has done it with great success and now manages the administrative works with equal dedication. She says Covid has taught her a thing in life that one has to be a minimalist. “One doesn’t need a lot to live. Be original and I have really detoxified myself,” says the Assistant Civil Surgeon, who has been working in Jalandhar since 2008. Since the pandemic started, Dr Varinder Kaur, who was posted as a senior gynaecologist at the Civil Hospital last year, helped Covid positive mothers deliver 10 to 12 babies. She had also delivered triplets of a non-Covid patient. Since January this year, her profile has changed and she deals with administrative work which also carries a lot of responsibilities. “When I was clinically dealing with patients directly, we had set up a different delivery room for Covid patients. We used to wear PPE kits to perform surgeries on Covid patients. There were no fixed timings when we dealt with the patients, and we even went for deliveries late at night, but that gave me immense satisfaction. I have always believed that when you help a patient out, nothing else can give you more happiness,” the doctor said. Talking about her routine, the doctor says that now there are more meetings that she attends, with senior health officials and administration, etc. “Now, I have become more patient and less impulsive,” she says, adding that along with her daughter, she exercises and calls it ‘Me time’. She said that when the pandemic had kicked in, private hospitals were not treating Covid cases, and every pregnant mother had trust on Jalandhar’s Civil Hospital, as “we have a dedicated and experienced team”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dealing-with-pregnant-women-wasnt-easy-amid-pandemic-assistant-civil-surgeon-259168
27-05-2021||---||Free concentrators for needy, courtesy Jalandhar-based Apahaj Ashram||Jalandhar, May 26To ease the burden of arranging oxygen for sick family members during the Covid pandemic, the Jalandhar-based Apahaj Ashram is providing oxygen concentrators for free to needy people.The Apahaj Ashram is providing as many as five oxygen concentrators to those needing them for their Covid positive patients. With six more concentrators to be donated to the ashram tomorrow, in total the Apahaj Ashram will have 11 oxygen contrators at its disposal to help needy patients amidst Covid pandemic.Tarsem Kapoor, Chairman, Apahaj Ashram, said, "We have received five contrators from donors interested in people getting oxygen sewa during the pandemic. We take a refundable security of Rs 10,000, which can be lowered to Rs 5,000 for families who can't pay that much. Upon submission of doctor's recommendation and a Covid positive report, the concentrator is issued after deposition of the refundable amount. The security is also for the purpose of safety because these are very costly equipments. While we have five concentrators as yet, we have been promised six more concentrators tomorrow."While the concentrators are both transported and installed by Apahaj Ashram staff, once out of use, the patients can then return the concentrator back.Kapoor added, "It is a very hassle free procedure and is installation is being done by our in house pharmcaist who is adept at the job."He said the service has only been started yesterday, so far only one patient has availed the service on the first day but once word is spread, we expect many more to opt for it. Our purpose is only to help hapless families who are in serious need of oxygen for their treatment.Notably, while the Apahaj Ashrma has 150 inmates — including men and women — all the inmates have received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in April and presently await the second dose. While Kapoor said strict Covid protocol and guidelines were being followed at the Apahaj Ashram, so far all inmates at the ashram have been abale to keep Covid infection at bay in the over one year of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-concentrators-for-needy-courtesy-jalandhar-based-apahaj-ashram-259170
27-05-2021||---||It’s black flags, slogans & marches across Jalandhar city||Jalandhar, May 26To mark six months of “farmers’ protest” (against the three controversial agricultural laws), being observed on the outskirts of the national capital, hundreds of farmers gathered here to burn effigies of the Central Government here on Wednesday.Farmers under the banner of various farm outfits, including the Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba, Kadiyan, Rajewal), Kirti Kisan Union, Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, Mazdoor Ekta Sangh and others held protests at various sites in the district. Nearly 200 farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal also assembled outside the District Administration Office to burn effigies of Prime Minister and Home Minister Amit Shah.District president of the BKU Rajewal Amarjot Singh Jandiala said, “To observe Black Day, we took out a protest march in Jandiala-Samrai, Nakodar, Jandusingha, Jamshedpur and outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. This is not just a protest but an indication to the Central Government that like other states, the BJP will be wiped out from Punjab. Farmers have been staying put at the Singhu and Tikri borders for nearly 190 days and the government is still not ready to revoke the three farm laws. We will continue our agitation.”Besides, leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress also participated in the protest and supported farmers. Advocates also come out on the roads to observe Black Day and raised slogans against the Central Government near the court complex.Despite the deployment of anti-riot teams and police personnel on roads, two hoots were given to Covid norms.Following a call given by the Sanmukt Kisan Morch (SKM), a large number of farmers and labourers assembled at the Adampur T-point under the leadership of BKU, block general secretary, Gurbachan Singh Binpalke.Farmers raised slogans and threatened to intensify their protest in the coming days. Kulwinder Singh Mashiana, a farmer, said, this was not just the protest against the farmers’ protest but also to condemn the shaking democratic structure of the country.Kapurthala: Claiming that the black flag movement across the region today was a reflection of anger of the masses against the Centre, SAD leader Paramjit Singh Pamma led the agitation here over the completion of the six months of kisan morcha.Party leaders, farmers and local residents erected black flags atop their houses. SAD leader Pamma said everyone, including farmers, were aware of the fact that the BJP was attempting to hand over the agriculture sector across the country in the hands of big corporates.Support pours in on social mediaFrom hoisting black flags on their rooftops to running a hashtag Black Day campaign, residents and supporters of the farmers' protest marked the day digitally too. #BlackDay started trending on social media since morning. People posted their pictures on social media holding black flags and donning black attires.A groom also lends support to farm stirHoshiarpur: Supporting the farmer organisations on Wednesday, a groom, named Jaskaran Singh, of Marnaian village took out the wedding procession with the wedding car having a black flag fixed in front of it. Nambardar Sohan Singh Sahri said now people of villages and cities had woken up and black flags were visible on the houses of people. He said the day was not far when the Modi government would have to kneel down. The groom said this struggle was not of farmers only but it had become the struggle of every common man to safeguard his interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-black-flags-slogans-marches-across-jalandhar-city-259172
27-05-2021||Aparna Banerji||Differently abled loses job, Pingla Ghar faces criticism||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26Amidst the Covid pandemic, a 41-year-old differently abled and animal activist has been ousted from her Pingla Ghar job of 25 years. Battling 75% disability in her legs due to polio, Raju says she is the sole breadwinner for her home. Sacked on March 10 this year, she says she hasn't received her salary for the past one year (since April 2020). "I was teaching sewing to kids and had been sewing clothes for inmates at the shelter home. I had been asked not to come to the PIngla Ghar during the lockdown last year. I kept sewing masks for the Pingla Ghar as and when directed. In March this year, the manager, Capt Jagdish, told me that my services were no more needed. I have begged the authorities to allow me to continue. They said I speak to media a lot. The mangement had decided that I am not to serve there anymore," said Raju, who had been earning Rs 8,000.She said her mother had a brain haemhorrage earlier this year and up to Rs 7,000 per month is spent on her mediicnes.Disability activist and CWC, Jalandhar, member Amarjit Anand termed it unfortunate. "Pingla Ghar needs to stand for the disabled. If they have Covid doubts they could get her tested. I have taken up the issue with the manager but to no avail. There are other issues regarding Pingla Ghar which have also been brought to the notice of the DC and the District Social Security Officer. Instead of 50 special children to be ideally kept there, they currently have only 29 and are not taking in any special children during pandemic."Capt Jagdish Chand, administrator, Pingla Ghar, said, all employees coming from outside have been asked to discontinue due to Covid. "We are only keeping staff who are staying indoors 24x7. I offered her an allowance of Rs 1,000 a month and ration but she refused. For one perosn we can't risk all out patients and inmates," he added.Atamjit Bawa, chairperson, Pingla Ghar, said, "With the second wave, we cannot risk the entry of outsiders inside. Once things settle down, she will be called again. Until then we will arrange some allowances for her."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/differently-abled-loses-job-pingla-ghar-faces-criticism-259174
27-05-2021||Jalandhar||Webinar on e-commerce||Online session on biz model canvasInstitutional Innovation Cell of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with the PG Department of Multimedia organised an online session on business model canvas under the aegis of MHRD to acquaint the students towards entrepreneurship. Dr Anjana Bhatia introduced the concept of the session and briefed about the MHRD’s motive of holding Innovation Council, which is prompted towards training the youth of the country. Leena Chhabra, a young entrepreneur, Director Clients Code Working actively as WICCI -State President Punjab Digital Media Council, started the session by explaining the basic concept of business model canvas. She explained all nine blocks along with real life examples which helped the students to link the virtual concept with the real world. Every block of model canvas highlighted one phase of startup of business and its various aspects. She also prepared an animated video for students to understand the concept with the help of multimedia.Orientation sessionKMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised an orientation session for new entrants. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi was the resource person. She welcomed the students to the session 2021-22. Inspiring the students, the Principal averred that students should always dream high to achieve success in life as they should not only develop their skills but the overall personality in order to be successful. Prof Dwivedi also assured that KMV would provide umpteen opportunities to the students through various online innovative programmes and always encourage them to participate in these activities along with their studies in order to channelise the creative energy of the students in the right direction.Webinar on concrete technologyThe Department of Civil Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, organised a webinar on “New Era of Concrete” by Dinesh Sharma (Zonal Head, Customer Technical Services, J K Cement Ltd) for the students of Civil Engineering. The webinar aimed to enhance the practical knowledge of the students as they are able to correlate the theoretical studies to the industrial approach. It proved to be a wonderful learning experience as it helped the students gain better knowledge of the practical aspects of industrial work plans. Students gained deep insight about new innovations in the field of concrete technology.Hindi Poetry recitation sessionTo inspire the young poets to exhibit their talent and confidence, Mayor World School organised a virtual Inter-Class Hindi Poetry Recitation Competition for the students of Class VI. A total of 20 students, five from each section, participated in the competition. Each contender was given 1-2 minutes for recitation of the poem. The enthusiastic poets enjoyed the beauty of expression, thoughts, rhyme and sonority of words. The talented Mayorites arrested the audience with their articulation and vivid evocation while reciting the poems. The competition was judged on the basis of content, linguistic proficiency, rhyme and rhythm, and presentation. Vanshika Dilawari of VI B bagged the first position. The second position was clinched by Jasmine Kaur of VI A followed by Arham Jain of VI C at the third position.Virtual Alumni MeetPhagwara: Kamla Nehru College for Women organised a Virtual Annual Alumni Meet-2021. The programme began with invocation by Aman Lata, Head, Department of English. Principal Dr Savinder Pal welcomed the virtual gathering. The meet was attended by more than 75 college alumni settled in the country and different parts of the world like London, Australia and Canada etc. The alumni were so excited and reminiscent that they wished that they could soon get together physically in the college campus. Almost all of them were of the view that they have reached their present stature due to their alma mater. Dr Savinder expressed happiness on overwhelming response from the alumni. She congratulated the alumni of Kamla Nehru College for achieving the heights in their field of work and urged the alumni to contribute in enhancing knowledge and skill domains of currents students by conducting guest lectures, webinars and seminars.Online short-term courseGNA University inaugurated a one-week online short term course (STC) on “Data Analytics using R”. The researchers, students and other participants from industry all over the globe participated in this online short term course with an objective to understand how data is created, stored, accessed, and how the organisation works with data and creates the environment in which analytics can flourish. The renowned expert from CSIR-CSIO, Chandigarh, Dr Urvashi Nag was the resource person on the inaugural day of STC. The entire event was conducted by Dr Disha Khanna, the MOC wherein the event commenced with welcome address by the Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University. He congratulated the organising team for organizing such a mega event during these unprecedented times. Dr Urvashi Nag, the resource person gave practical demonstration of various data analytics tools. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-e-commerce-259179
27-05-2021||Jalandhar||Auto drivers hold protest in Jalandhar to support farmers||One booked for abetting suicideHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked a woman under the charge of abetment of suicide. Deepak Kumar (24), son of Ajay Kumar, a resident of Bharowal village, had committed suicide by swallowing some poisonous substance. The deceased’s father, Ajay Kumar, had complained to the police that a married woman Kamaljit Kaur of the same village was having an extramarital affair with Deepak. She used to blackmail him and had forcibly taken his new mobile phone too. He said Deepak committed suicide for being harassed by her. The police have booked the woman under Section 306 of the IPC. OCShanties gutted, 1K shelterlessKapurthala: As many as 1,000 people were left shelterless after 250 shanties near Rail Coach Factory caught fire on Wednesday afternoon. The flames of the emanating fire and smoke could be seen from a distance of over 2 km. Four fire extinguishers and 25 firemen were pressed for rescue operation and fire was finally doused after two hours. SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Charumita confirmed that no loss of life took place and an arrangement of food and relief for affected families was being made through various organisations. DSP Sarwan S Bal said the cause of fire could not be ascertained. TNSTravel agent bookedHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked Harjit Kumar of New Deep Nagar here for allegedly duping a man of Rs8.27 lakh on the pretext of sending his son abroad. Satinder Pal Singh of Mohalla Lahoriyan, Tanda, had complained to the police that Harjit had taken Rs 8.27 lakh from him for sending his son Lovepreet to Canada, but neither he sent him to Canada nor returned the money. The police have booked the accused under Section 420 and 406 of the IPC. OCDC honours 20 operatorsJalandhar: Keeping his promise to reward best performing operators who have generated maximum cards under the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday felicitated 20 such operators at the District Administrative Complex here. The DC said Jalandhar had ensured around 87 per cent coverage of the total beneficiaries, which in turn has placed the district in a leading position. The operators who received reward and appreciation letters from the DC included Sangeet, Kesar, Varun, Tarlok, Anjali Bhatti, ManinderJit Singh, Kuldip, Vijaypal, Paramjit Singh, Kuldeep, Akash Kumar, Sukhbir Singh, Sonia, Kuldeep Kumar, Mandeep Kaur, Boota Singh, Bakshish Singh, Sandeep Singh, Jaswinder, and Deepak. TNSBank donates masks, sanitisersJalandhar: Coming to the aid of the administration in Covid times, State Bank of India officials on Wednesday donated Covid-related material for use in district health facilities and hospitals. Chief Manager JM Kalia and deputy Chief Manager Pawan Bassi said the bank had donated 15,000 masks and gloves, 65 sanitisers and 400 litres of hypochlorite to the Civil Surgeon. TNSWoman dies of consuming drugGarhashankar: A 29-year-old woman Sukhwinder Kaur, wife of Jaspal Singh of Chakk Raunta, died of mistakenly consuming some medicine. She was at her home when her condition deteriorated, she was taken to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital where she died during the treatment. The police have recorded proceedings under Section 174 on the statement of her family members. The body was handed over to the kin after post-mortem examination. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-drivers-hold-protest-in-jalandhar-to-support-farmers-259180
27-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Two Jalandhar families lose breadwinners to virus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26Tragedy struck two Jalandhar-based families with both losing all breadwinners to Covid in a short span. Both families have lost four members to the viral disease leaving behind women and children, who are completely devastated not just emotionally but also financially.Three brothers, aged 45, 48 and 55 years and their septuagenarian mother from a family in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar succumbed to the infection in a matter of just a week. While 48-year-old Gurmeet Singh passed away on May 19, his younger brother Surjit Singh died three days later. This morning, their mother Mahinder Kaur and elder brother Avtar Singh also lost their battle against the disease.Charanjit Singh, a relative, said, “Gurmeet’s daughter, who is married, had come to meet them and she perhaps had Covid then. She herself got cured but the infection proved too fatal for everyone else. The three brothers were engaged in small finance business. The women have never worked. It has been the worst tragedy I have ever seen.”Another family based at Jyoti Nagar saw four deaths within three weeks. While it all started with Manmohan Kaur Bedi (76) falling prey to the infection on May 8, her husband Jagjit Singh Bedi (86) died the next day. The family was still recovering from the shock of the death of the two elderly when their elder son Kanwaljit S Bedi (55) passed away on May 16. Yesterday, Kanwaljit’s younger brother Manpreet Singh Bedi (52), who ran a popular stationery shop in Jalandhar, also failed in his fight against the infection.The members of both families said re-building their lives would not be easy as the women lived in joint families and had never stepped out all their lives. The children, though all adults, are still not settled to bear the burden. 4 black fungus cases detected in FazilkaFazilka: After four cases of black fungus infection were reported in Fazilka district, one patient succumbed to the disease. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kumar said Sukhminder Singh (52) of Chak Saidoke village, who was infected with black fungus, was admitted to the DMC, Ludhiana, but died. OCTeacher donates 5 O2 concentratorsFaridkot: An assistant professor of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday donated five oxygen concentrators of 10-litre capacity each to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Dr Manraj Kang, a fourth generation doctor, took help from an NRI relative to procure the concentrators. TNSAnti-pneumonia drive launchedChandigarh: Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu launched SAANS (Social Awareness & Action to Neutralise Pneumonia Successfully) campaign. He said, “Mild, moderate and severe pneumonia can affect Covid-hit children severely.” TNSCM for one lakh jobsChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked the Employment Generation and Training Department to give a push to achieve the target of 1 lakh government jobs at the earliest. He lauded the department’s efforts in facilitating 17.61 lakh jobs since March 2017 even during Covid-19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-jalandhar-families-lose-breadwinners-to-virus-259126
