28-05-2021||Jalandhar||26 black fungus cases in Jalandhar dist so far, but not one treated at Civil Hospital||Of the 26 black fungus cases reported in Jalandhar during the second wave of the pandemic, not a single has been treated at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar.After witnessing a severe shortage of Remdesivir injections during the peak of second Covid wave less than a month ago, the district now faces a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections which are crucial for treating mucormycosis or black fungus cases. While 26 cases of black fungus have been reported in the district so far, the entire lot has been treated by private hospitals only. ‘Aap da Doctor’ campaign launched So far, during the second wave, two patients suspected of black fungus were reported to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, both of whom were further referred to Amritsar.While doctors said for the past two days there was a slight reduction in cases of mucormycosis, the non-availability of the anti-fungal Amphotericin-B injection, however, is a big concern.Dr Surinder Singh, nodal officer of the post-Covid care ward in Jalandhar, said: “So far, two cases of suspected black fungus have been reported at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital. Both were referred to Amritsar, as we do not have adequate medicines to treat them. At present, we are referring black fungus cases due to shortage of medicines.”In the course of the pandemic, the Civil Hospital received a 57-bed ICU, a well-equipped trauma unit, over 30 oxygen concentrators and a fully functional oxygen plant. However, no patient of black fungus could be treated here.On asking about the cause for referral despite a well-stacked hospital, the nodal officer cited lack of medicines, while the District Family Welfare Officer said he wasn’t aware of the same.Dr Raman Gupta, District Family Welfare Officer, Jalandhar, said: “We have received 26 cases of mucormycosis in the district so far. The situation seems to be easing a bit because only one patient was reported in the district today. The one case reported today was at the Civil Hospital. I was not aware that the patient was referred elsewhere.”Dr Sandeep Goyal, DM, neurology, NHS Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “We have six patients of black fungus with us. We have been managing medicines somehow because we are receiving patients from day one. However, there is a serious shortage of injections in the market.”Dr SPS Grover, MD, New Ruby Hospital, said: “We had asked for 20 Amphotericin injections, of which we have received only two today. On the flipside, wholesale chemists have been calling us whether we need any Remdesivir. Remdesivir is now available in excess. The two injections we got were received by the DC office and we have been assured we will get the required injections in the coming days. But at present, there is certainly a shortage.”Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said: “The issue also came up during a virtual press conference chaired by the Chief Secretary. It was decided that all patients of black fungus from Jalandhar Civil Hospital will be referred to the Amritsar medical college because the doctors there are experts in treating the disease.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-black-fungus-cases-in-jalandhar-dist-so-far-but-not-one-treated-at-civil-hospital-259685
28-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Not just a piece of cloth: ‘Pad gang’ tries to put an end to period stigma||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 27At a time when the Covid numbers are still worrisome, a bunch of youth from the posh Cool Road area, who had started a drive ‘Stop the Spots’ some five years back, have continued the practice of making and distributing sanitary pads among slum dwellers.Jaanvi Singh (18), who has been leading the drive, says that Covid has not stopped her from making girls aware of the need for menstrual hygiene. She says that she has just modified her style of functioning due to which her reach has only grown bigger these days. “These days, my family has been helping out the poor across the district by providing them dry ration, masks, soaps and sanitisers. So, I have been adding sanitary pads from my side so that the girls in those areas also get the home-made pads that we are making for them,” she discussed.Why 28/5?Talking about her changed strategy, the Welham School pass-out said, “I was a boarder earlier and could run my project only in the vacation. But I have been free for almost a year and a half and have been at home. In fact, everyone, including my 13-year-old brothers, my mother and my grandmother too are helping me make the pads out of cotton and a gauge. From one pack of cotton and a gauge, we are able to make 150 pads. It takes less than a minute to make a pad. So, we have been able to make a good numbers of pads on our own. Earlier, we used to hire some girls for the job at home but we could not let them inside our house in these days for fear of spread of Covid.”Her mother Reeti Singh, who too is a part of ‘Pad gang’ as they are more popularly known as, too shared, “Since the demand has grown and we are not able to cater to large numbers, we have recently also started distributing just the raw material to the girls so that they can make their own pads. We have now trained many girls in the slum areas on how to make their own pads and keep about 15 pads ready three-four days before their periods are to start. Since the people in slum dwellings around our house are aware that we have the sanitary pads ready, many girls and women are also coming to our place every month to get them.”She added that the best thing in their campaign was that the talk of menstrual cycle was no longer a taboo in the house. “Even our drivers and helpers take pads from me for the women members in their family, she saidLike Jaanvi Singh, there are some other NGOs who have been taking on similar projects for maximum coverage. Manan Sharma, a collegiate who runs NGO Girl Up India, too said she and around 24 girls of her age group have come up with a fund raiser project Adhikar under which they are doing online events like zumba, music concerts and health awareness workshops and funds were being collected from all participants.“We are donating these funds to NGO Bala which is providing us a pad kit worth Rs190 each. We are distributing these kits to the girls from underprivileged families.” The Innerwheel Club members too have set up sanitary pad dispensers in the schools for differently able children but they are surely not in use at the moment. NGO Khwahish run by an NRI based in Nawanshahr too had been distributing sanitary pads in many schools of the district and had set up dispensers and disposable units too but somehow reaching the girls in Covid times has been a bit difficult now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-just-a-piece-of-cloth-pad-gang-tries-to-put-an-end-to-period-stigma-259687
28-05-2021||---||DC recommends FIR against erring Jalandhar hospital||Jalandhar, May 27Tightening the noose around some private hospitals fleecing the patients, the Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori has recommended registration of FIR against Shamsher Hospital for serious malpractices and shortcomings.In a communiqué to the Commissioner of Police, the Deputy Commissioner has observed: “Prima facie it appears to be case fit for investigation by the Police department. If allegations are substantiated during probe, a case may be registered under relevant provisions of law against the Shamsher Hospital”.The DC had on May 18 suspended Level-II Covid care facility (for new admissions) at Shamsher Hospital after a preliminary report submitted by the health authorities flagged malpractices and overcharging. The action followed a complaint filed by Shalinder Singh of Mohalla Gobindgarh, who lost his 50-year-old father, on May 14. The complainant had alleged that the patient, who was ill, was rushed to Shamsher Hospital, where he was admitted in level-II Covid Care ward without RT-PCR test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-recommends-fir-against-erring-jalandhar-hospital-259688
28-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Sanitisation drive begins in villages||Woman killed as truck hits scooterHoshiarpur: A woman was killed while her daughter and her father-in-law were injured in an accident that took place near SDM Chowk in Dasuya town on Wednesday night. Pishori Lal told the police that he, along with his daughter-in-law Joti and her mother Darmo, were crossing through SDM Chowk, a speeding truck hit their bike. They fell on the road and were injured.Later, Darmo succumbed to her injuries. The Dasuya police have booked truck driver Riaz Ahmad, a resident of Mutkarma village in Jammu. OCMan held with 9,000-ml liquorHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have arrested a man and seized 9,000 ml of liquor from his possession. The accused has been identified as Mangal Singh, alias Bunty, a resident of Garhi in Garhshankar. The accused was arrested by a patrol party of the police while he was carrying 12 bottles of liquor in a plastic bag. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against him. OC19,000-kg lahan seized, destroyedJalandhar: The Excise Police searched the Mand area at Veran Dharme Dian Chhanna village in Mehatpur block along the Sutlej River bank and confiscated unclaimed 24 (big and small) tirpals containing approximately 19,000 kg of lahan which was destroyed on the spot. For the last several weeks, the department has been carrying out raids under ‘Operation Red Rose’, and a high amount of illicit liquor has been seized. TNSDonations for govt schoolNawanshahr: Donations have been pouring in for various construction works of Government High School, Rakkeran Dhahan, in the district. SMO Balachaur Dr Kulwinder Mann and Kashmir Singh, retired IFS officer, donated one trolley each of interlock tiles. Dr Gian Kaur donated 40 trolleys of soil and gravel. Minakshi Bhalla, headmistress, lauded the gesture of the philanthropists for their consistent support. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitisation-drive-begins-in-villages-259703
28-05-2021||---||Cases dip, but Jalandhar logs 23 fatalities in just two days||Jalandhar, May 27With 401 new cases reported on Thursday, the total district tally reached 58,898 cases. As many as 12 Covid deaths were also reported on Thursday. With this, the death tally in the district has risen to 1,349. As many as 53,478 people have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 4,071. While the number of Covid admissions and cases have been coming down for the past some days, there is however, a rise in the number of deaths in the district. In the past two days, there have been 23 Covid deaths in the district. While 11 people died yesterday, 12 persons succumbed to the virus on Thursday. Showcause notice to Kap Scan Centre7 deaths in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 201 persons were reported positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 16,321. Seven persons died in the district today. The deceased at Kapurthala include a 50-year-old woman from Ballo Chak village, a 57-year-old man from Talwandi Kuka village, a 67-year-old woman from Sujo Kalia village, a 65-year-old woman from Bhulla Rai village, a 70-year-old woman from Hardaspur , a 46-year-old woman from Tarf Haji village and a 64-year-old man from Talwandi Chaudhrian village. So far 464 people have died of Covid at Kapurthala.Toll tops 900 in HoshiarpurThe district reported two more Covid fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 901, while 125 new cases pushed the infection tally to 26,121.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases stood at 2,004, while the number of recovered patients was 25, 083. Out of today’s 125 cases, four positive patients were reported from other districts and the remaining 121 from various health blocks of the district.The total number of samples taken in the district till date is 5,56,573, of which, 5,27,203, were negative, while 4,627 report were still awaited and 442 samples were invalid.Meanwhile, the district administration on Thursday declared Beh Kitton village in Hajipur block of Hoshiarpur subdivision as micro-containment zone. The DC issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zone.Two die in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported two deaths and 38 new Covid cases today. Victims have been identified as a 70-year-old man from Mukandpur block, a 36-year-old from Nawanshahr, a 47-year-old from Mukandpur, a 72 year-old woman from Sujjon block. Maximum (10) cases were reported from Sujjon block and one case was reported from Rahon. Total number of positive cases has now increased to 10,910 and the number of active cases is 616. There are three containment zones in the district and the recovery rate is 91.63 per cent. Total number of deaths till now are 317.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-dip-but-jalandhar-logs-23-fatalities-in-just-two-days-259704
28-05-2021||---||Mother of two kids raped multiple times, 3 booked||Jalandhar, May 27The police have registered a rape case against three men for raping a 26-year-old woman multiple times. The accused have been iddentified as Davinder, Amanjot and Jassa Singh, all residents of Adampur.The complainant, a mother of two, reported that she was raped by the accused in July, August and September, last year. Sub-Inspector Bisman Singh Sahi, in charge, Jandusingha police station, said based on allegations of the woman, they have registered a case against the accused.“The complainant alleged that Davinder approached her last year and asked her to talk to her, else, he will kill her children. Davinder forcefully entered his house and assaulted her. Her husband was not at home when the incident took place. The accused also filmed the entire incident and raped her again. Later, Amanjot and Jassa reached her home and threatened to circulate her video, if she does not make physical relations with them. The complainant alleged that the trio kept on raping her,” said Sahi.A case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC has been registered against the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mother-of-two-kids-raped-multiple-times-3-booked-259705
28-05-2021||---||Three-km long Banga flyover inaugurated||Nawanshahr, May 27Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari today inaugurated the much-awaited flyover on Jalandhar-Chandigarh Road at Banga. The flyover will provide a lot of relief to both the commuters on the highway as well as the local population and the traders and shopkeepers.The 3-km long flyover was constructed at a cost of Rs 400 crores. It spans over the entire stretch of the Banga town over the national highway. The flyover had been pending completion for a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-km-long-banga-flyover-inaugurated-259706
