29-05-2021||Jalandhar||‘I am vaccinated’ stickers launched||Job opportunities for youth in banksHoshiarpur: Youth will be provided better employment opportunities in big banks and financial institutions in the district. Addressing a meeting of cluster heads and branch managers of private banks and financial institutions at the District Administrative Complex on Friday, DC Apneet Riyat said the main objective of this meeting was to provide more than 100 jobs in the banking sector to well-qualified and fresh pass out youths in the district. She said there was a lot of employment potential in banks and next month the focus would be on getting employment for them in major private banks. OCMP Tewari opens dev projectsNawanshahr: MP Manish Tewari inaugurated the Banga power house of the Power Corporation, which has been upgraded from 132 MW to 220 MW at a cost of Rs 16 crore. He said with the increase in the capacity of this power house, smooth and uninterrupted power supply will be ensured in the Banga area. He also inaugurated a water supply project at a cost of Rs 42.53 lakh at Bisla village which would provide clean drinking water to people of the area. Apart from this, he also handed over ownership letters of 36 plots of 5 marla each to the homeless people of Banga constituency. TNSF&CC meet to be held on May 31Jalandhar: A meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation will be held on May 31. The meeting will be attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and members of the committee councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth. The agendas include laying of sewer lines at various areas, development of infrastructure, and construction of streets. TNSOne arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested a man and seized narcotics from his possession. The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Kali, a resident of Dihana village. On seeing police party, he tried to flee but was apprehended by the cops. During search, the police found 20 gm of intoxicating powder from him. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-am-vaccinated-stickers-launched-260349
29-05-2021||Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor held a monthly review meeting with all programme officers and senior medical officers to review the progress of national health programmes including the current status of Covid-19 in the district. At the meeting||‘Meet targets of national health programmes’||Farm laws: Kirti Kisan Union holds protestOver 150 tractors and scores of farmers under the banner of Kirti Kisan Union held protest in Nawanshahr villages to mark six months of farmer protests. The march started from Usmanpur village and covered Jadla, Daulatpur, Kishanpura, Langroa, Jethmajara, etc. The farmers carried black flags in protest. The union leaders said the farmers would continue their fight against the three farm laws.890 violators taken for Covid testingTaking action against lockdown violators and negligence of Covid rules in the district, the police on Thursday registered cases while Covid tests of 890 persons without masks were conducted. In one of the cases, the police said Surinder Kumar, a resident of Simbal Majara, had opened his grocery shop and was selling illicit liquor during the curfew, and 12 bottles of liquor were seized from him. The media van of Saanjh Kendra and police stations were alerting the people to take precautionary measures against Covid. The SSP Nawanshahr appealed to the people not to show indifferent attitude towards the Covid rules and not to go out of their houses during lockdown and night curfew. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-targets-of-national-health-programmes-260346
29-05-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on Indian sweets||Session on nuclear energyKanya Maha Vidyalaya is organising KMV International Series (Physics Chapter). Under these series, students are being taken to world’s renowned research laboratories like CERN, ENEA etc. virtually. To inculcate the scientific temperament and curiosity of research among students, an initiative has been taken to organise interactive sessions with scientists of international repute. In the third episode of KMV international series, Dr Michael Ojovan, Prof, Department of Materials, Imperial College, London UK and former nuclear engineer at International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) was invited as the key speaker. The topic of Dr Ojovan was the role of IAEA in the peaceful use of nuclear energy and radioactive waste materials. He discussed various aspects like sustainability, safety measurements and present status of nuclear reactors and nuclear waste.Gurpurb celebrated onlineGuru Amar Dass Public School celebrated Parkash Purab of Guru Amar Dass online under the guidance of Ajit Singh Sethi, president, Guru Amar Dass Public School. On this occasion, students shared their videos of speeches, poems and shabad while sitting at home. Jasjeet Kaur preached and enlightened the students about the teachings of the great Guru. President Ajit Singh Sethi and committee members Dr Sonika Singh and Sandeep Veena congratulated and encouraged the students to follow the teachings of the Guru. President Ajit Singh Sethi thanked the parents for their support who prepared their students.Webinar on Covid-19DIPS Polytechnic College, Tanda, organised a webinar on Covid-19. The chief speakers at the webinar were Dr Vikramjeet Singh and Dr Sandeep Kumar. During the process, Dr Vikramjeet Singh shared his enriched and vast experience with college staff and students and apprised how to safeguard ourselves and our family. He emphasised on the healthy diet along with doing yoga on a daily basis and exercise so that all maintain a good immune system. Dr Sandeep Kumar remarked that in case we have any symptoms, then we should not panic and get a Covid-19 test done and get a medical treatment so that the immediate precautionary measures and treatment is taken at the right time. Avoid crowded places and ensure to wear a mask.Hubs of Learning programmeEklavya School conducted a meeting under CBSE-approved programme “Hubs of Learning”. Eklavya School initially named as ‘Lead Collaborator School’ by the CBSE board. Educator Gaurav Mehandiratta conducted a well-planned, organised meeting with all the member schools. The topic of workshop was “Teaching Strategies and Methodologies in Teaching of Science”. The motive behind this meeting was to make students comfortable while studying science. Many of the students have a fear of science in their minds to overcome this problem there are many ways to teach science so that the students take a keen interest in science. Gaurav explained that apart from delivering lecture in classroom, there are many ways to make science a fun ie we can teach through PowerPoint presentations, organise science exhibitions, show animations, perform experiments, teach concepts in the form of story-telling, show science movies, plan field visits to science museums etc.Webinar on Aero Industrial ExposurePhagwara: GNA University organised a webinar on “Aero industrial exposure and career opportunities” for the students of Engineering, Design, and Automation. Rakesh Shete, Aero career coach, project manager, Edall System, Bengaluru, presided over the webinar. The main objective behind this webinar was to bring awareness among the engineering, design, and automation aspirants to seek for career opportunities in Aero Industry. The keynote speaker discussed the significant aerospace engineering fields like Aero-structures, Aircraft maintenance, Propulsion, and Avionics by throwing light on their key concepts that students could acquire to get future jobs. He also demonstrated A320 construction to provide an authentic experience to students. Subsequently, there was an exciting discussion on the role of various Industrial materials exclusive to the Aerospace Industry.NSS volunteers distribute masksKapurthala: NSS Unit of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, organised an awareness campaign under the expert guidance and support of college Principal Dr Archna Garg. In this campaign, NSS volunteers participated enthusiastically by preparing masks. They also distributed them to the people in the slum areas in Kapurthala. The students also made the people aware regarding precautionary measures to be taken during this pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-indian-sweets-260343
29-05-2021||---||Fifth accused in Jalandhar spa gangrape case arrested||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28The Commissionerate Police on Friday arrested the fifth accused in the gangrape case of a Ludhiana-based girl at a spa in Model Town here.The accused is Arshad Khan, a resident of Garha, and he was nabbed by the police team from Nakodar Chowk. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the Special Investigation Team and Division No. 6 police in a joint operation had nabbed the accused, who was on the run after.Earlier, the police teams had arrested four of the accused including main accused Ashish Bahal, kingpin and Ludhiana resident Jyoti, Sohit Sharma and Inder. The CP said the investigation officers were questioning the arrested accused to further probe the matter and would be presented before the court.The CP said the SIT would furnish its investigation in a time-bound manner so that a chargesheet against the accused could be presented before the court at the earliest to ensure timely justice to the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fifth-accused-in-jalandhar-spa-gangrape-case-arrested-260341
29-05-2021||---||Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh apprises minister Brahm Mahindra of garbage dump and strike||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 28Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh and president Municipal Council Nawanshahr Sachin Diwan called on Punjab Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mahindra and discussed the problems facing the city. The MLA apprised the Cabinet Minister that at present there were two burning issues in Nawanshahr, including the inconvenience caused to the people due to a huge garbage dump, troubling the residents living nearby and the worsening situation in the city due to the strike by the council employees.He said that the garbage dump on Musapur Road in Nawanshahr was overcrowded, which was causing a lot of hardship to the residents of the affected areas and they were forced to live in unhealthy environment. “Therefore, it is important to shift the dump out of the population,” he told the Minister.He also apprised the Cabinet Minister that the strike of the Municipal Council employees was the second major issue for the city. “Due to the strike of the employees union, the situation in the city has deteriorated and there are piles of garbage in some places,” the MLA raised the concern.He said that in this era of Corona epidemic, the litter on the streets was inviting other diseases, so, he appealed to the Cabinet Minister to resolve these two important issues of the city as soon as possible. Cabinet Minister Brahma Mahindra assured that a proper solution to these two issues would be found soon.The nagar council employees union president Suraj said that they have been demanding that those karamcharis who are still working on temporary basis, must be made permanent. “Until the demands are not met, we will continue the strike,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-mla-angad-singh-apprises-minister-brahm-mahindra-of-garbage-dump-and-strike-260335
29-05-2021||---||‘Granthi’s arrest was politically motivated’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28“My husband’s arrest is politically motivated. He is an honest man standing for Dalit rights,” this was stated by Rampal Kaur, wife of Gurmail Singh, the Bathinda village resident who had been arrested days ago for holding an ardaas praising for the good health of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and lauding BJP’s decision of making a Dalit the CM of the state. Kaur on Friday met Vijay Sampla, BJP leader and Chairman, National Commission for Scheduled Castes at the circuit house here.While Sampla said the National Commission for Schedules Castes had already taken up the issue, he said justice would be ensured for Kaur’s family. In a memorandum submitted to Vijay Sampla on the occasion, Kaur sought security cover and financial assistance.Speaking on the occasion, Kaur said, “My husband had always been raising the issue that the state should get a CM from the Dalit samaj. It never got a Dalit CM for years in the tenure of the Badals and now during the Congress. The ardaas he held was his honest sentiment and wasn’t made under any pressure as is being insinuated. Many tried to suggest that he should apologise for the ardaas then the case will be withdrawn. But I wasn’t there. Why should he apologise if it was his honest view. It is his prerogative. He stands for it.”Kaur added, “My husband is an honest Gursikh, he stands by the prayer he made. He has always stood with Dalits and he also used to do jal sewa at our village which has a severe shortage of water.” Kaur has demanded security from the government as she lives alone and has two elderly members in the family to take care of. She demanded justice and the release of her husband.Kaur is sarpanch of gram panchayat Bir Talab in Bathinda. Sampla said, “The lodging of an FIR over an ardaas is nothing short of an atrocity. We can’t hurt someone’s sentiments just because they are offering a prayer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/granthis-arrest-was-politically-motivated-260331
29-05-2021||Aparna Banerji||4-yr-old makes waves in modelling world||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28He was just a six-month-old baby when he first appeared in an advertisement. Now at 4, he is already the brand ambassador of at least half a dozen brands. Doe-eyed, Pratyaksh Bhalla is a blue-eyed boy from Jalandhar who has grabbed the attention of kid brands bagging a number of endorsements even amidst the pandemic.While he served as a model for Sri Lanka-based Goon Diapers when he was just 6-month-old, he strutted in designer brand Partykles- Little Tag’s assortment of niche party wear at one and a half years. At the age of 2, he was modelling for Ajio and this March his dapper pictures for First Cry’s summer collection did the rounds.Huge posters and banners of various Jalandhar brands also flashed huge posters of the four-year-old in an array of clothes.While his long golden tresses grabbed eye balls when he was one year old, even with the now much shorter hair, is still the favourite little brand amabssador of a number of brands.Shelly Kapoor Bhalla, a former lecturer and a doting mother to Pratyaksh, says, “He first caught the fancy of Sri Lankan brand Goon Diapers when he was just a baby. I took home to Delhi for the shoot then. Soon after, an array of other endorsements followed. many have searched him out through Facebook. There are others who picked him out at random events. At a ramp walk for Raunak events, where he stood first, a firm took fancy to him. Days later he was the face of a fertility hospital.”She adds, “I have been to Delhi and Bangalore among other places for Pratyaksh’s endorsement shoots. He is faired and golden haired, and immensely camera friendly. Everyone seems to love him. He has modelled for Partykles, Zara, Reliance Trends, Ajio, Horlicks and First Cry. There are others with whom projects are in the pipeline.”While Pratyaksh’s father is a businessman, his mother quit her job to tend to her son. She takes him to all the places where they are called for brand shoots.When talking about why a Jalandhar-based boy has captured the fancy of the biggest brands, Shelly says, “While he is lovely to look at, he is also brilliant at modelling. He makes poses, squats, stands, leans on walls, and strikes different poses for a photograph. He never throws a tantrum and loves all the attention he gets, himself posing with varied postures for shoots. His amiability and willingness makes him a favoured choice of many brands.”Shelly says while Pratyaksh is just a kid and has now idea of the magnitude of the attention he gets, he is also oblivious to the meaning of all this.“He does not know the meaning of these shoots. For him, it’s just good fun. He just jumps around and poses and for him it is just like an outing. We are happy that our son is helping smiles on people’s faces.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-yr-old-makes-waves-in-modelling-world-260326
29-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||125-bed Covid ward at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital gets new facilities||Reiterating commitment of the state government to ensure best healthcare facilities in Covid wards of government hospitals, Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Thursday inaugurated the new healthcare facilities in the Civil Hospital here.Taking stock of 125-bed Covid ward in the hospital, Arora expressed gratitude toward the Vardhman Yarns and Threads for incurring Rs 25 lakh to set up new facilities. He said the state government had been providing modern health facilities to Covid patients during the treatment in its institutions.Arora said that mission Fateh-2 would also be achieved with the helping hand of social, religious organisations and industrial houses like Vardhman Yarns and Threads in this tough time. He said the cooperation of these organisations in terms of setting up infrastructure and ensuring various facilities at different sectors was highly commendable.Inspecting the new facilities in the ward along with Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, Sunder Sham Arora said the facilities like x-ray, phototherapy, haematology analyser, patient monitor and operation theatre table would immensely benefit the patients.The minister said the company had also given four mobile vans to the administration which were being used for vaccination and testing in villages. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/125-bed-covid-ward-at-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-gets-new-facilities-260320
29-05-2021||---||Kayakalp: Shahkot CHC ranks sixth in Punjab, again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Shahkot Community Health Centre (CHC) has secured sixth position in the state for the second consecutive year in the ‘Kayakalp’ competition launched by the Central Government to change the look and work culture of the government hospitals. In the two-stage competition, the Shahkot CHC got 87.70 points.Senior Medical Officer Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal said a ‘’Kayakalp’’ Programme has been launched to improve the functioning of government hospitals. “Of the 164 CHCs in Punjab, only 52 have scored more than 70 per cent. Out of all of them, Shahkot CHC is ranked sixth in the state. Under this programme, the evaluation of government hospitals is done on seven main points, including hygiene, bio-medical waste management, dress code, security, and water management. This year, another point on patient satisfaction was also added.Dr Duggal said under this programme, the CHC conducts the assessment at its own level and the report is sent to the state. This is followed by evaluation by an external team in the first and second stages.The senior officials said the field staff engaged in the search and daily care of the patients and the staff providing OPD services in the hospital, all gave time for the kayakalp campaign, even after their duty was over. Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said all field staff including the hospital staff played an important role to fulfill the rules of the competition. The sanitation workers working in the hospital worked hard beyond their daily work, while the rest of the employees took up the task of cleaning their own rooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kayakalp-shahkot-chc-ranks-sixth-in-punjab-again-260315
29-05-2021||---||‘Udaan’ scheme to provide free sanitary pads to needy women in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 28Aimed at supporting needy girls and women, ‘Udaan’ a scheme for distribution of sanitary pads free of cost every month was launched in the district on Friday.Participating in a virtual launch event with Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on the other end, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the scheme would protect women/girls from menstrual hygiene related diseases, spread awareness about menstrual hygiene, improve accessibility to basic hygiene products, promote better standard of living for women by improving a quality of life, enhance women’s self-esteem and ensure safe disposal of sanitary pads.Under this new scheme, school drop-out/out-of-school girls, young women not attending college, women from BPL families, residing in slum areas and homeless women, women of itinerant traveller (banjara) families and left-out beneficiaries (preferably households having blue cards), who are not availing free/subsidised sanitary pads under any scheme of other departments, would be covered in this scheme.The DC said the beneficiaries would be covered through a wide network of 1,654 anganwari centres, adding, around 50 beneficiaries would be covered through each anganwari centre. “A maximum of nine sanitary pads would be given to each beneficiary per month,” he added. Ha also stated that a state-level task force would monitor the overall progress of the scheme along with scientific disposal of the used napkins.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/udaan-scheme-to-provide-free-sanitary-pads-to-needy-women-in-jalandhar-260312
29-05-2021||---||2 brothers killed in accident on Jandiala-Phagwara Road||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Two brothers were killed in a road accident on the Jandiala-Phagwara Road here on Friday. The brothers, identified as Harkanwal Singh (41) and Jatinder Singh (38), residents of Talhan village in Jalandhar, were killed on the spot after a tempo hit the Alto car in which they were travelling.They were going from Jandiala to Dadowal when their car collided with a pick-up coming from the other side. The driver of the tempo was seriously injured in the accident and was admitted to the Nakodar Civil Hospital.A case under Sections 279, 304-A, 427 of the IPC has been registered against the tempo driver at the Jandiala police station.Police station in-charge Gurvinder Singh said, “Both the persons were real brothers who hailed from Talhan village. Their family came to the police station and took their bodies. As per information, they were going to meet relatives from their village.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-brothers-killed-in-accident-on-jandiala-phagwara-road-260311
29-05-2021||---||Nurse commits suicide in her apartment, leaves no note||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28A nurse working with a private hospital on Friday committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in the apartment where she was staying. The victim, identified as Razia Sultana, hailed from Pasla village in Phillaur, but was putting up in an apartment at Makhdoompura locality. SHO, Division No.4, Rashpal Singh said he got the information of the suicide at around 4pm.“By the time we reached the spot, the victim’s body had already been brought down. Since the nurse did not reach the hospital (Caremax Hospital) where she worked today as per the duty roster, the authorities kept on calling her on her phone but to no avail. Since she lived near the hospital, they sent a staffer to her apartment to check why she was not picking up the phone.He kept knocking at her door but there was no response. An inquiry was made from neighbourers in the presence of whom the door was forced open. They found the body hanging and brought it down,” said the SHO.The SHO said since the door was bolted from inside and there was no sign of anyone forcing in, it seemed to be a clear case of suicide. “The family of the victim too reached here from Phillaur and we are probing the case all angles to ascertain the reason why she took the extreme step. No suicide note was found. Her neighbourers said a person had visited her in the morning, but no one has any clue of his identity. We have sent the body for a postmortem and started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurse-commits-suicide-in-her-apartment-leaves-no-note-260310
29-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Admissions via online portal not feasible: Colleges||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Even as the state government has taken a decision to hold online admissions for all colleges falling under Panjab University, Punjabi University and Guru Nanak Dev University through the Saanjh Online Admission Portal in view of the Covid situation this time, the college authorities have termed it “irrational and inappropriate”.While a majority of students and parents are satisfied with the decision as they do not want to travel in the pandemic time and want the entire process to get completed sitting at home, the college managements and principals are of the view that it would be an unsuccessful plan with already low admissions last year.President of Principals’ Association and Principal of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, Dr Gurpinder Samra said: “We have already seen that the common online admission counselling for BEd and BTech has been almost a failure. Most students prefer to take admission directly by approaching the colleges of their choice. People in Punjab, especially in rural areas, are not yet fully prepared for the online system of admission. Many of them are not used to making digital payments. Students in general have a very casual approach towards admission and do not check the facts well. In such a scenario, the colleges which have an attractive portal instead of a more qualified staff will have an edge.”He said, “I will suggest the government to keep both online and offline options open. The students who want to visit the colleges, see the infrastructure, check out the prospectus, take manual counselling, explore more and take the help of our dedicated staff at the already established counselling centres should be allowed the offline option as well.”While the Centre is yet to decide about conduct of board examination for Class XII, most colleges, it is learnt, have already started provisional admissions. The college authorities said: “We cannot refuse anyone approaching us directly, so we are doing provisional admissions as well. Already most students in Punjab are looking to go abroad for higher studies. We need to keep them engaged with us.”Dr Kawaljit Kaur, Principal, Mata Gujri Khalsa College, Kartarpur, also condemned the state government’s decision of common online counselling. “Educational institutions are already battling with a fall in students’ strength. The government’s plan to centralise the admissions for various courses in all its colleges is a bad decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admissions-via-online-portal-not-feasible-colleges-260309
29-05-2021||---||Now, NGO Aakhri Umeed to ferry Covid patients at just Rs 11||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28NGO Aakhri Umeed on Friday launched an ambulance service equipped with oxygen facility which would be available to poor patients at just Rs 11 from now onwards. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori along with eminent environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal performed the formal launching.Since the onset of the second wave of the coronavirus, there had been an increasing demand of ambulances to ferry patients to the hospitals safely. An unreasonable amount being charged by private ambulance operators had left people hanging in balance. Also, the free ambulance service to ferry patients to hospitals remained occupied forever.“With an alarming rate of increase in Covid cases, it was hard to see people pleading ambulance drivers to cut their cost. Hence, we decided to provide ambulance service to the needy,” said Jatinder Pal Singh, the president of the NGO, also its founder. He said the service will not only be restricted within the district, but will expand to other districts and states as well.Jatinder Pal Singh added that to begin with just one ambulance had been started and depending on the response and demand, another ambulance would be brought into service.Lauding the efforts of the NGO, the DC described it as a real service of the masses. He said that any needy person desirous of availing the benefits of this ambulance service could call at 9115560161. He said that in the present Covid crisis when the healthcare system was under acute pressure, the efforts of NGOs like Aakhri Umeed was a ray of hope for the masses. He also said that the work of these NGOs was acting as an inspiration for the other masses to serve the needy and underprivileged people in this hour of grave crisis.Jatinder Pal Singh apprised the DC and Baba Seechewal about the efforts being made by the NGO for the welfare of the people. He said that the NGO had till now cremated more than 500 dead bodies of Covid infected patients besides providing relief to the family members of needy patients. Jatinder Pal Singh said that the NGO had also been providing food, medicines, and clothes to the needy people at Rs 11.Notably, the NGO is already helping people to cremate those who succumbed to Covid-19. From bearing the cost of the PPE kits to bringing the bodies to the cremation ground, the NGO has been providing all its services for free. On an average, the volunteers of Aakhri Umeed cremate 7 to 9 bodies in a day. The NGO operates from Babreek Chowk, near the Football Chowk and the volunteers do not draw any salary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-ngo-aakhri-umeed-to-ferry-covid-patients-at-just-rs-11-260307
29-05-2021||---||COVID-19 pandemic: 10 succumb to virus, 497 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 28With 497 new cases reported on Friday, the district tally increased to 59,395. The health authorities reported 10 Covid-19 related deaths today. With this, the toll reached 1,359. As many as 54,099 patients have recovered from the virus in the district. At present, the district has 3,937 active cases.The district today again witnessed a spike in cases as they reached near 500. During the last few days, positive cases hovered between 350 and 400. In the last three days, the district witnessed 33 deaths. Eleven people fell prey to the virus on May 26, 12 on May 27 and 10 today.Hoshiarpur reports 3 deathsThe district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 904, while 117 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 26,232.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 3,813 samples were received and of them, 111 new cases were reported from the district, while 16 patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,787, while 25,414 patients have recovered. The deceased have been identified as 50-year-old woman of Tihara village and a 38-year-old man of Samundra village, who died at Jalandhar hospitals. A 42-year-old patient of Garhdiwala died at Medical College, Amritsar.4 die, 84 test +ve in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, the health authorities reported 84 positive cases today, thus taking the tall to 16,392. The authorities reported four deaths in the district today. The deceased include a 50-year-old woman from Talwansi Chaudrian village, a 58-year-old man from Sabuwal village, a 60-year-old woman from Jatike village and an 85-year-old woman from Fattu Dhunga village.Nawanshahr: Dip in casesThe district is witnessing a steady decline in number of daily Covid cases. On Friday, as many as 27 persons were found Covid positive. Two blocks — Urban Nawanshahr and Urban Rahon reported zero cases. Two persons from Sujjon block succumbed to the virus. The deceased were identified as 70 and 59 year-old-men. The recovery rate in the district is 92%, while the total number of cases in Nawanshahr are 10,937, and active cases stands at 560 (540 from Nawanshahr and 20 from other districts).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-10-succumb-to-virus-497-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-260305
