30-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Class XII students carry Hamlet’s dilemma over board exams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29The dilemma facing students of Class XII over whether the board exams will be held or not is much worse than what Hamlet faced (to be or not to be) in the Shakespearean play.Holed up inside their homes since March last year, without any outing with friends, recreation, a completely disrupted routine and above all an unending quandary over how their board examination and pending entrance examination would be, the Class XII batch of 2020-21 students are going through a lot so to say.The prevailing situation has only made it more difficult to handle the mental stress that students are going through.Kavya Sharma, a commerce student, said: “You just cannot imagine the level of boredom that has set in. I have stopped studying since the board examination got postponed. I just cannot pull on. It was getting beyond I could bear. I will restart only when the CBSE announces the new datesheet. My life only revolves around checking news updates on the CBSE’s latest planning or any likely change in the pattern now.”Rishita Handa, a non-medical stream student, says: “I am in favour of cancellation of board examination like those of Class X and giving average marks on the basis of our practical examination, viva and assignments for these were our live performances. I am not for giving marks on the basis of unit tests, as these were held online and most students had indulged in cheating. I do not think holding examination in this situation will be possible anytime soon and soon a way out will have to be decided.”Students said they were now impatiently waiting for the Supreme Court verdict on the plea for cancellation of the board examination, which is expected on May 31. If the court allows the conduct of exams, an announcement on finer modalities and other issues is likely to be made by the Union Education Minister on June 1.Teachers feel the situation has led to a majority of students praying for cancellation. Having had no regular classes throughout the year, remaining completely independent with respect to studies and having had no regularity, the situation has led to a huge divide.Dr Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV Public School, believes: “Those students who have toiled very hard, became good self-learners and held online group discussions, are in favour of holding examination for they are striving for top colleges in the country. But those who adopted a laidback attitude and believed that the situation will not normalise are the ones who want cancellation of exams. I have been attending webinars of the CBSE and my guess is that it will be a 90-minute examination based on MCQs for all major subjects. Examination may be held in two rounds – one starting around July 15 and the second by August 1 – so as to give a second chance to any student affected due to Covid in the first round.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-xii-students-carry-hamlets-dilemma-over-board-exams-260634
30-05-2021||---||Jalandhar sees 8 Covid deaths, 254 new cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29With 254 persons testing positive on Saturday, the district tally reached 59,649. Not only this, eight Covid deaths were also reported, taking the toll in the district to 1,367. As many as 54,521 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 3,761.3 die, 72 +ve in KapurthalaKapurthala reported 72 positive cases, taking the tally of positive cases to 16,462. Three people also succumbed to the virus in the district, taking the toll to 471. The deceased include a 57-year-old woman from Ibrahimwal village, a 60-year-old woman and a 42-year-old man from Phagwara.3 fall prey to virus, 47 +ve in NawanshahrThe district health authorities reported 47 positive cases on Saturday and three fatalities due to the infection. Balachaur and Muzaffarpur areas reported 14 cases each. Rahon and Banga had no case. Just one positive case was reported from Nawanshahr town. Among those who lost their lives on Saturday are two persons aged 38 and 55 from Muzaffarpur block and a 65-year-old from Saroya block. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 10,984 and 322 residents have lost their lives to the infection in the last 14 months. The total number of active cases of the district stands at 484.2 succumb to virus, 122 +ve in HoshiarpurWith 122 persons testing positive for Covid, the district tally reached 26,348 on Saturday. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 406 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases is 1,620, while the number of patients who have recovered is 25,701. On Saturday, six patients were reported from other districts, while 116 were from other health blocks.The total number of Covid-19 samples taken till date is 5,64,354, of which, 5,34,386 tested negative, while 4,994 reports were still awaited and 446 samples were invalid. Among the dead were a 67-year-old New Nangal village resident and a 68-year-old Sahri village resident, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-8-covid-deaths-254-new-cases-260635
30-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||How Sewa Kendras lead from the front||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/how-sewa-kendras-lead-from-the-front-260636
30-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Volunteers to contain virus spread in villages||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/volunteers-to-contain-virus-spread-in-villages-260637
30-05-2021||Jalandhar||Pilot project to provide Covaxin at affordable rates||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pilot-project-to-provide-covaxin-at-affordable-rates-260638
30-05-2021||---||Post Covid ICU, O2 plant set up in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29To augment healthcare infrastructure amid pandemic, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Friday launched the city’s first post Covid ICU along with a PSA-based oxygen generation plant at Shrimann Super Specialty Hospital situated at Pathankot Road, Jalandhar.While inaugurating the plant, the DC said this plant would ensure production of medical oxygen at the rate of 750 liters per minute. He further added that this plant would help tackling the third wave if it hits Jalandhar. He said the district had become self-reliant in terms of oxygen generation.The DC also added that the district administration had appealed to all private healthcare institutions and industries to install their own oxygen plants to become self-reliant following which NHS Hospital, Patel Hospital and New Ruby Hospitals had started their own oxygen generation plants.While interacting with the hospital Directors Dr VP Sharma, Dr Harmeet Paul Singh, Dr Rajiv Bhatia and Dr Ajay Marwaha, Deputy Commissioner also reviewed the Covid-19 facilities in the hospital. Thori also inaugurated 10-bed Post Covid ICU in the hospital for the care of Covid-19 patients. Medical Director Dr VP Sharma briefed that even after getting Covid-19 negative reports, patients who had lung damage due to viral pneumonia required intensive care support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-covid-icu-o2-plant-set-up-in-jalandhar-260639
30-05-2021||---||Honey trap: ASI among four arrested in extortion case||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29The police on Saturday arrested four persons — an ASI, two women and a man — for implicating gullible people in fake honey-trap cases. The fifth accused is absconding. The police arrested them after a resident, who was also being implicated in such a false case, lodged a complaint with the police. Besides, they would also extort money from innocent people by implicating them in such false cases. After registering FIRs against those who would fall prey to their trap, they used to demand money from them for withdrawing cases.Following a complaint by Harjinder Singh, a resident of Khive village in Nakodar area of the district, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police arrested five persons, including ASI Kashmir Lal and constable Paramjit Singh, both posted at the Jandiala police sub-station.In his complaint, Harjinder Singh said a few days ago he had come to Jalandhar when a woman called him and asked for financial help on the pretext that her mother was unwell. When the woman met Harjinder Singh near the Lambra police station to collect the money, she sat on the front seat of his car.According to Harjinder, he gave some money to the woman as help but as soon as the woman got out of the car, two cops in uniform reached there and minutes later another woman reached there on an Activa scooter.The policemen told Harjinder Singh that if he did not pay them Rs10 lakh, they would file a case against him for molesting a woman. After this, Harjinder Singh, considering his respect in the area, gave them a cheque for Rs2.5 lakh.Harjinder further stated that the next day they called him asking to withdraw the cheque and make the payment in cash otherwise a case would be registered against him. Then Harjinder made the payment in cash to them.Harjinder also stated that he suspected that he was being blackmailed after which he lodged a complaint with the Jalandhar Commissioner of Police.The police arrested ASI Kashmir Lal, Ravi Nahar, Prabhjot Kaur and Gurwinder while Paramjit Singh is absconding. A case has been registered against them for illegally extorting money from innocent people.Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said after the complaint was received, a preliminary inquiry was instituted and the accused were subsequently held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/honey-trap-asi-among-four-arrested-in-extortion-case-260640
30-05-2021||---||54-yr-old security guard murdered||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29A 54-year-old security guard was brutally murdered in the wee hours here on Saturday. The incident was reported to have taken place in Adarsh Colony near Kapurthala Chowk.A native of Uttar Pradesh, the deceased has been identified as Rajinder Kumar, alias Kala, a resident of Paras Estate, Basti Peer Dad. The incident took place at around 2.45am and was recorded on CCTV cameras, the police said, adding that the guard died on the spot.SHO Sukhbir Singh, Police Division number-2, said the information about the murder was received at around 8.15am at the control room. Some local residents informed the PCR teams about the body.“The victim was completely soaked in blood. Apparently, he was brutally attacked with a wooden rod and an interlocking tile. The rod and the tile were also recovered from the spot. After investigating the matter and verifying the CCTV footage, it was established that he was killed by a scrap lifter.Another security guard, who works at an ATM, confirmed his identification. The accused has been identified as Raju (30), a resident of Basti Danishmanda. The accused reportedly killed the victim over some personal enmity. Rajinder used to stop Raju from lifting waste from his complex and had also beaten him up around a year ago. Therefore, when he again asked him to not to collect the waste from his area, they broke into a heated argument which eventually turned ugly and Raju eventually ended up killing him,” added the SHO.A case of murder has been registered against Raju at the police station and he was arrested on Saturday, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/54-yr-old-security-guard-murdered-260641
30-05-2021||Jalandhar||Three arrested with  60-kg poppy husk||The police on Saturday arrested three persons with 60 kg poppy husk here. Those arrested have been identified as Malkit Singh of Talwandi Bootian, Shahkot; Sahil Singh of Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir; and Arshdeep Singh of Kakar Kalan, Shahkot.The police stopped a Bolero pick-up (PB08EC 1538) at Daroli Kalan and on search, they found four sacks in it containing 40 kg of poppy husk. The car’s occupants were identified as Malkit Singh and Sahil Singh.A case under Sections 15-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against the duo at the Adampur police station. During interrogation, Malkit also revealed that 20 kg of poppy husk was stashed in a white Honda City car (CH03 W 1020) standing at a dhaba in Adampur which was also seized by the police.Malkit said he had sold 20 kg of poppy husk to Arshdeep Singh, a resident of Kakar Kalan, six to seven days ago and the police raided the village and found 8 kg of poppy husk from the possession of Arshdeep Singh.A case under Sections 15-B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was lodged against Arshdeep at the Shahkot police station. Both Bolero and Honda city car found at the dhaba had been impounded.During probe, Malkit Singh said he was buying poppy husk from a taxi driver in Himachal Pradesh and he had hired Sahil Singh as a driver for his Bolero. There are four previous cases registered against Malkit Singh, the police said. Arshdeep said he was selling the poppy husk provided by Malkit to labourers in his village in paper pouches.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-with-60-kg-poppy-husk-260642
30-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||1,000 Fateh kits donated to Civil Hospital||Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday donated 1,000 Fateh kits to the local Civil Hospital. On behalf of the minister, his son Prateek Arora along with Shadi Lal and others handed over the kits to Senior Medical Officer Dr Jaswinder Singh in the Civil Hospital.Sunder Sham Arora appreciated various social and religious organisations, individuals, societies, panchayats, and clubs for extending a helping hand to Covid-19 patients in these trying times.He said now teams of the Health Department would provide Fateh kits at the doorstep of Covid-19 patients who go into home isolation immediately after their test report comes back positive. Health Department teams had already been directed to prioritise the deliveries of kits to patients without any delay. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-000-fateh-kits-donated-to-civil-hospital-260643
30-05-2021||---||4 youths drown in Sutlej||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 29Four youths of Ward No.4 of Balachaur town, who had reportedly jumped into the Sutlej to get relief from the scorching heat this afternoon, drowned.The youths – Hardeep Kumar, Mani, Sandeep and Happy — came to Auliapur village on their bikes along with other youths around 2.30 pm. Four of them drowned and could not be found.DSP, Balachaur, Tarlochan Singh said their bikes, clothes and footwear were found along the Sutlej. “We had deployed professional divers from Ropar, who after five hours of effort finally managed to pull out the bodies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-youths-drown-in-sutlej-260644
30-05-2021||---||Army veterans get the jab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29A special Covid-19 vaccination drive was undertaken at the Military Hospital in Jalandhar Cantonment on May 25 and 28 for veterans and their dependants of Jalandhar and nearby areas.The drive was held with the aim to raise awareness and motivate veterans of the armed forces to get vaccinated as increasing fatalities were occurring among veterans and their dependents, who have not taken the vaccination.Over a period of two days, a number of veterans and their dependents were vaccinated. Army buses ferried veterans from districts of Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Phagwara, where the ECHS polyclinics were made collection points to minimise discomfort. A Vajra Veterans Sahayata Kendra was also established at the venue to update veterans on various initiatives of the Central and state governments as well as the armed forces towards their welfare and resolution of any grievances. A special medical kit was also distributed, which included a sanitiser, masks, multi-vitamins, oximeters and information leaflets about Covid protocols.It was heartening to see the overwhelming response of veterans towards this initiative. Naib Subedar Pritam Singh, a 91-year-old veteran, who joined the Indian Army in 1949, came all the way from Bhogpur block for the first dose. Surjit Kaur, wife of Naib Subedar Gurmail Singh, who requires a wheelchair to move around, came from Aslamabad village near Hoshiarpur.Vajra Corps has already been fighting against the pandemic by upgrading existing capabilities in military hospitals and ECHS polyclinics, while also enhancing awareness on Covid protocols to contain its spread. The officials said more such outreach and awareness campaigns would be conducted by Vajra Corps Covid warriors in the near future for the benefit and safety of our esteemed veterans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-veterans-get-the-jab-260645
30-05-2021||The ‘Udaan ‘ project of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development was inaugurated by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal||‘Udaan’ gives them wings||Planting trees to keep diseases at bayEnvironmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal started a plantation and cleanliness drive at Sultanpur Lodhi in view of rising Covid cases and black fungus cases. Seechewal’s volunteers picked garbage mounds in the Sultanpur Lodhi and planted flowering trees in place of them to keep the environment clean. Today, Seechewal planted flowers from the Lohian Octroi point to Cinema Road. He said lack of oxygen and diseases such as black fungus were partly being caused due to the degeneration of environment as well. He said to rid the environment of such fatal fungi, keeping surroundings clean had a big role to play in the promotion of health. He called on people to plant trees in huge numbers ahead of the monsoon. Sukhchain, Arjan, Manokamni, Jamuns, among other plants were planted. The responsibility of the upkeep of the already existing plants on the roadside as well as those planted today has been given to owner of Sonalika Agency S Ajit Singh. Trees planted on the roadsides in cities will go a long way in keeping people healthy and ensure diseases stay at bay.Special screeningto trace the virusAs many as 59,554 persons were covered in Kapurthala for spreading awareness on Covid and its sampling under Mission Fateh-II during which samples of 1,556 people were collected. While a total of 618 villages have to be covered under the mission, special teams were working in all blocks for the same. People were asked to go for prompt testing if symptoms were seen and were encouraged to strictly abide by the Covid protocol. On Saturday, the special teams collected samples from Baghuwal, Akbarpur, Booh, Bhandal Bet, Dhaliwal Bet, Bijli Nanagal, Bhullar Bet, Saiflabad, Saidowal, Mand Soganjla, Budhuwal, Buddha Theh, Piriwal, Nawa Pind Bhatthe, Shahour Dogra, Desal, Sandhar Jagir, Sukhia Nangal, Kahna, Dogranwal, Ghugg Bet, Darewal, Sabuwal, Bidhipur, Kala Sanghian, among other villages. Of the 1,556 samples collected, 1,416 tested negative, two tested positive and the results of the remaining was still awaited. DC Deepti Uppal said everyday a population of over 50,000 people was being covered for the same. She said all people with Covid symptoms were being tested. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/udaan-gives-them-wings-260647
30-05-2021||Jalandhar||Menstrual Hygiene Day||Webinar on Role of ArchitectsCT Institute of Architecture and Planning organised a webinar under their series ‘Creating Urban Habitat’ in which Ruchy Lakhani took an interactive session on “Cost effective or Low cost: Role of Architects”. Ruchy Lakhani is an architect and research scholar who is currently working as a Principal at Indo Global College of Architecture, Abhipur. The webinar was attended by the students of Architecture department. The objective of this webinar was to educate the students about the role of architects in economics of the buildings. She emphasised on importance of architectural design and planning, and talked about various materials and techniques which can be used to lower the cost of buildings. Students also got the opportunity to understand whether the buildings should be cost effective or low cost. Shruti H Kapoor, HOD (CT Institute of Architecture and Planning) said this interaction provided a comprehensive development of students and would help them to understand the practical implication of the subject in the field work.Vaccination Camp organisedA special vaccination camp for second dose of vaccine was organised by Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya with the special permission of local administration and Civil Hospital. In this camp, 67 staff members of the college got vaccinated for second dose of vaccine. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen appreciated the efforts of Dr Seema Marwaha, Head of Zoology Department, for organising second camp in college premises. She said that HMV has always committed itself to safeguard humanity against the Covid virus by arranging first vaccination camp in the month of April. Now it is the second phase of vaccination. Principal Dr Sareen also thanked Civil Surgeon Jalandhar Dr Balwant Singh, District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra, Dr Surbhi and their team members for the support given by them to make this camp successful. On this occasion Superintendents Raman Behl, Pankaj Jyoti, Lakhwinder Singh and Ravi Maini were also present.Online periodic testThe Nobel school has followed proper safety measures from Class I to XII for the conduct of online periodic test under the supervision of examination head Amandeep Kaur and coordinator Ravinder Kaur. Two teachers were present in each class. During the online test every student were sitting in disciplined manner and in proper school uniform. The main objective behind these online test are students should connected towards their study. School managing director Kumar Shiv Kochhar has given blessings to all the students for the exams.Webinar on BiodiversityThe Foundation for Sustainable Development was organised by Department of Zoology and Botany, Lyallpur Khalsa College, on the occasion of International Biodiversity Day under the theme, “We’’re part of the solution For Nature”. Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, was the chief guest. In his address, Dr Samra remarked that thought here was a growing recognition that biological diversity is a global asset of tremendous value to future generations still a large number of species are endangered to the verge extinction through indiscriminate human activities. He emphasised that we should bring awareness in the society for inclusive growth where the biodiversity is not only preserved but nurtured and enriched through conservation for making earth a better planet. He also appreciated the efforts of the department and motivated them to organise such programmes in future also. Dr Swarndeep Singh Hundal an eminent zoologist and former Head, Department of Zoology, PAU, Ludhiana, was the resource person on the occasion. He also paid tribute to the renowned environmentalist, Sundar Lal Bahuguna.Alumni Meet concludesDAV University concluded Alumni Meet 2021. The alumni meet was held through virtual mode by various departments of DAV University in a phased manner. The alumni meet was organised by various departments of the university which includes Department of Chemistry and ECE, CSE and Chemical, CSA, Physics and Mechanical, Agriculture, CBME and English, Department of Microbiology, Botany and Biochemistry, Department of Mathematics, Psychology and Zoology, Civil, Electrical and Biotechnology, Agriculture and Mathematics. The alumni showed an overwhelming response and actively participated in the meet. Their excitement and enthusiasm during the alumni meet was clearly visible. Vice-Chancellor (Officiating), DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi blessed the alumni with her warm welcome and apprised them about the growth and development of the university. She invited the alumni to visit and witness the growth in the infrastructure of the university including the newly built auditorium, the boys’’ hostel and the student centre. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/menstrual-hygiene-day-260649
30-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with 60 liquor Bottles||84 liquor bottles seized, 2 arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two persons and seized 84 bottles of smuggled liquor from their possession. The Dasuya police arrested Jorawar Singh, a resident of Tajewal village under Chabbewal police station, and seized 66 bottles of liquor from him. Also, the Hariana police arrested Gurinder Pal, alias Giddu, a resident of Bhagowal village under Sadar police station and seized 18 bottles of liquor from him. Cases under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act have been registered against the accused. OCBJP’s OBC Front donates bloodHoshiarpur: A blood donation camp was organised on Saturday at Bhai Ghanaiya ji Blood Bank by BJP’s OBC Morcha led by district president Ashwani Vig . On this occasion former minister Tikshan Sood, Suresh Bhatia, in charge of Seva Hi Sangathan and other leaders were also present. A total of 20 units of blood were donated. Ashwani Vig said that under the BJP’s ‘Sewa Hi Sangathan’ campaign in Punjab, the activists of the OBC Morcha made their contribution by donating blood in the battle against Corona. Tikshan Sood said that this blood donation will prove helpful to save the lives of many patients in this hour of crisis. He said that BJP workers consider politics as a medium of service. OCWoman nabbed under NDPS ACTHoshiarpur: The Tanda police seized intoxicating powder from a woman on Friday and arrested her. A police party was patrolling near Jiwan Palace stopped a woman on suspicion. On checking, in presence of Inspector Ramandeep Kumar, 42-gm intoxicating powder was recovered from her. An FIR under the NDPS Act has been registered against her by the police. OCMasks, fruits distributedJalandhar: To mark the death anniversary of the first Prime Minister Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru, the members of women wing of the District Congress Committee on Thursday distributed masks, biscuits and fruits to children of slum areas near Chuggiti flyover. Jasleen Sethi, chief of Mahila Congress in Jalandhar, said Pandit Nehru was very fond of children and the best way to pay tributes to the leader was to present goodies to the underprivileged children. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-60-liquor-bottles-260650
