31-05-2021||---||1K vaccine slots for 18+ booked in hour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30The district administration received an overwhelming response to its pilot project as 1,000 slots were booked just within an hour by 18 plus beneficiaries. Get inoculated at Three-session sitesGiven the tremendous response to first-of-its-kind initiative, the administration has decided to add another 5,000 slots from Monday. Covaxin doses for these slots have been procured by the District Relief Society.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said under this pilot project, anyone above 18 years can pre-book a slot at www.cityw oofer.com/event/vaccination-drive at an affordable price of Rs 500 plus taxes, which is less than half of the price being charged by private hospitals.He said vaccination under this project was being administered on the premises of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya and Lyallpur Khalsa College between 10 am to 2 pm daily.The Deputy Commissioner said the project was launched with 1,000 shots in stock, subsequently; all the slots were booked within one hour. Thori mentioned that residents must carry their Aadhaar card, confirmed booking slip, and other necessary documents with them while visiting any of the three-session sites and added that registrations were non-transferable and cannot be changed once booked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1k-vaccine-slots-for-18-booked-in-hour-261059
31-05-2021||---||4 die, 195 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30There has been a substantial decrease in the number of cases in the district and its periphery in the past few days. With 195 new cases, the district tally increased to 59,844 cases today. A total of four patients succumbed to Covid increasing the tally to 1,371. As many as 55,023 people have recovered in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 3,450.6 succumb in HoshiarpurThe district reported six more Covid fatalities on Sunday, taking the toll to 912, while 141 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 26,478. Giving information about the cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,493 and 25,963 patients had recovered from the virus. Out of the total cases reported today, 11 patients were from other districts and the remaining were from various health blocks of the district. Out of the six deaths reported today, four patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals, while one died at Jalandhar hospital and another died at Dasuya Civil Hospital.Nawanshahr records 3 deathsNawanshahr reported 35 Covid cases and three deaths on Sunday. Out of the total cases reported today, maximum cases (15) were reported from Muzaffarpur block. Urban Nawanshahr and Urban Banga did not report a single case today. The deceased include a 45-year-old and a 55-year-old woman from Saroya block and a 70-year-old man from Mukandpur block. Balachaur, which had been reporting highest number of cases in the district in the recent past, today reported 10 cases. A total of 11,019 persons have tested positive for the virus so far and the positivity rate in the district is 4.97. The number of active cases today stands at 466 and 399 patients are under home isolation.4 deaths in KapurthalaAs many as 83 persons tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala today, taking the tally to 16,543. Meanwhile, two persons died of the virus in the district pushing the toll to 473. The deceased include a 40-year-old woman and an 84-year-old woman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-195-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-261060
31-05-2021||---||After initial hesitation, people want Covaxin doses now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30Of the 5,18,000 people vaccinated in the district so far, a whopping 4,80,000 chose the Covishield vaccine while only 37,000 received Covaxin. While, initially, residents were hesitating about getting the Covaxin jab in the district, the vaccine is now much sought after. However, due to limited supply, only a few have been able to get the Covaxin jab.Notably, until Thursday, 5,18,000 people received the jab in the district, out of which 80,000 took the second dose. On Saturday, 3,200 people received the jab. Of them, 350 beneficiaries went for Covaxin doses and the rest for Covishield doses.Notably, initially, Covaxin vaccination got off to a poor start in the district with considerably lesser doses, its pace is now picking up. Amidst the poor availability of Covaxin, the special pilot project started by the Deputy Commissioner for three sessions sites has found many takers with 1,000 jab slots booked within hours. The DC extended the vaccines from an initial 1,000 to 5,000.Of the 40 session sites in the district, at present only two — Garha and Maqsoodan — administer Covaxin. Barring these, the 3 session sites announced by the DC are administering Covaxin only for those logging through a website.In the district, the Covaxin dose has so far been received by 38,000 people out of whom 25,000 have received the first dose and 13,000 have received the second dose. In the midst of this, a separate pilot project to people to get paid tabs by preregistering themsleves and getting vaccinated at Rs 500.Meanwhile, of the fresh vaccine doses received on Friday, 7,000 were Covishiled vaccines while 5,000 were Covaxin doses.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We can only administer the number of vaccines we receive. Since we had lesser Covaxins lesser people have received the doses. However, now there is much demand. We are first competing vaccination process of all people due for the second dose of the Covaxin. Only once this is finished will we be able Covaxin vaccination for those getting first doses again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-initial-hesitation-people-want-covaxin-doses-now-261061
31-05-2021||---||Covid blues: Traders seek relief in lockdown timings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30On behalf of traders, the Khel Udyog Sangharsh Samiti has written to the Deputy Commissioner and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to grant them extra time after the lockdown hours. Such is the condition that the traders are left with no option but to operate their shops by closing their shutters.Ravinder Dhir, Convener, Khel Udyog Sangharsh Samiti, said, the industry has been allowed to work 24x7 to ensure uninterrupted production and continuity in exports.“We would like to bring in to your kind notice that not just industry, but even many traders in Jalandhar are getting export orders, but due to restricted working hours, it is getting impossible to complete them on time which is why the work is suffering,” he said, adding that at present, they are allowed to open their shops from 9 to 5 for five days.“Keeping in mind the above-mentioned issue, we request you to allow some extra time to traders who are bound to complete orders in time,” the letter reads. Meeting the orders is very important for all of us as non-fulfillment of which will not only result in economic loss, but this will also affect future orders, the traders have rued.The traders said there were no domestic orders because of the lockdown and restrictions in several states which was already affecting the works, but orders from outside are there, but because of no proper time, they are finding it difficult to meet orders.Lockdown has been imposed in Hyderabad, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Bengal and the market is allowed to open for a few hours, so, doing business in this scenario is not even possible.One of the traders said there was hardly any work. “But, sometimes, we do get orders to export, but that is also problematic as we aren’t getting enough time to complete orders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-blues-traders-seek-relief-in-lockdown-timings-261063
31-05-2021||Jalandhar||Relief for residents as squall, rain lash city||A squall accompanied by rain on Saturday night lashed the city, bringing some relief to residents from hot weather conditions.This season, the maximum temperature has been registered at 44°Celsius so far. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was registered at 43°C. Even after the sudden downpour, there was not much change in the minimum temperature which was registered at 26°C in the mighnight.The temperature on Sunday afternoon again went up to 42°C and it will remain the same for the next 10 days. However, cloudy weather could be expected in the first few days of the next month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-for-residents-as-squall-rain-lash-city-261064
31-05-2021||Jalandhar||Rs15-cr underpass to come up on Dakoha railway crossing||To get rid of traffic snarls on Dakoha railway crossing, a vehicular underpass (VUP) would be constructed at a cost of Rs 15 crore.The proposal was made by the district administration, following which a detailed project report and the estimate were prepared by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said crossing falls on one of the busiest Amritsar-Delhi rail routes and heavy traffic passes through this crossing daily. He said train vehicle unit has crossed one-lakh mark on this crossing and it has qualified criteria for the construction VUP.Thori said this railway crossing remains closed most of the time due to heavy flow of trains, which causes jams.Sometimes, this crossing remains shut for prolonged timings, leading to major inconvenience to commuters, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs15-cr-underpass-to-come-up-on-dakoha-railway-crossing-261065
31-05-2021||---||Survey of over 1L households conducted in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, May 30In Nawanshahr, ASHA workers have surveyed a total of 1,13,502 houses covering a population of 4.21 lakh. So far, 4,579 sick persons have been identified out of which 3,656 persons were tested and 58 persons have tested positive for Covid till now. The data came out during reviewing of the performance of door-to-door surveys being conducted by ASHA workers under Mission Fateh-2. Additional Deputy Commissioner Aditya Uppal said Covid positive persons have been provided Fateh kits by home isolating them with the help of which they will be able to take better care of their health.At a meeting with the health officials, programme officers and senior health officers, the ADC directed to ensure safe delivery of Covid positive pregnant women. “Special arrangements have been made for safe delivery of such women at Civil Hospital, Nawanshahr, and a separate ward has been set up at the hospital for the delivery of Covid positive women so that the women do not face any risk. High risk pregnant women should be identified and treated on a priority basis so that no problem arises during childbirth,” the ADC ordered.He also asked to pay special attention to the care of newborns. Reviewing the current status of Covid-19, testing and vaccination drive, Uppal directed to strictly enforce all precautions regarding Covid-19 and ensure sampling of Covid-19 as per the minimum set target of each block. “It has been observed that the positive rate in all rural areas has been increasing rapidly over the last few weeks which is very worrying, so, it is very important to conduct extensive testing in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/survey-of-over-1l-households-conducted-in-nawanshahr-261069
31-05-2021||What are your suggestions to improve the system at vaccination centres?||Centre must streamline strategy on mass jab procurement||Door-to-door campaign an optionIn order to prevent panic at vaccination centres, it is better to carry out an area-wise door-to-door vaccination campaign and administer first dose of the vaccine to the beneficiaries at their homes rather than calling them in numbers at the jab centres. Also, the second dose of the vaccine should be administered to the beneficiaries in their respective wards on the lines of polling booths in elections.Dr Sahil JindalMaintain record of beneficiariesAmid the reported shortage of vaccine doses at various vaccination centres in the state, getting the jab itself has become a challenge for the beneficiaries. Long queues of people are no more a new thing to be witnessed for getting inoculated. The government rolled out vaccination drive in January this year but the drive didn’t prove to be a much success as soon after it was open for all above the age of 18, various centres started reporting low or no stocks of vaccines which is a reason why people started becoming panicky. As with the influx of the second wave and unexpected damage to the health of the masses added to the people’s woes and they started rushing to centres to get inoculated. Firstly, it was for 60 plus, then for 45-59 having chronic diseases as recommended by a prescribed doctor. After few weeks the government allowed vaccination for 18 plus creating a great fuss between the supply and demand of the vaccination dose. As due to less supply and more demand there originated a scarcity of doses. The government had to even extend the second dose of Covishied earlier to minimum gap of first dose to second dose of 42 days and then from 84 days. Whatever may be the reasons but one thing is clear that with awareness on media the government has succeeded in creating awareness among masses. Another thing which should be done is identification of all those who have been vaccinated as done through voter lists. Vaccination has proved to a great shield to prevent masses from falling prey to the virus thus the government must ensure early vaccination of all. Deputy Commissioners and Chief Medical Officers should well in advance aware people of the number of doses available for vaccination so that thepaper work is carried out a day earlier and on the date of vaccination, the dose be administered at a war footing to avoid any rush at the centres. The state and the Union Government needs to make a new mechanism to curb the spread of the virus effectively.Rajat Kumar MohindruCrowding at sites can lead to more spreadThis is to bring in light the issue of over-crowding at vaccination centres that is really becoming a great cause for concern. The centres instead of becoming panacea for the public are turning into Covid contagious centres, as when people are called for vaccination as per the appointment granted, gather largely into close ended lines make it a congested zone. Even people coming for vaccination and joining long lines, it is not known who is the carrier of the virus as most of the patients are also asymptomatic, which poses a great danger. There have also been instances when people after getting vaccinated have shown symptoms of Covid, there is a need that a proper mechanism for vaccination should be set-up. Vaccination centres should make an appointment of only limited people,lines should be segregated keeping in view the age and health related factors, only those people should be vaccinated which have valid RT-PCR reports (conducted within 72 hrs) or instead of it rapid antigen testing should be conducted at vaccination centres which provides results in small frame of time before vaccination. New SOPs (standard operating procedures) shall be issued at district level by the concerned authorities which shall include by attaching the police officials or volunteers within area where the vaccination centre is set up to maintain discipline at centres .To make the vaccination drive more easier door to door vaccination delivery set up should be introduced in each areas and polio drops vaccination policy shall be followed by appointing nurses or health volunteers that can administer the vaccine at home, even a drive in vaccination centres can also be set-up within the existing infrastructure which is also now being followed in many parts of the country . There are many trailing options, idea is to bring them into use.Raja CheemaOnus on Centre for this conditionTo fight the virus, all above 18 years of age are to be vaccinated as per protocol. After initial hiccups, the vaccine drive started picking up pace as huge number of aware beneficiaries started getting a shot in the arm. But sudden disruption in vaccine supplies, severely hit the campaign at most of the designated centres. At privatehospitals, the drive was almost abandoned as the government stopped the supply to them and also took back the remaining stocks with them, thus derailing the momentum substantially. There is a feeling of despondency and helplessness among beneficiaries. Lakhs of people who got their first dose from private hospitals, are now heading towards government hospitals to complete the process with the second dose. Notably, the Union Government in the annual budget, made budgetary provisions amounting to Rs 35,000 crore for Covidvaccine. Despite such whopping allocation, it has been unable to streamline the required amount of dose for quick inoculation. Strangely, the Centre has rather asked states to float global tenders at its own to meet their demands. On the contrary, overseas suppliers prefer to deal with the Centre directly and are reluctant to respond to the interest of states, individual buyers or private institutions. As a result, people’s faith is seriously eroded in our health programmes.Acknowledging that private hospitals are proven backbone of health infrastructure in our country, which earlier during drives for polio, TB and other such diseases delivered exceptionally good services. It would, therefore, be prudent that the Centre must undertake singular responsibility to procure medicine from available sources as well as further facilitate domestic production to fasten vaccination of majority of the population. The government should designate a nodal agency to coordinate and distribute medicine to approved vaccination centres, both run by private and government hospitals as per their requirements. Supplies of vaccine from districthospitals/stores to all authorised private hospitals should be resumed immediately to facilitate easy access and avoid crowding. All said and done, we have to act fast and vaccinate our people as soon possible. Experts are warning of not just the third wave but a succession of other variants apart from emerging side affects like the recently notified epidemic mucormycosis. Whereas providing medicine adequately at uniform rates, if not free, is the sole obligation of the government, our civic societies, NGOs and service clubs which have never lagged behind to assist during distress, may actively be involved to play a vital role in door-to-door campaigning and administering the dose smoothly to end the epidemic.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathEquitable supply of doses need of hourEpidemiologists, virologists and immunologists worldwide have unanimously opined that strict compliance with Covid protocol and rapid inoculation of the entire population to achieve herd immunity are the most effective measures to flatten the curve and protect citizens against possible wave in future. From mid-January onwards, India had launched its three-tier arduous but aggressive vaccination drive in a phased manner. After initial hesitation, it slowly elicited an enthusiastic public response as the emergence of new strains has raised serious concerns. But unfortunately, this zealous exercise has miserably faltered due to multiple reasons: Staggering supply and low allocation of life-saving jabs, hasty permission for walk-in jabs for all without first covering the vulnerable population, ignorance about the centralised Co-WIN portal for online registration and its technical glitches. Moreover, the revision of schedules for the second jab, violation of fixed time slots and lack of proper seating arrangement and portable drinking water on the premises have resulted in utter confusion and chaos at the vaccination centres. After a long wait in the scorching heat, people who jostle with each other to get the jab are asked to come another day. Disgruntled, they return home without inoculation. Amid gross mismanagement, brazen violation of mandatory safety norms may further lead to virus transmission. Many inoculation centres are closed because of non-availability of vaccines. In the face of Moderna and Pfizer pharmaceuticals refusing to send doses directly to Indian states, the Centre should streamline its strategy on mass vaccine procurement and indigenous production, ensure sustained and equitable supply of doses to every state and remove GST on them till the pandemic is over. There should be separate queues for administering doses to beneficiaries of first and second doses and that for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities.DS KangSome institutions doing good jobCovid vaccination centres have been witnessing large crowd after the second phase of the nationwide inoculation drive was launched. Long queues and no social distancing are a serious threat to masses as these may prove to be super-spreader events. People rush to vaccination centres in huge crowds and throw the norms to winds by risking their own and many others’ lives. Another reason behind huge crowds at hospitals is irregular supply of doses. People visit centre to get jabbed but later come to know that the stocks have exhausted. Online registration process is also not smooth. A lot of glitches are witnessed there which add the people’s woes. Some organisations such as Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Jain Samaj and the IMA house are doing a commendable job in the success of the drive by making proper arrangements of maintaining physical distance, sitting arrangements and providing drinking water to the beneficiaries. Proper supply of vaccine doses should be ensured by the government and people too should act responsibly and follow the norms strictly.Shashi KiranVaccine availability should be ensuredThe city has already witnessed smooth vaccination drive during its Phase I and II except a few instances of wastage of vaccines. Under the digital platform provided by Co-WIN, both walk-in registration and online registration coexisted well without any major problems. But the hastily beginning of Phase III for the 18-44 age group was seen with so many hurdles such as short and inadequate supply of vaccines due to widening of scope and rapid spread of the virus. Moreover, the second jab of already vaccinated under previous drives were required to be ensured within the time period of complete inoculation. However, there are some suggestions for smooth running of the third phase of the drive without chaos. The age group of 18-44 may be split into two groups — 18-30 and 31-44 — and there should be separate vaccination centers for both these groups. They should be notified accordingly to get registered online. A prior estimate of vaccines should be made and matching supply be ensured before online booking of slots. There may be separate vaccination centers for walk in registration and online registration. Area/colony-wise mobile vans can be arranged for on the spot vaccination of eligible beneficiaries. Drive-through arrangements can also be thought of in some pre-identified areas of the city.Jagdish ChanderIrregular supply of doses to blameAs the second wave of Covid rages on, the state is confronted with the potential challenges of inadequate and irregular supply of jabs and crowding at vaccination centres that have hit hard the momentum of the ongoing massive inoculation drive. These centres are witnessing numerous chaotic and confusing incidents every day. Sometimes, the situation goes out of control despite the presence of police. Fearing the all-pervasive virus and plausible interruptions in the vaccination process, people of all age groups, including the first and second-dose beneficiaries, line up at inoculation centres much before the given time schedule. When the medical staff begins vaccination, they scramble for getting the shots at the earliest. Both the medical authorities and the police who try to manage jumbo crowds face unwanted public wrath and complaints. Realising that a majority of people, particularly the old and illiterate, are unable to register them online, the government has allowed walk-ins but they come without Aadhaar card. Physical distancing often goes for a toss and these vaccination centres may become super spreaders of the deadly contagion. People should cooperate with the authorities to facilitate the smooth functioning of the vaccination programme. Senior citizens, those requiring the booster dose alone and vulnerable groups should be inoculated on priority. India has delivered over 20-crore doses but it is merely three per cent of its huge population. Given the prevailing shortage of doses, it is not advisable to stop walk-in vaccination or shut down vaccination centres. How will the country achieve its ideal of universal inoculation? Showing some flexibility in the booking process, the Centre should woo international pharma companies to attain jab sufficiency. The Health Department should exhort people to maintain proper physical distancing at inoculation centres.Tajpreet S KangPeople must adhere to appointmentIncidents of chaos and large gatherings at vaccination centres may add to the problems of the Health Department as the threat of such locations being a super-spreader are more, thereby failing the efforts put in by every individual, administration and the government. To reduce the stress on the resources and avoid such heavy crowds at vaccination centres, it is imperative that the vaccination is done on the basis of self-registration by the residents and arrangements be in place to meticulously adhere to the appointment schedule given to the applicant. Further, the process of inoculation doesn’t need any health infrastructure. Thus, permanent health camps may be arranged for the purpose at some religious/educational organisations, wherein proper infrastructure to tackle crowds by following norms is already in place. This will also ensure that unlike health centres and hospitals, the chances of individuals contracting the virus are also reduced.UmeshUse educational institutions for driveEarlier, people were hesitating over getting inoculated but now they are flocking to vaccination centres and crowds of beneficiaries can be seen daily at the vaccination centres. Another reason for people being panicky is the surfacing of reports of wastage of vaccine doses and their low stocks throughout the nation in the recent past. Finding it as the only way to stay safe and not be affected by the deadly virus, people can be seen in a hurry to get their first and second dose of the vaccine. The government not providing vaccines to private hospitals is also a reason why people fear of not being left behind to get inoculated, resulting in chaos at vaccination centres. Owing to the pandemic, as the educational institutes are closed during this period, vaccination centres should be set up various schools or colleges to lessen the burden of major vaccination centres. This will also facilitate local beneficiaries and make it convenient to handle rush at local jab centres. The Civil Surgeons can order private hospitals to spare some staff for the vaccination drive and in this way huge rush at government hospitals can be avoided.Prem Parkash Punj QUESTIONThe state government is preparing to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions. Do you think that holding online counselling is a more appropriate method in the present scenario?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 3). Covid appropriate behaviour must be adoptedDr JS Wadhwa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-must-streamline-strategy-on-mass-jab-procurement-261101
