07-08-2021||Today's||At UNSC, India’s values and interests converge||The United Nations Security Council (UNSC), with a mandate to maintain international peace and security, is the centrepiece of global multilateralism. It selects the UN Secretary-General and plays a co-terminus role with the UN General Assembly in electing judges to the International Court of Justice. Its resolutions, adopted under chapter VII of the UN charter, are binding on all countries.However, the UNSC’s governance structure — which was designed at the end of World War II and has five permanent members with a veto — needs reforms to reflect contemporary realities. This is essential for the sake of multilateralism and an effective UN.India was elected to the UNSC for the eighth time in 2020 and began its two-year term this January. It is the council’s president in August and is, rightly, using the pulpit to focus on areas of vital interest affecting international peace and security. The presidency also offers India an opportunity to underscore its credentials as the world’s largest democracy, an economic behemoth and underline its commitment to the UN, including as the largest contributor, over time, to UN Peacekeeping. This is a stellar record for a permanent place on the horseshoe table. In recent months, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has underlined the imperatives for UNSC reforms and India’s strong stakes. It is, therefore, in the fitness of things that he will become the first Indian PM to chair a UNSC meeting on August 9. He will preside over the meeting, virtually, on the issue of maritime security, a subject which will be on the UNSC table for the first time for a comprehensive debate.Given the huge role of sea-borne trade in human wellbeing, ensuring freedom of navigation and safety on the seas is a global imperative. For India, maritime security is also important given its sea-facing geography and civilisational links developed over millennia through seafaring. It is, thus, once again in the fitness of things that India should push towards a comprehensive approach to maritime security.However, there is no universally accepted definition of maritime security, though it is generally accepted to include access to the global commons of the sea and preventing high seas crimes, including unregulated fishing. The UNSC has adopted several resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and related crimes.Internationally, countries are generally in agreement that access to the high seas, as part of the global commons, should be free, open, and inclusive. A rules-based international order that recognises national sovereignty and territorial integrity, apart from stressing environmental sustainability, is the need of the hour. It is also important that the world sees enhanced coordination among countries in responding to high seas crimes including piracy, trafficking, narco-smuggling and other non-traditional maritime security threats, and acts jointly to meet humanitarian commitments at sea.The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) provides a general framework that could be built upon for a comprehensive approach to maritime security and guaranteeing of the seas as a global commons for the benefit of all. It is important that all countries agree to adhere to international rules governing the maritime domain and put them into effect nationally. Such an order should serve all nations, big or small, and ensure similar rights under international law to all.India’s month as the UNSC chair will also see high-level interactions on peacekeeping and counterterrorism. External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to travel to New York and preside in-person over these meetings, adding personal heft to India’s diplomatic efforts.The UNSC presidency rotates every month in alphabetical order among its members. India is likely to hold the UNSC presidency, once again, in December 2022, just before its present term at the UNSC ends. India will also be chairing the G-20 in 2023 and be part of its troika from next year. PM Modi’s personal involvement in the realm of reformed multilateralism is well known. Leadership at these forums would provide a special push both to multilateralism and to India’s quest for a place at the high table of global governance.Manjeev Singh Puri is a former ambassador and served as deputy permanent representative of India to the UNThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/at-unsc-india-s-values-and-interests-converge-101628340371520.html
07-08-2021||Today's||The unusual etymology of five simple words||This Sunday, I want to share my fascination for the English language. I’ve done it before, of course, but when third waves, winged horses, limping economies and less-than-thrilling Olympics are depressing our spirits, this could be the little boost you need. What I intend is not fiercely cerebral or complicatedly grammatical. Nor does it have anything to do with the illogical pronunciation of the language. It’s about five simple words we probably use every single day: Pretty, tall, silly, naughty, and sad. But it is about their etymology.Now, it’s not surprising to find that words change their meanings over time. For instance, to be gay today is very different to what that adjective meant in the 1920s. Mummy, as a 90-year-old, would often introduce generals with the line, “We first met when he was a gay young man”. For her, gay was always merry and carefree.A recent article by Simon Horobin, a professor of English at Oxford, reveals that, when they first came to be popularly used, each of the five words I’ve chosen meant something very different to what it does today. It’s a bit like “disinterested”. We use it to mean not interested. Originally, it meant impartial. Or “fulsome”. Historically, it meant insincere. Today, fulsome praise is taken as a compliment.Now, when “pretty” first entered the dictionary, as a derivative of a word from Old English, it meant cunning. By the 15th century, the word described something cleverly made or artful. Slowly, thereafter, it was used to call someone attractive or good-looking. But you still get hints of its origin when you remember it can be used ironically as in “pretty kettle of fish” and “pretty state of affairs”.“Tall” in Old English meant swift or active. By the 15th century, it came to mean handsome or elegant. Its usage relating to height began a century later. From there spring its metamorphic extensions to mean large as in “tall order” or exaggerated as in “tall story”.These changes in meaning may seem surprising but they’re really not. Professor Horobin says, “Several common adjectives that describe physical appearances began life referring to dexterity and pliancy”. “Handsome”, for example, originally meant easy to handle, while “clever” meant dexterous. Believe it or not, “buxom” meant obedient. That’s definitely no longer true!Let’s now come to “silly”. In Old English, it meant happy or fortunate. In due course, that became “pious” or “holy”. Then, says the professor, “because the innocent are easily taken advantage of it came to signal a person deemed weak or helpless”. Thereafter, it was used to suggest rustic or lacking sophistication. Its modern meaning of “foolish” was, I guess, the inevitable next step. But if you want to call me silly, I hope it’s in the original sense?In Old English, to be naughty was to be poor, literally to have naught or nothing. Perhaps this is why it was later used to describe someone as immoral and, in a weakened sense of that term, mischievous or disobedient. Today, the adjective is usually reserved for children. But its use to mean “indecent” survives. In the 1980s, Salman Rushdie used the word to coin a rather clever phrase “naughty but nice” to sell cream cakes. Monty Python created the term “naughty bits” to politely refer to genitals.“Sad” has, perhaps, the most strange etymology of all. In Old English, it meant “full”. These days, it’s been replaced in this sense by “satisfied” or “sated”. But in the 14th century, “sad” came to mean settled, firm or resolute. According to the prescient professor, the modern meaning sorrowful is, perhaps, a throwback to the Old English usage “where the word already carried a sense of being weary or tired of something, reflecting the way that satisfaction quickly shades into ennui”.Finally, try and make sense of this. I’m using the five words in their Old English sense. He was tall and pretty, I was naughty but silly, and both of us were sad!Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-unusual-etymology-of-five-simple-words-101628340370275.html
07-08-2021||Today's||Are voters delivering more decisive mandates?||Are Indian voters empowering governments with more decisive mandates? This is the emerging wisdom among many experts and observers of Indian politics. For instance, pollster Pradeep Gupta, in his book, How India Votes: And What It Means, has argued that new forms of technology are enabling increased communication between voters during the rough and tumble of the campaign period. This, in turn, is enabling voters to consolidate their opinions about a given candidate or party’s odds of winning, leading to a shift of support away from likely losers. Voters, the argument goes, are learning how to rally behind election winners, giving them supersized mandates.This thesis seems eminently plausible. A cursory glance at recent assembly elections suggests that landslides abound. The Aam Aadmi Party’s sweep in 2015 and 2020 in Delhi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s 2017 victory in Uttar Pradesh, and the Left Front’s and Trinamool Congress’s decisive wins in Kerala and West Bengal, respectively, in 2021 — all point in the same direction. Yet anecdotes can be misleading. In fact, our analysis of historical data on Indian elections suggests that this popular wisdom may well be misguided.We looked at data from 249 assembly elections, taking care to code all parties and pre-poll coalitions in state polls going back to 1980. Because some parties that claimed to be in alliance did not actually adopt robust seat-sharing arrangements, we considered parties to be in a “true” coalition only if they did not run against each other in more than a handful of races.Additionally, because an election can be “decisive” in different ways, we calculated three different measures of “election decisiveness” — the seat-share margin between the winner(s) and runner(s)-up, the vote-share margin between the winner(s) and runner(s)-up, and whether the election resulted in a hung assembly.Using each of these three measures —across a range of specifications, including limiting our sample to only major states with larger populations — our results are strikingly consistent. Contrary to received wisdom, elections have largely been getting less decisive over time, although the effect is generally not statistically significant.After notching up larger mandates in the early 1980s, winning parties (or coalitions) exhibited an average margin of victory— in terms of seat-share difference between the winner and runner-up — of between 35 and 39% until the end of the 1990s. Margins of victory narrowed to roughly 32% in the first decade of the 21st century, rebounded to their earlier levels between 2011 and 2015 (39%), and finally fell back to their previous lows (33%). The data on vote-share shows the same broad trends, while the data on hung elections was more inconclusive. 18% of assembly elections between 1980-1985 failed to produce a clear majority winner. This figure stood at 30% in the late 1990s before dipping to 21% between 2016 and 2021.In other words, there is little evidence to suggest that elections have been getting more decisive over time. If anything, the data suggests the opposite — by some measures, election victories have been getting slightly narrower.This aggregate analysis looks at the average outcomes of state elections across India. However, while some changes, such as the rise of social media, might affect voters across India more or less equally, changes within particular states may be just as or even more important.Indeed, when we disaggregate election decisiveness by state, we see a great deal of regional variation. In states such as Gujarat, there is a relatively clear trend toward narrower election victories. Yet, in Uttar Pradesh, a shift toward narrower election victories in the 1980s and 1990s has since given way to a strong trend toward more decisive victories in the 2000s. And in other states, such as Andhra Pradesh or Bihar, there seems to be no clear trend in either direction.What might explain these findings, which seem to contradict the conventional narrative?One possibility is that new avenues for coordination and consensus among voters are being counteracted by forces that discourage communication and shared opinion. While social media might enable voters to converge on a shared body of information, for example, it might also separate voters into multiple, insular communities that increasingly diverge in their opinions and beliefs about the world— including which parties or candidates are likely to win.Additionally, while new technologies might enable certain forms of voter cooperation, they also provide political parties new avenues to make their case to the public and influence voters. This can allow more marginal parties to cling to a narrow support base even when they have little chance of winning outright.Another possibility is that voters are indeed voting more strategically but, given the inaccuracy of pre-election polling and the general uncertainty of election outcomes, there are limits to their ability to predict winners and losers in advance. Indeed, research on Muslim voting patterns suggests that coordinated bloc voting is regularly stymied by the powerful influence of local factors, which often weigh heavily on voters’ minds.While independent candidates and candidates from more marginal third parties may be easier to write off as unlikely to win — indeed, we find that this group is winning significantly fewer seats over time — if runner(s)-up continue to appear to be serious contenders, the typical margins of victory the winners enjoy will remain unchanged.Finally, even if Indian voters are voting more strategically, this effect could be offset by other factors known to influence election outcomes, from anti-incumbency to a “honeymoon effect”, whereby the electoral fortunes of the national ruling party contesting state elections will depend on whether or not the assembly election closely follows a general election. In this case, simply examining trends in “decisiveness” over time may be glossing over important variations in voter behaviour.Rather than seeking out universal explanations of how Indians vote, it may be more productive for election analysts to take a narrower, more context-specific approach. If we have learned one thing from decades of scholarship on Indian voters, it is that they have an endless capacity to defy simple narratives.Jonathan Kay is James C Gaither junior fellow and Milan Vaishnav is senior fellow and director, South Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/are-voters-delivering-more-decisive-mandates-101628340369011.html
07-08-2021||Today's||Indian foreign policy needs more women||Whenever India has undertaken big foreign policy engagements, very often, women experts and diplomats are conspicuous by their absence. Women account for only 16% of the Indian Foreign Service and only 18% of top leadership positions in embassies around the world.In a recent seminar on gender mainstreaming in India’s foreign policy, Ranjana Kumari, director, Centre for Social Research, spoke of how Indian foreign policy should become more gender-inclusive and adopt a feminist foreign policy (FFP) framework. Sweden, Canada, The Netherlands, and Mexico are countries which have adopted this framework and, she feels that India could benefit from doing so too.There is a misconception that women tend to veer away from what are described as hard issues of security and trade and focus on relatively soft issues. But today, nothing is considered a soft issue. Health, human rights, women and child trafficking, economic and political migration, and conflict are all issues that impact the security of nations. And it is in these that women’s voices must be heard much more.Former foreign secretary, Sujatha Singh, feels that gender inclusion in foreign policy could lead to changes in priorities. “It is impossible to separate any one issue from the larger canvas of national security today,” says Singh.An FFP framework would work to acknowledge women’s agency in matters of national and international import in dealing with other countries and organisations. The participation of women in foreign policy would strengthen democratic institutions and make them more inclusive, it would provide a fresh perspective on how we view the world, and how it views us. External affairs minister S Jaishankar says that the representation of women in his ministry is being actively promoted. “I agree that we need to look at the world from the perspective of women, we need a gender-balanced foreign policy. We need to look at three things here: Getting more women to engage with foreign policy issues, reflect women’s interests in foreign policy, and bring in a feminist perspective to foreign policy.” But he is not sure that the FPP as it exists in other countries can be replicated in India easily. “These countries have different cultures, different historical traditions. We need such a framework to evolve organically for it to work. But, yes, certainly, we need much more rebalancing in this area.”It is not as though India has been averse to the inclusion of women in what has been termed hardcore security issues internationally; the problem is that it has been piecemeal. An all-woman police force from India was deployed under the aegis of the United Nations (UN) in Liberia back in 2007. Such units have been sent to the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2019 as well as the Republic of South Sudan. Indeed, the role of women in conflict resolution and peace processes — vital cogs in foreign policy — cannot be understated. But so far, this has not become an integral part of the foreign policy and security narratives. Nandita Baruah, country head of The Asia Foundation, says “The FFP is aimed at giving voice to a gender perspective in foreign policy which, in turn, contributes to sustainable development and human security.”Much more needs to be done to include women at various policy levels in foreign relations. India is a member of the UN Commission on the Status of Women, a forum where India can influence gender perspectives globally. We need to lead by example. lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indian-foreign-policy-needs-more-women-101628340364750.html
