08-08-2021||Today's||The limits of the subjudice rule||The Union government, as reported by this newspaper on Friday, has said that since the Pegasus issue is before the Supreme Court (SC), the matter is subjudice and, therefore, a question on it ought to be disallowed in Parliament. This principle is also being used to block a discussion on the issue in the House. It is another matter that when a discussion on the issue was first demanded, the issue was not before the court.Res subjudice is a legal term which, in simple language, means that if a matter is before a court, the same matter cannot be brought before another court by the same parties. This rule is contained in section 10 of the civil procedure code. The purpose of the rule is to prevent contradictory orders on the same issue being issued by two different courts. Various rulings by courts, however, indicate that this rule is not invoked liberally while admitting suits.The subjudice rule has found a place in the rules of the Houses of Parliament and also the state legislatures. This rule prohibits the admission of motions, resolutions and questions for discussion in the House on the ground that the matter is before the court. But it is not applicable to bills or an issue of privilege. The point is that the rule does not have universal application to all types of business of the legislature.When the rule of subjudice was incorporated in the House Rules, the rule-makers had taken a rather strict view of this, and did not want a discussion in the House to influence the proceedings in the court in any way. But, over a period of time, the legislature gradually changed its approach to the rule.The problem it encountered was that the moment an issue was brought before the court, the legislature would find itself unable to discuss it, howsoever important it may be from the point of view of public interest. A legislative House, which is the highest representative body of the people, could not be placed in such a helpless situation.The legislature began finding ways around it. In 1955, Lok Sabha (LS) Speaker GV Mavlankar, while dealing with a subjudice matter with regard to the prize competition bill, 1955, said that what the House would discuss would be different from the point the court might deal with. Mavlankar said: “Whatever law might have been discussed there, in the appellate judgment or the first court’s judgment or if going to be discussed before the Supreme Court is not the point which we are going to discuss here at all.”But as the issue persisted, in 1967, the then LS Speaker appointed a committee under VS Page, chairman, Maharashtra Legislative Council, to examine the scope of rule of subjudice in a legislature and suggest guidelines to be followed in the application of this rule.An important recommendation of this committee was that the “freedom of speech is a primary right whereas the rule of subjudice is a self-imposed restriction, so, where need be, the latter must give way to the former”. Thus, the primacy of the freedom of speech of members of the legislature was recognised as against the restriction imposed by the rule of subjudice.In 1968, the LS Speaker explained the approach to be adopted in the application of this rule. He said, “While on the one hand the chair has to ensure that no discussion in the House should prejudice the course of justice, the chair has also to see that the House is not debarred from discussing an urgent matter of public importance on the ground that a similar, allied or linked matter is before the court of law.” The main concern among legislators was that the House should not be hobbled by undue restriction imposed on its freedom to discuss matters of great public interest.As a matter of fact, the rule of subjudice was introduced in the rules of the legislature as a matter of caution. The legislature wanted to avoid a situation where a debate on a subject in the House may influence the court, which may impair the fairness and objectivity of a judicial decision. But there has been no evidence so far to prove that this has happened. On numerous occasions, Parliament has discussed issues which were before SC. Major financial scams were debated by the Houses although they were before the court. Thus, the freedom of the House to discuss all issues of public importance was accorded primacy.Further, the rules of procedure contain a rule which empowers the House to suspend any rule to facilitate a discussion. The rule of subjudice can also be suspended, if need be. This underscores the fact that the rule of subjudice is not immutable or inviolable. Since it has been imposed by the members on themselves, it can be changed when there is an urgent necessity to do so.Parliament should be able to debate all issues of public importance. If the rule of subjudice is rigorously followed, any person can stymie a debate in the House by just filing a case on the subject in any court in the country. Therefore, the plea of subjudice need not be stretched to absurd lengths.PDT Achary has served as secretary-general, Lok SabhaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-limits-of-the-subjudice-rule-101628429650441.html
08-08-2021||Today's||Restoring governance and normalcy in J&K||In Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), on August 5, the second anniversary of the effective abrogation of Article 370, nothing of the kind that separatists were expecting happened. To be sure, there were some protests. But rallies with the Tricolour were also held at various locations across the Valley. This was unimaginable in the past, for these were the same spots where Pakistan’s flag used to be visible and its national anthem could be heard.Though shops did not open in the old markets on August 5, was it a symbol of mukhalifat (resistance), fear or doubt? On a recent visit to the Valley, two weeks before the August 5 anniversary, I met a man who was trembling on his numb legs and moving with the help of a stick. He said that he was returning home after shopping in the evening, and it was getting dark. “Suddenly two people stopped me and asked, ‘Is your name…?” I said yes. As soon as they heard me, one of them hit me on the back of my neck. When I fell down, one of them asked me, ‘Did you vote?’ I said yes. He drew a pistol. I begged for mercy, but he could not be dithered. I was shot in the legs and they disappeared.” I asked him if the attackers were caught. He said that since they had covered their faces, he couldn’t recognise them.The victim said that he had visited several leaders for help, but no one had listened. He then went to the authorities, and got an assistance of ₹75,000 and a promise of job for his brother in the police.While he preferred to remain anonymous, the man’s story can answer questions about today’s Kashmir. The terrorists wanted to make him a moving pamphlet against Indian democracy but they failed miserably. After casting his vote, without being distracted by threats, he is now fighting for his rights under the Indian Constitution. His story tells us that how Kashmir is changing now, after going through all the ups and downs. The painful stories of common people don’t go unheard anymore. The victim told me, in detail, how bureaucratic decisions and attitudes under previous governments, run by two political dynasties, were contingent on whether they would be of personal gain and loss to the chief minister. Later, explaining this lack of grievance redressal in the past, J&K’s Lieutenant-Governor, Manoj Sinha, said that there used to be two types of Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) — one of the people, and the other of the collector. The district administration used to do what collector’s MLA wanted. It was this political-bureaucratic nexus that led the Valley to misery.During the visit, I also met a top intelligence official who said terrorists nurtured by Pakistan could be divided into three categories. “The first are those who carry guns and regularly announce on social media that they are mujahideen. Second, those who are partly involved in terrorism due to unemployment or as a pastime. These are the people who carry out grenades or other small attacks. There is another category, those who use social media to provoke the masses” He added that it was those from the second and third categories who were more dangerous. “They live a normal life but pursue the attitude of a terrorist. No one knows their deeds, that is why the neighbours support them when they are raided…It is difficult to overcome their duplicity, but we are on the right track.”Pakistan wants at least 200 armed terrorists to be active in the Valley and the police are still looking for around 180 of these. But this does not mean that terrorism is still as widely prevalent. The empowerment of the J&K Police has increased its ability to communicate with the villagers. And security forces are able to nab most youths even before they become trouble.According to Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar, 1,394 incidents of stone-pelting were recorded between August 2017 and July 2019, which dropped to 382 in the next year. In those two years, 27 civilians and four security personnel were killed. In the last year, this figure has reached zero. Similarly, there has been a significant decline in terrorist incidents.Is that enough? No, there are more problems in the Valley. The separatist sentiments have been fed by the syllabus of primary schools and madrasas in Kashmir. A new syllabus is being implemented from August to reverse this. At the same time, a list of teachers, state workers, and officials with a separatist attitude or those who are nurturing terrorists has also been compiled. So far, action has been taken against more than 100 people.Despite all these efforts, it will take some time to win the trust of the masses in the Valley. There are many wounds on the hearts and minds of this land and its descendants, which need to be healed with the efforts of the government.Shashi Shekhar is the editor in chief of HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-governance-and-normalcy-in-jk-101628429290718.html
