09-08-2021||Today's||To take on China, rely on diplomacy and strong counter-measures||The agreement for mutual disengagement of troops by China and India at the friction point of Gogra in eastern Ladakh is a step forward for restoring the status quo ante of April 2020, when Chinese forces made a series of preplanned intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Including Gogra, Galwan and Pangong Tso, the two sides have now stepped back at three contested points, while the standoff continues at other strategic locations and is unlikely to be speedily resolved.Nonetheless, there are lessons to be learnt from the three areas where China and India have disengaged. The first is that sustained diplomacy yields dividends. Thanks to several rounds of talks, the two Asian giants have avoided an intensified conflict that seemed a possibility after the Galwan clash. The joint poring over of maps of each military’s perceptional lines and claims at LAC, and interactions, have conveyed in direct terms what each side wants and prefers, and shown where the potential for mutual pullbacks lies. The subtle involvement of Russia as a creative go-between to lower the heat has also helped.Also Read | India calibrates its South China Sea approachWhile China and India nurse long-term suspicions of each other’s intentions, goals and international alignments — and these will not dissipate anytime soon — the LAC crisis diplomacy has focused on tactical specifics at the friction points. The message is that the two neighbours will not stop competing for power and influence in Asia and beyond, but they can manage the disputed border situation from sliding into war.The second lesson is that diplomatic parleys are necessary but not sufficient. Without a demonstration of military deterrence and resolve, an aggressive and expansive China cannot be sweet-talked into dismantling its bunkers and semi-permanent structures or driving back its tanks and armoured vehicles to pre-April 2020 positions.China has withdrawn from three encroached portions only after witnessing India’s willingness to use countervailing force, do mirror deployment or outnumber the Chinese military at some points, and mount counter-offensives across what China claims to be its side of LAC. The reality is that India redeemed itself after the Chinese offensive in April-May 2020 by displaying no hesitation to spill blood or pay China back in its own coin. The concept of “offensive defence” has guided India’s strategic infrastructure-building and force projection at LAC throughout this crisis, and this has compelled China to recalculate the costs and benefits of its expansionism.The third lesson is that since diplomatic resolution of the crisis is dependent on military operations and show of strategic determination, India must persist on the path of “peace through strength”.The Narendra Modi government has to keep bringing bargaining chips to the dialogue like it did in 2020 by occupying the strategic heights of the Kailash range of mountains, and letting the Chinese know that India can neutralise China’s bilateral asymmetry in military and economic power through other cards. This may include activating and operationalising Quad to apply multilateral counterbalancing pressure in the Indo-Pacific; imposing greater barriers to Chinese goods, technology and investments; and reopening the sensitive issues of the status of Tibet and Taiwan.A difficult path lies ahead in India-China relations, especially as the India-United States (US) strategic partnership is maturing and China-US ties are plumbing the depths. With approximately 50,000 troops on each side remaining at LAC, the potential for fresh violence cannot be ruled out. While Indian military proactiveness has proven to be an imperative to get China to make limited concessions, this kind of equilibrium is unstable and risks unwarranted escalation.Peace through strength is a delicate tightrope walk. But the gauntlet China has thrown is such that India does not have the option of shying away from matching Chinese moves on the ground and in world capitals. Only a combination of bravery and wisdom can succeed in this long-drawn-out crisis.Sreeram Chaulia is the author of the forthcoming book, Crunch Time: Narendra Modi’s National Security CrisesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-take-on-china-rely-on-diplomacy-military-resolve-and-strong-countermeasures-101628518517153.html
09-08-2021||Today's||Oxygen for India: Building a more resilient health system||In 2020–21, air became more valuable than gold. Shortages of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients hit hospitals around the world — Brazil, Peru, Nigeria, Jordan, Italy, and the United States.But nowhere was the problem more acute than in India, which suffered a spike in cases due to both the rapid spread of the coronavirus in crowded cities and the heightened transmissibility of the Delta variant of the virus. Many Indians died in their homes, unable to secure admission to a hospital, while the hospitals themselves were running out of oxygen.Medical oxygen is among the most essential and best understood of medical interventions. The earliest use of medical oxygen dates back to 1798, when Thomas Beddoes, considered the father of respiratory therapy, used oxygen and nitrous oxide to treat asthma, congestive heart failure, and other ailments. The first oxygen cylinders, which could be used in general anaesthesia, were developed in 1868. Oxygen’s role in acute care was established by, among others, George Holtzapple, who used it to manage a young pneumonia patient in 1885.Also Read | HT Explains | The pandemic’s missing AI response and why India should careThe need for oxygen goes well beyond Covid-19, and shortages are a constant problem in India. Pregnant women and children with pneumonia can die without supplemental oxygen. Improving the quality of the oxygen programme at health facilities in Papua New Guinea reduced overall pediatric deaths by 40% and deaths due to pneumonia by 50%. Hypoxemia, lack of oxygen in the bloodstream, can cause complications in a range of conditions, including severe malaria, cardiovascular disease, and traumas that cause blood loss.Supplemental oxygen helps buy the body time while doctors treat the source of the problem. Doctors also administer oxygen when patients are put under anaesthesia in surgery.As the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in India has highlighted, shortages of medical oxygen are not uncommon in urban India, and it is not available at all in remote areas.The pre-Covid-19 system relied almost entirely on liquid medical oxygen (LMO), which is generated largely for industrial use. Only 15% of liquid oxygen is directed to medical uses.Eighty per cent of India’s LMO is generated in just eight states and then transported to other states. But liquid oxygen cannot be moved quickly, and transportation infrastructure problems create shortages outside of tier-1 and tier-2 cities.Oxygen resources — pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, oxygen concentrators, and cylinders — have recently entered the country with both significant investment from the national government and support from private philanthropy. PSA plants use an adsorbent like zeolite to separate nitrogen from air under pressure. With funds from PM CARES and contributions from donors, the Government of India has committed to providing one PSA plant and one LMO storage tank for every district headquarters.All told, an estimated 1,500 PSA plants, 200,000 oxygen concentrators, and 100,000 cylinders are now available not only to tackle any future waves of Covid-19, but also help save lives at risk from several other health conditions.The opportunity exists to leverage all those PSA plants, concentrators, and cylinders to plug gaps in the existing system. But if such a grid is not assembled carefully, the new oxygen assets could displace or interrupt existing LMO systems and put small fillers and transporters out of business. PSA plants and concentrators need regular maintenance — something most Indian health care facilities cannot provide. We could face a situation where the current oxygen ecosystem is disrupted, with no stable system to replace it.An ideal oxygen grid for the country would work much like an electricity grid, with central generation (LMO), transmission (tankers and cylinders), storage (liquid and gaseous), and decentralised production (PSA generators and oxygen concentrators).No electricity grid would rely on just decentralised solar or micro-hydro plants, without centralised transmission and distribution; similarly, a reliable national oxygen grid should have multiple generation and storage components.Other issues are specific to an oxygen grid. LMO is cheap to produce but expensive to transport over long distances into remote areas. PSA plants can be helpful in places that are poorly served by LMO suppliers but require significant inputs of electricity and are not economically viable as standalone operations. Oxygen concentrators also consume large amounts of electricity.Both PSA plants and concentrators have compressors and moving parts and are, therefore, susceptible to breakdown under harsh conditions; backup from other generation or storage options is required. We know of remote health centres that requested concentrators but are now returning them because they are simply unusable. Oxygen does have one advantage over electricity: It is easier to store.A sustainable oxygen grid — one that supplies medical oxygen when and where it is required — needs both centralised and decentralised production, plus reliable transmission, and storage. Such a system would ensure that rural areas are served and that oxygen can be diverted to hotspots.The coronavirus pandemic has given us the opportunity to build back better. We can, and should, develop a medical oxygen infrastructure that can keep pace with our ongoing needs, the pandemic, and any future threat.Ramanan Laxminarayan is an economist, epidemiologist, and founder of OxygenForIndia.org. Indu Bhushan is a health economist, senior associate with the Johns Hopkins University and former chief executive officier of Ayushman BharatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/oxygen-for-india-building-a-more-resilient-health-system-101628517916186.html
09-08-2021||Today's||A Taliban takeover will hurt Pakistan||Afghanistan stands on the edge of an abyss. The Taliban’s resurgence is aided by many factors. The Doha Agreement, a symbol of the US defeat, has been a huge psychological setback for the Afghan people and government. The Afghan National Defence and Security Forces do not have adequate mobility, medevac, weaponry, or ammunition. Besides providing sanctuary and sustenance, the Pakistan army has opened supply lines for the Taliban and gives it military guidance. The leadership in Afghanistan is still in disarray. There is no operational unity among the Afghan government and the communities willing to fight for Afghan sovereignty and republicanism. The Afghan government is also losing the propaganda war. The Taliban’s current momentum on the battlefield is magnified manifold by the pervasive defeatism of western media, which is projecting Kabul’s fall as imminent.The existential situation looks bleak. The fall of Zaranj, the capital of Nimroz province, was quickly followed by Taliban victories in the northern towns of Shebergan, Kunduz, and Sare-Pol. The Taliban victories in the north are a signal to the Uzbek and Tajik communities that their supposed strongholds are vulnerable.Also Read | Taliban capture key cities in north Afghanistan, US deploys B-52 bombersKunduz had fallen twice before, in 2015 and 2016, but was retaken. Kunduz is infamous as the last remaining bastion of the Taliban in November 2001, from where the cornered Taliban, al-Qaeda, and Pakistani fighters were allowed to be airlifted to Pakistan. Zaranj is the starting point of the road that India built in 2008 connecting to the Kandahar-Herat highway at Delaram. Even at that time, except for the road’s two end-points, the Taliban’s presence in Nimroz was ubiquitous. The India construction team moved forward in a security bubble of considerable strength to protect against repeated Taliban attacks. The Taliban has also launched offensives against Kandahar, Lashkar Gah, and Herat. Ultimately, given their proximity to the Pakistan’s border, the provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Zabul, and Uruzgan are vulnerable.Diplomatic activity is centred in Doha. The extended troika, comprising China, Pakistan, Russia, and the United States (Afghanistan is not a member, though its representatives are expected to be present along with those of the Taliban) is meeting in Doha on August 10. The Qatari special envoy for Afghanistan, Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani, has just concluded two days of consultations in New Delhi. The special representatives for Afghanistan are meeting in Doha on August 12. Meanwhile, on the ground, Britain’s chief of defence staff, General Nick Carter, is shuttling between Kabul and Islamabad brokering talks between Pakistan army’s chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, and President Ashraf Ghani.The people of Afghanistan are unlikely to allow a peace dictated by the Taliban, which is seen as a proxy for Pakistan. While they might be compelled to compromise on the preservation of democracy, human rights, and pluralism, they want to draft the new constitution themselves and are loath to accept dictation. A return to the status quo ante might not be as easy as it appears.Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believes it can continue to guide the Haqqani network and other sundry terrorist groups it supports, even after the Taliban gains power. This seems improbable. When the Taliban was in power earlier, Pakistan’s ambassador, Aziz Ahmad Khan, was unable to present his credentials to the Afghan head of State, Mullah Omar. When approached on the issue, Mullah Omar said that Pakistan and Afghanistan had fraternal relations, which precluded the formality of State-to-State relations. Another time, Pakistan’s foreign minister tried to get Mullah Omar to settle the Durand Line once for all. He got scolded for his labours — how dare he raise the subject of frontiers between two brothers!Pakistan’s State structure, underpinned by its army, will come under strain if Afghanistan is Talibanised. There is no love lost between the Taliban leadership and the Pakistan army because of the coercion it has been subject to since the time it took refuge in Pakistan. Mullah Abdul Salam Zaef, one of the co-founders of the Taliban, wrote a long section in his autobiography about the abusive behaviour of ISI, which he said was so reputed for its perfidy that it could take milk out of bulls!It is terrorist groups such as the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), East Turkestan Islamic Movement, and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which will gain strategic space in Afghanistan, not Pakistan. Though the focus of the Taliban and TTP are different, there has not been a single case of an attack by the Taliban on TTP, despite ISI wanting it. Intelligence agencies such as the ISI tend to be overconfident about their hold over their assets, who have no permanent loyalties, except to their core cause.India followed the Afghan government’s lead in its contacts with the Taliban. There is, unsurprisingly, great resentment in the Pakistani establishment about this development. In the context of India’s contacts with the Taliban’s Doha office in June, Pakistan’s national security adviser, Moeed Yusuf, said in an interview to The Dawn TV News that it is “a matter of shame” for India to have engaged with the Taliban.Pakistan has an opportunity to right past wrongs and help secure Afghanistan’s peace, stability, sovereignty, and independence, instead of undermining these. Pakistan’s spite for Afghanistan and paranoia for India cloud its judgment. These impel policy choices that Pakistan will come to regret.Jayant Prasad is a retired diplomat who served as India’s ambassador to AfghanistanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-taliban-takeover-will-hurt-pakistan-101628516415772.html
09-08-2021||Today's||Regardless of season or size, Singapore-India ties remain robust at 56||August is a special month for Singapore. We celebrate two important occasions on August 8 and 9 — the establishment of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 1967, and the independence of modern Singapore in 1965, respectively. August also holds special meaning for India. On August 15, 1947, India emerged from British rule to become an independent country. While nation-building is a never ending task, both Singaporeans and Indians have much to be proud of. Our two nations have built multi-racial, multi-religious societies based on equality and the rule of law. India is a longstanding friend of Singapore and was one of the first countries to recognise our independence. The historical, literary, cultural and economic ties go back many centuries. Many Singaporeans have family ties in India. When Covid-19 first hit last year, India supported Singapore by keeping the supply chains of essential goods open. India subsequently found itself confronting the second wave, and I am glad that Singapore could reciprocate with our modest contribution of oxygen-related supplies. Singapore and India are natural partners. We must continue with this spirit of collaboration as we navigate a pathway out of the pandemic and re-emerge stronger.Bilaterally, we enjoy close partnership in the economic, security, and people-to-people domains, including on skills and urban development. Singapore has been India’s largest source of foreign direct investment for three consecutive years, averaging $16 billion in total equity inflows annually. We are further deepening our partnership in areas that will become even more salient in the post-pandemic world — fintech, innovation and skills, and digital connectivity.Our bilateral efforts in these areas can also be a pathfinder for others in the region. For example, Singapore is looking into expanding our Business sans Borders (BSB) initiative beyond our pilot partners of India and the Philippines, to all 10 ASEAN member-states. When complete, the BSB initiative will enhance regional economic growth and increase financial inclusion in our local communities. We welcome India’s continued engagement with ASEAN, anchored by India’s “Act East” policy unveiled in 2014 by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Singapore has always been one of the earliest and strongest proponents of closer ASEAN-India ties. We believe that the growth and opening up of India will contribute greatly to peace, prosperity, and stability in our region. The evolving regional architecture will be stronger and enhanced by India’s active participation. As PM Modi said at the 37th Singapore Lecture in November 2015, “In the flux and transition of our times, the most critical need in this region is to uphold and strengthen the rules and norms that must define our collective behaviour”. These words have proven to be prescient as our collective behaviour will determine how quickly the world emerges from the depths of the Covid-19 pandemic.Despite our obvious differences in size, our shared strategic outlook impels us to work for and uphold an open, inclusive, rules-based international system. Isolationism and protectionism will not be the solution to creating opportunities in a world undergoing radical changes in geopolitics and the ongoing digital revolution. We need to invest in our people, our infrastructure and reform our economic structures on the domestic front. We should build support for a rules-based multilateral world order.This is also the central task for ASEAN in the years ahead. At a time of great geostrategic churn, preserving ASEAN unity and centrality and strengthening the multilateral framework will require sustained and concrete actions by both ASEAN member-states and its external partners.With its strategic heft, India can play a unique role in buttressing ASEAN’s efforts. As Singapore commences its three-year term as country coordinator for ASEAN-India Dialogue Relations this month, we will work unremittingly to strengthen the ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership. We invite India to give even fuller expression to its “Act East” policy as ASEAN and India mark 30 years of relations next year.I am confident that Singapore and India will continue to work closely for the mutual benefit of our peoples and the region, just like what we have always done, regardless of season. Dr Vivian Balakrishnan is the Foreign Minister of Singapore. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/regardless-of-season-or-size-singapore-india-ties-remain-robust-at-56-101628478797022.html
