10-08-2021||Today's||Pegasus: India needs urgent surveillance reform||Information is power. A range of organisations — from private military firms such as NSO to various instruments of the State — collect information to empower governments. The quest for unbridled power and critical information often leads to using unprincipled and unlawful means.Snooping is a grim reality since the days of Chanakya, or indeed, ever since human beings constituted themselves as political units and statecraft evolved. But while recognising the compelling circumstances that may make it necessary at times, it constitutes a grave threat to democracy.In the case of Pegasus, the nature of the technology is additional cause for concern. The NSO Group co-founder is quoted as saying, “Pegasus is a Trojan horse that could be sent flying through the air to (break into) devices”.The government has denied that there has been any illegal interception in India, but there is overwhelming circumstantial evidence and some hard forensic evidence, obtained through mobile verification toolkit (MVT), to suggest that the Pegasus spyware indeed infected a set of targeted mobiles. Since unauthorised interception and hacking are offences under section 25 of the Telegraph Act and sections 43 and 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, the Opposition has paralysed Parliament proceedings, asking for a discussion and judicial probe. The issue has derailed the monsoon session of Parliament that ends this week.Reports of the widespread use of Pegasus have unnerved mobile users across the world. The technology war between advanced spyware systems and the defending Android and Apple operating systems will continue, each trying to outdo the other.Also Read | India needs a separate ministry to deal with the climate crisisThe core issue, however, is surveillance and who ordered it. Even if the government denial is to be believed, the targeting of such a huge number of mobiles should be the object of an impartial probe. And even beyond this probe is the critical issue of surveillance methods and the need for reforms.In 1997, the Supreme Court (SC) in PUCL vs UOI laid down the legal framework for telephone interception by the government. The Telegraph Act and IT Act 2000 give legal backing for interception of phones and computers. But in a Right to Information (RTI)-enabled regime, it is mandatory on the part of government to regularly audit interception logs and assure Parliament and citizens that due process has been followed.Since privacy is a fundamental right, it cannot be breached except in rare circumstances. A first information report can be lodged against illegal tapping. Unfortunately, there will have been a more robust legal architecture if the data privacy bill, after necessary revisions, had been passed — but after deliberations of a select committee, it remains in cold storage.The avenues for relief for victims, except the judiciary, are limited.The Pegasus attack calls for structural reform. Surveillance cannot be ordered and overseen by different layers of the executive alone. Ten agencies in India have the power to do so. The first anomaly is that the sanctioning officer, the home secretary, is of the same rank as the heads of these 10 agencies. Further, the oversight mechanism is even poorer, with the committee comprising the Cabinet secretary and two other secretaries.Also Read | Delhi: A feel good master plan isn’t enoughHas there been a case of a single rejection by the oversight committee or refusal of sanction to intercept in more than a few cases? Doesn’t the public ought to know these figures, and decision-making processes, with examples, to repose confidence in the system?This untrammelled power to intercept needs parliamentary or judicial oversight as a minimum correction. Such power can only be exercised in cases of national security, crime investigation and public emergency/safety. The SC judgment on privacy in 2017 makes it mandatory that such interventions meet the considerations of legality, necessity and proportionality.The government’s intransigence over the issue and the Opposition’s refusal to allow Parliament to function are hardly helping the cause of democracy. Incidents of brazen political misuse of interception powers have been raised time and again. What suits one political party while in power will not when it is in Opposition — hence, there is a need for all sides to come together, with the government agreeing to initiate surveillance reform. The Opposition should also participate in this joint effort to draw the contours of a new directive, after discussing relative merits/demerits of judicial and parliamentary oversight. It will help all parties, and ultimately the victims.It’s time to take these reforms to the next level too, by bringing intelligence agencies under parliamentary oversight by enacting a legislation. In United Kingdom, the internal intelligence agency MI5 is governed by The Security Services Act 1989 and the external intelligence agency by the Intelligence Services Act 1994. Similarly, in the United States, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is overseen by the CIA Act of 1949.Parliamentary oversight would require a tight group of Members of Parliament (MPs) across party lines, nominated by the prime minister. They can be kept in the loop about key decisions and made aware that all operations are in the nation’s interest. After 9/11, a bipartisan committee nominated by President George W Bush and the Congress, called the 9/11 Commission, investigated the failure of intelligence agencies and prepared a blueprint for reform. The time has come for Indian MPs to do the same.Pegasus may not even leave traces of malware in infected mobiles, but it does permanently scar a democratic system. The United Nations rapporteur for freedom of expression has called for banning the manufacture, sale and use of such spyware. However, nations themselves must act in the interest of free speech and expression. India, as the world’s largest democracy, has to walk the talk on the constitutional guarantees of freedom. An independent probe is a must — and so is the case for surveillance reform and parliamentary/judicial oversight of intelligence agencies.Yashovardhan Azad is chairman, Deepstrat, a former central information commissioner, and a retired IPS officer who served as secretary, security and special director, Intelligence BureauThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pegasus-india-needs-urgent-surveillance-reform-101628602162097.html
10-08-2021||Today's||Delhi: A feel good master plan isn’t enough||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has published the draft Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) for 2041 for comments and suggestions. The draft MPD promises many elements to improve the quality of life for citizens on a sustainable basis: A 24-hour city, circular economy, blue-green networks, transfer of development rights, and transit-oriented development.The list is as long as a manifesto of a political party. But unlike manifestos, master plans are statutory documents with specific spatial proposals and realistic cost estimates that lead to their implementation. Yet, master plans are not implemented in Indian cities, because many of them are not feasible. Apart from weak institutional capacities and selective enforcement, there is one more reason why plans do not get implemented: Feel-good urban planning.This is the kind of planning where “feel-good” and fashionable terms are used, without any intention or commitment to do anything about it. If civil society groups put more pressure on the city authority, more terms or chapters will be added, and more promises will be made. This works perfectly well for the vested interests in a planning authority. They can continue to govern the city based on opaque regulations and ad hoc decisions, while ignoring or diluting the master plan. So, the modus operandi is to write what you like in the master plans, but circumvent the key proposals while detailing them out through rules and regulations.Also Read | To reduce emissions and fight climate crisis, de-carbonise power sectorWe must have public, legally binding documents such as master plans to guide urban development in cities. They are one more instrument to ensure accountability from the otherwise opaque planning authorities. The “feel-good” urban planning in the master plans needs to be replaced with realistic and pragmatic urban planning.There are four important checkpoints to ensure the implementation of a master plan, and the MPD-2041 should be put through this scrutiny: Learning from past failures, planning with specific spatial proposals, planning with a realistic budget, and finally, developing a robust implementation mechanism.In the last 20 years, Delhi has seen a rapid expansion of its boundaries, development of the metro rail and the building of many flyovers and housing projects. Did MPD-2021 guide this development, or did the city develop despite the master plan? Or worse, did the master plan came in the way of taking some sensible decisions about the city? DDA must start by answering these uncomfortable questions, before finalising this new master plan.The sealing drive of 2007 should remind everyone about the fallacies of rigid norms, obsolete methods, and weak enforcement capacities. We do not learn from past failures in urban development and old practices with new names continue. MPD-2041 should make a start by acknowledging the implementation bottlenecks of the previous MPD-2021.The draft MPD-2041 is comprehensive in terms of its coverage but not specific and at times, vague. It seems that depth is compromised on account of breadth. For example, DDA has been talking about “transit-oriented development” (TOD) for the last 20 years. It simply means ensuring that more people work and live next to transit lines with mix-use development and walkable neighbourhoods/work districts.Also Read | India needs a separate ministry to deal with the climate crisisIndeed, Delhi, with a good network of public transit zones, needs to implement such ideas in the long-run.But the current draft of MPD-2041 does not have a single map indicating where these transit zones are planned. The TOD zones are to be identified and notified separately by DDA. Transit influence zones where new housing or workplaces will be proposed should be integral to the new master plan. Apart from a legally mandated land use plan, there are no other maps or specific spatial proposals as part of the current draft. This kind of vagueness is only helpful in remaining non-committal about the future of the city.Master plans around the country, at least the good ones, give broad cost estimates to implement the key proposals. Based on master plan estimates, the implementing agencies make their budgets. Any plan is implemented in India by breaking down the provisions through annual budgetary allocations. This is a major shortcoming in the draft of MPD-2041. There are no specific cost estimates given and the key proposals are not detailed.Without the fiscal discipline of cost estimates and budgetary links, the “feel-good” urban planning has reduced the master plan draft to a wish list of sorts. Since the master plan of Delhi becomes a default planning manual for many cities and towns in north India, this is a terrible omission with its implications going beyond Delhi.Finally, who will implement the MPD-2041? Given the multiplicity of authorities and agencies in Delhi, there is no one answer to this crucial question. It is a shared responsibility between DDA, different municipal corporations and other government agencies.For the MPD-2021, a monitoring committee under the lieutenant-governor (L-G) used to meet once a year to remind every other agency that we have a master plan. What Delhi needs is an implementation committee — not only monitoring — under L-G (given the current structure) that oversees the progress of the master plan linked with a specific budget contributed by different agencies.In absence of the clear implementation pathways, the master plan of Delhi may well remain a “feel-good” document. Eliminating implementation bottlenecks, developing specific proposals, making budgetary allocations, and assigning responsibilities are guaranteed ways of implementing a master plan. A good master plan is an implemented one.Rutul Joshi teaches urban planning at CEPT University, Ahmedabad and keenly interested in reforming urban planning practices in IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/delhi-a-feel-good-master-plan-isn-t-enough-101628601261728.html
10-08-2021||Today's||India needs a separate ministry to deal with the climate crisis||The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is a body of the United Nations that collects and analyses data on the advancement of the climate change process. IPCC’s reports are assessed frequently and emerge in a broad cycle of five-seven years. The sixth assessment cycle is underway at present. IPCC will release its full report by 2022, eight years after the last report was published. Its first report on the physical science basis of climate crisis is just out after it cleared several rounds of negotiation.The latest IPCC report showed that in the past eight years, a lot of changes have occurred. Assessing the data from the past three decades, scientists have issued warnings on three key aspects of climate.One, there isn’t an iota of doubt that human activities are solely responsible for a rapidly changing climate.Second, the earth’s temperature is increasing at a rate that has not happened in the last 2000 years. Apart from CO2, methane is also pointed out as Green House Gases (GHGs) that is contributing to global warming. This pace and business as usual scenario mean that it would be extremely difficult to keep the earth’s temperature below 1.5°C by end of the century.Third, this would be the last chance for humanity to keep the world’s temperature limited to 1.5°C since the pre-industrial age. Every fraction of the warming matters for us as global warming is contributing to glacial retreat, rising heat waves, and warming of oceans that feed into the increase in frequency and severity of cyclones.The next 10 years are crucial for humanity. We must work collectively towards bringing down the emissions and reduce them slowly to make them net-zero by 2050.Over the past couple of months, India has witnessed some of the extreme weather events which could be attributed to precipitously changing climatic conditions. Be it the Chamoli disaster, the super-cyclones Tauktae and Yaas and extreme precipitation events in some of the states, India is facing severe challenges linked to nearly every climatic parameter.India’s agro-ecology ranges from desert to cold climatic conditions, from coastal to mountain environments, along with a large pool of semi-arid regions. We are facing challenges in all these zones, be it unpredictable monsoon and floods, sea-level rise, melting Himalayan glaciers, rise in frequency and severity of cyclones, or extreme heat waves.Unlike earlier, the climate crisis has become a part of mainstream discourse, thanks to some of the extreme weather events experienced in India this year.When the issues of the climate crisis are at the forefront, why is the climate change division still attached to the ministry of environment and forests? At present, the department acts as a nodal agency that looks after the issues of the climate crisis cooperation, global negotiations, and the National Action Plan for Climate Change. The climate crisis is much more than the environment and forests, and having merely a division or a desk within the ministry will not help the cause.To minimise the impact of the climate crisis, India needs to focus on adaptation and mitigation efforts simultaneously. Now, to evade climate-related risks, India depends on forecasts and evacuates people. The relief-and-rescue operations are an aftereffect of freak weather events but a lot more work is required to make people adapt to the situation.It needs coordination with other sectors for effective climate action, including infrastructure, energy, irrigation, water, rural, urban, women and child development. The task is enormous for a country like India with its size and population.A long-term solution would be in redrawing or rebuilding city plans to make them climate-resilient, in restoring lakes and ponds in urban and rural areas, working towards strengthening natural drainage systems, building storm water systems in urban areas, forest restoration and related climate mitigation efforts. Apart from this, India needs to work with industries and businesses in bringing consensus to achieve net-zero by mid-century.India must do a lot more to take climate action forward and is poised to be the world’s leader in negotiating the climate crisis in international negotiations. This is especially for the countries of the Global South where there is a leadership vacuum. Some of its work on energy efficiency and initiating the International Solar Alliance show that India has the potential to lead the adaptation and mitigation efforts. But that credibility will come only when we do better in putting our house in order.All these tasks cannot be handled by having an agency within a ministry. India must create a separate ministry of climate crisis and chart out a better future for its people and show the world that it is possible to balance between planet, people and profit and work towards a green growth economy.Anjal Prakash is research director at Bharti Institute of Public Policy, Indian School of Business. He is an IPCC’s lead author of the chapter on cities, settlements, and key infrastructure and cross chapter paper on mountains as part of IPCC’s 6th assessment cycle. The views expressed here are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-needs-a-separate-ministry-to-deal-with-the-climate-crisis-101628599822328.html
10-08-2021||Today's||To reduce emissions and fight climate crisis, de-carbonise power sector||The news is worse than expected. The United Nation’s Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), of which India is one of the 195 members, released its sixth assessment report (AR6) on Monday. The report, Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, shows that global warming is on track to hit 1.5 degrees Celsius (°C) around 2030, a decade earlier than projected in 2018, and the levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have reached the highest in the past 800,000 years.At 1.5°C global warming, heavy precipitation and associated flooding are projected to intensify and become more frequent in most regions in Africa and Asia. The report added that scientists have “high confidence” in the projection and that the changes in climate are a result of human-induced greenhouse gas emissions.To halt these catastrophic future projections, the world must embark on strong and sustained reduction in emissions in the next few years. The global energy sector (power, heat and transport) accounts for around 73% of total emissions. But it is also the engine behind every country’s economic and development plans, more so in emerging and developing economies whose per capital energy consumption is much lower than the global average.Also Read | Oxygen for India: Building a more resilient health systemTo reduce emissions, solar energy is the ideal solution for all countries, especially in the developing world where much energy capacity is yet to be installed. Solar is the cheapest source of electricity today, which makes it the smartest choice for new power capacities. Improved storage can eliminate intermittency. Solar can be also scaled up or down to meet demands; it can power zero-emission mobility; and most importantly, it is on its way to become a self-contained emission-free ecosystem. In 2019, the total investment in solar was $131 billion; its global capacity has grown by more than 26 times since 2009, and the sector is expected to support 22 million jobs by 2050.Decentralised solar photovoltaic (PV) systems work well in the remotest areas, and solar agricultural pumpsets offer a clean and affordable alternative to diesel fuel. For instance, PV systems up to 1.5MWp are running successfully in the high altitudes of Ladakh, and solar agri pumpsets in sub-Saharan Africa have led to better and more reliable irrigation, higher crop yields, and up to a 30% rise in disposable incomes for farmers.Even in the Indian power sector, solar is emerging as the most economical option. Recent price discoveries, the government’s support for achieving self-reliance in the sector, and the opportunity of pairing energy from solar with storage are promising developments that are going to bring down the last remnants of cost competitiveness of thermal power plants against renewables. With an improved market design and a pool of capital to stir investments in the sector, solar is poised to outcompete traditional thermal-based power generation.The International Solar Alliance (ISA) has supported several central and regional governments to improve techno-economic feasibility of solar. We are applying the lessons to intensify this momentum and amplify solar for net-zero global emissions through global advocacy (by providing global information on progress in solar technologies, markets and enabling their application to countries). We are building ecosystems for the flow of inexpensive capital to all countries, and for upgrading skilled workers for a solar-powered green economic recovery. And ISA is helping the most challenged countries to initiate solar projects, which would also streamline their policies and processes for future investments.This will enable the world to invest in solar energy, facilitate global investment flows and ensure that solar applications are amplified several times over. The technology is ready and it is cost-effective; we need global collaboration to scale it up exponentially and expeditiously.Ajay Mathur is director-general, International Solar AllianceThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-reduce-emissions-and-fight-climate-crisis-de-carbonise-power-sector-101628598861449.html
10-08-2021||Today's||The climate crisis is not the third wave. It is the permanent flood||The Covid-19 pandemic is a crisis of a nature that we have not faced in our lifetimes. The climate crisis, while operating on a longer timescale, is a catastrophe for which there is no historical precedent. We are the first species with the sentience to foresee the change we are causing while it is happening, and the prowess to prevent it.The goal of the Paris Agreement was to limit global temperature increase to below 2, and ideally to 1.5 degrees Celsius, in comparison to pre-industrial levels. In a report released on Monday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change sounded a dire warning — at the current rate of emissions, we will not meet Paris targets. It seems the world is looking for offsets without wanting to make any changes to lifestyles — hoping for a climate crisis “vaccine” to come along to save the day.In How to Avoid a Climate Disaster, Bill Gates spelled out the bleak future that awaits us if we do not restrict emissions. “By mid-century, climate change could be just as deadly as COVID-19, and by 2100 it could be five times as deadly... in the next decade or two, the economic damage caused by climate change will likely be as bad as having a COVID-sized pandemic every 10 years.”Also Read | ‘Climate change is for real, 100% certainty that it is caused by human activity’This is a critical time for humanity. If we are not able to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by the end of the decade, we will not be on track to cut all emissions by mid-century. But currently, not enough is being done to decarbonise economies quickly. And unfortunately, the climate crisis is not like a virus that recedes once there are no longer people to be infected. Greenhouse gases will remain in the air even after we stop emitting them — their effects felt for hundreds, if not thousands of year. Coral reefs will continue to die. Ice will continue to melt, and sea levels will continue to rise.There is no vaccine for the climate crisis that will fix the problem of emissions. Carbon capture by planting trees and through technology are necessary, but can’t keep up with the current rate of emissions. And there is yet to be an agreed upon set of measures that can be taken both at an individual and country-level to mitigate the climate crisis.There is no equivalent of masking or getting vaccinated, partly because of the ubiquitous nature of industrial activities that led to modern society. We spent trillions of dollars in creating extractive societies without sparing a thought about consequences. Averting the climate crisis is not just a technological problem — we need a change in development models, values, and behaviours. Unfortunately, the climate crisis is simply not a priority for most citizens or elected officials. Even when acknowledged, it proceeds on a longer timeframe than a news-cycle or election term. In the light of this, there is little incentive to make difficult decisions.During this pandemic, rich nations fared relatively well in securing doses of vaccines for their residents. They are now clamouring for additional booster shots while residents of poorer countries remain completely unprotected. Every country will look after its own interests first. This does not portend well for the climate crisis. Many of the countries that exploited resources unsustainably and put the planet in this precarious position are located outside of the equatorial belt. While they will suffer heatwaves, they may be able to weather some of the effects better.It is in the best interest of many countries that are in the equatorial belt to avert the climate crisis, even as they seek to raise the standard of living of their citizens. The challenge here will be pitting lives against livelihoods, as we saw in the pandemic.Despite technological advances, most humans live in a very narrow window of the Earth’s existing climates. Modeling changes in temperature, Marten Scheffer and other scientists reported last year in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that in the next half century, up to 3 billion people might live in climate conditions outside of those that humans have found tolerable throughout history. Many of these people will be subject to temperatures that currently exist only in a few places such as the Sahara. Given that most of them will be poor, they will not be able to relieve themselves of these horrendous conditions simply through migration to cooler countries.We have seen travel entry restrictions imposed on countries where coronavirus transmission were rampant. The climate crisis will result in economic migrants — we can expect exclusionary borders by countries that have more natural resources and are far from the equator.Like many others, I read William Thackeray’s poem about King Canute wishing the tide to recede in school. I have been thinking about this poem recently in light of the ongoing climate crisis, not metaphorically, but literally. Melting glaciers and ice sheets in the Artic, Antarctica, and Greenland are causing sea-level rise. We can wish it were not so, but the reality is that rising sea waves do not heed the recriminations of the suffering. It may be too late to save Arctic summer ice. But if the Antarctic ice sheets disappear then part of the world that my ancestors lived in for thousands of years — coastal Odisha and Bengal — will be inundated. The consequences for metropolises such as Miami, Shanghai, Mumbai, and Kolkata will be devastating.We may be in the middle of a devastating pandemic, but the time to act is now. The climate crisis is not the third wave, it is a permanent flood that does not recede.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-climate-crisis-is-not-the-third-wave-it-is-the-permanent-flood-101628577979938.html
