11-08-2021||Today's||Retrospective tax: A policy based on delusion gets buried||I remember choking on my morning coffee on reading a news report which said that India’s finance minister (FM) had made a statement in Parliament that Indians won’t have to eat lizards if foreign direct investment (FDI) flows are affected.It was 2012, and Pranab Mukherjee was responding to a question about whether he expected the amendment in tax laws, popularly known as the retrospective tax amendment, to affect foreign investment. A pragmatic man on most occasions, his display of irritation at the thought that India’s tax policy changes would be unpalatable to foreign investors was palpable.Tax policy has always been regarded as the sovereign right of each nation State; so why would the global investment community have a problem? Well, because just as in the case of any other investment, capital moves to economies which give investors a sense of security. And one of the foremost factors to induce such security is the transparency and stability of tax policies. Even if tax rates are high, investors will still move capital to nations as long as they know what to expect since the tax rates can be factored into their business plans. The converse, however, is repulsive — unpredictable and non-transparent rates muddied with ifs and buts, even if low, drive away capital.The administration of the day, however, had a single-minded focus on raising revenue, coupled with the belief that it had the sovereign right to do so. This was a shortsighted approach, unmindful of the impact of the move on the overall investment rating of the country, as demonstrated by the FM’s indignant attitude to the question.Also Read | Climate crisis: No one will be sparedThe saga of the retrospective tax started when the holding company of Essar Telecom was acquired by Vodafone. Extant tax laws required Vodafone to withhold tax on the transaction and deposit the amount with the revenue authorities, except for one crucial fact — the obligation to withhold tax did not arise on transactions between two non-resident entities. The holding entity being acquired was not domiciled in India i.e. it was a non-resident entity for tax purposes, and Vodafone did not withhold tax on the deal value.The revenue authorities believed that since the holding entity was a shell company, its value was in the underlying Indian entity and, therefore, tax ought to have been deducted and deposited. Consequently, Vodafone was slapped with a huge tax demand, including the amount of tax which the authorities believed that Vodafone ought to have withheld.The dispute reached the Supreme Court (SC), which looked closely at the issue and ruled that there was nothing whatsoever on the statute books which required Vodafone to withhold tax on the offshore transaction. The Union government, therefore, chose to amend the law to provide that even transactions with no connection with India would give rise to the obligation to withhold tax if, as a result of such an offshore transaction, an undertaking or asset in India was acquired.Consequently, SC’s decision, which was the strictly correct legal interpretation, was effectively reversed. Moreover, the reversal became applicable with retrospective effect. This ensured that Vodafone, which had already completed the deal, did not get away with what some mandarins in the corridors of power believed was “being cute”.Also Read | Pegasus: India needs urgent surveillance reformThe amendment also impacted other transactions which were structured relying on the same provisions of law upheld by the apex court, no less. Since the liability of the payer can extend to bearing the tax not withheld, interest and penalty, the amounts in question were significant. Tax officers, who often have to meet collection targets no matter what, started to raise huge tax demands.The government’s move was seen by the global investment community as a violation of the unwritten rule of transparency and stability in fiscal policy. Vodafone had genuine reasons to believe that Indian law did not seek to tax such transactions — a view upheld by SC. But it discovered much later that the government would reverse its own tax law and policy to rub your nose in the ground, and make you cough up the money it believed it is owed. Taxpayers may be held liable for tax arising on historic transactions, even though they had no inkling of the liability.Unfortunately, the mandarins in the corridors of power had forgotten that India had inked several investment treaties under which the actions of investee States considered to be expropriation, are subject to claims for compensation. Vodafone, and others similarly affected, sought recourse to arbitration proceedings under the treaty provisions. And so it was that international treaty arbitrations held that a retrospective amendment in the law is expropriatory in nature.When one is starved of capital and technology, you do not ride the high horse and take the position that they need us more than we need them. This is a delusional view which had percolated down into the administration, based on a belief in the success story of the Indian middle class. The chickens were bound to come home to roost. Once having strenuously, but unsuccessfully, argued that tax policy being a sovereign issue is not the subject matter of investment treaties, the government has now finally decided to cut its losses and cancel the demands.Percival Billimoria is a senior advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/retrospective-tax-a-policy-based-on-delusion-gets-buried-101628672549940.html
11-08-2021||Today's||Climate crisis: No one will be spared||Some recent news and headlines: Extreme flooding in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh in India, and Rhineland-Palatinate and North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. Hundreds dead in floods in Henan (China). Heat wave in British Columbia (Canada) kills dozens. How do we make sense of all this?Climate scientists are wary of overstating risks, what is known as type 1 errors (false positives). But there is a real danger of type 2 errors (false negatives). As climate risks rise, type 2 errors can give policymakers a false sense of comfort that things are not so bad. After all, climate models have actually underestimated the scale of impact even at relatively lower levels of warming. Warm weather that could result in Arctic permafrost thawing is happening 70 years ahead of climate model projections.This week, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released the report of its Working Group I (on the physical science of the climate crisis), laying many doubts to rest. Global surface temperatures are 1.09°C higher in 2011-2020 than in 1850-1900. The world will breach 1.5°C of warming within the next two decades with extreme events rapidly rising.Also Read | Pegasus: India needs urgent surveillance reformWeather attribution studies investigate whether specific extreme weather events are merely freak deviations from the normal range or whether they are made more likely (and worse) due to human-induced climate crisis. Take Verkhoyansk in eastern Siberia, known as the Pole of Cold for having recorded the lowest temperature north of the Arctic Circle (-67.8°C in 1892). This year, it registered the highest temperature ever within the Arctic Circle of 38°C. Studies now conclude that the severe heat wave in Siberia in 2020 would have been near-impossible without the human-caused climate crisis. The same applies to the heat wave in north-western United States and parts of western Canada this summer.We must, first, understand that extremes today could well become the norm tomorrow. Climate risks are non-linear and the past is not a good predictor of the future. Heavy precipitation events that happened once in 10 years in the pre-industrial era now likely occur 1.3 times each decade (rising to 2.8 times with 4°C of warming). South Asia and several parts of Africa will also face severe droughts with 1.5-2°C of warming.Moreover, our worries do not stop at our borders. It is tempting to dismiss disasters happening elsewhere as not being of immediate concern. But we must spot the warning signs because warming anywhere will impact our future everywhere.In the last 30 years, the Arctic region has warmed at 0.81°C per decade, more than thrice as fast as the global average of 0.23°C per decade. Melting ice is now the most important cause for sea-level rise — and revised estimates predict an over one metre rise in global sea levels by 2100. This is not the Arctic’s problem alone, but will severely impact coastal and low-lying areas all over the world.To compound the problem, blue sea water absorbs more heat than white sea ice. Melting sea ice, therefore, creates a feedback loop: More heat is trapped in sea water, which triggers more thawing. Arctic ice melt has slowed the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation, a major ocean current that circulates warm water from the south to the north. The slowing is worse than in 1,600 years, and could disrupt rains from South America to West Africa to India.Also Read | India needs a separate ministry to deal with the climate crisisMelting permafrost is another concern. Arctic permafrost holds nearly twice as much carbon as the atmosphere. On current trends, up to 89% of near-surface permafrost could disappear by 2100. This would release tens to hundreds of billions of tonnes of carbon dioxide and methane, adding to warming.In the Northern Hemisphere, reduced temperature differences between the Equator and the Pole results in a southern oscillation of the Jet Stream (and as it meanders, it sometimes stalls). This creates more weather extremes, increasing droughts and floods in locations further south. Arctic heating and changing weather patterns could impact the severity of heat waves in South Asia.It would be foolhardy to dismiss these concerns as that of environmentalists alone. There are serious economic ramifications for India where nearly 75% of the labour force (380 million people) is exposed to heat stress. In 2030, India could lose 5.8% of working hours (a productivity loss equivalent to 34 million full-time jobs), according to the International Labour Organization. CEEW analysts find that there has been a six-fold increase in extreme flood events in Maharashtra since 1970. As India’s economic powerhouse, such vulnerability majorly threatens physical assets and financial investments.The climate system is under unprecedented stress in human history. Rich people think they can escape. Poor people hope they can adapt. But the climate crisis will lead to untold misery, hundreds of billions of dollars of losses in infrastructure, widening inequalities and social instability. Regardless of where the extreme events occur, we will all be impacted adversely.In a year filled with tragedy due to the pandemic, it might be too much to expect that people will care about weather extremes near the Poles. But the biggest lesson for us is that the distant is here and the future is now; the time to act was yesterday.Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water and a member of the Climate Crisis Advisory Group, an independent international scientific bodyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/climate-crisis-no-one-will-be-spared-101628668229325.html
