12-08-2021||Today's||Electrocution deaths: Install safe, low-cost electric fences to save elephants||In India, nearly 80 elephants die every year due to human-elephant conflict. While poaching, poisoning and train hits are known reasons for elephant deaths, we must pay close attention to death by electrocution. Since the impact of electrocution is not visible on an animal’s body, and because it is easy to remove potential evidence, including wires, posts and machines post-electrocution, even experienced veterinarians are unable to determine the exact cause of an animal’s death, and post-mortem results often declare cardiac arrest as the cause of death.When an elephant is electrocuted, we assume that the matter should be raised before the electricity department. However, except for a few cases, the department has a limited role in curtailing such incidents. One of the major causes of animal electrocution is live wire fencing by locals to protect their crops and property. They use power sources from the grid or captive sources such as a generator and/or batteries with inverters, and most of these are lethal.Also Read | Dia Mirza tweets special message on World Elephant Day, posts picGovernment data shows that electrocution kills more elephants than train accidents, poaching and poisoning. This is a nationwide problem. But it is acute in the Northeast, which is home to the second-largest population of Asian Elephant in the world. In Assam, more than 50% of the total number of elephant deaths is due to electrocution. Lethal electric fences and transmission lines from power grids are the two major causes of electrocution. The former is a single live wire pegged to bamboo or wooden posts. Lethal AC current is used, instead of the non-lethal DC current, with low ampere value. Such fences are used by people because they do not know about the fatality of such fences. We must educate and empower locals to use non-lethal means since these fences can be dangerous to humans too. Most deaths go unreported because people want to avoid subsequent legal hassles.The second cause of electrocution is sagging transmission lines in elephant habitats and areas frequented by them. This can be avoided by using insulated transmission lines. Guidelines for laying electric lines already exist; what we need is effective implementation.If we want to protect the animals and safeguard the interests of locals, it is important to install safe and low-cost electric fences. However, elephant movement paths should not be blocked while erecting fences. The idea is to replace the lethal power sources with an energizer with battery. To cut costs, a galvanised wire of 12 mm can be used at a height of about five feet so that adult elephants cannot cross.These low-cost fences cost about ₹50,000 per km— nearly five times cheaper than a conventional electric fence. With the cooperation of the local community and forest department, a six km fence in the fringe of Singlijan Reserve Forest was installed in 2015 to restrict the movement of wild elephants. There have been no HEC incidents in 30 villages under the Gohpur Circle in Biswanath district of Assam. Almost 110 km low-cost fence has been installed in various parts of Biswanath, Sonitpur, Nagaon, Golaghat, Baksa and Udalguri districts since then. The study undertaken by WWF-India revealed that well-maintained low-cost solar fences have a success rate of 80-95% in deterring elephants. But one hurdle remains. Victims of HEC – most of whom are marginalised – cannot afford ₹5 lakh to install a 10-km fence. Ensuring peaceful human-animal coexistence requires partnerships that foster local empowerment, elephant conservation, and support to enforcement agencies like the forest department. A growing number of corporate are supporting initiatives to reduce negative human-wildlife conflict. There is immense scope for them to contribute to conflict management by empowering people.Hiten Kumar Baishya is landscape Coordinator, Brahmaputra Landscape, WWF IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/electrocution-deaths-install-safe-and-low-cost-electric-fences-to-save-elephants-101628774686584.html
12-08-2021||Today's||Don’t use public interest as an additional ground to restrict free speech||In a recent decision, a division bench in the Bombay high court exercised a power that vests solely with the Parliament; it, in effect, amended the Constitution. Specifically, the judges introduced an additional restriction to the fundamental right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a).The matter involved nine petitions that challenged Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) regulations in broadcasting (full disclosure — I work with broadcasters). The thrust of the petitioners’ argument was that TRAI’s economic regulations restrict the circulation of broadcaster programming, violating the broadcaster’s right to disseminate and consumer’s right to receive information, both of which are core components of the right to free speech.The Bombay high court, however, held that “public interest” serves as an additional ground on which the State may issue diktats to restrict free speech. This is problematic on three counts.Also Read | Monsoon session: India’s parliamentary democracy is in crisisFirst, the high court overstepped its jurisdiction and stepped onto turf reserved for democratically elected legislators. A primary duty of the judiciary is to interpret laws, not create them.Second, by reading in a vague notion such as public interest as a valid restriction on free speech in broadcasting, the court paved the way for greater State interference in television content, particularly news. As such, it failed to uphold the rights of citizens and operate as a check against abuses of State power.Public interest is a fluid construct in Indian legal parlance, it is not defined, and it finds mention across a host of statutes, often justifying the more non-transparent elements of governance. For instance, Section 8 of the Right to Information Act uses public interest as a ground for the State to withhold information. Article 22 of the Constitution allows authorities issuing orders regarding preventive detention to maintain confidentiality about any facts related to such orders that it considers to be against the public interest.The absence of a definition of public interest in legislation means that it falls to the judiciary to imbue it with meaning. However, courts tend to test public interest on a case by case basis. In Central Public Information Officer, Supreme Court Of India v Subhash Chandra Agarwal, related to RTI requests made to courts on the collegium process, judges’ asset declarations, and judicial elevations, the court held that information officers must determine what constitutes public interest. In addition, it reemphasised and cherrypicked wide statutory grounds for the State to withhold information from the public, including breach of confidentiality and fiduciary responsibilities. What follows is that the concept of public interest is often employed to protect the interests of powerful individuals and institutions.Third, the Bombay high court did not adhere to the judicial precedent on the matter of reading public interest as an implicit restriction on free speech. The Supreme Court has remained mindful of the political dimensions of public interest and what might result if it allowed the State to restrict free speech on this ground. While the right to free speech in India is not absolute and comes with certain riders expressly listed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution, public interest never operated as a legitimate restriction on it. Article 19(2) does not mention it and the courts do not permit its entry as an implicit restriction on Article 19(1)(a).In Indian Express Newspapers vs. Union of India, for instance, the Supreme Court observed that the framers of the Constitution purposefully omitted public interest from 19(2) to ensure that the State did not hold the right to free speech ransom when it wished to impose excessive burdens on the press.Rather than make a rational decision guided by constitutional principles, in this case, the Bombay high court, with due respect, usurped the jurisdiction of the legislature, failed to uphold press freedom on television, and disregarded for the precedent set down by higher courts. The order merits wider discussion and a review.Vivan Sharan is Partner, Koan Advisory GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dont-use-public-interest-as-an-additional-ground-to-restrict-free-speech-101628762434235.html
12-08-2021||Today's||1971: When Delhi and Moscow came together||On August 9, 1971, the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation was signed in New Delhi by the foreign ministers of both countries, Swaran Singh and Andrei Gromyko. The treaty was probably the most seminal foreign policy arrangement entered into by India in the 20th century. It undoubtedly had the most profound effect on the politics and geography of South Asia, cementing what many thought was the pre-eminence of India in the region.Given the tensions over East Pakistan in 1971 and the creation of Bangladesh by the end of that year, it is not surprising that many believe that India was primarily driven to sign the treaty by this crisis. But that is a superficial picture, countered through some superb research by Srinath Raghavan in his book 1971: A Global History of the Creation of Bangladesh. When supplemented with a reading of the relevant portions of Jairam Ramesh’s excellent book, Intertwined Lives: PN Haksar and Indira Gandhi, it should provide a comprehensive understanding of how the treaty came to be signed.Also Read | A manifesto for India at 75As Raghavan notes: “The treaty was not the product of a strategic consensus between India and the Soviet Union on the crisis in South Asia. For New Delhi and Moscow sought rather different objectives in concluding the treaty.” Discussions on the treaty had started a couple of years before it was signed, in 1969 to be precise. A draft was quickly agreed upon once India’s concerns about maintaining its non-alignment and omitting any explicit references to military cooperation were accommodated. In fact, according to Raghavan, the Indian draft of the treaty did not significantly differ from the Russian version.However, the then Prime Minister (PM), Indira Gandhi, while positive about the treaty, was hesitant to sign it too quickly. She was worried about internal political opposition to the treaty as well as possible negative reactions abroad, primarily in the United States (US) and China. The fact that she got embroiled in a conflict with the Congress party leadership in 1969, and elections were held subsequently, helped postpone the signing.Even in the middle of the East Pakistan crisis, Indira Gandhi remained ambivalent about signing the document. But then US secretary of state Henry Kissinger’s secret visit to China (via Pakistan) in July 1971, and his subsequent conversation with the Indian ambassador to the US, LK Jha, on July 17 tipped the balance. Kissinger told Jha that the US would not get involved if China intervened in a war between India and Pakistan.Alarm bells rang in Delhi. PM Gandhi shed her hesitations and authorised Indian officials to proceed with the treaty. Thus, the treaty was signed on August 9, exactly one month after Kissinger’s Beijing visit.Expectedly, it was duly castigated by most Indian political parties, barring probably only the pro-Moscow Communist Party of India, then led by SA Dange. The then Jana Sangh leader, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, for instance, called it “a Soviet stab in the Indian back”. The treaty was roundly — and expectedly — criticised by most Western states.A study of publicly available material makes it abundantly clear that Russia’s prime motivation in seeking the treaty with India was China and the same was true for India. The Soviets proposed the treaty soon after the eruption of their Ussuri river border clashes with China in March 1969. The draft was, barring some minor later changes, ready by September/October 1970, long before the East Pakistan crisis erupted in March 1971.In a way, Bangladesh was a collateral beneficiary of the treaty because it prevented external great power interference in the East Pakistan crisis.Fifty years later, the world has changed dramatically. The Soviet Union no longer exists. China is not a weaker adversary of Russia seeking to ride on US coat tails — indeed, it is quite the opposite. India and South Asia have evolved significantly. The US, still the pre-eminent world power, is now locked in competition with China, which doesn’t seek to hide its muscles anymore and aggressively projects and displays power. India and Russia — the successor to the Soviet Union — are moving in apparently different orbits.But the more some things change, the more others stay the same. India is still concerned with China — this time with its belligerent rise. In response, India is moving closer to the US. However, Russia is moving closer to China trying to counter a belligerent US.This undoubtedly introduces significant tensions in the Indo-Russian relationship. But neither India nor Russia wants to be a junior partner to any other power yet. Both recognise that to stay relevant in a world that could slowly move towards bipolarity, they will need to keep their ties strong and build independently strong relationships with other middle powers.Building stronger ties requires identifying areas of convergence and prioritising them over the divergences. Strong, even if limited, ties require buy-in from political, bureaucratic, military, business, cultural and intellectual elites. This would hugely assist the efforts of both countries to move towards becoming knowledge economies, prepared for the rest of the 21st century and beyond.But, like anywhere else in the world, there are conflicting views within the elites. Currently, the more vocal elites in both countries are those that would like to see India and Russia drift apart from each other. Fortunately, so far, these voices do not accurately reflect the elite equations at the decision-making level.The strategic convergence of 1971 continues to have abiding lessons, 50 years later.Nandan Unnikrishnan is distinguished fellow, Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/1971-when-delhi-and-moscow-came-together-101628761894276.html
12-08-2021||Today's||A manifesto for India at 75||As India enters its 75th year of independence, it is a fitting time to unveil a dream of a better India.An India where harmony prevails over hate, where those who target any citizen for their religion, caste, community, region, are prosecuted and convicted for hate speech. Hate cannot be “normalised” in any manner, neither can the culture of impunity. A modern progressive society must have no place for exploiting historical scars to settle scores in the present. Just throw all those who engage in hate speech across communities into the same jail cell and toss away the keys.An India where opaque governments do not try and hide Covid deaths, where data is not falsified to create a fake perception that “all is well”. Why should a citizen’s death certificate be fudged? Callous in life, do we have to be insensitive in death too? If shortage of oxygen led to loss of lives, admit it rather than try and hide behind medico-legal jargon. And when bodies are found floating down a river, don’t engage in a perfidious cover-up by refusing to even acknowledge the scale of death and despair.Also Read | Monsoon session: India’s parliamentary democracy is in crisisAn India where access to quality health care is not determined by social and economic status. Where a public health system puts the aam aadmi above VVIP privilege to ensure that no one is denied a hospital bed in an emergency. Where we build more hospitals than places of worship, where doctors and not self-styled Godmen are seen as true icons of devotion and compassion.An India where we lessen divides and not widen inequalities. Where poverty alleviation is seen as the greatest service to humanity. Where, when a lockdown leads to mass migration of daily wage labour, governments address the crisis. Where the gaping digital divide in pandemic times needs to be addressed effectively. Where a lack of a smartphone or varying levels of technological literacy must not become barriers to education.An India where Parliament is the ultimate symbol of democratic values of debate and dialogue, not of unilateralism, obstructionism and rowdyism. Parliament cannot be a Big Boss house where decisions are bulldozed by a brute majority, nor can it become an arena for stalling key legislation. Parliamentary democracy cannot be reduced to a once in five year voting ritual that disconnects the elected representative from the citizen.An India where governments accused of snooping and violating the right to privacy of their citizens are subject to institutional scrutiny. Where a free and open society must ensure that those who threaten their much cherished democratic freedoms are probed and censured. Where those who are ideological opponents of the government are not labelled “anti-national”, and where, instead, true patriotism is recognised as sustained interrogation of any abuse of power. Where a colonial-era law such as sedition is struck the statute books and dissent is not criminalised.An India which respects its federal pulls and pressures and where states are not divided based on party affiliations. Where local antagonisms do not spill over into a violent conflict, where the nation’s peripheries matter as much as the heartland. Where constitutional authorities retain their autonomy and integrity. Where the Election Commission acts as a neutral umpire. Where enforcement agencies are not misused to settle political scores and where judges are not compromised by a domineering executive.An India where our economic policymakers snap out of denial mode. Where the true state of the economy isn’t determined by a rising sensex or fanciful V shaped graphics but by the reality of falling incomes and loss of jobs. Where a shattered informal sector and distressed micro and small industries become the bedrock of policy initiatives and not fat-cat crony corporates who have little to lose. Where protesting farmers are not “enemies” of the State, barricaded behind iron nails and barbed wires, but are sons of the soil who deserve a fair hearing.An India where a woman isn’t assaulted every 15 minutes, where convictions in such crimes are swift and assured. Where the family of the victim doesn’t have to wait for years for court decisions, where witnesses are not intimidated into changing their testimony, where a woman’s dignity is not compromised by typical misogynistic attitudes.An India where local tribal groups are not denied their rights to land, forests and livelihood, where those who stand up for the rights of the poor and marginalized are not labelled as “urban Naxals”. Where when an octogenarian priest is arrested, his lifelong commitment to tribal rights is not demonised as terrorist activity with scant evidence.An India which recognises the climate crisis as arguably the biggest challenge of the next century. Where policymakers address the ecological crisis caused by reckless deforestation and coastal encroachments. Where air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions are not seen as elite preoccupations but become part of an ever-widening dialogue on global warming and the right to breathe clean air.An India that becomes an Olympic super-power and not just a cricket-obsessed country. Where it isn’t another 13 years before India wins its next Olympic gold. Where even as we celebrate our Olympic stars, we remember that only a country with a genuine sports culture will win medals consistently. And yes, an India where next time the champion athletes are felicitated, their images are larger than those of political leaders.Postscript: The dream is not just for a better India but a better media too, one which puts sense above sensation and news above noise and speaks truth to power rather than bend before it. Happy Independence Day!Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-manifesto-for-india-at-75-101628760334326.html
12-08-2021||Today's||Monsoon session: India’s parliamentary democracy is in crisis||The normalisation of disruption and the steamrolling of legislation in the monsoon session are warning signs that parliamentary functioning needs an urgent overhaul. If this pattern continues, the new Parliament building will be a modern and spacious venue for a dysfunctional institution.Political disagreement on discussing issues such as the alleged Pegasus phone hacking and farm laws led to the washout of the session. There was only one exception. The ruling party and the Opposition reached a rare consensus on a constitutional amendment bill, which clarifies that states can maintain their list of socially and educationally backward classes. But the debate on the amendment was an aberration in the larger story of how Parliament passed laws during the session.The two Houses went through the motions while passing 15 other laws. Amid continuing disruptions, Lok Sabha, on an average, took less than 10 minutes to pass a law, and Rajya Sabha passed each law in less than half an hour. The passage of these laws was more in form than in substance. In Lok Sabha, there were 13 bills in which no Member of Parliament (MP) spoke other than the minister in charge of the bill.The political debate in the two Houses on a law is often in addition to a careful examination of the government’s legislative proposal by a parliamentary committee. And this aspect of legislative scrutiny continued to weaken in the monsoon session. The government introduced 11 bills in the session and pushed them through Parliament without scrutiny by standing committees. Only 12% of the government’s legal proposals have been sent to committees for scrutiny in the current Lok Sabha. This number was 27% in the 16th (2014-19), 71% in the 15th (2009-14) and 60% in the 14th (2004- 09) Lok Sabha.Amid the slogan shouting and the raising of placards, the government accomplished almost all of its legislative agenda. The one significant piece of law that it did not bring before Parliament was an amendment to delicense electricity distribution. The government also brought in a law to end retrospective taxation and another one to increase private sector participation in public sector insurance companies.A casualty of parliamentary disruption was the ability of the Opposition to hold the government accountable for its functioning. With Question House barely operational, ministers neither had to orally answer questions nor face pointed follow-ups on the work done by their ministries. MPs were able to get written answers from the government on various issues, including the handling of the Covid-19 situation, the vaccination drive, and deaths due to the pandemic. While Rajya Sabha was able to deliberate on the pandemic, in the Lok Sabha, no such discussion could occur due to disruptions.Finally, this is the fourth consecutive session that has been cut short. The pandemic led to the curtailment of two sessions in 2020. This year, political parties agreed to end the budget session 11 days ahead of schedule to campaign in state elections. The monsoon session is yet another reminder that the institution needs to rethink how it deals with disruptions. It does not have any effective mechanism to reign in political parties for the conduct of their MPs. And since MPs disrupt Parliament on the instruction of their political parties, disciplining them hasn’t worked.Parliament can change its rules to give MPs more teeth in questioning the government and empower its committees to become critical stakeholders in the law-making process. This will increase the stake that MPs have in the effective functioning of the institution, and disincentivise them from disrupting it. But this alone will not stop parliamentary disruptions.The socialist leader and former minister, Madhu Dandavate, once remarked that a sense of accommodation by the treasury benches and a sense of responsibility by the Opposition benches is the balance essential for the smooth running of Parliament. And this balance can only be achieved by both sides working together to uphold the dignity of Parliament.Chakshu Roy is the head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-monsoon-session-highlights-the-crisis-india-s-parliamentary-democracy-101628693611299.html
