13-08-2021||Today's||In India, a diminished economic future||Recently published data on key indicators of the Indian economy are a sobering reminder of the diminishing economic future that most Indians confront and the stubborn refusal, indeed abdication, by our policymakers, to craft an appropriate policy response.In late July, the government released estimates from the third annual round of the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), conducted between July 2019 and June 2020. One of the starkest revelations from the survey is that India witnessed an unprecedented, sharp increase in the share of workers employed in agriculture from 42.5% in 2018-19 to 45.6% in 2019-20. In a sharp reversal of structural economic trends, agriculture was the biggest employer responsible for creating 32.72 million jobs.This was accompanied by a fall in the share of manufacturing, construction, transport and “other services” in total employment.That this shift to agriculture is a sign of deep distress and employment of last resort is evident in Santosh Mehrotra’s analysis of poverty incidence using PLFS data. Mehrotra’s calculations reveal that between 2011-12 and 2019-20, the absolute number of poor increased by 70 million.It is important to note that PLFS data only captures the first three months (April-June) of the pandemic-induced economic shock. As Mahesh Vyas points out, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data shows that this “reverse migration” to agriculture has, in fact, deepened through 2020-21 (July-June). In the first wave, the worst impact of “reverse migration” was partially mitigated by the relative resilience of agriculture, which grew by 3.6%, the only sector of the economy to do so. In addition, welfare spending in rural India through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), in particular, was ramped up and provided some minimal succour.But these conditions do not prevail today, in the aftermath of the deadly second wave.First, the monsoon conditions have not been as favourable. Second, and more importantly, government welfare spending has been stubbornly low.Central government spending in key sectors such as rural development (MGNREGS) in the first quarter (April-June) of 2021 is far lower than last year, leaving the rural workforce vulnerable. In June 2021, for instance, MGNREGS provided nearly 10 million fewer jobs than in June 2020, meeting apromixately 83% of the demand for jobs compared with 87% in the previous year. The refusal to ramp up spending, despite the deadly second wave, has likely left households in deeper economic distress. Agricultural wages may not remain resilient as they did in 2020, making the need for more government spending in rural India urgent.Perhaps policymakers have chosen to ignore these vulnerabilities because the formal sector of the economy is showing signs of recovery, in turn, filling the central government’s coffers. The Centre’s revenue receipts and fiscal deficit numbers for the first quarter of this year are looking better than 2019. Overall, it collected 27% of its budgeted receipts in June 2021 compared with 14% in 2019. Of course, part of this is due to the bonanza from excise collections on petrol and diesel.Significantly, corporate tax collections were a healthy ₹1.23 lakh crore. Healthy corporate taxes underscore the reality that like last year, economic recovery, such as it is, is profit-led. And while this may offer some short-term comfort to those tracking Gross Domestic Product (GDP) numbers, not only does this expose the bulk of the economy to prolonged vulnerability, this will only deepen the structural crisis highlighted by PLFS.As HSBC’s Pranjul Bhandari has repeatedly pointed out, gains to the formal sector post the pandemic have come at the cost of putting small, informal firms out of business. And while this “forced formalisation” has kept profitability high, it has left the bulk of India’s households, which find employment in the informal sector, financially vulnerable.That households are vulnerable is also reflected in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s consumer confidence surveys and points to the deepening demand crisis. The latest survey for July 2021 showed persistent weakness in consumer confidence as most households reported lower incomes than a year ago. If unchecked, the likelihood of the “reverse migration” trend becoming an endemic feature of the economy is real. In the short-run, the policy prescriptions are well known and have been widely discussed in the public domain. A consumption boost through food, work (MGNREGS), and cash transfers in urban India remain essential for relief today than in the peak lockdown last year. The government’s continued refusal to provide a robust stimulus, beyond an expanded public distribution system, despite some fiscal elbow room with relatively healthy revenue receipts and a fiscal deficit under control, is inexcusable, even callous.However, the long-term challenge for India remains finding its way toward an employment-intensive growth trajectory. This will require more than the current policy toolkit of extended credit guarantees and bulldozing reforms, as was attempted through farm laws. Perhaps it is worth acknowledging that there are no clear pathways. From factor market reforms, to understanding and responding to the unique supply constraints, including difficulties that confront the female labour force, to overcoming barriers to scale experienced by small and medium enterprises, each of these challenges requires careful deliberation and coordinated policy action between sectors of the economy and between the Centre and state governments. Employment-intensive growth needs State investment in human capital, in markets and in enabling regulation. But first, and above all, the government needs to acknowledge the deep structural crisis that it is staring at.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-a-diminished-economic-future-101628857385200.html
13-08-2021||Today's||To save Afghanistan, act against Pakistan||United States (US) president Joe Biden is pressing ahead with his dash out of Afghanistan, undeterred by the catastrophe he is leaving behind. He does not regret it, he told reporters earlier this week.Perhaps he does now. The Taliban has gained control of vast swathes at a speed that has startled military leaders and officials of the Biden administration. Before long, they will have Kabul. And the medieval barbarism that characterised their 1996-2001 Islamic Emirate may be back in all its horrific manifestations — women behind burqas, petty thieves and adulterers stoned, monuments blown up.Former and current military leaders, and experts on the region and officials point to one factor in all this that could make a difference, if tackled in time — Pakistan. The key to the Taliban surviving 20 years after its ouster, and recent resurgence, has been safe havens across the border in Pakistan.Also Read | UNSC: Reading India’s global signals rightDavid Petraeus, onetime US military commander in Afghanistan, vented his frustration in an interview to TRT Word, a Turkish TV network. “The Taliban, the Haqqani Network (which is a part of the Taliban), the Islamic movement of Uzbekistan, all the different groups making life so difficult for Afghanistan over the years, all have their headquarters on Pakistani soil. And there was no willingness on the part of the Pakistanis to eliminate those headquarters from their soil. So you could never put ultimate pressure on their leaders, on their major headquarters.” His point was simple. There was a military solution to the Afghan problem, but the chase always ended at the border with Pakistan.Pakistan’s role goes beyond giving sanctuary to the Taliban. When asked if the Taliban could have managed their recent military successes without Pakistan’s help at a news conference, John Kirby, the Pentagon’s chief spokesperson, could barely retain his trademark equanimity: “I – I’m – I – again, I’m not going to – I – I can’t assess the – the – the Taliban order of battle … I – I – I – I won’t speculate about what manner of support they’re getting from any other nation state or any other source.” Kirby was being careful to not give Pakistan an excuse to play difficult.The US is having “frank” conversations with the Pakistanis at this time but there is no evidence they are yielding anything of consequence. US defense secretary Lloyd Austin spoke to Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa earlier this week, but it may already be too late.Biden may be determined to let the Afghans decide their destiny, decide who they want to govern their country and how. But does he really see Pakistani as part of that self-determination process?There may still be time, therefore, for one last, albeit, desperate measure. Threaten Pakistan with punishment, any punishment, to force it to cut ties with the Taliban. Chris Alexander, a former Canadian minister, and others, have demanded sanctions, which has been gathering momentum on Twitter with #SanctionPakistan.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-save-afghanistan-act-against-pakistan-101628853474314.html
13-08-2021||Today's||UNSC: Reading India’s global signals right||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi presiding over a virtual Security Council debate — a first for any Indian PM — is a sign of a new, more assertive Indian willingness to contribute positively to global peace and security issues at the highest political level. The external affairs minister (EAM)’s decision to preside over “in-person” meetings of the Council reinforce the thinking that this is not a one-off effort. The signals are consistent.India’s engagement with the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has a chequered history. It can be traced back to 1947. Soon after Independence, we failed in our first attempt to get elected to the SC as a non-permanent member.Subsequently, it is well-known that we have been elected to the SC eight times. Of these, seven times were when there was no candidate in the race against us. What is not widely known is that even after 1947, we lost two of the three attempts to get on the SC in contested elections. In four contested elections to the SC, we lost thrice in the first 50 years of our Independence. Additionally, our experience of the Council’s consideration of the India-Pakistan question in the first two decades of our independent existence left us reticent about involvement with the SC.Also Read | 1971: When Delhi and Moscow came togetherThis was many years ago. Yet, the scars of the past often get embedded in collective memories and take time to overcome. It appears that change is happening. In recent times, our approach towards engaging global organisations in matters of peace and security is evolving.In 2017, reversing years of caution, India moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ). It leveraged a multilateral convention to seek settlement of a dispute about the judgment of a Pakistani military court to execute Indian national, Kulbhushan Jadhav. What was anathema, until then, ended in success.Later in 2017, though not a member of the SC, India did not shy away from facing a permanent member of the Council in an election to the ICJ. It remained undeterred when all permanent members supported their fellow permanent member. The Indian win upended a tradition that no nominee of a permanent member to the ICJ had ever lost an election.In 2019, India was able to ward off another permanent member which ventured to team up with Pakistan to revive a matter that others in the Council concluded did not belong there. Not only did it end in a diplomatic win, but it also resulted in a public diplomacy win. These were indications of change in the making.This month, the Indian presidency of the Council adds further impetus to that trend. The presidency of the SC is a matter of routine alphabetical rotation. We have presided numerous times. Something is different now. India is using the pulpit to indicate that its agenda is no longer defensive. India is not satisfied with merely ensuring that matters of immediate concern are kept out despite the efforts of those inimical to us. The intent is to highlight the positive agenda that India can bring to the table, and it is gaining attention.Interestingly, India, which generally is averse to the pursuit of thematic items by the SC, has brought such an issue to the fore. It is correct that the Council has addressed various aspects of maritime security; however, it did not consider maritime security holistically earlier. Also, for the first time, a formal statement was adopted by the SC on the subject. Nevertheless, the argument that this is under a general rubric and may not be pursued by others is not invalid.In evaluating technicalities, we tend to lose the broader political significance. The subject is important, as is the format and the outcome. More significant is that India’s political leadership is showing that it is keenly invested in serious engagement at the UN. It is confidently floating global initiatives at a forum where our high-level engagement was limited.The only instance of our participation at the SC, at the highest level, goes back to the First Security Council Summit presided by the then United Kingdom Prime Minister (PM), John Major, in 1992. India, then a non-permanent member, was represented by PM PV Narasimha Rao. SC meetings presided by heads of State/government in any format are rare. Many times, the outcomes do not stand the test of time. However, that is not necessarily the intent. The 1992 Summit signalled the beginning of an era of global cooperation in the SC, following the end of the Cold War.PM Narendra Modi presiding over a virtual SC debate — a first for any Indian PM — is a sign of a new, more assertive Indian willingness to contribute positively to global peace and security issues at the highest political level. The external affairs minister (EAM)’s decision to preside over “in-person” meetings of the Council reinforce the thinking that this is not a one-off effort. The signals are consistent.The longer-term significance is of an Indian political leadership invested in UN issues. Again, this is not entirely new. There are instances in the past of Indian political leaders taking initiatives in matters such as environment, the climate crisis and nuclear issues. That the current political leadership is willing to stake out new areas reflects intent to expand the canvas of India’s foreign policy. Expanding our objectives is to be welcomed. The choice of the forum means we are ready to exorcise the ghosts of the past.Those who think activism as a non-permanent member undermines our quest for permanent membership need to remember that good performance is usually a means of moving up the ladder, not a demonstration of intent to stay stationary. Alas, the toxicity of India’s domestic politics results in foreign policy being viewed through a partisan prism. Consequently, the contours of beneficial change, even though discernible, are missed.Syed Akbaruddin is a retired Indian diplomat who served as India’s permanent representative to the UN. He is now dean of the Kautilya School of Public PolicyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/unsc-reading-india-s-global-signals-right-101628852813578.html
