15-08-2021||Today's||The turn in Afghanistan will threaten Indian security||With the fall of Kandahar, Herat, Lashkar Gah, Ghazni, Pol-e-Alam, Mazar-e-Sharif, Jalalabad, and now, for all practical purposes if not officially, Kabul, to the Taliban, the writ of the Afghan government is over. On Sunday, the Taliban entered Kabul but didn’t immediately mount a military offensive. However, the message was clear and President Ashraf Ghani, along with his core team, left Kabul by the end of the day. There are isolated pockets of resistance all over, but the Taliban is set to take control, if the international community doesn’t intervene.In hindsight, United States (US) president Joe Biden‘s decision to withdraw from Afghanistan and continue negotiating with the Taliban deeply impacted the Afghan society. This process not only legitimised the Taliban, but also bolstered its position in an extremely hierarchical, tribal society.From 1996 to 2001, when the Taliban controlled most of Afghanistan, some areas in the north such as Panjshir and Badakhshan province could stall the Taliban’s offensive. Their contiguity to Tajikistan ensured that the forces resisting the Taliban could be provided supplies from across the borders. However, in the current onslaught, not only did Badakhshan fall, all the border crossings with the sole exception of Torkham with Pakistan were captured by the Taliban. This not only enabled the Taliban to fill its coffers by taxing the movement of goods and personnel, but more significantly, it made the Afghan government dependent on supplies through Pakistan.In the last few weeks, the Taliban has displayed its barbarity. They have shown that they do not believe in adhering to the assurances given by them during their talks in Doha and elsewhere. The Taliban is bound to an obscurantist ideology, which aims to create a puritanical Islamic Emirate, where women and minorities enjoy no rights. Those ignorant of the theological underpinning of the Taliban have long talked of creating a wedge between it and al-Qaeda which has always talked of waging jihad in the name of Amir-ul-Mu’minin, who was Mullah Omar earlier, and now, is Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada, the leader of the Taliban. Without the Taliban, al-Qaeda’s jihad would be theologically illegitimate.Many in India are suggesting that the government deepen its engagement with the Taliban. However, irrespective of the carrots being offered, the Taliban is unlikely to move away from its basic medieval mindset. As Kabul falls, the preliminary aim of the Taliban to establish an Islamic Caliphate in Afghanistan is close to being met. This will fulfill another theological precondition of jihad (possession of territory) and will lead to a surge in recruitment to al-Qaeda, as was evident in the case of the Islamic State after the fall of Mosul. The emirate will become the hub for spreading violent jihadi ideology, and this jihad is unlikely to remain confined within the geographical frontiers of Afghanistan.After conquering Afghanistan, the foot soldiers of the Taliban will not start tilling the land. They will merely relocate to new battlefields to fight new wars. These could well be in India, which, according to them, is part of “Khorasan” — the arena of “end of time” battles. The fall of Kabul could also result in the surge of new jihadi recruits from India for other terror groups.This will create a significant security threat for India. It is, therefore, essential that all efforts are invested to stall an outright Taliban victory, even at this late stage. If the Taliban does succeed in capturing power on its own, India must rally behind anti-Taliban forces which will consolidate in the coming weeks. Even countries engaging with the Taliban are uncomfortable with the Taliban’s ascendance, as it threatens their long-term interests. India should create an alliance with such countries. Remember, the Taliban won’t be friendly towards India, and will, sooner or later, pose a serious threat to India’s security. It makes far greater sense for India to fight the Taliban in Kabul than to do so in Srinagar or at Wagah.Alok Bansal is director, and Soumya Chaturvedi is senior research fellow, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-turn-in-afghanistan-will-threaten-indian-security-101629040220417.html
15-08-2021||Today's||The exhaustion of the carbon budget||In the past three decades, the science of the climate crisis has progressed, but its politics has regressed. In 1992, in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, when the world met to initiate action on the climate crisis, the science behind the accuracy of how fossil fuels were warming the planet and its implications was still uncertain. But enough was known to sound a warning bell on this impending catastrophe. This is why the framework convention on climate change was agreed upon. At the time, it was accepted that the world needed to come together as these emissions crossed national boundaries. It was accepted that countries had different responsibilities to the contribution of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and, so, they needed to act together, but differently. Rich countries needed to drastically cut emissions and make space for the poorer, emerging countries to grow. But so that these countries could grow differently — with lower emissions of greenhouse gases, mainly CO2 — the richer countries would provide funds and technology. The politics of climate justice would enable cooperation. But since then, we have gone downhill. Now, the Climate Change 2021 report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) bluntly says that the world has run out of time and excuses not to act. It is code red for the planet, these normally circumspect scientists have declared. They are now certain that it is human influence that has warmed the earth. That this warmer world is already beginning to see the impact — from extreme cold to extreme heat of extreme rainfall events. And that each of these events will trigger devastation such as the droughts, floods or fires that we are witnessing today. This is no longer about the future. It is the present, and it will only get worse. This then is their next big certainty — the pace is accelerating and this will mean that we could see an increase of 1.5°C in global temperature measured since 1870 by 2040 or sooner. This is widely considered as a guardrail of what is relatively safe. But consider the fact that at an average increase of 1.09°C, we are seeing such horrific devastation. For most of us, who have keenly observed the language of climate scientists, the 2021 IPCC report is remarkably different. Instead of being punctuated with the usual suffices of uncertainty, it now says, more often than ever, that it is “virtually certain” and can speak with a “high order of confidence” of the human-induced climate crisis impact. It can even attribute this to specific weather events. It indeed is the age of the Anthropocene and we will not go down well in history. This is where politics kicks in. The IPCC report says there is a “near-linear” relationship between cumulative CO2 emissions and the global warming they cause. It says each 1,000 gigatonne CO2 (GtCO2) is likely to cause a 0.45°C increase in global surface temperature. The real twist comes in the next finding, which says that for a 67% chance to stay below 1.5°C, the remaining carbon budget — from January 2020 — is 400 GtCO2 and that at current rates of emissions, this will be exhausted in the next 10 years. Think of the carbon budget like the cake that has already been eaten, and now there are crumbs available for the rest to munch on. This is the real inconvenient truth of the climate crisis. The fact is the carbon budget has been disproportionately appropriated in the past — the politics of action and inaction lies in this inequity. Between 1870 and 1989, the United States, the European Union (EU)-27, Russia, the United Kingdom, Japan, Canada, and Australia emitted 75%. In the next two decades, China, which was just 5% in the preceding period, jumped to contribute 13% of the carbon budget. In this way, the original seven and China have appropriated 74% of the budget from 1870 to 2019. And by 2030, they will take up 60% of what remains to keep the world below 1.5°C. So, it’s apartheid, the climate way. The question is: What do we do in India? We are victims of the impact of the climate crisis. We know this and the IPCC reconfirms that we will see the worst of the devastation in this increasingly warming world. We are the world’s third highest emitter of greenhouse gases (fourth if we take EU-27 as a group) but the scale of our past, current and future emissions is not comparable to the original 7+1 — not in terms of the total amount or in terms of per capita. But now the world has run out of carbon space. We can keep insisting that we are the victims, but it will not be to much avail. We need a strategy to ramp up our actions to combat the climate crisis — because we have the advantage of doing things differently. Also, we have the reason to do this for our own benefit — clean air and clean energy. We must be strident on the need for global action; stress on the inequity of inaction; and show leadership in not just walking, but running the talk. It is a tall order given the fact that emissions of CO2 are still directly linked to economic growth. But it is the order of the times we live in. Sunita Narain is director-general, Centre for Science and Environment, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-exhaustion-of-the-carbon-budget-101629039621939.html
15-08-2021||Today's||Looking back at the 25th, 50th I-Day anniversaries||I am writing these words with a deep sense of grief, even as India celebrates its 75th Independence Day. The monsoon session of Parliament has shattered people’s faith in parliamentary democracy. At this juncture, it must be remembered that Independence and the progress that followed have been achieved through the efforts of generation after generation. Let me explain by going back to the last 50 years, which I have had the privilege of witnessing up close.Let’s start with September 1971. There were photographs of Indira Gandhi everywhere, and the people of Prayagraj (then, Allahabad) felt proud when they said that they were residents of the original city of the Jawaharlal Nehru dynasty. Gandhi was known for her eloquent speeches. We used to hear her speeches on All India Radio, in which she was often heard drawing the blueprint of India’s golden future. However, the conditions on the ground were starkly different.The shadow of the 1965-1967 famine was still looming over the country. Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan were also drought-prone at the time. The country produced only 107.8 million tonnes of food grains. The agricultural situation dipped, and as a result, India had to import about two million tonnes of grain from the United States and other countries. Society was imprisoned in the ruthless system of ration shops. People in villages could not even see sugar for months. Discussions over war with Pakistan were in full swing. And as expected, war broke out in the first week of December. India won a decisive victory over Pakistan, which was now broken into two parts. The country was overwhelmed with pride. Most of us even forgot about the growth rate that had slipped below zero, the queues at ration shops, and the pains of everyday life. This sentiment remained even eight months after the country began to celebrate the 25th year of independence.This was not unnatural, as the literacy rate was only 35%. In those days, the infant mortality rate was 138 of 1,000 newborns. The life expectancy rate was 48.72 years. The British raj was over, but in the country, devotion to kings remained. Political dynasties were taking advantage of this. Their numbers were increasing, and continue to, to this day.Now, fast-forward to 1997. This was the sixth year of economic reforms in India. Computers were becoming a part of life in many sectors and mobile phones began making their presence felt, albeit slowly. Little did we know then that we were inching towards the greatest changes in human civilisation. Education was being privatised and businessmen were opening colleges. It was no wonder that the 2001 Census reflected its impact. India’s literacy rate jumped tremendously, and now, 64.83% of the population was literate. The infant mortality rate also reduced significantly. Now, only 73 of 1,000 newborns lost their lives. The life expectancy rate increased to 61 years. The Green Revolution made it possible to feed a large and growing population.By that time, only states had ayaram-gayaram (turncoat) governments. But soon, the Centre began seeing this trend after the rise of regional parties. At that time, Inder Kumar Gujral was the prime minister (PM) elected by a provisional coalition. It was as if the faction of 40 rich people who ruled in Delhi during the era of the slave dynasty had been re-established. The situation at the borders was poor. Terrorism also established its root in India. After the Northeast, bad news began coming from Kashmir. It was natural for Pakistan to be ambitious in such an unfortunate time. Two years later, the events in Kargil were the result of this situation. The passion of the 25th anniversary was missing in the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of Independence.Now, at the present moment. India has made tremendous economic progress in the last 74 years. Despite the Covid-19 attack, the world believes that we will join the club of the top three economic superpowers — if not today, then tomorrow. This year, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated at 9.5% and India’s literacy rate has reached 78%. The infant mortality rate has dropped down to 28 per 1,000, and the life expectancy is about 70 years. We can, and should, feel proud of this, but in our neighbouring Sri Lanka, infant mortality rate has come down to six per 1,000. So, while we are leaps ahead from where we started, we still have a lot of work to do.Tension still persists at the borders. China is still a major threat. However, India’s tough stance on the border has forced China to retreat in many places, but to assume that the threat is over would be a mistake. The Indian government is aware of this, and that’s why the three armed forces have been brought under one command. The current Chief of Defence Staff, Bipin Rawat, has claimed that India can fight on two fronts.If someone asked me what I consider to be the country’s greatest achievement in the last 50 years, my answer would be just one simple word: Democracy. Every challenge and obstacle, we have overcome democratically. In every civilisation, it is customary to learn from one’s mistakes on the occasion of a birthday. Will politicians take advantage of this opportunity every year? Hopefully, before the next session of Parliament, they will set an example of harmony so that Parliament can discharge its obligation with full dignity.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/looking-back-at-the-25th-50th-i-day-anniversaries-101629039620862.html
15-08-2021||Today's||I dreamt of democracy in Afghanistan. Now, I may be killed||In 2004, I was in the seventh grade when the first free presidential election took place in Afghanistan. For my country, that election was the second most important step after writing its new constitution in building a stabilised democratic society with the help of the international community.Since then, I could not wait to be old enough to vote for my country’s new president. Although I barely knew much about voting rights or participatory democracy, I still felt proud and powerful. I thought my opinion and my vote mattered.Later, I studied at the journalism department of Kabul University, where I learnt about democracy, the right to vote, and freedom of speech. My studies helped me vote in the elections in 2014 and 2019, despite the high risk of being attacked by the Taliban. I voted in 2014 and 2019 amid the risk of being attacked by the Taliban. Back then, for me, as a media student, voting was not the only thing to do. I felt that it was my responsibility to openly talk about its importance with pride. Posting on social media was another way to express myself and convince others to participate in democracy for future generations.In 2015, I went to India to pursue my Master’s degree in Journalism at AJK Mass Communication Research Center in Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. In Jamia, I saw Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Christians, and many others belonging to different communities living together peacefully in the largest democracy in the world. Living and studying in the democratic, diverse, and stable India gave me a dream and a goal: Working for a democratic Afghanistan by preserving and polishing its cultural values, such as hospitality, music, clothing, and men and women working together. This made me return home after graduating, despite having a job at the Pashto department of the international division of the AIR: All India Radio.Soon after returning home, I came back to the journalism department at Kabul University, where I became a teaching assistant and permanent faculty member. I was surprised when I met my students for the first time. Meeting and sharing thoughts with young minds made me happy. I found them much more aware and enthusiastic about democratic values than many from my generation.At the time, I was full of hope, despite the fact that war was still raging in the countryside. I did not lose hope even when, every now and then, bomb blasts and suicide attacks killed people I knew in my own city, Kabul. After every lecture with these enthusiastic young men and women at Kabul University, it made me happy to see that my dream of a peaceful and democratic society was taking shape in front of me.Even the deadly attack on Kabul University on November 2, 2020, which, according to official numbers, killed 32 people and wounded 50 others, including students and faculty members, could not stop us. Just two days after the violent attack, while everyone was still traumatised, we returned to our classes, most of us wearing black to express our grief. We were determined to build a new society.Such acts of solidarity and defiance also made me realise that I was not the only one rooting for a democratic Afghanistan. Almost everyone my age has a similar story. The new generation of Afghanistan, those who went to schools and universities after 2001, and took part in elections in the last 17 years, always dreamed of a democratic society, where humanity was of the most considerable value.Meanwhile, we knew about the corruption and rivalries among the different warlords sharing power, but we considered that as a passing stage and as a bridging point to the future we dreamed of. We were somewhat indulged, because we knew our country was yet to recover fully from the disastrous four decades of war, including the USSR invasion, the civil war among Mujaheddin, and the darkest era of the Taliban.In fact, we thought we could grow up to the point of becoming a democratic example for our neighbours, like Iran, where the regime exercises tight control, for Pakistan suffering under the control of the military, and the Central Asian nation with their fixed elections. To reach our dream, we were confident and counting on our partners in the international community: Europeans, Americans, Indians, Arab nations, and others who came to our country in the aftermath of 9/11.Do not get me wrong. We were not expecting sympathy. Our confidence was pragmatic and based on a common interest. Afghans have been fighting a war on behalf of the world — the war on terrorism. The world had no choice but to stand by our side. This is what we hoped for. The international community did take some initiatives but ultimately we were left to fend for ourselves.Afghans were horrified when Zalmay Khalilzad, the United States (US) Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, signed the Doha agreement with the Taliban in February 2020. The US kept the elected government of Afghanistan out of this deal. It also treated the Taliban as a parallel government. Soon, the Taliban appeared as “honourable guests” in Moscow, Tehran, and Beijing. Our biggest disappointment is not the departure of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces from Afghanistan; it is the treatment of the Taliban by the international community as a legitimate force, equating it with Afghanistan’s elected government. While the Taliban is gaining more territory inside the country and gaining political leverage abroad, many of us live in the fear of being executed. We stand vulnerable to the atrocities of the Taliban. Why? Because we dream of a democratic society. Because we refuse to live under a regime of terror.Baitullah Hameedi teaches at Kabul University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/i-dreamt-of-democracy-in-afghanistan-now-i-may-be-killed-101628950862180.html
15-08-2021||Today's||India-UK: The evolution of a post-colonial relationship||As India enters the 75th year of its Independence, my mind goes back 25 years, to its 50th anniversary and Queen Elizabeth’s visit. Inviting her to celebrate India’s Independence was a generous gesture considering Britain’s past imperial role. It also demonstrated Britain’s hope that the past could stay in the past, and a future partnership of two great democracies be established.The visit ran into rough weather. To woo the British-Sikh vote, a significant factor in several constituencies, the British high commissioner was instructed to negotiate a visit to Amritsar and the Golden Temple. IK Gujral, the then prime minister (PM), made it clear that he didn’t want the Queen to go to Amritsar unless she was willing to apologise for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Eventually, in an embarrassing compromise as far as Gujral was concerned, it was agreed the Queen would visit Jallianwala Bagh and lay a wreath, but she would not apologise. During the visit, the Duke of Edinburgh didn’t make things any easier by questioning the official figures of the number of people killed in the massacre when General Reginald Dyer ordered his soldiers to open fire on a peaceful crowd trapped in the garden. The Queen’s husband was reported as saying that General Dyer’s son had told him that the figure was much lower — hardly a reliable source.Before coming to India, the Queen visited Pakistan. This did not please the external affairs ministry. During the visit, the British foreign minister, Robin Cook, offered to mediate between India and Pakistan. With the unhappiness over Amritsar and the anger over Cook’s blunder, the press coverage of the tour became extremely negative, so much so that the Palace issued a statement saying that the Queen thought the visit was going very well.British PM, Boris Johnson, seems to have learnt the lesson from this sorry story: Don’t push too hard, don’t ride roughshod over Indian sensitivities if you want to negotiate successfully, as he does. He desperately wants a Free Trade Agreement to justify his promise that Brexit will leave Britain free to negotiate far more beneficial trade agreements than those it was tied to by its membership in the European Union.Johnson is taking it step by step. He met Narendra Modi virtually two months ago, and they agreed on an enhanced trade partnership. Modi described this as a “roadmap to a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement”. He also spoke of an ambitious roadmap to elevate India-United Kingdom (UK) relations to a “comprehensive strategic partnership”. That sounds something like the alliance of two great democracies Britain hoped that the Queen’s visit would symbolise.India is a constitutional democracy. According to its first president Rajendra Prasad, its democracy has historic links with Britain. He said, “We have all derived from the British Parliament and we still continue to derive inspiration from its proceedings, from its history....(and) from its traditions.” Furthermore, at the recent G7 summit hosted by Johnson in June, Modi, although only a guest, signed the open societies statement, the joint commitment to strengthen democracy globally.There are now questions being asked about how democratic India is. The United States government-funded non-governmental organisation Freedom House’s 2021 report has demoted India from “free” to “partly free”, alleging discriminatory policies, rising violence and a crackdown on freedom of expression. India has also dropped two places in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index. It alleges a crackdown on civil liberties in India.These allegations have been furiously denied, but the truth is that India’s democracy does have an international image problem, which if it remains, will stand in the way of establishing a comprehensive partnership with Britain. It also makes India’s commitment to the world’s richest nations campaign for democracy appear implausible.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indiaukthe-evolution-of-a-post-colonial-relationship-101628950442133.html
15-08-2021||Today's||Our Olympic champions deserve all the credit||I remember it as clearly as if it happened yesterday. But it was nearly 50 years ago. The curtain had come down on the last performance of Peter Shaffer’s, The Royal Hunt of the Sun. I played the part of Atahualpa, the defeated Inca King. For the Stowe school audience, the novelty of a brown Indian acting as a Red Indian was the cause of much ribaldry. My mates gathered backstage were attracted, no doubt, by the feathers in my hair. But when photographs were taken, they crowded me out. That’s when Bob Drayson, the headmaster, spoke out.“Surely the young man you’ve come to congratulate should be at the centre?” he asked. “You’re grabbing the limelight instead!”That’s exactly what happened when our Olympic heroes returned last week. No doubt the highest in the land were among the first to applaud them, but the way they did it suggested that they wanted the attention on themselves.Consider, for example, the prime minister (PM)’s phone call to the bronze-medal winning hockey team. Both sides spoke on mobiles with the speakers switched on. That was the first surprise. But what really caught my attention — and it can’t possibly have missed yours — is there was a camera in Delhi filming the PM speaking to the team and another in Tokyo filming the team replying to him.That couldn’t have happened unless it was specifically arranged. After all, it’s not usual for people to be filmed talking on the phone. Not unless they want it. In fact, it was particularly surprising to see the hockey team being filmed while replying. Clearly, this was done with a purpose.It became crystal clear when the footage from both ends was adroitly joined and made available to television channels. Thus, a congratulatory phone call to applaud the hockey team transformed into a story about the PM. When it was broadcast, he became the centre of attention. The team and its laurels were reduced to the opportunity that allowed us to witness the great leader’s warmth and large-heartedness. So, are you surprised Drayson’s admonition came leaping back to mind?Now, I’m certain PMs all over the world congratulated their medal winners. But I don’t know of a single other case where it was meticulously and deliberately filmed. Boris Johnson and Joe Biden, or Xi Jinping and Yoshihide Suga would have been overjoyed. Their teams, after all, made it to the top four. But they didn’t make an event out of it. Doesn’t that reflect the veracity of Drayson’s wise words?Initially, this was just an amusing little item. However, the night the team returned, it became a matter of greater concern. That happened at the Ashoka Hotel reception to welcome them home.Remember, the team was the cynosure of all eyes. They were the reason we were watching. Yet, they were dwarfed — not just metamorphically but even literally — by enormous photographs of the PM. There were, at least, three. So no matter where you were seated in the hall or from whichever angle the TV cameras filmed the event, the leader’s large bearded visage was the first thing you saw.As if that wasn’t enough, each of the three ministers who spoke made a point of praising the PM — for the facilities he made available, for his encouragement and vision and, indeed, for the new India he’s created. If it hadn’t been for him, they seemed to suggest, we might not have won any medals. The credit goes to him. Now, governments all over the world go out of their way to help their Olympians. It’s expected of them. But is it fitting to claim credit when you’re felicitating the actual winners?I wonder what Drayson would have said? He had a gift for the mot juste. Perhaps he might have said the backseat is often the best place for the top man. Or he could have muttered sotto voce the quest for publicity can be the undoing of PMs.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/our-olympic-champions-deserve-all-the-credit-101628950383943.html
