16-08-2021||Today's||30 years ago, the world discovered the web. And life changed||In March 1989, Tim Berners-Lee, a young software engineer working in the European Organization for Nuclear Research, CERN submitted a proposal titled Information Management to his superiors, meant for scientists to document and share their work through a network.The initial proposal received a lukewarm response with his boss Mike Sendall noting on its cover – vague but exciting. Though not accepted as an official CERN project, Tim Berners-Lee did get some time allotted later next year to work on his idea which was refined and renamed as the WorldWideWeb project. Within a few months, the language, protocol, and rules for data transfer in the network including HTTP and HTML that are still the foundations of the web were developed. Soon afterwards, the web server and a browser were devised. On August 6, 1991, the world’s first website was launched. It was dedicated to information on the WorldWideWeb project. Berners-Lee did not patent his invention. Instead, he offered it as royalty-free software, and invited those outside the CERN community to join and collaborate on the web community.Also Read | IT Rules: Bombay HC stays 2 clauses, says people would be starved of liberty of thoughtThe internet, which had started as a United States defence project in the 1960s, had already connected millions of computers by then through which files and even the first forms of e-mails were exchanged. However, the web resulted in an explosion of the digital space.The years from 1989 to 1991 had a fair share of momentous events including the fall of the Berlin wall that resulted in the unification of Germany, the dissolution of the Soviet Union that restructured the world order with the United States as the lone superpower, and economic reforms in India which have unshackled our potential towards becoming an economic powerhouse. The events that led to the development of the web, received little fanfare then, but would increasingly be mentioned with these epochal events in the digital age.Currently, there are over 1.8 billion web pages, and 4.8 billion internet users. The initial web pages were just pinboards of information. Various services were integrated with time. The advent of smartphones and higher-speed internet accelerated digital transformation. Social media platforms and aggregators exponentially increased the capacity to form digital communities and markets. The world’s largest financial, health and education service providers, shopping spaces, publishers are all now from the digital realm. Indeed, five of the six largest corporations in the world are from the tech sector. They derive the bulk of their value from the internet. Their cumulative market cap is over $8 trillion which would make them the third-largest economy in the world by themselves. None of this would have been possible without an altruistic web founder’s decision 30 years ago to gift the world its open-source code that enabled anyone with a computer and an internet connection to create a browser or webpage on their own. Led by technologies including 5G and quantum computing, we are on the cusp of a new tech wave. Data has already become the engine that drives the digital economy. Big tech firms and the State are harvesting terabytes of data and are locked in power struggles across the world over rights to be the gatekeepers of the internet and of innovation.Meanwhile, the interests of the people who contribute most of the data have become secondary. There are several ongoing projects across the world attempting to change this. Blockchain technology would enable micropayments to every person who provides value on the internet. This could make the digital economy fairer and more redistributive. Berners-Lee himself is working on an open-source web decentralisation project with MIT, called Solid, that enables individual internet users to control the access of data and content they generate.The success of some of the projects would transform the internet as we know it. It would become participatory and democratic. The balance of power will then, hopefully, shift towards the biggest drivers and value creators in the digital space, the people. Anil K Antony is a tech entrepreneur, public policy commentator and works on Congress’s digital initiativesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/30-years-ago-the-world-discovered-the-web-and-life-changed-101629117985947.html
16-08-2021||Today's||From India, a note of concern about South Africa||South Africa rocked by mass violence? Over 300 dead, shops gutted, highways blocked, and trucks set ablaze? Hard to believe, even harder to accept.That Nelson Mandela’s rainbow nation should have to experience a dance of death with fire — spewed from petrol bombs — being its chosen weapon, is not something that the world expected. In July, the country was gripped by violence and rioting, with the armed forces being deployed in several regions to quell protests and bring back a sense of calm.Analyses of the causes and the nature of the flash are cautious and tentative, for observers are not quite sure yet if President Cyril Ramaphosa will be able to control the situation or not. Crossed fingers do not write easily. And yet, some meaning has to be made out of the situation.Why?Former President Jacob Zuma (79) is central to the “why”. In his rise to the nation’s presidency in the mid-2000s, KwaZulu Natal saw itself at the pinnacle of power in the new South Africa. However, in his recent trial and arrest, that gradient was seen and portrayed by his supporters as having tilted down. This is where the “why” becomes crucial.Not everyone in KwaZulu Natal has been enraged by the turn in the former president’s fate. With details of accusations of corruption piling up, South Africa saw a sign of “no one is so high as to be higher than justice”.Then, why the blood and bedlam?With inequalities reigning and riling the poor, and Covid-19 sharpening the endemicity of misery into an epidemic of hitherto unknown scale, South Africa was already afflicted. But areas with high concentrations of Zuma supporters now had something else that could be added to the crisis — a sense of being wronged. And in this, political players saw an opportunity and used it. As Greg Arde wrote in a South African online newspaper, Daily Maverick, on August 2, “It was as though the unrest became a lightning rod for frustration around many things.”Also Read | Black Sunday in Africa: 51 die in Mali attacks, 12 troops killed in Burkina FasoHow?The violence did not erupt “just like that”, as in some seismic happening. Close observers of the South African scene believe that KwaZulu Natal, where most of the violence for over three days has been located, the areas of Gauteng and Mpumalanga would not have reacted as they have, had it not been for political players, chagrined by Zuma’s fate and liable to lose out by his imminent jailing, orchestrating the unrest — with deadly invisibility. A group, violent in intent and adept in the methods of violence, focused on enriching itself through the capture of State resources and key ministries, and swiftly and skillfully got into the act of planning retaliation to the process of law. The Zondo Commission on State Capture, a public inquiry launched by Zuma, points to this.The whole process starting with roadblocks, the burning of trucks on the highway, the looting of supermarkets and malls, then factories and industry, and later, warehouses and key installations such as oil manufacturing plants was not the work of poor people suddenly angered. Strategists with ground-level operatives, using a group of criminal elements — a familiar pattern in India — planned the havoc with technological prowess and precision, and used the poor to come in and do the actual looting.Affected communities organised themselves into vigilante groups to safeguard their neighbourhoods through street watches and the like, only to be infiltrated by criminal elements who then got the vigilantes to go beyond self-defence and attack people, with some 20 people reportedly killed. Which is when the term “ethnic” was given to the riots. And “racism” was heard.Kwazulu Natal as a whole did not back the violence. The Zulu king and Inkatha veteran Mangosuthu Buthelezi distanced themselves from the grim happenings. It is important to note this.As an uneasy and traumatised calm returns, we ask, “What does the future hold for that great country?” At the time of writing, no one can answer that with confidence.Two serious issues need to be considered. First, the opportunities given by freedom have been used by some in South Africa’s new elite to turn iron handcuffs into gold cufflinks. This is tragic and dangerous.Second, while it would be factually wrong and unjust to dub these tragic events as “ethnic”, who can deny that fault-lines exist in South Africa, as they do in South Asia, and can be deepened, sharpened, and exploited?The poor are invariably co-opted by power-seekers who then glide out of sight. Hope lies in President Ramaphosa restoring order by immobilising the inciters. And there is another great sign of promise. Communities all over are now coming together to work on peace processes without waiting for the government to show the way. The trauma has awakened a spirit among the people to work towards a togetherness that transcends ethnic boundaries.South Africa is meant for healing, not hate. For greatness, not greed.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-india-a-note-of-concern-about-south-africa-101629113365666.html
16-08-2021||Today's||Young Indians distrust China, Pakistan; rate pandemic, economy as big challenges||Foreign policy is considered the domain of the elite, and public opinion on international relations has rarely been documented in India. While there have been efforts to assess public opinion on foreign policy issues, they suffer from limitations due to scope, regularity, consistency, and methodology. There is a dearth of systematic data collection and analysis on how Indians feel about the government’s key foreign policy interventions, India’s relations with other countries, and major global developments.When the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) first conceptualised the foreign policy survey last year, it aimed to build on the existing strand of polling research in India. The idea was to bridge the gap between policymakers and the public. As India frames policies to respond to the geopolitical realities of the 21st century, it must ensure that its policies reflect the will of its citizens. Since around 60% of the population comprises the young, the survey assessed the opinion and perceptions of this demographic.In December 2020, the poll sampled 2,037 Indians aged 18-35 from 14 cities. It was administered in eight regional languages, and in English. The urban youth had a positive assessment of the conduct of the country’s foreign policy, with 72% of respondents rating it as either very good or good. While a majority supported the government policies on China, Pakistan and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), the policy with the least support was the government’s withdrawal from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP).This demographic felt that the biggest foreign policy challenges facing India were the pandemic, terrorism, the border conflict with China, the climate crisis, and border conflict with Pakistan, in that order. The high ranking of the pandemic is a reflection of the current global health crisis. In terms of foreign policy goal setting, strengthening the Indian economy received the highest priority at 89%, perhaps an acknowledgment of how far the pandemic has adversely affected the economy.Also Read | In Afghanistan, the limits of Indian powerThe survey responses on China and Pakistan are illuminating on how young urban Indians view India’s neighbours. The respondents displayed low levels of trust towards Pakistan, with only 10% displaying positive trust ratings. On China, there is a high level of concern regarding its rise as a global power, its growing economic and military superiority, as well as Beijing’s possible interference in India’s neighbourhood. The survey also found that 62% were of the view that India should abandon non-alignment in case of rising US-China tensions.Among major powers, China is the least trusted country (77% expressed distrust), while the United States (US) was the most trusted country (77% expressed trust). Resultantly, the government’s recent ban of Chinese mobile apps received the highest level of endorsement (86%), followed by controlling illegal immigration (74%), the Balakot airstrike (68%) and strengthening Quad (64%).The urban youth displayed a high level of awareness for older multilateral institutions such as the United Nations (UN), and three of every four respondents (74%) felt that India’s quest for a permanent seat at the UN Security Council was a very important goal. Two-thirds of those surveyed said that they had not heard of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), surprising given that NAM is connected to India’s historical approach towards foreign policy.The urban youth are deeply divided over the impact of globalisation on India and its economy, society, and culture, their standard of living, travel to and from other countries, and education opportunities overseas. While the opportunity to study abroad is viewed positively, optimism regarding moving abroad is markedly much lower.This poll has given both predictable and unpredictable results, providing insights into the understanding of Indian youth on critical issues related to India’s foreign policy. This, and future editions of the survey, will help policymakers, academics, researchers —and the public itself — understand and appreciate the importance of democratising foreign policy in India.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation. Aarshi Tirkey is an associate fellow with ORF The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/young-indians-distrust-china-pakistan-rate-pandemic-economy-as-big-challenges-101629111384998.html
16-08-2021||Today's||In Afghanistan, the limits of Indian power||The suddenness with which the Taliban has seized control of Afghanistan seems to have caught most analysts off-guard. Regrettably, most Indian writings are limited to how India has lost, and how it has allowed Pakistan an easy ride to victory. That all India did in Afghanistan over the last two decades is lost. It is also argued that India should both have publicly called on the United States (US) not to withdraw and simultaneously built a coalition of the willing to frustrate a Taliban victory. Some have even argued that India should have done more militarily to help the Afghan National Army, with suggestions that, even at this stage, India should aim to stop the Taliban from seizing the reins of power.We have let a sense of panic take over the public narrative. National interests are secured over years and decades, but it is never one-way traffic and reverses should be expected. A reality check is the best way to understand what is happening that would allow us to craft the best way forward.One, Afghanistan was never India’s to lose; the losers sadly are the Afghan people. If anything, India’s efforts should be centred on helping them escape the tyranny that is poised to take over their lives. Afghans see India as their friend, and not without reason. India allows them access to education and health facilities, but this is not charity from our side; the Afghans pay for these at commercial rates. India serves as a relevant political and development model, which they prefer to those offered by countries to their East and West.Strategically, good relations with India allow Afghan rulers much greater agency in dealing with Pakistan, on which they are dependent for reasons of geography and social relations. India was on the opposite side of the Mujahideen during the anti-Soviet jihad. However, the Mujahideen were quick to reach out to India once they left Peshawar and reached Kabul. History may not repeat itself in exactly the same way, but it does point to possibilities. But yes, our past efforts have not gone to waste.Second, could India have persuaded the US to stay on? This is extremely unlikely, given Joe Biden’s long-held view that the US had no business doing nation-building or even getting involved in counter-insurgency. He had opposed Barack Obama’s surge and once Osama bin Laden was eliminated, his resolve strengthened. Donald Trump held the same view and not for electoral reasons.The US army’s Afghan deployment has not featured in the top 20 political issues in any survey over the past decade. What is less well known is that since 2016, the US army effectively stopped operating, except to give air support to Afghan forces. Over this period, the US army suffered an average casualty of one per month. Could the US have maintained a low-cost, minimal presence in Afghanistan? Yes perhaps — but could India have told the US to do so? That’s not how diplomacy works.Three, should India not have built a coalition of wary neighbours to stall the Taliban? Unlike the post-1996 period, when the Taliban was opposed by the Northern Alliance, and India could work with Russia and Iran to support this armed group, the circumstances are completely different at present. For geopolitical reasons that have nothing to do with India, these two countries have allied themselves with the Taliban to embarrass the US, and as part of an anti-Islamic State (IS) alliance.Russia did the political heavy-lifting to legitimise the Taliban by organising peace conferences where representatives of the Afghan leaders sat with the Taliban, often with international participation. Representatives of the government could only attend in their private capacities. The Taliban terminology of referring to the government as “Kabul/ puppet regime” was legitimised.Four, should India not have militarily strengthened the Afghan army? This ignores both geostrategy and geography. For much of the war, the US had made it clear that India’s footprint in Afghanistan should be civilian only, so as not to annoy the Pakistani army. Indian support to the Afghan army was limited to training and supply of light weaponry. Later, four helicopters were supplied, but from Ukraine and not from India. The fear that any supply would land up in the hands of the Taliban has been borne out. Media reports suggest that the Taliban have seized control of hundreds of Humvees and heavy weaponry from the government forces, including one helicopter given by India.In terms of the ground situation, it is clear that most Taliban gains have come from local deals and not through fighting. The elected provincial council members and the government machinery handed over cities to the Taliban, with the army melting away without a fight. There is no appetite anywhere for any coalition to stop the Taliban from taking over. The only point of dispute is whether the Taliban would settle to stay in the background and allow a more acceptable administration to nominally take over as an interim measure. Or would they defy their Pakistani army mentors and assert direct control?In these confusing times, it is best to calmly view the situation, show flexibility to adapt to the fast-changing situation and not let panic numb Indian decision-making.Shakti Sinha is honorary director, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies, MS University, Vadodara. He served as Vajpayee’s private secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office, and worked with the United Nations in Afghanistan for three years The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-the-limits-of-indian-power-101629108806526.html
