17-08-2021||Today's||In Kabul, the centrality of Pakistan||The Indian mission in Kabul has been closed. While it may have been for security considerations, it sends out a message about India’s current irrelevance in shaping the political reality in Afghanistan.At the same time, the visual manifestation of Pakistan’s current centrality was manifested, above all, in the visual images of Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi welcoming a delegation of leaders of the erstwhile Northern Alliance at the Pakistan foreign ministry in Islamabad on August 16.For me, these images were far more telling of Pakistan’s success than those of the Taliban in the palace complex of Kabul or occupying the speaker’s chair in the Indian-built Parliament building in Kabul.Also Read | AI to operate flights till Kabul airport remains functional: Indian envoyIn the Afghan delegation were many leaders I had got to know well during the dark years of the Taliban control of Afghanistan in the 1990s, and later as India’s ambassador to the country from March 2002 to January 2005. What was most striking in the Afghan delegation was the presence of two brothers of the legendary leader of the Afghan jihad — the one who had never bowed before Pakistan — Ahmed Shah Masood. He was the most remarkable man I had the privilege to have known in my diplomatic career. Masood was the soul of the Tajik stronghold of Panjshir, a centre of resistance to the Soviets and later to the Taliban. One of his brothers, Ahmed Zia Masood, served for five years as president Hamid Karzai’s first vice-president; the other, Ahmed Wali Masood, was for long years a prominent Afghan diplomat during the anti-Taliban struggle.Also in the group was Yunus Qanooni, Ahmed Shah Masood’s close aide, an astute negotiator, who was a prominent minister in Karzai’s cabinet and his principal rival in the 2004 presidential election. Later, from 2005 to 2010, Qanooni served as speaker of Parliament. The visit to Islamabad in the wake of the Taliban entry into Kabul would have been especially poignant for Qanooni — he was the first Afghan leader to have entered Kabul after the Taliban exit in November 2001; the moment captured forever in an iconic photograph.In the group were also the two great Hazara leaders, Karim Khaleeli and Mohammed Mohaqiq. The latter had shown exemplary courage in staying within Afghanistan to fight the Taliban in the 1990s when it was displaying a special animus against the Shia Hazaras. Khaleeli had served as a vice-president of the Republic and Mohaqiq held ministerial and high executive office. Their present priority would clearly be the safety of their Hazara compatriots.Also, in the group was former foreign minister Salahuddin Rabbani, son of the president Burhanuddin Rabbani whose government held Afghanistan’s United Nations (UN) seat all through the years the Taliban was in Kabul. He was assassinated in 2011 by a Taliban suicide bomber. And now the Taliban had easily overrun the Rabbanis’ Badakhshan stronghold.All these leaders have harboured deep reservations, even anger, against Pakistan. It would not have been easy for them to go to Islamabad to seek its intervention to get the Taliban to conduct itself responsibly in its hour of victory. And they are all doubtless fully knowledgeable about Pakistan’s enormous role in the Taliban’s success. That they have gone to Pakistan and not come to India has a clear message. They are aware that India can now simply play no role at all in the unfolding of events in Afghanistan.India’s statement to the UN Security Council meeting on Afghanistan on August 16 contained elements of a grudging acceptance of Afghan developments. There was no demand that it would not recognise a government formed by force. There was no repetition of the “double peace” formula. It noted, “A broader representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy”. The key word is “arrangement”. Its use denotes a desire to still keep options open, even though India has no role in working out the political structure that will now be put in place in Kabul.Clearly, India is aware that there are intense ongoing negotiations about the nature of the dispensation that will now take control in Afghanistan. It is particularly noteworthy that the Taliban leadership has shown no great hurry in announcing the new administration. Not only Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar but other either Doha or Pakistan-based Taliban leaders did not rush to Kabul to take charge. This is indicative of the sophistication with which it is approaching its next moves.What seems to have happened is that the Taliban shadow apparatus has moved to take control at the provincial level to prevent total chaos and anarchy. The terrible scenes at Kabul airport should not mask the reality that, in the rest of the country, there is calm, if an uneasy one. The worry of the international community on the human rights front is justified for there have been unacceptable incidents. Yes, what is clear is that the Taliban will not give up its flag or the formulation of the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan” even if it agrees that the new dispensation will include non-Taliban leaders. It will also keep an iron grip over the security and the intelligence apparatus of the country.The absence of a central authority cannot continue much longer. Will India accept it, irrespective of the nature of this authority? Or will it be sullen? The heightened dangers in its western neighbourhood demand the pursuit of cold realism.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kabul-the-centrality-of-pakistan-101629192753509.html
17-08-2021||Today's||Meghalaya: When two wrongs don’t make a right||Last week, Meghalaya’s capital city of Shillong was placed under an extended curfew after violent protests erupted in parts of the city. The protests were the result of the killing of former militant, Chesterfield Thangkhiew, of the banned military group, Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), during a police operation.According to the Meghalaya Police, it undertook the operation following “irrefutable evidence” that the former militant was involved in the explosion of an improvised explosive device (IED) in Shillong. The raid, which took place in his home, has raised allegations of human rights abuse and has drawn widespread condemnation because of how the operation was conducted.Soon after the operation, hundreds of Thangkhiew supporters marched through the city with black flags to attend his funeral procession. However, the funeral then became a hotspot for extremist militancy, as fringe elements seized the opportunity to whip up support. What initially began as a legitimate demand for accountability after the disproportionate use of force on the accused, eventually developed into a campaign for violence and extremism. Videos and photographs of crowds pelting stones at law enforcement officials went viral on social media. Society looked on in shock as visuals of masked men atop an SUV brandished rifles stolen from police personnel.Also Read | Meghalaya orders judicial probe into police encounter of militantWhile the police operation itself must be condemned for the excessive use of force during the raid, the violence, arson and mayhem that followed are counterproductive, and thereby, a disservice to the cause.The demand for accountability and an independent investigation was fulfilled by the state government, which announced that a magisterial inquiry supervised by the National Human Rights Commission would be conducted. A parallel inquiry by the Meghalaya Human Rights Commission directed the chief secretary to submit a report. These were then followed by the decision to appoint a judicial inquiry to investigate the operation, shortly after the state’s home minister tendered his resignation.The HNLC is responsible for a dark period in Meghalaya’s history, when it reigned over brutal executions and extortion activities. A report from 2004 details how the HNLC received ₹4.2 crore annually from extortion and other illegal activities — which was sent to its leaders in Bangladesh. It was banned twice, first in 2000 (which was lifted), and then in 2019 by the central government. The Centre stated that its activities are detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of India.Thangkhiew was the founding general secretary of the HNLC, who surrendered in 2018. The IED blast in a market in Shillong injured two people who worked there. The HNLC, which claimed credit for the blast, received flak from across society for targeting innocent citizens, and rightly so.Militant groups such as the HNLC have no place in Indian society. They must not receive societal support and their acts of extremism must be unequivocally condemned. There is no doubt about this. But, as this case has proved, extra-judicial killings are equally damaging to society. Therefore, instead of advocating further violence against law enforcement personnel — which can be harmful to the campaign for an independent inquiry and also to the state — the way forward would be a thorough inquiry into the police raid. This can be a catalyst to ensure that a similar incident does not occur in the future.The state government’s inability to prevent a breakdown of law and order, coupled with the unacceptable actions of extremist groups, has resulted in a huge loss to our society. The state government’s decision to extend the suspension of the internet, following the misuse of social media to spread propaganda and hate speech, hurts citizens across the four districts. It disconnects students from their teachers in a country reeling from the effects of a pandemic, impedes business activities, and stifles individual freedoms. There has to be a better way, for two wrongs cannot make a right.Jade Lyngdoh is a constitutional law honours candidate, National Law University, Jodhpur The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/meghalaya-when-two-wrongs-don-t-make-a-right-101629192273995.html
17-08-2021||Today's||In promotion policies for the military, keep politics out||A recent news report regarding a proposed review of the selection criteria for promotion to the higher ranks of the Indian military (three-star) has elicited considerable attention and preliminary comment in the security community. While details of the review are yet to be formally announced, a muted unease is palpable that this could be the beginning of the gradual erosion of the current system, where each service — the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force — have evolved their own promotion policies for higher ranks leading to appointment as commander-in-chief (C-in-C).The Indian armed forces have a steep pyramid-like structure for promotion to the higher ranks unlike the civil services. In the military, less than 5% of those who are commissioned in a year make it to three-star — while in the civilian cadres, almost 95% reach the top tier of pay and allowances with the introduction of the non-functional upgrade.Thus, peer competition at each selection rank in the fauj is intense, and the professional competence of an officer is evaluated annually by way of the annual confidential report (ACR) that can make or mar careers. Hence, individual merit is the primary metric for promotion in each rank, and this determinant acquires greater salience as the gradient becomes steeper in the three-star aspiration.Also Read | Billions spent by US on Afghan army ultimately benefited TalibanThe practice that has been followed to date is that a combination of merit and vacancies are the deciding factors for promotion. This evaluation is done by promotion boards in each service, with the chief being the final authority. For appointment as C-in-C and service chief, a slate of potential candidates who meet all the criteria is prepared and sent to the defence ministry for final approval. The seniority principle applies only for elevation to four-star (service chief) and has been usually followed, though there have been departures — General AS Vaidya (1983) and General Bipin Rawat (2016) are cases in point.The news report indicates that in the future, promotion to higher rank will be “primarily on merit rather than seniority”, and that the objective would be to evolve “a more progressive, common and merit-based” policy for promotions to three-star rank in general, and C-in-Cs in particular. This is intriguing, for current promotions are based on merit alone, and seniority is invoked only for the chiefs.However, one presumes that with inter-service synergy and theatre commands on the anvil, there is a case for a review and evolving a common template among the armed forces apropos of promotion policies. Tenures in joint formations and units will have to be accorded due weight for promotion and this is a logical tweak of existing procedures.The word “progressive” may connote the ability to discharge tri-service responsibilities. It would be fair to assume that such training of today’s one-star officers (brigadier and equivalent) is imperative as theatre commands become a reality in a phased manner.Merit-based promotions taking into account professional competence and personal integrity are highly desirable in any organisation, and more so in the military. The current model for promotions to higher rank recognises merit as the primary determinant (hence, the centrality of the ACR).But to prioritise “merit” again at the two-star to three-star level (major general to lieutenant general and equivalent in the other services) is incongruous and the trigger for the muted unease — about the objective of the review. However, until more details are made available in the public domain, it may be prudent to note the proposal and flag some major elements of the military hierarchy and the civil-military interface.Hierarchy and seniority are sacred in the military and obeying orders is a deeply instilled characteristic of the uniformed fraternity. Senior officers have an enormous professional responsibility to discharge and, when in command, they are directly responsible for the lives of the personnel under their charge. This is unique to the military and gives the institution its distinctive ethos — the use of force — within the framework of the Constitution and the law, to safeguard national security interests.Nurturing human resources within the military is a rigorous professional calling and each service has its inherited traditions and time-tested procedures. The results were evident in 1971 in the war for Bangladesh, and again in Kargil in 1999.This success on the battlefield was preceded by the debacle of October 1962 against China — and the latter ensued due to unwarranted political interference in professional and operational matters that were in the Army domain. The Jawaharlal Nehru-VK Krishna Menon blunders resulted in an absurd exigency, where a three-star general from the service corps (ASC) was directing the battle in the North East Frontier Agency from a hospital in Delhi.Civilian oversight in military promotions is part of the current promotion template and has its utility in review and redress where required, for there have been aberrations. However, allowing “merit” to become a euphemism for a political endorsement could be a slippery slope for the professional credibility and integrity of the military as an institution.Espousing empathy with the ideology of the ruling party and behaving in an unctuous manner to curry favour with the political apex have become benchmarks for promotion in other institutions. This ought not to be the new template for the Indian fauj.Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-promotion-policies-for-the-military-keep-politics-out-101629191613365.html
17-08-2021||Today's||Why India must not abandon Afghanistan again||I have visited Afghanistan several times in the last decade. One thing that kept my optimism alive since September 2014 — the announcement of the date of drawdown of international forces by United States (US) President Barack Obama — was the sense of unity that Afghans displayed when the Flag Foundation of India gifted Afghanistan its largest flag. Afghans proudly stood under it, as it fluttered magnificently on top of a high mast on the Wazir Akbar Khan hilltop in Kabul.Right before Afghanistan celebrates its Independence Day on August 19, the flag could soon be brought down, to be replaced by one of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, led by the Taliban.The Taliban, though an astonishingly swift and largely bloodless military blitzkrieg, has occupied almost the entire country, including Kabul. The fleeing of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and a host of women parliamentarians marks an abrupt rupture of the democratic experiment in Afghanistan of the last two decades. In a matter of days, the international community will have to swallow the bitter pill and internalise the reversal of its gains in the two-decades-long engagement in the war-torn country.Also Read | Kabul streets turn silent a day after chaos; evacuations continueFor India, which pledged more than $3 billion in development assistance since 2001 and accrued a huge amount of goodwill, Afghanistan is now a dramatically transformed terrain. The impressive parliament building built by India will be occupied by the Taliban. Likewise, the road and other projects built by India will now be under Taliban control.As the US faces now less than a Saigon moment, New Delhi, too, seems to have been caught on its back foot. Having hedged its bets on the Afghan government and led by US assurances, it seems to have stripped off all leverages it had painstakingly built.Historically, Afghanistan has demonstrated the limits of great power interventions. Could things have been different this time around? Could the Indo-US partnership, growing from strength to strength, have provided an answer to the turnaround of events in Afghanistan? Could India have played a greater role inside and outside Afghanistan to prevent the loss of a strategic partner and demonstrate its leadership role at the United Nations? More important, does India have a Plan-B to preserve its gains of the last two decades? These are some of the questions which need long-term thinking and astute diplomacy.US Secretary of State, Antony J Blinken’s visit to New Delhi in July had raised a lot of expectations for both countries to reaffirm their strategic convergence on a host of issues. The critical issue of Afghanistan, however, was clearly not discussed adequately during his meetings with the external affairs minister S Jaishankar and ministry officials.Notwithstanding the fact that both India and the US have tremendous stakes in the future of Afghanistan, policies of both seem to display a sense of forlorn disconnect to influence the unfolding events.With its own select preference and isolated success in promoting and upholding democracy around the world, for the US, Afghanistan has come to represent a classic example of the limitations of great power. The experiment to set up a functional democracy in the last two decades remained extremely fragile, marred by the enduring challenges of insecurity, fraud-marred elections and also by corruption, ethnic divisions and the self-aggrandising political elite. Regional powerplay added fresh complexities. The peace deal with the Taliban concluded by the Donald Trump administration in February 2020 and implemented vigorously by the Joe Biden administration merely ended up enabling the Taliban capture of power.In the new Afghanistan, New Delhi faces disruption to its intense engagement in the country’s development sector. Its gains of the past two decades, achieved through painstakingly built high-value and small-scale projects, face reversal. India, a regional stakeholder and an unwavering supporter of an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, and Afghan-controlled” peace and reconciliation process, has struggled to find a place in the numerous groupings that seek to decide the fate of the country. Its last-ditch efforts at opening a channel of communication with the Taliban, as part of its bid to engage with all stakeholders in the Afghan conflict, too, has not yielded much result.New Delhi faces a stark choice of engaging the Taliban or opting to completely disengage from the country. The latter would imply a return to the 1990s, where a contact vacuum facilitated events like the IC-814 hijacking and anti-India groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed finding bases in that country. A realist approach would be to reach out to the Taliban to continue aid and development assistance, and seek to link aid with conditionalities that will help in mainstreaming and blunting the extremist worldviews particularly in dealing with women, minorities and children.Internationally, India must take a leadership role as the current United Nations Security Council chair in framing resolutions, providing relief, setting up humanitarian response teams and conflict mediation mechanisms. India cannot afford to abandon the people of Afghanistan once again without implications for its image as a reliable friend and a major power in the region.Dr Shanthie Mariet D’Souza is founding professor, Kautilya School of Public Policy, Hyderabad and founder-president, Mantraya. She has spent over a decade in various provinces of Afghanistan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-india-must-not-abandon-afghanistan-again-101629181472072.html
