18-08-2021||Today's||From a pandemic to an endemic, India’s vaccine drive enables a way out||A week from now, maybe a day or so sooner, maybe a day or so later, India will reach a magic number in terms of vaccinations: 470 million people would have received at least one shot of vaccines that prevent death and serious illness from Covid-19.That number, 50% of all adults (those over the age of 18 years) in the country, is significant for several reasons. The most important one, I believe, is that it marks the first major marker or milestone in the transformation of the coronavirus disease pandemic into an endemic.Not everyone agrees. After all, at the milestone, a maximum of 15% of India’s adult population is likely to have received both shots of the vaccine, and data shows that people need to be fully vaccinated to prevent serious illness and death when it comes to the Delta strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. There is no arguing with that research — even if countries currently seeing waves on account of the Delta variant were not ravaged by it, much like India was, in April and May.But it would still be extremely short-sighted to not recognise the 470-million-with-at-least-one-shot number for what it is. It is a way out, the beginning of the end, and it comes not a moment too soon.As I write this, the seven-day average of daily new Covid-19 cases in India has touched a 149-day low. There is enough reason to remain vigilant — the surge that Kerala witnessed, presumably caused by the Delta variant (we don’t know for sure because we haven’t sequenced enough genomes) can happen in some other parts of the country; and Maharashtra is already beginning to see an increase in infections caused by the Delta-plus variant. But there is also enough reason for everyone to start planning for what will likely be.That simply involves understanding the meaning of the transformation of Covid-19 from a pandemic to an endemic. This has implications for national, state and local policymakers, administrators and public health workers. And it has implications for how we work, learn, travel, and play.Mathematically, it simply means understanding that while there is going to be the constant presence of the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, this needs to be treated as a baseline (or usual prevalence of the virus). Seen that way, it immediately becomes clear that there has to be a shift in response in terms of both management and behaviour.Is it too soon to start treating Covid-19 as an endemic disease? Perhaps, but it is definitely not too soon to start planning what its eventual, inevitable, and imminent transformation to an endemic means. There is still the question of people under the age of 18, but the immediate focus needs to be those in the 12-18 age group (there are 145 million people in this segment). As for younger children, there is nothing to suggest that they are any more vulnerable to serious illness and death than they were during the first wave of the disease (very low). There is also enough research to show that a high proportion of fully vaccinated adults helps reduce even asymptomatic infections among young people who are not vaccinated.There is also the question of booster shots. But at this time, the only people who should even be considered for this in India are the most vulnerable (and there is enough medical science to identify them, starting with those who have had organ transplants).Those managing India’s vaccine drive have always been a step or two behind the curve. But a reading of the infection and vaccination trajectories indicates that they need to start planning now for a future of endemic Covid-19.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-a-pandemic-to-an-endemic-india-s-vaccine-drive-enables-a-way-out-101629297940201.html
18-08-2021||Today's||India has an unemployment crisis. And it predates Covid-19||Covid-19 worsened what was already a joblessness crisis in early 2020. The National Statistical Office (NSO) began conducting annual labour force surveys in 2017-18, which hitherto had been undertaken every five years. NSO just released its third annual survey (2019-20), which covers the period until June 30, 2020.In 2017-18, NSO reported that unemployment reached a 45-year high, and youth unemployment tripled between 2011-12 and 2017-18 to over 18%. Thereafter, poor management resulted in economic growth slowing up to March 2020 — compounded by the pandemic and its economic aftermath.What the new data reveals is that the situation remains grim. At first sight, the slight rise over the three years from 2017-18 in the labour force participation rate (LFPR) and workforce participation rates (WPR) (which are measured as a share of those of working age — 15 years and over) may be seen as a positive development.However, India’s LFPR at 40.9% (2019-20, a rise from 38.1% two years earlier) is miles short of the world average of 60.8% in 2019 (which fell to 58.6% in 2020). But a rise in WPR and LFPR at a time when India’s economy was slowing over 2017-18 to 2019-20, needs to be explained.In a slowing economy, incomes are not rising, and distress is increasing. When it comes on top of pre-existing falling trends in employment and wages, the pressure on household resources becomes overbearing.What we have seen in 2019-20 is that while male LFPR and WPR have remained roughly the same, it is females who are searching for, even finding, work. There is little change in male LFPR or WPR over these three years.Also Read | Meghalaya: When two wrongs don’t make a rightThere are, possibly, two forces pushing up LFPR and WPR of women. The first is a wider phenomenon: Girls are being educated at various levels. From 2010 and 2015, the enrolment rate at the secondary level (classes 9-10) shot up from 58% to 85%, and this happened with gender parity.Most states began to incentivise girls’ secondary schooling in 2010, by offering girls who finished class 8 and continued to class 9 and 10 a scholarship or a bicycle so that they could come to school. These girls then had better chances of getting urban jobs. So, female work participation, having fallen for decades, is now finally turning upwards — as it happens in most countries when women’s education levels improve.This, however, is likely to be a weak contributory factor, given how weak the growth process has been, and how only the service sector was creating a limited number of jobs. Women were indeed benefitting from the growth in the service sector in urban areas. However, that trend has reversed in 2019-20. Worse, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), since mid-2020, women have lost work first, even after the lockdown ended; and this trend has continued into 2021.The latest PLFS also reveals that the share of regular jobs has fallen in 2019-20, reversing a trend noticed since 2004-2005. The share of regular wage work was increasing at the expense of self-employment and casual wage work.The second reason is more worrying. Improvements in WPR and LFPR are distress-driven. While these rates may have increased slightly, and may appear to be positive at first sight, it is accompanied by several distressing trends.Also Read | In promotion policies for the military, keep politics outFirst, the 2019-20 data shows that the share of agriculture in the total workforce, which was consistently declining for two decades, has stopped falling, and, in fact, has increased, as the reverse migration from cities in 2020 showed. The increasing share of agriculture in the workforce is a retrogressive step in a developing economy attempting a structural transformation. At the same time, the share of manufacturing in employment, which fell between 2011-12 and 2017-18, fell in 2019-20 again. The share of construction in employment also fell.Second, women dropped out of regular work, and became self-employed. This was driven by distress, and is demonstrated by the fact that the share of women who are unpaid family helpers in the household increased sharply from 2018-19 to 2019-20. That means women were engaged in economic activity (that shows up in an increase in WPR/LFPR), but it is unpaid work.Third, precarity and informality increased from 2018-19 to 2019-20, reversing an ever so slight trend that had set in between 2011-12 and 2017-18, that the share of regular workers who had no social security was falling. Those in regular work without any social security increased from 49.6% of all non-farm regular workers to 54.2% between 2018-19 to 2019-20.Fourth, for all types of work, the average number of hours worked in a week fell sharply in the April-June 2020 quarter, when the economy contracted by 23.7%. Naturally, earnings fell for all households.Thus, on every reasonable measure of the quality of work, there was a perceptible decline.Finally, if anyone still thinks that the fall in the unemployment rate between 2018-19 to 2019-20 from 5.8% to 4.8% is a positive development, think again. By the current weekly status, which is close to the international standard for measuring unemployment, there is no improvement in the unemployment rate between 2017-18 (8.9%) to 2018-19 (8.8%) to 2019-20 (8.8%). These rates remain the worst in the last 48 years since measurement began.Santosh Mehrotra is visiting professor, Centre for Development, University of Bath, UK The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-has-an-unemployment-crisis-and-it-predates-covid19-101629287437935.html
18-08-2021||Today's||Overcoming the partition of the minds||Three major partitions happened in the world in the second half of the 1940s. Germany was partitioned into the Eastern and Western blocs in 1945, followed by India into Hindustan and Pakistan in 1947. Finally, Israel was created by partitioning Palestine in 1948.Germany’s partition was temporary. The Berlin Wall, constructed in the early 1960s to accord permanence to it, was dismantled by the Germans in less than three decades. The country was reunified in 1989.But in India and Palestine, partition was a terrible affair, leading to a full-scale war in Israel and mass migration accompanied by mind-numbing violence in India.The Arab-Israel war at the time of the partition of Palestine in 1947-49 caused the death of over 30,000 people. But the death and destruction caused at the time of India’s Partition were horrifying.More than a million were murdered, while many millions more had to endure a treacherous migration across the hastily created border, often on foot. Hundreds of thousands could not make it, as they were waylaid and butchered.Also Read | From 75 to 100, India’s futureThose horrors are difficult to forget. Historian William Dalrymple, in an article in New Yorker, quotes from a book by Nisid Hajari, Midnight’s Furies, about the brutality of the period: “Gangs of killers set whole villages aflame, hacking to death men and children and the aged while carrying off young women to be raped. Some British soldiers and journalists who witnessed the Nazi death camps claimed Partition’s brutalities were worse: pregnant women had their breasts cut off and babies hacked out of their bellies; infants were found literally roasted on spits.”The Partition of India was a meaningless and reckless act. Mahatma Gandhi opposed it saying: “Vivisect me before vivisecting the nation”. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel vowed to fight till the end to reject it. Rajendra Prasad conclusively proved its irrationality in a thoroughly argued 1946-book, India Divided.Across the border, for Saadat Hasan Manto, the famed author, it was all sheer madness. Those women raped, with bulged stomachs, distressed him. “Where should those bellies belong to — Hindustan or Pakistan?” Manto questioned in innocent grief. His dark satire on Partition-time madness, Toba Tek Singh, ends with his eponymous hero Tek Singh seen stranded on no-man’s land between the newly created India and Pakistan. “On one side, behind barbed wire, stood together the lunatics of India and on the other side, behind more barbed wire, stood the lunatics of Pakistan. In between, on a bit of earth which had no name, lay Toba Tek Singh”, Manto provocatively demurs.Partition was not inevitable even until the early 1940s. But then, the British were in a hurry to leave. Louis Mountbatten arrived in India in March 1947 with the mandate to free the country before June 1948. After meeting Mohammad Ali Jinnah, “a psychopathic case”, Mountbatten decided not to wait for that long. In June, he unilaterally declared that the British would partition India and leave in less than three months.Gandhi could not reconcile to the fact that a “maniac” and “an evil genius” like Jinnah could have his way, and retreated to Bengal to attend to the victims of the bigotry and brutality of its rabid communalist premier, Hussain Suhrawardy. Jawaharlal Nehru, who once called Partition “fantastic nonsense”, reconciled quickly and declared in April 1947, “I want that those who stand as an obstacle in our way should go their own way.”In India, Rajendra-babu became the first president of partitioned India, and Nehru its first Prime Minister (PM). In Pakistan, Manto was branded a traitor and thrown into jail, and died a broken man in 1955 at the age of 42.For Hindus, Partition was not merely a loss of territory; it was the vivisection of their revered motherland. The urge for undoing it and reclaiming that lost territory, Akhand Bharat, remains a fervent dream for many of them, as Israel remained for the Jews for over two millennia.The partition of Germany was rejected by people on both sides of the Wall. They pulled it down and ended the colonial game. Both the last PM of East Germany, Lothar de Maizière, and the leader of Opposition, Richard Schröder stood by their people. Despite domestic opposition in the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev demonstrated statesmanship by not interfering.Unfortunately, the Partition of India was not just about land, but about minds. The premise was that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together. Jinnah, who was once hailed as “the Ambassador of Hindu-Muslim Unity” and had disparagingly dismissed the propaganda about Hindu domination as just “a bogey, put before you (Muslims) by your enemies to frighten you”, turned the tables by the 1940s and maniacally argued that they could never live together. He won.The first step to Akhand Bharat would be to bottle the Jinnah genie. Partition-time memories should help mitigate the wounds that communities nurture and end the mental and emotional divide, not exacerbate it further. “This day will not only inspire us to eliminate the poison of discrimination, animosity and ill will, but it will also strengthen unity, social harmony and human sensibilities,” PM Narendra Modi fervently hoped when he recently called for the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to be observed every August 14. May the day be marked with this spirit.Ram Madhav is a member of the national executive of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and a member of the board of governors of the India Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/overcoming-the-partition-of-the-minds-101629278497236.html
18-08-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | The shape of things to come in biology||When most people think of the molecules of life, they think of DNA and overlook proteins. In a sense, DNA is a manager that gets the limelight, while proteins toil away behind the scene.Proteins are molecular machines in all living cells. They speed up reactions that make life possible and give form to life. The three-dimensional shape of a protein determines what it does and how well it does its job. It is true for numerous proteins such as haemoglobin, which transports oxygen in our blood and muscle proteins that allow us to move. It is true for antibodies, which help stop viruses and bacteria. It is also true for the proteins that copy DNA and help make more proteins. When certain human proteins fail to fold into their proper shapes, they can give rise to diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. In addition, many drugs work by attaching to the business end of proteins.Proteins are made up of building blocks called amino acids. The order of amino acids in a protein is determined by the sequence of letters in the gene that gives rise to it. One of the great achievements in molecular biology in the past century was finding out how the text of four letters embedded in DNA that all living things have gets “translated” into myriad three-dimensional proteins. It was the elucidation of the genetic code that won Robert W. Holley, Har Gobind Khorana and Marshall W. Nirenberg the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1968.Also Read | There’s more to losing weight than counting caloriesFrom DNA, we can figure out the order of amino acids in a given protein. But the string of amino acids fold into a precise shape every single time that is hard to predict. For the past 50 years, trying to deduce the structure of a protein from just its amino acid sequence has been elusive. Known as the protein folding problem, it has been one of the “grand challenges” of biology.In the intervening decades, scientists have relied on “growing” proteins and experimentally figuring out their structures. This has worked well for around 170,000 proteins spanning the gamut of life. But experimentally determining structures is costly and time-consuming. And it doesn’t always work.For example, the human genome contains over 20,000 protein-coding genes; after decades, we know the shapes of around 17% of the proteins reasonably well.This creates a problem of scalability. Through rapid and cheap sequencing of DNA, sequences of millions of genes that give rise to proteins are known, but we don’t have a solid grasp of what most of the proteins look like. An analogy is that we have millions of sheets of paper with lines on how to fold them into origami, but no accurate way to know what shapes they fold into.Now, it looks like DeepMind, an artificial intelligence (AI) laboratory of Alphabet, has mostly solved the protein folding problem. At a conference last year where participants used computers to predict the structure of a protein from its sequence, the program AlphaFold beat the entire field by a wide margin. More impressively, it was able to predict most of the protein structures to greater than the target 90% score (this is pretty similar to high-quality experimental work in a lab).Also Read | NASA visualises how sea levels will rise in Indian coastal regionsIn a paper published in Nature on July 15, the DeepMind team provided details on how AlphaFold works. AlphaFold used a neural network mimicking the brain. It was fed amino acid sequences that gave rise to known protein structures. Researchers also gave it some basic rules of chemistry and biology to limit the possibilities. And then, the computer made its own associations and “learned” how to predict protein shapes.On July 22, DeepMind researchers followed up with another report in Nature. They predicted nearly every single protein structure from humans (plus those from 20 other important organisms) using AlphaFold. Anyone with internet access can search for these structures from a public database. This truly is Google for proteins.A reasonable expectation is that a PhD student might experimentally solve one or two protein structures in five or six years. DeepMind plans to deposit a whopping 100 million structures by the end of the year. It is safe to say that what AlphaFold has achieved is beyond the capability of human intelligence.Some commentators think that AlphaFold will usher in a new era of drug discovery. It is possible, but pharmaceutical companies already have many proteins that they can target. Often the bottleneck isn’t protein structure, but getting drugs to work in trials and through the regulatory process. For example with the coronavirus, we have structures of many viral proteins, but new drugs that target these proteins have not yet been approved.This leads me to a second point. Proteins are shapeshifters. Proteins can morph shapes by attaching to chemical compounds, cell membranes, and other proteins. A protein structure is a snapshot in time. AlphaFold cannot account for all of this variation yet, and ultimately for important proteins it might not replace human validation either.What excites me most and where I think AlphaFold can immediately contribute is in finding out what many of the millions of poorly-studied proteins actually do. There is huge potential here to discover proteins that help in environmental remediation and in biotechnological processes. For example, we could identify proteins in soil bacteria that help to degrade plastics. We could also find proteins that help certain animals live longer or adapt to specific niches. And as the planet warms, we could identify proteins that help crop plants adapt to rising temperatures.AlphaFold is an exciting step in which AI plays a meaningful role in biology. Over time, we can expect humans and machines to work together in solving many other grand challenges.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-the-shape-of-things-to-come-in-biology-101629277477117.html
