19-08-2021||Today's||In 100 days, sowing the seeds of a New Assam||It is often said, well begun is half done. Ever since our government assumed office in Assam in early May, we have endeavoured to live up to people’s expectations and deliver to them, the Assam of their dreams. While 100 days may be too short a period to bring about transformative change, especially in governance, the seeds have been sown and will bear fruits shortly.Building on Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s philosophy of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Prayas”, we aim to ensure citizen-friendly governance in the state. Continuous engagement with citizens is an essential part of participatory governance. Case in point: The positive response to our government’s call for affluent people to surrender their ration cards. This appeal was made to ensure that those who need these benefits can avail them.Our government was formed amid the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. To tackle this, Team Assam, led by Covid warriors, dedicated its entire effort under the guidance of the PM. We adopted the test, treat, trace, and vaccinate strategy. We have also made preparations to minimise the impact of a possible third wave.With the tireless efforts of health workers, we brought the positivity rate down from 9.13% to 0.73%, installed oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 13.56 MT, nearly doubled the number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in state medical college hospitals from 793 to 1,308, and administered over 14.8 million doses of the vaccine.We recognise the long-term loss caused by Covid-19, particularly to children who lost their parents in the pandemic. We announced the chief minister’s Shishu Seva Scheme under which the state will provide these children with monthly support until the age of 24.In these 100 days, we have taken firms steps to defeat several other ills that confront our society, threaten our civilisational heritage, and undermine our future.Also Read | In a competitive marketplace, protecting India’s gig workersA drug-free society is essential for a prosperous Assam. In 100 days, Assam Police made great strides in demolishing the infrastructure that facilitated the supply of drugs and narcotics. Working under the guidance of Union home minister Amit Shah, we seized drugs worth ₹183 crore, and arrested 1,760 people. We will continue to fight the drug menace with an iron fist and achieve our mission of drug-free Assam.As mentioned in our election manifesto, the protection of cattle — revered in our culture — is a top priority. Delivering on our poll promise, we passed the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 2021. With this, we intend to stop the illegal trade and transit of cattle through Assam, which was rampant over the years. Further, we led encroachment drives to clear illegal settlements built around our temples and namghars (prayer houses).When I see files that come to my desk for approval, I prioritise those which reflect unfulfilled aspirations of our people. And in these 100 days , we have tried to shake status quo to ensure speedier outcome. People have voted for us with great expectations and we have to race against time to deliver them. For instance, in my various interactions with people, I came across heart wrenching stories of women being exploited by micro finance lenders for not able to repay small amounts of money. This was unacceptable and had to stop; our government cannot be a silent bystander to such injustice. We made a promise during the election to provide relief to small borrowers. To effect this, we notified the Assam Microfinance Incentive and Relief Scheme in 100 days by bringing all stakeholders on board.For us our Sankalp Patra (the Bharatiya Janata Party manifesto) is a sacred document. In the past 100 days, we either delivered on these promises or are working hard towards realising them. For instance, we have increased financial assistance under the Assam Orunodoi scheme from ₹830 to ₹1,000 per month and added 638,000 new beneficiaries. We increased the wages of tea garden workers from ₹167 to ₹205 in the Brahmaputra Valley, and from ₹145 to ₹183 in the Barak Valley, with retrospective effect from February 2021. Deen Dayal Upadhaya’s clarion call of “Antyodaya” is the foundational premise of our policies and we will continue to focus on the last person in the queue.Assam’s ace boxer, Lovlina Borgohain’s historic feat at the Tokyo Olympics was the proudest moment for every Assamese. We celebrated the occasion with great fervour by working towards ensuring that many more Lovlinas represent India at the 2024 Olympics.To ensure that the next five years are a glorious era in Assam’s history, we used the first 100 days to lay the foundation of transformative change. Under the maxim of “minimum government and maximum governance”, we delegated more powers to district deputy commissioners to fast-track Jal Jeevan Mission targets, allot land for industries and expedite flood relief work.In this short period, Assam became the first state to pass the Model Tenancy Act to provide a framework for resolving disputes between tenants and landlords. Assam has also become the second state to have an Ethanol Policy. For the first time, we created a consolidated database of all government-owned land within 100 days.In the past, governments at the Centre and in the Northeast had left inter-State borders un-demarcated and ambiguous. Over the past 100 days, we made sufficient progress to put an end to these decades-old legacy disputes, particularly with Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Mizoram.With the BJP at the Centre and in the state, the double engine of growth is gaining momentum in Assam. Along with our colleagues in the central government, we are speeding up the implementation of key central schemes such as Jal Jeevan Mission, PM Awas Yojana, and PM Kisan.Assam kicked off Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav on a historic note. For the first time since 1979, this year’s Independence Day was celebrated without any call for bandh by any extremist organisation.These milestones in our 100-day journey are reflective of the progress we are making in bringing Assam from the periphery to the epicentre of India’s progress and development. Governance is a team effort. It cannot be done without the people of Assam. And the first 100 days is a testament to the fact that Assam’s contribution will only keep increasing as we build a New India.Himanta Biswa Sarma is the chief minister of AssamThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-100-days-sowing-the-seeds-of-a-new-assam-101629375585705.html
19-08-2021||Today's||In a competitive marketplace, protecting India’s gig workers||In the past few weeks, anonymous Twitter accounts such as Swiggy DE and DeliveryBhoy have made allegations regarding issues faced by delivery partners of food delivery apps. These include low payouts, opaque payout calculations and alleged cheating, unexplained differences in surge rates, order clubbing and assignments to avoid incentive pay, and zone extensions to avoid return bonuses.Swiggy and Zomato, which offer delivery work to more than 360,000 gig workers, have responded to these allegations by insisting that earnings per order are much higher than alleged, and that full-time delivery personnel earn over ₹20,000 per month.India’s gig economy is among the few sectors offering flexible work to unemployed millions. In her 2021 Union Budget speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman mentioned the creation of a database of gig workers and extending social security to them. It is important, therefore, to examine these grievances and design policy mechanisms that protect worker rights.Also Read | From a pandemic to an endemic, India’s vaccine drive enables a way outMany of the grievances arise because of a trust deficit between the gig workers and the platforms. India has protected workers through heavy-handed industrial regulation and archaic labour laws, which suit the factory floor. They are irrelevant, insufficient, and ineffective in addressing disputes that originate on these platforms.With the apparent oversupply of gig workers, the platform’s incentive is to deliver orders at the lowest marginal cost (a large component of which is gig worker fees) while keeping the customer happy. This task is assigned to algorithms. An analysis of the grievances suggests that many are linked to the way gig work is assigned (denial of high-profit surge or incentive-linked orders), performed (clubbing orders, zone boundaries), and rewarded (complex, multifactor payment calculations).There are several factors in each of these algorithmic decisions. Work allocation can be based on weather, restaurant and customer locations, traffic, prevailing wages, and the available worker pool. The algorithms that make these decisions are flexible, learning algorithms that can account for the constantly changing input. Machine Learning (ML) and multi-factor optimisation techniques support millions of orders every day.Crucially, most of these techniques are black-box — their inner workings are unknowable, even to the engineers that design them. Such algorithms are known to include biases. Research has shown that ML algorithms pick up pre-existing biases from their training data.For example, a profit-maximising ML algorithm may deny orders to gig workers that are eligible for incentives, even without being programmed to do so. As a result, trust between the gig worker and the platform suffers.However, outdated, static mechanisms such as grievance redressal officers or onerous labour laws cannot keep pace with the gig economy. Instead, we can look to harness the power of technology towards improving trust between platforms and gig workers.Algorithm audits are one such technique, where an auditor has access to the algorithms and examine the results produced by them. Suitably qualified auditors could uncover implicit or explicit biases, or other shortcomings of such algorithms using computational and statistical techniques.Another technique is the use of “sock puppets” where researchers use computer programmes to impersonate user accounts. Auditors can use these accounts to identify instances where the platform algorithms produce undesirable results. Other auditing techniques can also be used.In a competitive marketplace, informed consumers can prioritise ordering from platforms that subject themselves to such audits. Workers may also choose to work for more transparent platforms. Regulators can examine work conditions as a function of work allocation, performance, and pay related to each gig, and mandate transparency related to each of these.If successful, this approach can be replicated in other industries. The divide between algorithm makers, platform creators, investors that support them, and gig workers is real. Policymaking that mandates transparency can improve trust and ensure the welfare of gig workers while not impeding the growth of the gig economy.Mihir Mahajan and Anupam Manur are researchers at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-competitive-marketplace-protecting-india-s-gig-workers-101629372885625.html
19-08-2021||Today's||The return of the Islamic Emirate||There is an old saying – Be careful what you wish for. China, Russia, Iran and Pakistan were the most vociferous in demanding the exit of the United States (US) from Afghanistan. Now that images of people hanging on to a C-17 Globemaster, as it taxis for take-off, evoking parallels with the fall of Saigon in April 1975, have been seen with smug satisfaction in Islamabad, Tehran, Beijing and Moscow, a grim reality is seeping in. China’s foreign minister Wang Yi has already expressed his unhappiness at the US’s “hasty” exit.The key question now is if there really is a Taliban 2.0 or just a more media-savvy repackaged Taliban 1.0 that will create more regional instability. But to unravel that, let us return to how Afghanistan got here.The demise of the Islamic Republic and return of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan became inevitable when in February, 2020, the US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, signed an agreement with the Taliban deputy leader Mullah Baradar in Doha, committing to US withdrawal. While Khalilzad delivered the agreement for the Donald Trump administration, President Joe Biden’s announcement on April 14, 2021 that the US would be out before the 9/11 anniversary reaffirmed the unconditional withdrawal.Also Read | Don’t believe the Taliban’s rhetoric. Women’s rights are under threatThe US was hoping for a “decent interval” between its exit and the eventual collapse of the Kabul regime, but once the Taliban sensed victory, it moved in with an “indecent haste”. Despite a domestic backlash against the messy withdrawal, Biden has maintained that his decision was the right one.The reality is that a cumulative set of mistakes made the US’s continued presence a lightning rod for the insurgency. In 2001, the US went into Afghanistan on a counter-terrorism mission, deluded itself that the Taliban had been defeated when it had merely escaped across the border into Pakistan, got distracted with Iraq in 2003, and then got drawn into an increasingly vicious counter-insurgency mounted by the re-energised Taliban.Meanwhile, the narrative about “forever wars” gained traction. The reality is that, as Gen Douglas Lute said, the US did not fight a 20-year war; it fought a one-year war, 20 times over. In any case, the US had ended its combat operations in 2014 replacing it with a limited “train, advise and assist” mission. While 2,352 US soldiers were killed between 2001 and 2014, the number of deaths in the following six years was 96. The annual expenditure with its reduced presence was about $45 billion, a small fraction of its $700-billion defence budget.The real problem was that without removing the sanctuaries in Pakistan, the US was caught in a stalemate that made its continued presence unpopular. Its association with a local government that lacked legitimacy and was seen as corrupt and incompetent by the people, added to it.Pakistan’s strategy paid off when the Doha office opened in 2013, beginning the process of the Taliban’s legitimisation, something it had lacked in the 1990s. Changing power equations made Russia and China more wary and critical about the US presence in their backyard. Biden is right that delaying the departure would not have changed anything and no astrologer could have found a propitious moment.Like other countries, India too supported “an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned” peace and reconciliation process. But while other countries did not let this prevent their contacts with the Taliban in Doha and elsewhere, India followed it in letter and spirit. Indian officials did participate in meetings where the Taliban was present but refrained from exploring any direct engagement with it. With the US out and Ashraf Ghani gone, there was no option except to withdraw all diplomatic presence, closing the embassy for all practical purposes.While no one knows if Taliban have changed, it will find that Afghanistan has changed in the last 20 years. It is a young nation with a median age of 18-and-a-half years. More than two-thirds of the population is below 30, and this cohort has grown up in a conservative but open society; 60% of the population enjoys internet access. They, along with women and minorities, will resist a return to the Islamic Emirate of the 1990s.The Taliban today is also not a unified entity. Mullah Baradar is a co-founder of the Taliban and Mullah Omar was his brother-in-law. The Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) took him into custody in 2010 to punish him for being in direct contact with President Hamid Karzai. Eight years in ISI custody is unlikely to have left him with happy memories. The Doha negotiators constitute the public face but the fighting has been done by local commanders on the ground. The Quetta shura is headed by a cleric, Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada and two deputies, Mullah Yaqub, son of Mullah Omar who has been overseeing military operations in the south, and Sirajuddin Haqqani who heads the Haqqani network, operating in the east.There are other groups too – al-Qaeda, IS-Khorasan, Uighurs (ETIM), Uzbeks (IMU), Tajiks (Khatiba Imam al Bukhari) and Pakistani groups such as the TTP, LeT, JeM, Jamaat ul Ahraar, Lashkar-e-Islam and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. All of them have linkages with Taliban fighters on the ground but power-sharing negotiations may end up pitching them on opposite sides.Another chapter in Afghanistan’s political transition, which began with the coup in 1973, has ended and at present, India has little choice except to wait and watch because unlike the West, we remain part of the region.Rakesh Sood is a retired diplomat who has served as India’s ambassador to Afghanistan, and is currently Distinguished Fellow, Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-return-of-the-islamic-emirate-101629360765029.html
