21-08-2021||Today's||Restoring the integrity of the Indian Parliament||On India’s 75th Independence day, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana expressed his anguish about the manner in which laws were being legislated in Parliament.He stated, “Now, it is a sorry state of affairs. There are a lot of gaps and a lot of ambiguity in the law-making process due to [the] lack of debates. We don’t know what the intent of the legislature is. We don’t know for what purpose the laws are made. This causes great inconvenience to the people …”The CJI is spot on. His distress deserves the collective consideration of every Member of Parliament (MP). Given that the entire monsoon session of Parliament was wiped out without a single substantive discussion of any consequence, except for one debate on Covid-19 mismanagement in the Rajya Sabha, it brings into question the legitimacy of the institution of Parliament.Moreover, 22 bills were pushed through both Houses of Parliament by the government without any deliberation in either House. This constitutes a clear violation of Article 107 of the Constitution of India, and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in both Houses of Parliament.For over three decades now, disruption has become the norm and the functioning of Parliament, the exception. The day the House functions, it makes headlines.This raises two obvious questions: Are disruptions a legitimate parliamentary tactic by the Opposition, and can an obdurate government just stymie discussion and debate in the House leveraging the despotism of numbers?The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) set the benchmark of disruptions. In August 2012, justifying the wipeout of the winter session of 2010 and the monsoon session of 2012, the then leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Arun Jaitley, argued, “If parliamentary accountability is subverted and a debate is intended to be used merely to put a lid on parliamentary accountability, it is then a legitimate tactic for the Opposition to expose the government through parliamentary instruments available at its command... We are not interested in a debate. What is there to debate?” he told an English news channel. The thrust of his argument was that disruption is a legitimate parliamentary tactic.His colleague, leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Sushma Swaraj, was equally vociferous when she said, “Not allowing Parliament to function is a form of democracy like any other form… Debate under (Rule) 193 would mean a ‘talkout’ by the government and a walkout by the Opposition. If we had taken debate under (Rule) 184, they would have won because they have numbers.”These words set the stage for what has followed in the past nine years. The Opposition, at least the Indian National Congress (INC), may well be justified in sticking it to the government for what it endured for 10 years at the hands of the NDA/Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) between 2004-2014, but where does that leave the supreme temple of democracy?In an informal conversation with the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, I suggested a way out. When government business finishes at 6 pm, the Speaker should allow a Rule 193 discussion in the Lok Sabha, and under a corresponding rule in the Rajya Sabha every day on a subject of the Opposition’s choice till 9 pm. Under rule 193 of the Lok Sabha, any member who wishes to raise a discussion on a matter of urgent public importance may write to the secretary-general precisely specifying the matter to be raised. It is rare in practice that the Opposition seriously wants a discussion under Rule 184 that also entails voting, even though it may table notices daily more as a tactic. No-confidence motions are, in any case, a rarity.This, however, would require large-heartedness and a supreme degree of magnanimity by the treasury benches to acquiesce to a discussion every day on a subject of the Opposition’s choice, even if it does not entail a vote at the end of it. What the government would gain, however, is a meaningful discussion on government bills, an interruption-free question hour, and a disturbance-free zero hour. Even private member’s business, which has not even once been transacted substantively in the Lok Sabha since May 2019, would start taking place. A small but significant concession by the government could pave the way for the supreme legislative institution to function harmoniously. The biggest beneficiary would be the institution of Parliament itself.There is also a robust need for restructuring the institution of the presiding officers of both Houses of Parliament. The two essential attributes of a presiding officer must be autonomy of decision-making and exacting neutrality — this is hard to achieve if both the Speaker of the Lok Sabha as well as the chair of the Rajya Sabha (vice-president of India) are elected as nominees of one or the other political party at the inception of their office. While the vice-president resigns from the political party he is affiliated to, the Speaker continues to retain membership in the political party. However, ideological commitment runs deeper than pro-forma disassociation.With no affront contemplated, much less intended, to the current Speaker or chairperson or their revered forerunners, the time has come to seriously deliberate on whether or not presiding officers of both Houses should be serving judges of the Supreme Court on lien and appointed for five years in case of the Lok Sabha and six years for the Rajya Sabha. This would ensure that truly dispassionate referees conduct the proceedings of both Houses of Parliament. A similar practice must be adopted for state legislatures with presiding officers requested from respective high courts.Insofar as the CJI’s concern about tardy lawmaking goes, to improve it, as I have been repeatedly arguing through two private member’s Bills, in 2010 and then again in 2019, the rigours of the anti-defection law would have to be relaxed, and whip-driven tyranny circumscribed to only those motions that impact the continuance and stability of the government.The legislative space needs to be freed up for MPs and Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) to start taking a renewed interest in their primary function making good laws for the nation as well as the states respectively. Legislators needs to be liberated and empowered again by making them feel that their vote counts, and that when they dissent because of the imperatives of constituency, commonsense or conscience, their membership of the House would not become a casualty that it currently does if a whip is violated.Moreover, it must be prescribed in the rules of procedure that no bill be passed in either House without it being referred to a standing/select committee for comprehensive scrutiny. This would make Parliament function around the year rather than just four months annually.Parliament has to be rescued from what it has currently descended into — a gladiatorial arena to seize executive power, with disruption deployed as a maximalist strategy. This is only exacerbating the death spiral of an institution grappling with a serious crisis of credibility.Manish Tewari is a lawyer, MP, former I&B minister, and Congress leader The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-the-integrity-of-the-indian-parliament-101629541992298.html
21-08-2021||Today's||In the 1960s, the Kabul of my childhood||They say the city you most fondly remember is the one you grew up in. In my case, that’s Kabul. I spent my formative years in the Afghan capital in the mid-1960s. It was a very different time, and Afghanistan, a very different country. But the Kabul that’s imprinted on my mind belongs to that decade.It was a happy city. No other description does it justice. Of course, it was poor, conservative, and hierarchical, but people were always smiling. They were warm, welcoming, courteous, and generous. This was most obvious in their attitude to children. Everyone called me “bacho”. When mummy took me out, shopkeepers would slip Hershey’s chocolates or Spearmint gum into my hands, and then seal my lips with their fingers. It was our little secret and it made a nine-year-old feel special.Every morning, Khan Mohammad would hold my hand and walk me from the ambassador’s residence, past the Italian embassy, to the corner of Ariana Hotel to await the school bus. Across the road was Dilkusha Palace. A little further was Pashtunistan Square and Khyber Restaurant, famous for its beef steaks and lemon meringue pies.Daddy’s office, as I called it, was in Sharinau, not far from what later became famous as Chicken Street. In the 1960s, it was literally a place to buy fowl. Carpets and antiques were nowhere to be seen. The birds were crammed into wire-mesh coops. Mummy would pick her choice and the chicken would be slaughtered in the jui (drain) that ran alongside it. She would look the other way, but I was transfixed by the gruesome slaughter.Old Kabul lay beyond Pashtunistan Square. It was a warren of shops surrounding the Pul-e-Chisti Mosque, an amalgam of money lenders, jewellers, second-hand clothes stores, naan bakeries, and dingy little supermarkets. In fact, there was nothing “super” about them, but the American term had caught the Afghan fancy.The grandest hotel was the eponymous Kabul. The Inter-Continental was still a few years into the future, The Serena, decades away. But there was a delightful Swiss hostelry called Spinzar. Its pastry was delectable. It overlooked the Kabul river and stood at the end of a long row of little shops selling Afghanistan’s prized Karakul caps.On Fridays, we would drive to Kargah Lake, just beyond the city limits, or even further, to Paghman, where the royal family and aristocracy had summer homes. The restaurant at Kargah was rather posh. But I preferred the handcarts selling candy-floss and Coca-Cola in old-fashioned bottles.Society, in the Victorian sense, was small, but sophisticated. The upper classes spoke better French than English, but they all warmed to Indian classical music. Vilayat Khan and Amjad Ali were favourites. Hindi films were adored, and Dilip Kumar was every Afghan’s hero.The rich lived behind high-walled compounds. Outside, some women wore burkhas. Indoors, however, it was Chanel dresses and high-heeled shoes. They smoked American cigarettes held by carefully manicured fingers with bright red nail polish.Those were innocent days. Grass grew in gardens and dates were numbers on a calendar. Even parents were incredulously trusting. When Daddy fell ill, he was surprised at how often the princes would drop by, until it dawned the real attraction was his daughters.Much of today’s Kabul didn’t exist. Wazire Akbar Khan was a vast barren spread. From our upstairs balcony, there was an unbroken view all the way to the Pakistani residence. The American ambassador lived opposite the Indian Chancery. The present-day United States compound was scrubland. It was here, when he was free and feeling indulgent, that Daddy taught me to drive.I studied at the American School at Karte Chaur. A little further was Dar-ul-Aman Palace, built by Amanullah in the early 1900s. If we didn’t go to Kargah, we would spend Friday afternoons swimming in the palace pool.When Mummy found that I’d acquired an American twang and started saying “aloominum” (for aluminium), she packed me off to school in Dehradun. She was determined to protect her son’s accent. But that didn’t cure my taste for peanut butter. I have it every day at breakfast and each bite brings Kabul back to mind. Unlike poet Robert Graves, I cannot say “Good-bye to all that”.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-1960s-the-kabul-of-my-childhood-101629541990926.html
21-08-2021||Today's||India needs more women in the police||A young girl in Gurugram, who was relentlessly stalked, died by suicide recently. Attempts by her desperate father to intervene led to the stalker apologising, but did not deter him from continuing to harass the girl.According to the National Crime Records Bureau report 2020, there were 9,438 reported cases of stalking in 2018. But, many more do not come to light as women don’t report them to the police for fear of being blamed themselves or not getting timely help. Worrying data issued by Delhi Police shows that crimes against women in the national Capital saw a 63.3% increase in the first six months of 2021.The police station is the first port of call in the criminal justice system. And it is there that many women face the first barriers: Of not being taken seriously; not being able to submit forensic evidence in time; and, being made to feel uncomfortable in a largely male-dominated environment.One solution would be to have more women in the police force. On this front, there is positive news. There has been a 16% increase in women personnel entering the police force between 2019 and the beginning of 2020. However, women still constitute only 10.3% of the force.Following a 2009 Government of India advisory, almost all Union Territories and nine states decided on a target of 33% reservation for women in the police. But targets don’t always translate into actual numbers on the ground.Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police, southwest Delhi, firmly believes that more women in the force would lead to more women reporting incidents of violence against them. “I have begun an initiative of having an all-women force in one area under my jurisdiction. They interact with women in the area, draw them out about any violence that they may be experiencing either at home or in public places, provide counselling and legal advice on options available to them.”She says that crimes against women cannot be tackled without involving men, so her officers also engage with men and older women in the area. “Seeing my officers and the respect that they command, I find that more girls in the locality are keen on joining the force. Women feel safer and more confident in coming forward. I feel that women officers have more empathy for them and respect boundaries when dealing with women who have suffered violence.”Harmeet Singh, commissioner of police in Guwahati, feels that more women in police stations make it easier and more friendly for women to register a complaint. “Women bring an intuitive capacity to the job and they tend to be on the cutting-edge of policing wherever they are in charge. Make no mistake, women are very tough and capable as officers. I think women being comfortable with more women police officers is one positive aspect of gender inclusion.”The decision not to report violence to the police is governed by several factors, among them the fear of stigma, victim-shaming, and a resigned acceptance of violence. Kalpana Vishwanath, director of Safetipin and chairperson of Jagori, a women’s resource centre says, “Many women are too scared to come to a station, so the police must engage in community outreach as a way of helping women.”More women police personnel, proactive gender sensitisation across the force and the localities they work in, and taking policing out of the station to women, hold the key to a safer environment for women in both rural and urban India.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-needs-more-women-in-the-police-101629541989958.html
21-08-2021||Today's||India at 75: Can the twain ever meet?||Landmark occasions provide unique opportunities for calm, nonpartisan reflection with a unique blend of nostalgia, pride, hope, fear, and poignance. We have made tremendous progress, but Rabindranath Tagore’s exhortation in the Gitanjali compendium, to value reason above all faculties, must make us ask some existential questions. Where are we going as a nation? Are we inculcating the independence of spirit, thought and scientific enquiry? In a largely atavistic society, are we building basic enablers to reverse an inherent resistance to change, or will the intellectually marginalised continue to be deprived of modern education and subject to constant indoctrination?Beyond the markets, are we building a sustainable society? Northern Europe’s sustainable initiatives are global benchmarks for building egalitarian societies. Its political and corporate leadership ensures permeation of this core ethic to its smallest units — individuals. Lopsided post-pandemic economic recovery will aggravate the inherent inequities globally — especially in structurally unequal societies such as India, South Africa and Brazil.A Financial Times article contrasts Zomato founder’s $650 million net worth with its gig workers eking out a living with ₹20 per trip to deliver food, while battling growing unemployment which saw 200 million people slipping into poverty. The concentration of economic power with the migration of unorganised business to corporate entities has been a discernible trend with the likes of Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani leading perhaps what is India’s answer to Russian oligarchs.Further, social divides based on religion, caste and class create increasing levels of polarisation as does rapidly receding trust in the institutions of governance inherent in a liberal democracy. Such a concoction is lethal to the social order, as was recently witnessed in what has been South Africa’s worst violence since apartheid.Changing the narrative is critical today. This can happen only if we transcend the mental barrier to differentiate between truth and maya (eternal illusion). There is no way to do this other than building scientific thought and temperament across all levels. The Parliament adopted the Science Policy Resolution in 1958 — the foundational vision of modern India. Sadly, instead of promoting introspection, debate and encouraging innovative thinkers to dispassionately challenge the status quo, we are witnessing a frightening regression into a world built on myths, prejudice, bias, and irrationality.Examples of the current public leadership enthusiastically promoting cow urine as a cure for cancer, or coronil for Covid are part of our national folklore. Author Yuval Noah Harari postulates that religion is the most enduring story ever told, and till today, is used to determine who we should hate, or our actions based on superstitions propagated in its name.Going back into the past is easy — the further, the better. As is tapping into cultural sentiments at the cost of rational, scientific thinking. Politicians play this game the world over to consolidate power with the neo-imperialism in Russia and Vladimir Putin — the new Czar — being an obvious example. However, in a complex multicultural, multi-ethnic, religiously diverse society such as India, utilising the direct link between scientific thought and secularism can prove profoundly hermetic.Their supportive interplay will change the paradigm from dogma and sectarian thinking to critical reasoning and intellectual cosmopolitanism, hence building on our society’s inherent diversity rather than remaining spellbound by the enduring charm of Britain’s parting gift of deep communal hatred in 1947.At its core is the ability of science to confront the truth and the willingness to acknowledge facts. Regrettably, commencing with creeping data integrity issues in the budget documents from 2011, it has now transmuted to various statistical figures, including underreporting cases and deaths, where floating dead bodies jarred us to the state of data integrity challenges today.Cognitive dissonance in policymaking displaces the delicacy of reasoned debate in Parliament and adds to the toxicity of doubt and suspicion even for well-intended decisions. Active policy consultation with domain experts is a natural casualty in such an environment with many preferring to resign rather than erode credibility. The resignations of the chief economic adviser, heads of the National Statistical Commission, Niti Aayog and the Covid-19 scientific advisory group, INSACOG are some recent instances.In a post-truth world, bringing the truth back to politics can change the paradigm. Tagore’s Satyer Abohan examines the relationship between individuals and the nation from this prism of truth. Elected leaders must lead this change. Susan Stebbing’s 1939 classic shows that in politics emotive language is often disguised as scientific language, and then used as slogans. She warns, though, that if well-meaning slogans succumb under scientific scrutiny, they should be discarded in any rational argument.Given our unparalleled record of missed opportunities for balanced, sustainable economic growth with equitable social development, we face massive problems to solve today. This is achievable only if the leadership enlists the involvement of all. Post-Independence, our founding fathers took on the challenge despite being devoid of the stature and resources we have today. Admittedly, many decisions proved to be wrong in hindsight, but the foundations for a modern India built and nurtured over decades must be acknowledged.In a naive and unreflective age where we celebrate too early, too much, and frivolously, we must evolve by continuously introspecting and making course corrections. Large scale alienation of citizens led by rising economic inequalities and social inequities cannot be ignored as we celebrate our hard-earned Independence. Nation-building is much more than rising markets benefitting only a handful.It is time to change the narrative with the singular imperative of making the twain meet. Sustainable progress will follow.Prabal Basu Roy is a Sloan fellow of the London Business School, non-executive director, and an adviser to chairmen of corporate boardsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-at-75-can-the-twain-ever-meet-101629541988435.html
