22-08-2021||Today's||In Pakistan, the erasure of history||On August 17, a young man vandalised a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore, the capital city of the Empire ruled by the 19th century Sikh emperor. The statue was gifted to Pakistan in 2019 by the London-based SK Foundation, headed by Sikh historian Bobby Singh Bansal, to promote Sikh heritage and tourism in Pakistan. Since its unveiling in June 2019, however, the statue has been vandalised thrice.Ranjit Singh has a complicated legacy. For certain Punjabi nationalists, he is a hero who built a fledgling empire and held back British advances in India. For those in the Seraiki region and the Pashtun belt, he was a tyrant who imposed violence upon ordinary people in his quest for territorial expansion. These themes have been fiercely debated among historians of Punjab and have invoked much passion in the field.Yet, it would be naïve to suggest that the recent attacks on Ranjit Singh’s statue were induced by the alleged injustices during his rule. If that was the case, one could also attack symbols glorifying Muslim rulers who were accused of committing atrocities, on many occasions against Muslim rebels themselves. In fact, for many of those supporting this vandalism on social media, it was enough that the maharaja was a Sikh ruler who clashed with Muslim armies. A similar backlash is witnessed each year on March 23, when activists gather at the site in Lahore where Bhagat Singh was hanged to demand that the government honour the martyr’s memory. Their requests have always been ignored and invariably lead to counter-mobilisation by religious zealots against recognising a Sikh freedom fighter. Bigotry has never had much space for historical nuances.Such incidents point to a larger crisis of identity in Pakistan. In a desperate attempt to find an ontological origin for the nation-State, the history taught in Pakistani schools almost exclusively focuses on Muslims in the subcontinent. Non-Muslims are either erased from the books or emerge periodically as villains conniving against Muslim rule. This erasure of history in favour of ideology creates an awkwardly woven narrative as a raison d’etre for Pakistan, a narrative that is premised upon repressing key facts from our shared past.Yet, we know repression does not eliminate facts but merely transforms our engagement with the past into a more traumatic experience. As repressed histories make themselves visible, they induce panic since they disrupt the fictions we are forced to tell ourselves. Ranjit Singh’s statue is one such reminder of a history we have long buried into the deep recesses of our unconscious. The appearance of such reminders of a forgotten past result is an endless purge of elements that undermine the “pure” identity we aim to establish, a process that only engenders more paranoia about ourselves. In recent years, there have even been debates on whether festivals such as Basant and Holi or more syncretic religious practices at shrines constitute “our” culture or need to be discarded. The constant construct of an “other” against which we measure our identity has only fuelled a politics of fear and suspicion since one can never formulate a fixed measure for one’s identity.This repression is not only directed at religious minorities but also aims to undermine the linguistic/ethnic diversity of Pakistan. Different ethnic groups have historically imagined conceptions of cultural and spatial belonging that do not conform to the insular narrative of the nation-State. Over the past 74 years, the State has viewed these disparate histories as a challenge to its homogenising narrative of a Muslim past, suppressing challenges by ethno-nationalist groups. The violence exercised against marginalised nationalities stems from this desire to discipline their memories in order to sustain a myopic and punishing form of nationalism.There are, however, some positive signs. Punjab’s provincial government immediately ordered the arrest of the individual responsible for vandalising the statue in Lahore. A few weeks ago, Prime Minister Imran Khan forcefully intervened to condemn an attack on a mandir at Rahim Yar Khan, and ordered its reconstruction. Moreover, many young people voice their disgust on such incidents that undermine the rights of minorities in Pakistan.The struggle over identity is at the heart of Pakistani society today. Either we will accept the pluralism of our past to develop a coherent narrative that acknowledges the diverse cultures that shape our present. Or we will repress history (and historians) that diverges from the official narrative in favour of an uncomplicated and insular version of history. The manner in which we are able to grapple with our past will determine how we manage to imagine a future for our country and for our region.Ammar Ali jan is a historian of colonial India, based in Lahore. He is a member of the Haqooq-e-Khalq Movement and a cabinet member of the Progressive International The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-pakistan-the-erasure-of-history-101629642678889.html
22-08-2021||Today's||The misuse of India’s investigative agencies||The dead cannot cry out for justice. It is the duty of the living to do so for them.This proverb has been on my mind, triggered by the court’s decision to exonerate a person involved in a high-profile case for want of evidence. Does this mean that the police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and other investigating agencies did not properly discharge their duties? Were they “managed”? Did they act at the behest of someone, perhaps as tools of political revenge?I am speaking of Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Shashi Tharoor. On January 17, 2014, his wife, Sunanda Pushkar, was found dead in a five-star hotel room in Delhi. A case of murder was registered against unknown persons on January 1, 2015, after a preliminary investigation by the police. After further investigation, a case was registered against Tharoor. He was accused of abetment to suicide. Given Tharoor’s public profile, the case came under the public scanner and he was vilified by many. He remained steadfast.One can only imagine what kind of mental torture he must have endured during this period. However, after examining 97 witnesses, Delhi special judge, Geetanjali Goel, found that none of the charges against him had any basis, and acquitted him. Did the police file a charge-sheet in the hope that the court would find evidence of guilt during the examination of witnesses? The recent verdict exonerating him raises questions about the working of the Delhi police and investigative agencies in India.Let us look at the 2G case. At that time, it seemed as if the leaders of the Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) had crossed all the limits of corruption. The then Union minister, D Raja, and MP, P Kanimozhi, were put behind bars for months. Kanimozhi is the daughter of the late chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M Karunanidhi. The issue had an impact on the Lok Sabha and assembly elections. The DMK lost power and the Congress was defeated in an unprecedented manner. And then, a special CBI court acquitted all the accused. Who will compensate for the humiliation that they had to endure during this time?The Bofors case was a similar story. Rajiv Gandhi was in power at that time with a majority. He was also the youngest prime minister at that time and India’s youth had high expectations of him. In 1989, he was defeated in an election because of the Bofors case. Since then, the Bofors case has gone out of the public eye, but what about those who had hoped for a new dawn with Rajiv Gandhi?I say, with regret, that during the long years since Independence, successive governments have misused the country’s investigative agencies. That is why the Madras High Court last week sternly asked CBI to get released itself from the cage. The moniker of a caged parrot was given to India’s investigative agency by the Supreme Court itself.In my 40-year career, when it comes to compliance with the law, I think of two people. One was a rickshaw puller, Jumman Khan, who was to be sentenced to death in Agra jail for murdering a teenage girl . A few days before the execution, a reporter met him. Bereft of all hope, he kept saying, “Babuji, I did not kill the girl”. There is an old saying that a dying man never lies.Similarly, in the 1980s, a man imprisoned for a long time without being proved to have committed any crime, was released, thanks to media reports. The man, Deepchand, was arrested by the police during the British raj on suspicion of disturbing the peace. He could have got bail, but he did not have the means to do so. No one in his family knew that he was sent to Naini jail from Kanpur. Decades passed and he remained in jail. The court and officials took cognisance of the matter only after news about this was published in a newspaper. By then, it was too late. Deepchand no longer remembered his home address or had any memory of his family. The prison was his only refuge. Even after his release, he was found wandering around the prison in a deranged state. He later died, banging his head against the walls of the room where he was incarcerated.What do the stories of Deepchand and the rickshaw puller tell us? The inhuman rules created during the British era remain. Those in power can use State agencies to pursue their interest. But now is the time for change. Citizens of a sovereign and democratic country have a fundamental right to live a life without discrimination. When will that happen? I await that day.Shashi Shekhar is the editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are persona||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-misuse-of-india-s-investigative-agencies-101629642677449.html
22-08-2021||Today's||New Delhi must use its clout in the UNSC to put pressure on the Taliban||Developments in Afghanistan are of critical importance to India from a national security perspective. This is not only on account of geography, but also witnessed in the recent history of dastardly terrorist attacks targeting India when the Taliban was in control of Afghanistan. Matters are now complicated by possible Chinese domination of Afghanistan with geo-strategic implications for India.India must, therefore, remain vigilant, irrespective of the signals emanating from the Taliban seeking to showcase its changed spots. There is, however, unease about the lack of options available to India. This is not the case.Having taken over Afghanistan, the key quest for the Taliban is legitimacy and recognition. This is also important to its handlers, Pakistan, and its patron, China. Interestingly, the United States (US), which has been in the tent with the Taliban in Doha, would also like to see movement on this front, under some conditions, as it provides a fig-leaf to cover its disorderly pull-out.For India, herein lies a key opportunity to use its leverage to engage with the major stakeholders around the Taliban, other than those who are, by design, inimical to us. While this certainly includes the US, with which we are in close consultations, our ambit must encompass Russia, Iran, the Gulf, and central Asian countries. India has often spoken of multi-alignment — Afghanistan is the best case in point to practise it.With regard to the Taliban, while diplomatic recognition would have to take time, given the terrorism-laden history that can’t be washed away, engaging it has to be part of the equation given the ground realities. Indeed, in international affairs, one must deal with those governing other countries, particularly in the neighbourhood, even if you are not comfortable with their hue. And, here, let us not forget our leverage in economics, with India accounting for nearly half of Afghanistan’s legitimate exports.Afghanistan has been on the UN Security Council (UNSC) agenda since 1996 after the Taliban overthrew the Soviets. In 1988, it adopted a seminal resolution, UNSCR 1267, sanctioning individuals and entities connected with the Taliban and al-Qaeda. In 2011, UNSCR 1267 was replaced by UNSCR 1988 and 1989, separating the targeting of the Taliban and al-Qaeda. The latter was, by then, of concern to the West; the Taliban was, perhaps, no longer viewed as an enemy with even European human rights groups pushing for blanket delisting of the Taliban. Such blanket delisting was not agreed upon, and the case-by-case provisions of 1267 retained, on the insistence of India, which was on the UNSC.Coincidentally, India is presently on the UNSC and will remain so till the end of 2022. It also chairs the committee that oversees implementation of UNSCR 1988 through 2021 and holds the presidency of the UNSC this month. The first serious discussion on Afghanistan was held in the UNSC on August 6 under India’s presidency of the UNSC, followed by another meeting on August 16, after which a statement was issued.External affairs minister S Jaishankar conveyed India’s concerns and the need for the UN to remain involved with and in Afghanistan to the UN chief. A similar message has also been passed on to the foreign minister of Estonia, the UNSC member-country that is the penholder (ie the country in-charge for drafting resolutions) on Afghanistan.The UN is an indispensable platform for keeping Afghanistan and its government under the global gaze, and India must use its membership of the UNSC and chair of the 1988 committee to ensure this happens. This is not only critical for peace, tranquillity, and globally accepted governance norms in Afghanistan, but also imperative to ensure that there is no threat to international peace and security and spread of terrorism emanating from the regime change in Afghanistan. Interestingly, the foreign service officer heading the UN vertical in the ministry of external affairs was a key member on India’s UNSC team a decade ago and, till recently, India’s ambassador to Afghanistan.Manjeev Singh Puri is a retired diplomat who served as India’s deputy permanent representative to the United Nations The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/new-delhi-must-use-its-clout-in-the-unsc-to-put-pressure-on-the-taliban-101629642558124.html
22-08-2021||Today's||Empires slay, publics pay: The global refugee crisis unfolding in Afghanistan||If Americans falling off the Twin Towers in New York City on September 11, 2001 is the iconic image that inaugurated the 21st Century, Afghans falling off a US evacuation plane on August 15, 2021 serve as the saddest iconic bookend to a twenty-year war. Violence begat violence, a war fought on grounds of religious fanaticism led to a war fought on the pretext of wiping global terrorism from the face of the planet.Twenty years, 83 billion US dollars, hundreds of thousands of dead Afghan civilians and allied soldiers later, we stand where the twenty-first century began: a global refugee crisis in the making.We are living once again in the age of refugees. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) currently estimates a total of 82.4 million forcibly displaced people around the world, including internally displaced persons, stateless individuals, and refugees. Afghanistan is the third largest source-nation for refugees, with Syria and Venezuela leading the list. Most of the refugees from Afghanistan do not end up in Europe or the United States. They are absorbed by neighboring countries such as Pakistan, Iran, and India. Many of them make their way to Turkey, which leads the list of host countries. Germany, which during the Nazi regime turned its Jewish citizens into refugees, became the top European nation in 2015-16 to accept over one million Muslim refugees from Syria and Afghanistan in 2015.Millions of Afghans have fled over the last fifty years because of continued military interventions: the first by the former Soviet Union (1979-1989), an empire run under the guise of communism, and now the end of a two-decade long war in which former European colonial empires such as UK and France collaborated with the US, which emerged as a global superpower after the Second World War.2021 is not only the twentieth anniversary of the war on Afghanistan. It’s been 10 years since the beginning of a bloody armed conflict in Syria in 2011, and more than 6 million Syrians have fled to find refuge in Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey, and those who could afford, in Germany. The year also marks the 70th anniversary of the signing of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees (1951) in Geneva, a watershed event in global history which shifted the discourse of refugees from charity to rights, from the arbitrary goodwill of nations to a legal obligation of signatories, the US being one of them.India and Pakistan were not among the signatories of the Convention. Following the Partition they considered the movement of peoples across the borders of the newly carved nation-states an internal exchange of populations. Nonetheless, the word refugee, or Sharnarthi, Panahgeer, or Muhajir is etched into the history and cultural memory of millions of South Asians. Given the blood-smudged birth-certificates of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, the term carries a special resonance for all of us, whether we live on the subcontinent, or not. Which is why the unfolding humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan carries special significance for all South Asians.US evacuation from Afghanistan and the Taliban’s return to power have unleashed a new season of soundbite political punditry and rushed post-mortems of the so-called “Global War on Terror.” Discussions over the last week have revolved around the legitimacy and efficacy of a sudden withdrawal and the astounding alacrity with which the Taliban recaptured power by force. The question of refugees is now quickly emerging as a test-case for US and its allies’ international credibility, as well a hot-button topic for domestic politics.While the Biden-Harris administration is busy justifying its decision of sudden pullout without any contingency plan in place, it has made a gesture toward evacuating refugees from Kabul. It’s a different story altogether if in an ironic moment the Secretary of State Anthony Blinken desperately attempted to prevent the comparison of Afghanistan with Vietnam: “manifestly not Saigon.” That very reference takes us back to 1979, when the end of the war in Vietnam finally led to US’s evacuation of 130,000 refugees following the collapse of South Vietnam.The Republicans and conservative right wing are taking a tried and tested stance. The Trump election campaign was built on politics of hate and anti-immigrant sentiments, symbolized in the promise of a wall to hold off migrants from entering the United States. Describing migrants and refugees in violent vocabularies of alien hordes, rapists, and terrorists—unless of course they were White Europeans—was central to Trump’s agenda. Tucker Carlson of Fox news has restoked these sentiments, casting Afghan refugees as an enemy force: “so first we invade, then we are invaded.” The scapegoating of refugees—which haven’t even arrived yet, as one can see through chaotic scenes at the Kabul airport—has already begun and will continue to be the basis of another “culture war” in the US until the next elections.Such fear mongering, presenting refugees as a threat to majoritarian national culture and security resonates across the Atlantic Ocean. Germany’s far-right political party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD) has declared it will not allow the “repetition of 2015,” referring to the arrival of Syrian refugees. The French President Emmanuel Macron believes that Europe must “protect itself” from a wave of “irregular migrants.” UK’s Boris Johnson, a Brexiter whose slogan was “Take back control” (from migrants), has allowed the acceptance of 5,000 refugees in the first year, a drop in the ocean compared to the hundreds of thousands fearing for their lives, who helped these former colonial empires and their armies as translators, mediators, guides, cooks, custodial staff and much more.The UNHCR has issued a non-refoulement (non-return) advisory for Afghanistan. In addition, UN’s Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) on Afghanistan has issued a joint letter urging “Governments to keep borders open to receive Afghan refugees fleeing from violence and persecution and refrain from deportations.” It would be a mistake to think that such advisories and appeals just pertain to Europe and the US. Pakistan, which has traditionally hosted Afghan refugees has fenced itself off. Turkey is building a border wall. Iran, home to a very large Afghan community is accepting refugees, but Iranian Afghanis are protesting for fear of surreptitious entry of Taliban.With its geographical proximity to Afghanistan, India as an emerging superpower does have a major regional and global role to play. Along with a long history of peaceful relations with Afghanistan and acceptance of refugees, a thriving Afghan community in New Delhi and students in major national and regional universities, India also has the intellectual and diplomatic wherewithal to lead the world out of this mess. However, the ruling BJP’s anti-Muslim stance and the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (2019), which favors only Hindu and Sikh refugees will impact India’s political will.I am neither an international legal expert nor a political pundit. But given the utter loss of credibility of armies of political analysts and intelligence agencies around the world, the necessity of humanistic inquiry in the current global political text becomes extremely important. Lost in the din of so-called expert voices and the relentless rain of 280 characters on Twitter this week is the human cost of the war which goes well beyond the eighty-three billion US dollars spent over the last two decades. Absent from self-justified positions of Twitterati and think-tank experts—some even revisiting their pro-war positions after being “embedded” in Afghanistan—are voices of human beings who paid and will continue to pay the price of the war and now their abandonment for generations to come. Pilfered from debates about implications of invasion are the voices of the people of Afghanistan, not all of whom are Taliban, nor all fans of US or Britain either, but everyday people with hopes, dreams, and ambitions, struggling for survival, who have now been thrown into another descending spiral of history.One cannot ever excuse the Taliban, or any other religious fundamentalist group for their heinous crimes against humanity, anti-democratic and totalitarian characteristics, or rampant misogyny. But it is unclear who, if anyone, won against global terrorism: the US, its NATO allies, or Taliban who are busy rebranding themselves as an “Emirate.” One thing is for sure: the people lost, as they always do. The people paid with their lives then, they are paying with their lives now.New York and Kabul, this catastrophic tale of two cities, can neither be bracketed between 2001 and 2021, nor will it stay contained within the political boundaries of Afghanistan and the US. Our fellow human beings fleeing Afghanistan will carry the tale in their hearts forever. There’s a global humanitarian crisis unfolding, and the world simply cannot afford to ignore the flight and plight of refugees.The author is Professor of German and World Literature, former director of Center for South Asia, and a Senior Research Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ideas expressed in this essay are his own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/empires-slay-publics-pay-the-global-refugee-crisis-unfolding-in-afghanistan-101629631940164.html
