23-08-2021||Today's||A tale of four presidents, Afghanistan, and India||“It was never expected that we will have victory in Afghanistan,” Taliban leader Mullah Baradar said after his return to Kabul. He was certainly not alone in expressing surprise at the sudden collapse of the Afghan government and the Taliban’s complete takeover.In the aftermath, there is plenty of blame to go around. Officials in several regional capitals played an active role in facilitating the Taliban’s return to power. Many Afghans feel betrayed by their own country’s erstwhile leadership, with good reason. Others in the international community arguably did not do enough. But there is no escaping the fact that significant failures lay with successive United States (US) leaders for the execution of the Afghanistan war, the doomed reconciliation process, and the chaotic withdrawal.The US intervention in Afghanistan followed the devastating 9/11 attacks by al-Qaeda, which struck the nerve centres of the US military and financial markets. Under George W Bush, the US easily ousted the Taliban government in Afghanistan, which had sheltered al-Qaeda’s leadership. But the Bush administration was also worried about a large-scale military commitment and maintained only a small military footprint in Afghanistan at the outset. The US intervention, therefore, involved aerial bombardment, the extensive use of special operations forces, and local alliances on the ground.Also Read | A national consensus on AfghanistanFor India, the US policy reversal after the 1980s, when it had actively supported the mujahideen in Afghanistan, and the 1990s, when it largely ignored the region, was welcome. The Taliban was no friend of India, as the 1999 hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft made evident, and the group had supported and allied with India-focused terrorists, including Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba.Yet, despite ousting the Taliban, the Bush administration opted to work with Pakistan. It remained wary of coordination with India in Afghanistan, even as it deepened cooperation with New Delhi on defence and civilian nuclear energy. After 2003, the Bush administration also shifted its focus and resources to the intervention in Iraq.Barack Obama was elected president as US forces began the drawdown from Iraq. The security situation in Afghanistan had deteriorated sharply, and Obama — while sceptical of foreign military intervention — had campaigned on Afghanistan being a just war. He commissioned Bruce Riedel to conduct an inter-agency review of Afghanistan and Pakistan policy. Richard Holbrooke was appointed Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, and a surge of US military forces was deployed under General Stanley McChrystal to wage a counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan akin to the one waged in Iraq.Obama, more than any other US president, took the fight to Pakistan. Afghanistan became a frontline State against Pakistan, rather than the other way around, and US-Pakistan relations deteriorated sharply. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and Pakistani forces exchanged fire; US supply lines were sabotaged; a US consular employee named Raymond Davis was arrested for killing two Pakistanis; and US special operations forces killed Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad.But the Obama administration also clung to the notion that Pakistan could be dissuaded from its support for terrorists through the brokering of an India-Pakistan agreement on Jammu and Kashmir. India rebuffed efforts to interfere in what it considered a bilateral matter. Additionally, the US sought to build leverage with Pakistan by increasing civilian assistance under the Kerry-Lugar-Berman Act, in what proved to be a wasteful and futile exercise. With an eye on re-election, Obama further undercut his efforts by prematurely announcing a drawdown of forces.Donald Trump’s election was followed by the rise of the Islamic State-Khorasan and the proliferation of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) against US forces. At the insistence of national security adviser HR McMaster, Trump repledged US military support for Afghanistan. His initial strategy was welcomed in New Delhi, as were greater coordination efforts between Washington, Kabul, and New Delhi.But following McMaster’s dismissal in 2018, Trump reversed course. Zalmay Khalilzad was made the primary interlocutor for talks with the Taliban, and a flimsy agreement was hastily brokered, Taliban prisoners were released, and a drawdown of US forces was initiated.Finally, Joe Biden and his advisers gave high priority to India in their first six months in office. Coordination on Afghanistan increased in several respects. Yet Biden was committed to a quick and complete withdrawal, resulting in the swift collapse of the Afghan government in August. The outcome, and the manner in which it came about, will undoubtedly prove harmful for India’s regional security interests.From 2001 to 2020, the US was neither willing to commit too much for too long to Afghanistan, nor was it willing to face the potentially disastrous consequences of withdrawal. The result was the worst of all worlds — over a trillion dollars spent and thousands of lives lost with little to show for it.From an Indian vantage point, each of the four successive US administrations took important steps that aligned with India’s desired end state for regional security. Yet, for different reasons, all four administrations also adopted policies that frustrated, undercut, or otherwise harmed Indian interests. Whether a different set of choices could have resulted in better outcomes for Afghanistan, India, and the US will be a matter for historians to debate in the coming years and decades.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director of ORF-America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-tale-of-four-presidents-afghanistan-and-india-101629722725064.html
23-08-2021||Today's||Taliban’s rhetoric indicates the limits of Islamist project and jihadism||The Taliban’s conquest of Afghanistan has reignited many fears. Will the group cast off its past of flagrant barbarity? As their fighters breached Kabul and their top leaders homed in on the presidential palace amid a tearful recitation of the Quran’s 110th chapter, I was transported back to a world I had visited earlier.I had had a professional opportunity to embed with Pakistani forces in the Taliban holdouts in the Khyber Pakhtunkwa province in 2012. My interests didn’t boil down to geopolitical questions about how spectacularly Pakistan’s forces cleared many of these hideouts that they and the Americans had helped to prop up in the first place. I instead pivoted towards understanding my own faith in all its dimensions.The Taliban have sought to convey a less dogmatic position on governance this time, vowing to avoid reprisal attacks and respect people’s basic rights. It’s early days still to tell whether this is a ruse for global acceptance or proof of reform.But irrespective of how it pans out, the Taliban’s apparent turning a new leaf highlights the limits of Islamism, and in particular, its most potent tool — jihadism. Many ordinary people are still confused about what Islam is, and isn’t. A simple acceptance of monotheism is the sine qua non of Islam, the faith. On the other hand, Islamism seeks to build more structures drawn from the normative aspects of the faith. Islamism and, by extension, jihadism are primarily a response to colonialism, imperialism and modernity itself. To that extent, Islam is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for violent modern-day jihad.Also Read | In Perspective: Taliban, tech and the fight for Afghanistan’s futureThe effects of violent jihad have been egregiously felt across the modern world. This is not to suggest that non-Islamic sources of war have been any less lethal. The Fat Man and Little Boy obliterated at least 220,000 lives in Hiroshima and Nagasaki in singular strikes, nearly the same number of people killed in all of modern jihad’s history.Jihad under Prophet Mohammed had ground rules. Combatants could take on only combatants, unless there was an explicit “command” from God. Mutilation and killing of women, children, old and the infirm were prohibited. Suicide is prohibited in Islam. Regardless of what is the right jihad, one finds compelling reasons why all Islamist organisations must shun jihad. The nature of problems faced by Muslims today are different from those 1,400 years ago, when Prophet Mohammed blazed through the sands of Badr or Al Khandiq following “direct divine sanction” to battle his enemies.Islam is not compatible with modernity, defined by the ever-enlarging scope of universal freedoms, rights and equality. No religion is. But modernity’s underlying values are not repugnant to classical Islam. Concepts such as equality and democracy are not alien to Islamic aspirations (“White men are not superior to Black men and Black men are not superior to White men”, the Prophet said in his last sermon). Zakat is one of the earliest forms of economic redistribution known to humankind.The Taliban has rejected the possibility of a democratic State. This rejection is un-Islamic. Islamic societies have been governed by institutions called shoora, an inflection of the word “mashwara” (discussion) from the Prophet’s time, and well before English philosopher John Stuart Mill famously described democracy as “government by discussion”.By 2030, 60% of the world’s Muslims will continue to live in developing or least-developed economies and encounter problems wrought by unbridled capitalism, discrimination and neo-liberalism, rather than political subjugation. Fixing these problems will require mastery over modern economics and sciences, understanding of complex modern institutions such as the World Trade Organization and the United Nations.The Taliban has no idea about how to claim the $9 billion of foreign reserves held by Afghanistan, for instance, mostly in assets abroad. But they will need that money soon. They can’t blow up human beings to access those cash piles. Muslims make up about 22% of the world’s population. But over a third of the world’s two-billion poor people live in Muslim countries. The Quran enjoins Muslims to proactively work to change their fortunes. This, today, means assertion of claims through a language of rights, rather than violent extremism.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/talibans-rhetoric-indicates-the-limits-of-islamist-project-and-jihadism-101629713004190.html
23-08-2021||Today's||To ensure justice, a caste census is essential||An Indian women’s hockey team player, who happened to be Dalit, had to face caste slurs, and her family had to confront upper-caste harassment after the team’s loss in the Tokyo Olympics. This reminded me of novelist Farahat Zama’s apt comment, “You can take an Indian out of the caste system, but you cannot take the caste system out of an Indian.”The caste system is India’s nemesis and has severely restricted the country’s ability to realise its immense potential and become a great nation in science, technology, knowledge, art, sport and economic prosperity. Many public intellectuals would like to believe that they have been “de-casted” — meaning they have got rid of all of the markers of caste identity. But whether we acknowledge it or not, caste has been at the forefront of our social existence and regulates our lives — from birth to death, customs, rituals, housing, professions, development planning, and even voting preferences.Studies suggest that 94% of marriages are endogamous; 90% of menial jobs are performed by the deprived castes, whereas this figure is reversed in white-collar jobs. This abysmal lack of caste diversity, especially at the decision-making levels in various sectors — the media, the judiciary, higher education, bureaucracy or the corporate sector — is weakening these institutions and their performance.Also Read | Caste census and the vicious cycle of Mandal-Mandir politics in IndiaIt is indeed strange that while caste plays such a dominant role in our social, economic and political life, no credible and comprehensive caste data exists for more than half the population of our country.While census data has been captured for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, religions and linguistic profiles, there has been no profiling of all castes in India since 1931. Since then, caste has assumed an increasingly important position in our lives, and our reliance on inadequate data has also increased. A caste census, which will generate exhaustive data will allow policymakers to develop better policies, implementation strategies, and will also enable a more rational debate on sensitive issues.With every passing day and increasing social awareness, the urgency to do away with the caste system is being sharply felt. BR Ambedkar stated that if India had to attain a place of pride among the comity of nations, caste would have to be annihilated first. The 21st century is the right time to solve India’s caste question, which would otherwise extract a heavy price, not just sociologically, but also politically and economically, and make us fall behind in the development index.How can a nation live for eternity with innumerable social differentiation, divisions and graded inequalities, resulting in untouchability, mutual hate, separation, violence, lack of unity, illiteracy and poverty? Unequal distribution of wealth, resources and education has meant an acute shortage of purchasing power among the majority of Indians. As a democratic nation, we cannot forcibly overthrow the system, but we need to address it in a democratic, scientific and objective manner.It is intriguing that while no one seems to publicly oppose a caste census, it is still not happening. India needs to be bold and decisive in tackling caste questions through data and statistics in the way the United States (US) does to tackle race issues, by collecting data around race, class, language, inter-race marriages, among other metrics. This data provides a mirror to the State and society of the US in which they can see themselves and take decisions to do course corrections.Our Constitution too favours conducting a caste census. Article 340 mandates the appointment of a commission to investigate the conditions of socially and educationally backward classes and make recommendations as to the steps that should be taken by governments.The Sachar Committee Report recommended setting up a national data bank. The Justice Rohini committee was appointed in 2017 to look into the sub-categorisation of the OBC communities; however, in the absence of data, there can be no data-bank or any proper sub-categorisation. The apex court has time and again asked governments to provide the data related to castes; however, this has not been possible due to the non-availability of such data. As a result, our national life suffers from mutual mistrust and misconceptions among different castes. All such commissions have had to rely on data from the last caste census (1931).However, to reduce the whole rationale of caste census to its utility in the proper formulation of reservation and other social justice policies in favour of deprived sections of society would be doing injustice to the philosophy behind the caste census. Caste census is not merely an SC/ST/OBC question, it is above all a question of justice for all and national integration.The reluctance of the Government of India to have a caste census will certainly not help in addressing the issue. If India has to emerge as a confident and strong nation, it must shed its hesitancy and ostrich-like escapism in conducting a caste-linked socio-economic census. This will kick-start a process that will eventually take, to use the words of Farahat Zama, the caste system away from an Indian.Dr Chandan Yadav is national secretary, Indian National Congress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-ensure-justice-a-caste-census-is-essential-101629712764442.html
23-08-2021||Today's||India’s health sector presents an opportunity to transition to clean energy||A recent report by India’s NITI Aayog discusses various operating models of India’s not-for-profit hospitals to highlight the crucial services they provide and the challenges they face. As the country recovers from another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s overstretched and inadequate health infrastructure, which largely remained in the margins of conversations on development, has taken centre stage in the past year. And the stark differences in the quality and cost of care between private healthcare facilities and the government and not-for-profit hospitals are very evident.Data from the annual national Rural Health Statistics (RHS) have long informed us of the challenges that the government faces in filling rural vacancies at Primary Health Centres (PHCs) or ensuring trained medical professionals remain in their jobs in remote parts of the country. What is often missed is how the not-for-profit health sector had stepped in to fill this gap. The NITI Aayog report acknowledges these services by this sector and highlights prominent challenges it faces.These challenges mirror those faced by the government hospitals — the severe lack of infrastructure and the constraints in expanding it, often exacerbated by insufficient funding. There is also the challenge of getting trained medical professionals to take up rural postings, leaving many jobs unfilled. This is an extremely important and timely report. We add one more challenge– the lack of reliable and affordable electricity required to power existing and future rural healthcare facilities.Challenges in recruitment and retention of healthcare staffThese gaps present a challenge, but they also provide an opportunity to attempt a paradigm shift in building health infrastructure and provisioning power supply. Both would directly impact the quality of care, its reach, and the livelihoods this would create.Also Read | Patnaik relaunches flagship healthcare scheme with enhanced cover for womenAccording to the RHS 2019-20, nearly a quarter of the 35,980 sanctioned positions for doctors in rural Primary Health Centres (PHCs) nationwide are unfilled. The statistics for Community Health Centres (CHCs) that provide specialised medical care are even starker. The data reveals that 63.3% of the sanctioned posts of specialists at CHCs are vacant. They comprise surgeons, obstetricians & gynaecologists, physicians and paediatricians.More importantly, of the existing about 155,000 sub-centres, nearly one-third (44,000) and 1,000 PHCs out of about 25,000 in rural areas still operate without electricity supply.Healthcare professionals point to multiple hardships, from low salaries to working in remote locations that lack basic facilities such as reliable electricity and water supply, motorable roads, and network connectivity. Often, rural healthcare facilities lack sophisticated diagnostic and surgical tools and medical equipment.Also, a common refrain is the limited infrastructure for their accommodation, the lack of options for good schools and daycare support for their children. Cumulatively, these issues deter medical staff from moving to these remote locations.Reliable and affordable energy is essential for the health sectorWhile more attention needs to be paid to some of these issues, the provision of reliable electricity is a low-hanging fruit.Reliable electricity is crucial for every aspect of a health facility. It is required to run equipment for diagnostics, sterilisation, medical procedures, water supply, and store vaccines and other medications. Beyond the hospital building, reliable electricity is required to power staff quarters — not just lights and fans, but also household and kitchen appliances, charging mobile phones and internet connectivity. The efficient functioning of a health facility is underpinned by the quality of infrastructure provided to its staff, which is only possible when there is affordable and reliable power supply for all their needs.Reliable access to energy, therefore, plays a critical role in creating a virtuous cycle. 24x7 power supply in hospitals enables upgradation of facilities to provide advanced healthcare services and for longer operating hours. This results in more patients being able to access much needed healthcare facilities, reinforcing the need for more doctors and nurses. In turn, this could possibly attract more financing for the health facility to improve its infrastructure.The NITI Aayog report also highlights lessons that could be learnt in management from the not-for-profit sector. In terms of infrastructure and equipment, not-for-profit hospitals rely on judicious use of funding for capital expenditure and focus on cost optimisation. They achieve this through greater focus on general ward beds than on private care, limited installation of ACs in the premises, and a greater emphasis on natural ventilation and daylighting wherever feasible.There is, however, a drawback, which is the use of medical equipment often extending beyond its lifespan and relying on second-hand parts. This might add a layer of inefficiency and consume more power than the state of the art equipment.Challenges to expanding infrastructureNot-for-profit hospitals are financially constrained, as most of them depend on government grants or donations to meet their capital expenditure, and at times, operating expenses as well. Any income is primarily used to fund operating expenses. This limits their ability to diversify and provide further services. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds are an avenue to explore further. However, funding for hospitals in remote regions is generally limited as companies prefer to spend in areas where they have their operations.Financing is a significant issue for both not-for-profit and government rural health facilities, and this needs to be addressed. In 2020-21, India spent 1.8% of its GDP on health, which is one of the lowest public health spends globally, and the lowest amongst the BRICS nations. The Economic Survey 2020-2021 stated how increasing public spending to 2.5% to 3% of the GDP could more than halve out-of-pocket expenses for patients from 65% to 30%.While the last budget did increase healthcare allocations, this was focused on Covid-19 care and vaccinations.Additionally, increased budgetary allocations towards enhancing access and quality of all health services are needed. This requires a holistic view of creating a climate-resilient and energy-efficient healthcare infrastructure. This could be achieved by assessing healthcare facility energy requirements, retrofitting energy-efficient medical equipment and ensuring the provisioning of power through cost-effective renewable energy resources.Transitioning to renewable energy comes with multiple benefits. They can be deployed quickly, and will immediately enhance the reliability of the power supply. It will also bring savings on power bills and cut down on diesel expenses required for standby generators. These accrued savings could be ploughed back into enhancing healthcare service delivery.Not-for-profit hospitals that WRI partners with have already successfully attempted this transition. They are now looking at expanding their services as they reap the benefits of less expensive and more reliable renewable energy.The NITI Aayog report has spotlighted a sector that has thousands of unsung warriors who have striven to put the care of others first, particularly in the least visible and remote regions of India. It is time to ensure lessons from this sector on resource management inspire the private and government healthcare facilities to attempt a sustainable transition to clean energy.Lanvin Concessao and Masfick Hazarika work on expanding energy access in rural and remote parts of India as part of the World Resources Institute, IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-health-sector-presents-an-opportunity-to-transition-to-clean-energy-101629712404141.html
23-08-2021||Today's||The US misread Taliban once. Has it walked into Pakistan’s trap again?||Pakistan’s ruler, General Zia ul-Haq, and his Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Chief, Hamid Gul first conceived the idea of “Afghan Jihad” in the 1980s, and sold it to the United States (US) and Saudi Arabia as a means to bring down the Soviet Union.Zia told Selig Harrison in an interview, “We won’t permit Afghanistan to be like it was before, with Indian and Soviet influence there and claim on our territory. It will be a real Islamic state, part of a Pan-Islam revival, that will one day win over the Moslems in the Soviet Union, you will see.”America spent over $8 billion on the Afghan war, but Zia used the Afghan triumph to create an illusionary “strategic depth” for achieving the twin goals of a) undermining the growing Pashtunistan demand, and b) drawing the specter of Cold War closer to South Asia to engulf Kashmir. The project was carried out under the patronage of conservative Jamaat-i-Islami (JU). ISI spent 50% of the US and Saudi aid on Gubuddin Hekmatyar of Hizb-i-Islami and the remaining on other moderate “Peshawar Seven”.It helped Pakistan radicalise Afghanistan, and to divert the Mujahideen’s attention to Kashmir when it sent hordes of “Afghanis” to the Valley in the post-Soviet withdrawal.The roots of the Taliban But the Afghan project soon boomeranged on the US. ISI turned Afghanistan into a breeding ground for terrorists. By 1992-93, over 120 camps had sprung up in the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier that trained 30,000 jihadis drawn from international Sunni terrorist network. Shockingly, US-supplied weapons, including Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, turned up in the hands of terrorists aiming to hit Western targets starting from 1991.Also Read | Taliban flags proliferate as Afghan tricolour becomes resistance symbolTed Galen Carpenter aptly wrote, “If that outcome is a US policy triumph, one shudders to contemplate what a policy failure would look like.....the United States was not merely a relatively passive accomplice in the destructive agendas pursued by Islamabad and Riyadh – it was an active collaborator in foisting an oppressive political system on the people of Afghanistan, the result of that policy is a damning enough indictment of American action.”The G7 Paris summit in 1996 finally called for hunting down the al Qaeda hideouts. But while rectifying its past follies, Washington once again walked into a Pakistani-laid trap. It blindly weighed on the ISI’s prepared Afghan blueprint for placing yet another monster, the Taliban militia which was to work towards disarming the Afghan jihadists, curb opium growth, reunite the country and drive out all foreign terrorists sheltered in Afghanistan.The Taliban had been created in 1992 by ISI after its old protégés Mujahideens, whom the ISI scrupulously nurtured, turned their back, and refused to kowtow before Islamabad, and instead turned to Delhi for support once they formed their government in Kabul in 1992.It was Benazir Bhutto and her Interior Minister Naseerullah Babar (Gul’s arch-rival) who sought to revamp the Afghan project by abandoning the entire Mujahideen networks in favour of creating a fresh militia — the Taliban. This time, the project was launched under the patronage of Jamaat-ul-Ulema-Islam (JUI) led by Maulana Fazlur Rahman.The US-Taliban dynamic The Western world was open to supporting the Taliban, so long as it helps stall Iran’s strategic advantage; oil and geopolitics after the Soviet collapse.The US quickly dispatched Senator Hank Brown and Assistant Secretary Robin Raphel rushing to meet with the Taliban leaders in 1995. Naseerullah Khan Babar took the US Ambassador in Islamabad on a tour to the Taliban bases. A clear-cut American incentive therefore enabled the Taliban’s surge of taking over one-third of Afghan territory within a few months.The Taliban push came against the Indian and Iranian financing of a strategic railway project to connect Central Asia for the first time with the Persian Gulf through Sarakh (Turkmenistan) with Tajan (Iran) - completed in 1994. The move quickly prompted the US to support a Pakistani sign a deal with the UNOCAL and Saudi Delta to build a gas pipeline from Turkmenistan to Pakistan via Afghanistan as against Kabul’s decision to sign a deal with the Argentinean Company, Bridas. Zalmay Khalilzad, now the US special envoy for Afghanistan, then negotiated with the Taliban for UNOCAL.The US and Pakistan were also perturbed by India’s response to a power-sharing deal between the Rabbani regime and Hekmatyar in 1996. Not only did the Indian Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda send a congratulatory message to Hekmatyar on his assuming the post of Prime Minister but also invited him to Independence Day reception at the Embassy of India in Kabul on August 15, 1996 by India’s Charge d’ Affairs. Taliban captured Kabul on September 27, 1996.The US welcomed the first flush of the Taliban’s victory. The US spokesman Nicholas Burns admitted to Washington having contacts with the Taliban. The New York Times described the Taliban as a moderate force. Khalilzad advocated for rendering US assistance to the Taliban and argued that it was fundamentalist force but doesn’t practice Iranian-style anti-US policy. The Americans believed that the Afghan militia pursued “anti-modernism” rather than “anti-Western” policies. They were reviving “traditional Afghan society” rather than “exporting Islam”.But within a month of the Taliban victory, Washington had to withhold its decision to recognise the Taliban regime amid mounting international criticism against the militia’s appalling medieval-style savagery rule that put off the world community, including the orthodox Iranian clergy. In a U-turn, Assistant Secretary Robin Raphel declared, “US supports none of the warring factions.”But the damage was already done. Taliban’s brutality against the women had already caused huge embarrassment to the US. Despite the Taliban’s initial pledged, Mullah Omar rebuffed every US attempt to get Osama bin Laden out of Afghanistan for a trial even at the risk of being bombed out of power.Obviously, the Americans were made to look naïve as they were deluded into by Pakistan that the Taliban would be a good ally of the US. In fact, the ISI Commanders scrupulously worked on their own agenda of pocketing $2.5 billion sponsored for the Taliban operation.One has to read The Wars of Afghanistan: Messianic Terrorism, Tribal Conflicts, and the Failures of Great Powerswritten by Peter Tomsen, former US Ambassador to Afghanistan (1989-1992) that details how the Pakistanis played a duplicitous role in duping the Western world into believing that Pakistan was inclined towards a negotiated settlement, but in practice, they wanted to install their clients in Kabul.The motives in 2021So, what is the American latest deal with the Taliban and the urgency to withdraw troops from Afghanistan all about?It started with Donald Trump’s “America First” fixation, combined with the US strategic shift of focus from counterterrorism to containing China.President Joe Biden now vows to “fight the battles of the next 20 years, not the last 20”. Going strictly by this statement, this could well mean that the current US Afghan game may be about China – to use the assortment of Islamic forces as potent instruments vis a vis Xinjiang. Even the deeply worried Central Asians sense that the Taliban’s surge will not be confined to Afghanistan.Pakistan this time is running with the hare and hunting with the hounds. It is simultaneously trying to play the American, Chinese and Russian game with the sole aim of seizing a fresh opportunity to foment trouble in Kashmir. India must be careful.P Stobdan is currently a Senior Fellow at Delhi Policy Group. He authored The Afghan Conflict & India in 1998The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-us-misread-taliban-once-has-it-walked-into-pakistan-s-trap-again-101629708623938.html
23-08-2021||Today's||In Perspective: Taliban, tech and the fight for Afghanistan’s future||When the United States (US) and its allies launched the war in Afghanistan in 2001, internet was banned in the country. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube did not exist.Soon after US President George W Bush announced Operation Enduring Freedom with the news of the first airstrikes in Afghanistan on October 7 that year, the Taliban began their information operation via radio. The message stressed on the “invasion of the outsiders” and sought to rally unity in a country controlled by various tribes in different regions. The Western campaign fought back with a message not entirely different — the Taliban were collaborators of Osama Bin Laden, an Arab, and his group of foreign fighters.As the Western militaries pulled out in the last few months, the Taliban swept back across the country. Their resurgence, shocking as it was to strategists who failed to foresee its speed and scale, is backed by a robust propaganda machinery.The Taliban now run websites with political cartoons, host podcast-like internet radio channels, and cultivate a network of WhatsApp groups that are hard to detect. Publicly, its representatives on Twitter take care to steer clear of the company’s rules against hate content to quietly gather more followers.To borrow a now ubiquitous business process jargon, Taliban’s digital transformation holds the key to understanding how it gained strength while out of power and what it could indicate about the future that awaits Afghanistan.The early days of the narrative warTo understand the evolution of the information warfare in Afghanistan, it is important to look at the information itself – or at least the core of it. In 2001, the Taliban painted the US and its allies as foreign invaders.The focus of the western narrative was not far removed: According to a Brookings research paper from 2001, the US and its allies too sought to leverage sentiments of nationalism. They recast the Taliban as a collaborator of Osama Bin Laden, an Arab whose group of foreign fighters were bringing misery to the country, laying the foundation for support for a civilian government.Taliban’s embracing of techIn his 2018 book, Taliban Narratives, conflict researcher Thomas H Johnson unpacks the message and the method that lay at the heart of the Taliban’s information operation. In it, he charts the evolution from night letters (these would be delivered to villages overnight to be read out at the town square), to DVDs. As the internet revolution took place, the Taliban launched their website, Alemarah in 2005.Also Read | Indian evacuation from Kabul on verge of completion, 2 more flights today“Wars today cannot be won without media. Media aims at the heart rather than the body, [and] if the heart is defeated, the battle is won.” In December 2010, Alemarah’s editor Abdul Satar Maiwandi gave this quote as part of an interview, Johnson writes, noting it as the first time the Taliban revealed the extent of their information operations. For a group that had banned the internet when it controlled Afghanistan, it now set out to leverage email, texting, tweets, blogs, YouTube, and Facebook, Maiwandi indicated.How has this played out?Johnson writes digital technologies have improved the speed of Taliban’s messaging. Among the examples he cites are posts on news, battle reports, interviews, commentaries, and even video clips of rocket attacks on Western forces being hosted on the websites. One of the websites also had a significant portion of warrior poetry. This, Johnson says, is evidence that the Taliban and other militants were utilising and exploiting cultural norms.But cultural norms have been only one part of the sentiments being exploited. The other is fear.Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) researchers Atlantic Council’s DFR Labs found evidence in 2019 of a Taliban influence operation on Twitter amplifying the group’s voter intimidation tactics. At least 67 Taliban-associated accounts pushed hashtags that highlighted Taliban’s attacks, electoral disruptions and murders, the assessment found. The campaign, the researchers added, also served to further questions on the civilian government’s legitimacy.Taliban is in power. Why does it need these narratives now?Two facets of Taliban’s recent information strategies provide some clues.The first of this is a more recent influence operation on Twitter that unfolded as the insurgents rapidly captured cities. Taliban’s spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid tweeted out these advances, portraying them as the group’s strategic superiority. Victories were broadcast widely, helping propagate a sense of invincibility that may or may not have played a role when Afghan forces abandoned their posts areas that fell later. The messages were amplified by bot-like behaviour and copy-paste posts. This campaign peaked on August 15, when Taliban entered Kabul.Also Watch | Does Joe Biden trust the Taliban? US President replies to reporterThe second relates to what happened after Kabul fell. The messages and posts attempted to paint a more positive picture. They attempted to show that the group enforced rule of law, and carried messages of reassurances for women and ethnic minorities.These suggest that similar to the ways in which other authoritarian or oppressive regimes have used information operations, the Taliban recognise the control of the message on social media is crucial for its overall control of the narrative.How does this pose a threat?Oppressive regimes have typically attempted to reduce the amount of opportunity social media gives to the challengers of the status quo while leveraging it to further their control. Iran and North Korea ban social media entirely, while China allows only those that it has complete control over. In places without a strict ban or with less sophisticated network controls, social media has been leveraged for active harm and disinformation – such as its use in Myanmar to further anti-Rohingya sentiment.At present, Afghanistan does not have the capacity – human or technical – to impose the level of strict network filtering to create a China-like digital walled garden.It is an unknown whether Taliban will plunge the country into a digital blackout, although the likelihood is low due to the potential disruption in business, and the backlash it may stoke.For now, the biggest threats from Taliban’s embracing of technology stem from its ability to set narratives that could mask the reality of its rule.Particularly at risk is also a generation of people who grew up on the internet, leaving behind digital footprints that Taliban is likely to find at odds with its strict interpretation of Islamic law. One instance that captured such fears last week was when Khalida Popal, the face of Afghan women’s football team, urged players to burn their jerseys and take down photos of matches.In Perspective takes a deep dive into current issues, the visible and invisible factors at play, and their implications for our future. The column is out every Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-perspective-taliban-tech-and-the-fight-for-afghanistan-s-future-101629702744163.html
