24-08-2021||Today's||From generating capacity to demand, a blueprint for India’s electricity policy||India invested ₹18 trillion in the power sector over 2013-19 as per the Task Force on National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The ambition for the next five years is to invest ₹23 trillion in power and renewable energy.NIP articulates a vision for investments to improve the quality of life of citizens. The goal for the power sector is affordable and clean energy with a 24x7 supply for all, enabled by reliable transmission and distribution infrastructure.Reliable supply is also emphasised in the National Electricity Policy (NEP1.0, 2005). It also recognised inadequacies in the distribution network as the reason for unreliable supply.Over the last 15 years, access has improved, but the quality of power remains poor. The initiatives to measure power quality on a consistent and comparable basis have not succeeded. Directives by the central electricity authority and regulators to report indices such as the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), the Customer Average Interruption Frequency Index (CAIFI) have been ignored. Customer surveys, a norm in consumer-facing industries, are conspicuous in their absence.Also Read | Monetise assets, the right wayThe ministry of power recently constituted a committee to review the NEP. This is an opportunity to re-examine the priorities, particularly concerning the efficiency of investments and to incorporate scientific cost-benefit criteria for investment analysis to ensure maximum value for money.Our analysis reveals that it is time to shift gears to prioritise the customer and the creation of demand. A considerable surplus exists, given the peak demand of 185 GW relative to the installed capacity of 383 GW. Improving the quality of supply can be a key driver.India’s generation capacity expanded 300% since NEP 1.0, from 124 GW in fiscal year (FY) 2006 to over 383 GW by FY 2021, growing at an 8% compound annual growth rate (CAGR). Over the same duration, the demand grew at less than 5%. Current marginal deficits (0.1%) do not reflect the lack of supply. Reduction in plant load factors (PLFs) from over 77% in FY 2010, to approximately 53% in FY 2021, is proof.In addition to the utility-owned capacity of 383GW, an additional 75 GW of grid-connected captive capacity is owned by large commercial and industrial (C&I) customers. This does not include medium-sized generators, owned by C&I as backup, and small generators and inverters owned by individual homes. Limited data is available, but one report estimates the medium-sized C&I market, on a conservative basis, to be 15GW annually. No data is available for small generators, inverters and uninterruptible power supply (UPS).Cumulatively, the total investments in capacity, primary and backup may be ₹25-50 trillion, considering an average investment of ₹5 crore/MW. With declining PLFs, low-design capacity utilisation factor (CUF) of renewable generators and intermittently operated backup capacity, the capital-output ratio of investments is low and falling. Unreliable, underinvested, and under-maintained distribution networks are the primary reason.Underutilised investments stress finances by increasing the power procurement cost, which constitutes 80% of a typical distribution company (discom)’s cost structure. Power Finance Corporation (PFC)’s Performance of State Utilities report reveals that aggregate technical and commercial (ATC) losses reduced from 23.5% to 22.0% between FY 2017 and FY 2019, but the financial losses increased 50%, from ₹0.4 trillion to ₹0.6 trillion, over the same duration.Given the socio-political considerations in tariff setting, rapidly increasing power purchase costs worsen Discom finances. In the long run, low utilisation creates non-performing assets, increases risk aversion and raises the cost of capital. Parliament’s Standing Committee on Energy indicates that stressed generation capacity exceeds 20 GW, with investments over ₹1 trillion.Therefore, a key policy priority should be to enhance the utilisation of assets. Distribution improvement and reform is the place to start. Network upgrades will create incremental demand through various routes.First, by the electrification of sectors relying on other sources. The Indian Railways embarked early on electrification and has made progress, but electric vehicles and cooking are unrealised opportunities. Electrification will also enable a reduction in the hydrocarbon import bill.Second, by serving the existing demand currently met by backup capacity. Improving the network will decongest demand. Network upgrades require significant investments, but they also reduce losses. The existence of a large diesel Genset market is evidence of the willingness to pay, provided supply is reliable. Therefore, investment in distribution will payback fast and reduce the demand for backup, as evidenced by the case of Delhi.Third, by creating incremental demand through incentivising consumption. All capital-intensive industries go through cyclical demand-supply mismatches and price discounts are common when over-supplied. Coupled with improved quality, reforming the regulatory framework to enable Discoms to determine the price based on demand-supply and customer credit-worthiness will enhance market orientation and improve finances.New demand from productive sectors will support growth and create livelihoods, a much-needed boost from the Covid-19-induced slowdown.Investments in the generation sector will still be required when the demand catches up with supply.However, such investments should again be prioritised based on cost-benefit analysis, with the allocation of full costs — financial and economic. Renewables may still be on the top, even after accounting for the transmission charges, when environmental benefits are accounted for. Investments in coal may also be required, but more likely in renovation, maintenance, emission control and in making them more flexible.NEP 2.0 needs to prioritise customers by improving the quality of supply. This requires an objective analysis to prioritise investments. Demand creating investments such as distribution network upgrades will improve the viability of the sector, reduce stressed assets, enhance growth, and generate livelihoods.Gaurav Bhatiani is director, Energy & Environment, Research Triangle Institute (India). Rakesh Kacker retired as secretary to the Government of India. He has worked extensively in the energy sector. Somit Dasgupta is senior visiting fellow, ICRIER and former member, CEAThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-generating-capacity-to-demand-a-blueprint-for-india-s-electricity-policy-101629804281559.html
24-08-2021||Today's||The unravelling of Pax Americana||The “war on terror”, launched two decades ago, epitomised the peak of America’s unipolar moment. The jets crashing into the twin towers were seen by most as an attack on the soul of globalisation, a project promoted and designed by the United States (US) and its partners in Europe. The near-universal commitment to this war, within the P-5 and outside, was a demonstration of America’s real power. That was a different time and a different world.Since then, the US has been implicated in the global financial crisis of 2008. Its flawed domestic landscape and divided democracy have been a public spectacle for global audiences since 2016, from the swearing-in of President Donald Trump to that of President Joe Biden. Both individuals were and are legitimate leaders for only half their nation. America’s botched and self-serving response to the Covid-19 pandemic only hastened the decline of its ethical and moral positioning. Hot on the trail of these events, the hasty and bungled exit from Afghanistan is not just a political event, but part of a continuum, one that points to the momentous unravelling of Pax Americana.Also Read | Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can waitIt is not the US’s material power alone that has suffered; the institutions undergirding the liberal order are on shaky ground as well. The partisanship of its media and academia are visible to all. It is a nation where trolling as a way of life has replaced a broad national consensus. Morally tinged lectures about the international liberal order are likely to fall on deaf ears for those who witnessed the West’s callous indifference to billions in the developing world still in need of vaccines, or towards the thousands of Afghan interpreters who risked their lives to fight America’s war.Those watching from capitals in Asia, gearing up for a new era of conflict and competition in the Indo-Pacific, will be even more sceptical. Some among them will be the first victims of the Taliban’s willingness to shelter and nurture terrorist groups. More importantly, the fall of Kabul will serve as a dire reminder of the fate that may befall them if they get mired in great power competition.For instance, if one lived in Japan, going nuclear may be a sensible option. If you were a resident of an Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) country, your neighbourhood bully would seem a more predictable and acceptable proposition. No spin can change this. America today is less attractive to many. This is a heavily mediated exit from a partnership and the damage is far greater than any of its other follies.One could even argue that the US’s Indo-Pacific project has already faced its first significant setback. The idea that the US will now focus on China with greater intensity is naïve and suggests a poor understanding of politics. Land frontiers still matter and the US has ceded South and South-West Asia to Beijing. Chinese State media have lampooned and mocked the US’s withdrawal all week.Also Read | The Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabWhat role China will eventually play in Afghanistan is uncertain, but it has plans to fill the void that exists. The Chinese model is different and is based on the extraction of value from resources in the host country and providing lucre to the rulers who facilitate this. Tribes and feudal societies tend to work with this model better than the alternatives that seek to turn them into liberal nations and free markets. In the short term at least, China could well emerge as a powerful shaper of the economic and military arrangements in Af-Pak and West Asia.This episode will have repercussions for the Quad, an ostensibly “counter-China” alliance in the Indo-Pacific. It is time to face up to some home truths.First, for too long, policymakers in DC have relied on maps that mark the East Indian Ocean as the Indo-Pacific boundary. India’s perspective on Afghanistan, Pakistan, and West Asia has been dismissed time and again. This must change, or India will work with other arrangements to manage the threats that abound. The US must realise that dealing with the influence of China in Afghanistan and Pakistan are a core Indo-Pacific challenge. Ceding these to China defeats the Western Pacific project as well.Second, even as DC learns to re-imagine the expanse of the Indo-Pacific, it must internalise that Europe and Asia are merging through the efforts of Beijing. As these geographies rediscover one another, everything in between becomes a shared problem; refugee surges from countries mired in civil conflict, the climate crisis, and flows of finance, infrastructure and technology. The US cannot afford to ignore this region if it is to remain relevant at the end of the 2020s.Third, India will continue to assess the US as its most important partner. A declining superpower is easier to do business with. The Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CATSAA) sanctions and sermons on “values” could be shrugged off more quickly. Countries have learnt to assess the US by what it does, not by what it says. Efforts to shape and design regions to suit their own narrow interests are likely to be resisted. Its reliability and trustworthiness will be measured as per its capacity to contain China’s rise without disrupting the determination of states in the region to seek growth and development on their own terms. A transactional America will now encounter transactional friends.Samir Saran is president, Observer Research Foundation, and the co-author of Pax Sinica: Implications for the Indian Dawn and The New World Disorder and the Indian ImperativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-unravelling-of-pax-americana-101629803491580.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: What kind of PM would Rajiv Gandhi have made in second term?||It is one of the great ‘what ifs’ of Indian history and last week, as we marked Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary, I was reminded of it again. What would India have been like if Rajiv Gandhi had not been assassinated in 1991?Well, first of all, there is the question of whether he would have become Prime Minister again. You can argue, as some do, that the only reason that the Congress came close to a majority when the results were declared was because there was a sympathy vote in the later rounds of polling after Rajiv was killed. There is no way to settle this. The case for a sympathy vote depends on the difference in the Congress vote in the early pre-assassination rounds versus the vote in the later rounds. For every person who makes the case for a sympathy vote, there are Congressmen who argue that the party was always expected to do badly in the early rounds because these were seats where the Congress was weak.Thirty years later, we are not going to be able to settle that argument but I believe that the balance of probability is on Rajiv’s side. Even if the Congress had won fewer seats, Rajiv had already sewn up the support of the Left and would have had no difficulty in forming a government.Assuming he had become prime minister, would he have liberalised the economy as completely as Narasimha Rao did?ALSO READ: Rude Food by Vir Sanghvi: China versus PunjabThe tendency within the Congress is to say that Rajiv had become a liberaliser and would have implemented the reforms. While it is certainly true that he had grown weary of state control of the economy, he was not, as far as I could tell, a full-fledged free-marketer. For instance, his Finance Minister would have been Pranab Mukherjee, a man who never quite fully embraced the market. (P Chidambaram was closer to Rajiv than Pranab during the Congress’s period in opposition but Pranab was the senior figure and would have got the job.)On the other hand, ask yourself this: was Narasimha Rao a great liberaliser before the Congress took office in 1991? And what about Manmohan Singh who had spent most of his life serving the license-quota-permit raj?The truth is that the Indian economy was in such bad shape that any Prime Minister would have had to accept the IMF’s terms and liberalise. There simply was no choice.You could argue that once the IMF’s conditions had been met, the Rajiv-Pranab duo would not have shown much enthusiasm for further big-ticket reforms. But then, did Narasimha Rao? Once the reforms the IMF had demanded had been implemented, Rao refused to take the liberalisation process much further.So yes, the reforms would have taken place if Rajiv was PM though we can argue about how far Pranab Mukherjee would have taken the process once the IMF’s pistol had been removed from his temple.What kind of prime minister would Rajiv have made in a second term? The general view of his first term is that he was well-intentioned but inexperienced and therefore unable to achieve the things he wanted to do.My sense is that he had learned from his mistakes and would have made a much better Prime Minister in his second term. By the end of his first term, he had already moved beyond the glib, managerial solutions that were presented to him in his first years in office. He had come to recognise the importance of bringing democracy to India’s villages (the Panchayati Raj programme) and cared very deeply about making sure that the aid meant for the poor actually reached them.People don’t often see this but the emphasis on direct transfers and welfare schemes that Sonia Gandhi brought to UPA I (and which Narendra Modi has persisted with) comes directly from Rajiv’s impatience with the fiscal and monetary solutions favoured by the government’s economists. Had Rajiv lived, he would have pursued liberalisation with an emphasis on social welfare. (Which is, effectively, what Sonia Gandhi did over a decade later.)How would the Congress have fared during a second Rajiv term? Well, it is foolish to believe that it would always have stayed in power. It could well have lost the 1996 election. But of one thing there is no doubt: under Rajiv it would not have become a marginal player struggling to remain relevant. He would have maintained its position at the centre of the political system.For a start, I don’t think the Congress would have lost the Muslim vote. We talk about liberalisation being Narasimha Rao’s major achievement. It certainly was that. But there was also another one. The Babri Masjid was destroyed on his watch. He slept through the demolition which he could have prevented. With that began the long process of alienation of Muslims from the Congress and in some cases, from mainstream Indian politics even. Knowing what we do of Rajiv, I think we can be fairly certain that he would never have let the Babri Masjid be demolished.Narasimha Rao also gifted away the Congress’s Dalit base to the BSP through an ill-advised electoral tie-up. And because he simply could not get across to voters in UP and Bihar and other North Indian states, he failed to win back those who had become disillusioned with the Congress. From his reign on, the Congress became an irrelevance in Bihar and UP. Rajiv may or may not have revived the Congress in those states but he certainly had an appeal to Hindi belt voters that Rao never did. He could well have used a second term to rebuild the Congress base in the Hindi heartland.And what of the BJP? Would we have the situation of communalised polarity that prevails today? I doubt it. Even if the BJP had risen to become the Congress’s primary opposition, the battle between Rajiv and AB Vajpayee would have been conducted within a secular construct. We would not have reach a situation where “Go to Pakistan” has become a common putdown and Muslims would not have been lynched by gau-rakshaks.We often forget that the Congress (and the UPA) convincingly defeated the BJP in 2009. The rise of Narendra Modi and his brand of Hinduism only came about because of the failures of UPA II and the leadership vacuum that resulted from Sonia Gandhi’s illness and Manmohan Singh’s inaction. Had the Congress shown strong leadership in that period, it would not have collapsed in the face of the Modi onslaught. That was when the party missed Rajiv the most.And it would have been a strong and united Congress. As long as Rajiv was alive, very few Congressmen of consequence dared talk about leaving the party. Those that did (say, Pranab Mukherjee) came back with their tails between their legs. But once Rajiv was assassinated, the Congress began to fall apart. The ND Tiwari Congress was created during Narasimha Rao’s time. That was when the entire Tamil Nadu unit of the party walked out. Mamata Banerjee left because the party was weak at the centre. So did Sharad Pawar. With Rajiv alive and in charge, those desertions may well have been avoided.So yes, the Congress would have been a very different party. And India would have been a very different country.Or so I think. Because ultimately, when we play the ‘what if’ game, all we can do is make educated guesses.Maybe this is really what would have happened.Or maybe not.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/opinion-the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-what-kind-of-pm-would-rajiv-gandhi-have-made-in-second-term-101629798150098.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Designing a climate law for India||The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) science report asserts more boldly than before the causal relationship between human activity and global warming. All the measurements we have seem to agree that human beings will cross a point of no return before this century’s close — unless, that is, we collectively begin an immediate transition to a low-carbon economy.In pursuing this transformation, climate legislation will likely play a central role. Around the world, climate laws are emerging as blueprints of national action plans for mitigation and adaptation. Just in 2021, political entities as diverse as Canada and Russia approved laws on the climate crisis.In a sprawling and unwieldy democracy such as India, a climate law may well be necessary for a coherent effort to meet the challenge. Given India is globally the third highest emitter of CO2, has the potential to avoid locking into high carbon futures, and is severely threatened by rising temperatures, it is time to have a serious conversation about an Indian climate law.Also Read | Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can waitDesigning a climate law apt for the Indian political context is a difficult task — it will have to perform a delicate dance between mitigation, adaptation, and development.There are at present two general visions of climate legislation, globally. The first is a law decreeing a limit on greenhouse gas emissions — most “net-zero” laws in the West articulate such explicit caps. The second focuses less on achieving numerical targets and lays out instead the architecture for a nation’s low-carbon transformation. The carbon-capping law, however, is commonly misunderstood to be the only form that a climate law can assume.The conventional idea of a carbon-capping law faces three main problems. First, while low-carbon development likely brings economic opportunities, there remain uncertainties and questions about whether hard, time-bound caps might impose development costs, particularly on the poorest.Second, and closely related, given India’s limited historic contribution to the problem and low per capita emissions, a carbon-capping law, which may be seen as restricting energy choices, is unlikely to win broad political support.Third, given these considerations, any target set is likely to be relatively modest, and fail to induce transformative change. If, somehow, despite these considerations, an ambitious target is stipulated, it is not clear that, given the peripheral place of climate in Indian politics, it would inspire the requisite large-scale cooperation. Moreover, in the event of failure, liability may be ill-specified to such an extent that courts will be powerless to enforce the desired outcome. Whether the target proves ineffectual or unattainable, we would lose the opportunity to build a robust structure to cope with an uncertain future.An alternate approach to climate legislation must, therefore, be seriously considered in the Indian context, one that isn’t restricting but enabling of a low-carbon transformation.Also Read | The Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabBroadly speaking, there are three arguments in its favour — effectiveness, efficiency, and prosperity.An effective law, instead of beginning with deadlines and limits, would first seek to prepare sectors of the economy and government at the national and local levels for a low-carbon transition. By focusing on institutional, technical, and financial capacity building, such a law would attempt to lay the structural foundations for success in mitigation and adaptation.Large-scale transformations are most likely to succeed when efficient. Economy of motion to a determined goal is best achieved through bottom-up approaches. Rather than the conventional view of global warming as an emergency demanding a decreed halt to proceedings, a climate law can conceptualise the climate crisis as shaping the context for the nation’s developmental path. This can be done by establishing positive feedback loops that mainstream low-carbon growth into state and national roadmaps, strategies, and budgets. By working with the political and economic grain of Indian society, a climate law can optimise, even maximise, its industrial capacity and institutional competence for mitigation and — often ignored in carbon-capping laws — adaption.The conventional notion of climate laws as carbon-capping instruments has created a strong association in the public imagination of climate legislation with restriction — a species of the spent dichotomy between national prosperity and global responsibility. The rate of global advancement in green transformation, however, shows this dichotomy as false. The international race to sustainability, in energy, building, and transportation, is likely to shift the markers of success in the coming decades. Inaction is thus no longer a neutral or development-positive gesture.The recent IPCC report signals the urgent need for India, as others, to consider a climate law. However, an enabling law that cradles research and prompts investment in green technology might be far more effective in securing India’s long-term economic prosperity than a hastily enacted net-zero or carbon-capping law, which might prove ineffective, unenforceable, or debilitating. Without a framework mechanism to coordinate strategically India’s low-carbon transition, the body politic risks soon becoming a fossilised remnant of a sooty past.Anirudh Sridhar is a visiting researcher at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi.This is the first of a two-part series proposing a new framework for a climate lawThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/designing-a-climate-law-for-india-101629800791590.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can wait||India administered over 588 million Covid-19 vaccine doses by August 23. This translates into over 34% of the estimated 940 million eligible adult population having received at least one dose, while another 14% have been fully vaccinated. Over 60% of the 60-plus age group have now received at least one shot of the vaccine. This is no small achievement.The novel coronavirus has recently undergone mutations, the prominent among these being Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1) and Delta (B.1.617.2). Genome submissions on GISAID show an overwhelming dominance of the Delta variant, which caused India’s devastating second wave, and has been behind the majority of the clinical cases of breakthrough infection (Sars-CoV-2 infection despite vaccination).Fortunately, the available vaccines have provided sustained protection against all variants, including Delta. According to a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study, only a small number (9.8%) of such infections required hospitalisation and the fatality rate in them was also very low (0.4%).A look at the global seven-day new Covid-19 cases and deaths presents an interesting picture. Countries with the most aggressive vaccination drive and recording full vaccination of over 50% of their population (two doses) are now presenting a near-zero case fatality rate even though the number of infections has shown a rise. This includes the United States (51% fully vaccinated), the United Kingdom (61%), Spain (67%), Germany (58%), France (55%), among others.On the contrary, countries with poor vaccination records are reporting a consistently increased number of infections as well as deaths. These include Indonesia (11% vaccinated), Thailand (8.2%), Iran (4.9%), Bangladesh (3.6%), and Tunisia (12.5%). The share of people vaccinated against Covid-19 in the rest of the world, including Africa, is dismally low, raising concerns on the equitable and fair distribution of available vaccines.Even though the virus is not going away soon, many experts believe that the worst of the pandemic may be behind us. With increasing vaccinations, particularly of the vulnerable groups, Covid-19 will be a different disease in the not-too-distant future, with a vast majority of infections remaining asymptomatic or causing mild illness not requiring hospitalisation.Also Read | Oil palm plantations: Don’t ignore the environmental lensIndia’s daily vaccination drive is expected to increase further, with two-to-three more indigenous vaccines expected in September. In addition, the fourth sero-survey data suggesting a high rate of Covid-19-specific antibody occurrence in over 68% of the population is encouraging news. But people must continue to strictly maintain Covid-19-appropriate behaviour for at least six more months, if not longer.There is evidence to indicate that vaccinated people maintain enough long-lasting immunity, going up to a year or even longer. But there is a debate on a possible booster dose to increase the magnitude of protection. Countries such as the US, Israel and the United Arab Emirates have decided to offer a booster dose to cover the immunocompromised group, those undergoing organ transplantation, health care workers and the 70-plus group.On the other hand, the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have said that Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not need a booster shot at this time. Similarly, the European Medicines Agency and the World Health Organization (WHO) have both stated that it is too early to determine whether more than two shots are needed. Instead, WHO has issued an advisory to nations with excess vaccines to spare the same for countries with a low vaccination record.India must singularly focus on vaccinating all of its 18-plus adult population by the end of the year and even include children above 12 years as early as possible. Booster doses can wait until the science demonstrates that they are needed. And then too, it will be important to categorise those who may need it the most.Dr Narinder Kumar Mehra is an Honorary Emeritus Scientist of the Indian Council of Medical Research and former dean of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/focus-on-double-dose-vaccinations-boosters-can-wait-101629799351358.html
