26-08-2021||Today's||Climate risk maps can mitigate the crisis and protect vulnerable lives||The just-released Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Report 6 (AR6), has raised many flags for India about the continued increase in cyclones, heatwaves, rainfall extremes, sea levels, and so on. While 192 countries have submitted their nationally determined contributions (NDCs) reducing emissions, only 11 have submitted their second NDC. Revised NDCs are necessary to meet the global warming targets.For the first time, India contributed its own historic simulations and future projections to the IPCC climate assessment. But can India translate the IPCC reports to climate action?Not entirely.Protecting people and properties along with infrastructure, natural resources and biodiversity, call for climate adaptation plans. Climate adaptation is not necessarily a national issue, since the scales of adaptation are often local. Heatwaves and floods, for example, affect communities differently depending on the neighbourhood they live in. Unfortunately, such local adaptation actions do not follow directly from IPCC assessment reports. Therefore, risk maps at national, regional and local scales are needed for effective adaptation. These maps use key metrics to identify and record areas that are at risk of climate hazards.Also Read | Climate crisis: India now confronts a droughtClimate change risk is a product of climate hazards, exposure to these hazards, and the vulnerability of communities to respond to and recover from hazards. They typically include heatwaves, heavy rains, cyclones, and so on. Coastal regions face hazards such as tides, cyclones, rising sea levels, storm surge and inundation, while mountains face cloudbursts and landslides.Socioeconomic vulnerability depends on infrastructure, building constructions, technology (mobile phones, radio, TV, internet), economic (employment, household income, banking services) and social factors (female population, education, elderly and disabled population, children’s population).Exposure to these hazards depends on the region facing hazards — coastal or mountain regions, urban and rural centres, and so on. Exposure is a function of population density, growth rate, areas that are built-up, the length of coastlines, mountain slopes, and vegetation cover.Risk maps can effectively and efficiently guide adaptation actions to mitigate climate impacts and protect people, properties, infrastructure, food and fisheries production, and livelihoods. Despite the increases in hazards, this risk may decrease over time based on changes in exposure and vulnerability.A recently published risk map of India’s coast by a team of IIT Bombay faculty sheds light on coastal risks at the district level. Risk was computed for 2001 and for recent years. The differences in hazards, exposure, and vulnerability as well the net risk from climate hazards were computed to assess how the risks have evolved. A total of 65 coastal districts were chosen along the east and west coasts.The study finds that 54 out of 65 districts have seen an increase in hazards from 2001 to the current period. Vulnerability has actually decreased for 42 districts with Chennai and Mumbai being low-vulnerability districts. Balasore, a coastal district in Northern Odisha, has the highest vulnerability with the second and third most vulnerable districts being Valsad and Navsari from Gujarat.The low vulnerability of Chennai and Mumbai are of no comfort because the population density and built-up area make Chennai and Mumbai the highest exposure districts. As a whole, 45 districts are now at greater risk mostly because of increased hazards and most of the high-risk districts are on the east coast. The districts with the highest risk are the eastern districts, Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas in West Bengal, followed by Balasore in Odisha. Greater Mumbai ranks as the fourth -riskiest district and this is almost entirely due to its high exposure.Some key components of reducing risk include infrastructure, building codes, cyclone shelters, and early warning systems. India’s substantive investments in improving weather, climate and cyclone predictions have yielded impressive results in terms of early warning systems for cyclones, heatwaves, storm surges, heavy rainfall, and urban flooding.Further, integrations focused on developing the blue economy as a holistic management of land, to the ocean continuum to mitigate coastal risks to lives, property, and livelihoods, are needed. In addition to closing any last-mile gaps in the use and usability of early warning systems at the community and family levels, the use of technologies such as drones, satellites, autonomous ocean systems, and data analytics with artificial intelligence is critical for continued adaptation and learning-by-doing.The National Disaster Management Authority, state authorities, and programmes such as the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (affordable housing for the urban poor), National Cyclone Risk Mitigation, can synergistically identify knowledge gaps for improving risk maps and for disaster prevention, management and recovery.Similar risk mapping for other regions and sectors such as food, water, energy and health are the way forward for India’s climate adaptation and impact mitigation, which are projected to get only worse.Dr Raghu Murtugudde teaches at the University of MarylandThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/climate-risk-maps-can-mitigate-the-climate-crisis-and-protect-the-lives-of-the-vulnerable-101629980304342.html
26-08-2021||Today's||Don’t write off the West. Kabul may signal its revival||What does its hurried exit from Afghanistan mean for the West?There is little doubt that the United States (US) misread the strategic and political situation on the ground, anticipating neither the inglorious melting away of the Ashraf Ghani-led regime nor the way the Taliban struck deals across the country to capture power with little bloodshed within days.Criticism of the endgame has come from within the West. The United Kingdom (UK)’s defence secretary, Ben Wallace, choked up over the prospect of some Afghans who helped the West not being able to get out of the country. The German Chancellor Angela Merkel thought the developments to be “bitter, dramatic and terrifying”, and was critical of the “domestic political reasons” for which the US stood firm on the withdrawal decision. Armin Laschet, her potential successor, called the withdrawal the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s “biggest debacle” ever. President Joe Biden has suffered a clear fall in reputation and popularity.Failure appears to be written all over — moral, intelligence, political, military and, indeed, of the West-led nation-building effort that spanned two decades. To detractors in Russia, China and the Muslim world, it is the strongest evidence of the West’s decline as a global power. They rejoice as the West scrambles to meet the August 31 deadline.Also Read | Afghan situation critical, evacuation priority: Jaishankar at all-party meetWhile this is undoubtedly a setback for the West, it is likely to be a temporary one. Far from portending its decline, the withdrawal and the ensuing crisis indicate the West’s resurrection. How?First, the American withdrawal completes a course correction initiated during the Barack Obama administration. Obama realised early that American occupation of Muslim societies in Iraq and Afghanistan was strategically counterproductive and politically unwise. It was giving fodder to radical Islamists, who justified terrorism by pointing to the occupation of their lands and imposition of an alien culture and values on their societies. Moreover, political modernisation imposed from above was generating resentment rather than appreciation.Obama oversaw the withdrawal of American forces in Iraq and set in motion a similar process for Afghanistan. The Iraq withdrawal led to the swift and nasty rise of Islamic State across Syria and Iraq in 2014, leading to re-deployment of western military forces and hardware. Iraq was territorially secured by 2017.Afghanistan did not face a similar security vulnerability as the Taliban were territorial nationalists who sought to oust an occupying force rather than destroy their own country to create a universal Caliphate. This difference was crucial as it enabled President Donald Trump to continue the policy of disengagement and strike a deal with the Taliban in 2020. Biden has led the policy to its conclusion.The withdrawal from Afghanistan thus marks an end to America’s messianic liberalism in the Muslim world that was launched in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Messianic liberalism has encouraged a violent culture clash of the western and Muslim worlds, which Obama indirectly acknowledged in his reconciliatory speech given at Cairo University in June 2009. As it disengages from Afghanistan, the West also significantly liberates itself from the charge that it interferes in Muslim affairs and is an enemy of Islam. It is increasingly for Muslim societies to determine their present and future. This should lessen the discord between two global cultural forces and free up western resources and attention for other issues.Second, with its evacuation operations centred on Kabul, the US has positioned itself as the leader of the West. No other western country possessed the military and logistical power necessary to ensure the scale of the humanitarian airlift being undertaken. It is either directly evacuating or securing the evacuation of western, Afghan and non-western nationals. Seizing the moment, Biden has called it one of the largest and most difficult airlifts in history. Western and partner countries have tied their evacuation goals to the US presence in Kabul.Third, western capitals have shown a cohesion not seen in recent years. At the G7 meeting held on August 24, they decided on a common approach to dealing with the Taliban. UK’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson emphasised the considerable political, diplomatic, and economic leverage the group possessed, which it would use to ensure safe passage for Afghans seeking to escape.Fourth, the US has also brought its non-western partners on board. A majority of around 25 countries participating in processing Afghan nationals coming out of Kabul are from Asia, Africa and South America.Finally, while there is no clarity on the number of Afghans who have been, or will eventually be, able to move out, or how many the western countries would eventually resettle, the flight is significant. Indeed, it is significant enough for the Taliban to accuse the West of poaching the country’s skilled human resource and prevent Afghans from accessing the airport. At the same time, the Taliban are clearly seeking to work the institutions and infrastructure built by the occupying forces. If the West could enable the exit of even a majority of those seeking to flee the country, it will salvage a fair bit of the Afghan nation that it helped build.All this shows high levels of coordination and multilateralism among western powers and their partners. This was highly unlikely to have been achieved had Trump been in power. We are witnessing signs of a reviving West under a Biden-led US. A bloc of states that can mount such a response is a formidable force. Beijing must be watching. And the Kabul setback notwithstanding, New Delhi has a reason to feel pleased.Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University, Delhi-NCR and is the author of The Sovereign Lives of India and PakistanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dont-write-off-the-west-kabul-may-signal-its-revival-101629972621894.html
26-08-2021||Today's||4 yrs after privacy judgment, former judges warn against delayed legal framework||With no movement on the personal data protection bill even four years after the landmark Puttuswamy judgment that established privacy as a fundamental right, former Supreme Court justices BN Srikrishna and AK Sikri, who have both been at the adjudicating end of the country’s privacy laws, have stressed on the need for a robust system that not only protects citizens personal data but also checks government surveillance in light of the Pegasus allegations.“We have been running on sand, if not in circles. On the other hand, thanks to rapid digitalisation, there is a deluge of data that is strewn around, collected and utilised without nary a thought about the privacy of the principals of the data,” Justice Srikrishna said.Sikri highlighted how the journey to establish privacy as a fundamental right began in 2012. “I think the entire world is embracing digitisation,” he said. “India has progressed quickly in terms of digital economy and use of technology. We talk about a digital economy but do not have the wherewithal to protect the rights of citizens.”The right to privacyOn August 24, 2017, a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy vs Union of India passed a historic judgment affirming the constitutional right to privacy.It declared privacy as an integral component of fundamental rights of the Constitution; these rights cannot be given or taken away by law, and all laws and executive actions must abide by them. The court considered detailed arguments on the nature of fundamental rights, constitutional interpretation and the theoretical and philosophical bases for the right to privacy as well as the nature of this right.Also Read | Nitish Kumar positions himself as the face of Mandal 2.0The Supreme Court clarified that like most other fundamental rights, the right to privacy is not an absolute right. Depending on certain tests and benchmarks, a person’s privacy interests can be overridden by competing state interests. Through the judgement, the judges laid down a variety of such tests that can be used to ascertain an infringement of one’s right to privacy.In light of the Pegasus allegations, which claimed that an Israeli spyware was used to snoop on journalists, activists, Opposition leaders and others, and the delay in the enactment of the Personal Data Protection framework, there are widespread concerns about how the state can ensure the citizens right to privacy.Translating the right into policy and lawThe Puttuswamy judgment was followed by the Justice BN Srikrishna Committee, which submitted its report on July 27, 2018 titled “A Free and Fair Digital Economy - Protecting Privacy, Empowering Indians”, along with a draft Data Protection Bill, to the ministry of electronics and information technology.The committee’s focus was not singularly on protecting an individual’s right to privacy and spelling out the state’s responsibilities for the same, but also to foster an environment that encourages trade and industry in this sector.The 200-page report identified key issues in data protection such as consent frameworks, establishment of a regulatory authority for data, classification of data and data fiduciaries, regulation of cross-border data flows to name a few. The Draft Personal Data Protection Bill, 2018 was submitted along with the report to the ministry.Then came a second Supreme Court judgment, wherein the constitutionality of Aadhaar, or the unique identification number was challenged. The case was based, among other issues, on lack of adequate privacy safeguards available. The court upheld Aadhaar but also struck down parts of the Act due to the lack of purpose limitation as it placed no limits on the usage of information collected.Following this, the government tabled its version of the Personal Data Protection Bill in the Parliament on December 12, 2019. Moreover, immediately after introduction of the Bill, it was sent to a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) for scrutiny. Several delays later, the Bill still remains with the JPC with a draft yet to be circulated among members.Also Read | The agony of being a secular Indian MuslimThe government also, separately and much later, moved on to introduce the controversial intermediary and digital platform guidelines that came into complete effect on May 25, 2021. The guidelines put in place a new mechanism for digital companies to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. WhatsApp has challenged the new rules, which mandate to trace the first originator of a message, in the Delhi high court stating it represents a “dangerous invasion of privacy”. The guidelines have also been challenged by various media houses, with the Kerala high court placing a stay on the rules.The fears of surveillance stateJustice Srikrishna and Sikri believe that the infrastructure to address right to privacy is inadequate in India.“My view of the 2019 Bill (the watered down version of the 2018 Bill) is that it is wholly inadequate to meet the challenges of privacy rights, which have been identified by the Puttaswamy judgment as fundamental rights. Another worrisome issue has been thrown out by the Court of Justice of the European Court Schremms II judgment invalidating the Data Shield agreement between European and transatlantic companies on the ground that the federal laws in USA afford easy access to personal data without enough safeguards, This is equally true of the 2019 Bill, if it ever, inter alia, becomes an Act of Parliament,” Srikrishna said.Sikri, who was on the bench for the Aadhaar judgment, said that when Aadhaar was introduced, there were concerns about the use of the data collected. “With Aadhaar, the main concern was protection of data from government use under the name of giving benefits,” he said. “Demographic details, iris and fingerprints were collected, which was perceived, at that time, as a lot of data collection. There were concerns that there is no misuse of this data that may lead to a surveillance state or be exploited by private players.”Also Read | In India’s climate law, focus more on process, less on outcomesSrikrishna also underlined that the current checks and balances to protect data privacy are “hopelessly inadequate”. “That is why, it was suggested in the 2018 report and the 2018 Bill that there should be a separate Parliamentary enactment postulating the objective for encroaching upon the privacy rights, with the law demonstrating how that objective is to be achieved and not being disproportionate to the objective to be achieved,” he said.Sikri concurred that as far as data is concerned, citizens in India remain at great risk. “The current IT Act throws up many questions, splintering our understanding of data privacy,” he said. “In last four years, there has been a great rise in digital economy that has again exposed a lack of privacy as the main issue.”The way forwardKazim Rizvi, founder of Dialogue, a policy institute that works on digital rights and privacy, said that the fundamental right to privacy needs to be cemented. “The right to privacy had its origins in pre-constitutional times and the initial conception of privacy protected the right of an individual’s agency to make decisions on exercising control over one’s private and domestic life. The right to privacy has now evolved to include even that of informational privacy after much legal struggle,” he said.Srikrishna also contested the introduction of non-personal data into the PDP Bill framework. “The PDP Bill was intended to deal with personal data and there was no consideration of non-personal data at all. The provision about non-personal data introduced in it, surreptitiously, is nothing short of legerdemain,” he said.To enact a robust system of check and balances, he said that the government should follow the Puttaswamy judgement scrupulously. “Citizens, State and commerce and trade have to be dealt with in that descending order of precedence. That would be the ideal situation. All else would be, to quote the Bard of Avon, ‘Sound and fury, signifying nothing’,” Srikrishna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/4-yrs-after-privacy-judgment-former-judges-warn-against-delayed-legal-framework-101629971601921.html
26-08-2021||Today's||The agony of being a secular Indian Muslim||PHOTO: AfghanistanCAP: At a time of economic distress, Covid-19, floods and price hikes, it is politically expedient to turn the gaze on a Taliban-like enemy figure in Afghanistan rather than address other more urgent concernsIt can’t be easy being a secular, constitutionalist Indian Muslim in “new” India. The Hindu Right demonises Indian Muslims in a manner that they are expected to take a patriotism test on almost every issue. Islamist groups demand that all Muslims must assert a fierce religious identity, above all else. Caught between fanatical Islamism and majoritarian Hindutva, the secular Muslim is endangered and disempowered. The latest example of this is the manner in which the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan is playing out in domestic political narratives in India.The Hindu Right wants the Indian Muslim to speak out against the atrocities being committed by the Taliban. Islamists want the Indian Muslim to express community solidarity with the Afghan militia as “freedom fighters”. Every time a Muslim in India voices any kind of support for the Taliban, it leads to gloating “I told you so” chants and sedition cases being initiated. Conversely, every time a Muslim is attacked in India, it throws up accusations of a Hindu Rashtra being foisted upon the minorities. Toxic social media campaigns have only widened fissures.Lost in the cacophony are harsh realities that reveal the hollowness of the vicious politics of religious polarisation. Let’s first expose the Taliban cheerleaders.First, the Taliban is a violent militia which has acquired power, not by democratic means but by use of force. The gun cannot decide the will of the majority nor provide the predominantly Pashtun Taliban leadership with the impunity to discriminate against other communities.Second, the main victims of the Taliban’s brutal regime in the past have been co-religionists. Muslims have suffered the most in Afghanistan’s bloodied recent history. How does the return of the Taliban absolve it of the heinous crimes it has have committed against fellow Muslims? How can it be seen as an authentic representative of an Islamic brotherhood?Third, those who seek to pardon the Taliban’s sins on the grounds that it is strictly implementing Islamic Sharia laws have got it horribly wrong. It is pure opportunism and hypocrisy to endorse a secular Constitution in India where Muslims are in a minority, and then support the imposition of Sharia in those countries where the Muslims are in a majority. Moreover, who gives the Taliban the sole prerogative to decide the framework of Sharia laws for its people, and women in particular?Let’s now turn to those who seek to target the Indian Muslim for the Taliban’s wrongdoings.First, the Taliban resurgence is fundamentally an internal Afghan issue, not tied up in any manner with India’s fraught inter-community equations. It is not just for the Indian Muslim to speak up but for every citizen, irrespective of religious denomination, who swears by democratic freedoms to raise their voice against the Taliban’s excesses. The Taliban resurrection is not a “Muslim” issue, but a mirror to a catastrophic global failure to enforce the peace in Afghanistan.Second, those who wish to see Indian Muslims publicly reject the Taliban must disown all forms of religious extremism themselves. One cannot, for example, legitimise the hate-filled, violent activities of the Bajrang Dal against minorities in India and then demand that the Taliban be ostracised. Lynching of Muslims cannot be rationalised under the guise of cow protection laws or anti-conversion or the so-called “love jihad” type spurious campaigns, while breathlessly outraging when the Taliban violate human rights. Universal human rights cannot be selectively embraced or abused. A rejection of the Taliban must be accompanied by an elimination of a Talibani mindset.India is not a Taliban State, as a recent court order reaffirmed, but there are self-styled vigilante groups who demonstrate a bigoted mindset akin to the Taliban. This isn’t about whether an unlawful group of thugs is fringe or mainstream, Hindu or Muslim. The identity of the oppressed and oppressor must be irrelevant when acting against violent mobs.Third, while harshly condemning the Taliban’s criminal deeds, there must be a recognition that the fiercest resistance to the armed force has not come from the United States (US)-led global military alliance but from local Afghans themselves; 70,000 Afghan security personnel have died. While the US leads a desperate evacuation from Kabul, spare a thought for the brave Afghan citizens who have stood their ground despite a life-threatening situation. Don’t they deserve unequivocal support? Aren’t they also Muslims who break the stereotype sought to be imposed on an entire community?Radical Islamists and Hindutva rabble-rousers divide and rule by preying on the fears and anxieties of their followers only because they have so little else to offer. At a time of severe economic distress, Covid-19, floods and price hikes, it is politically expedient to turn the gaze on a Taliban-like enemy figure in Afghanistan rather than address the more urgent local concerns in the immediate neighbourhood. It’s the age-old trap of using religious politics as a weapon of mass distraction, one which all Indians must collectively battle.Postscript: More than 140 leading Indian Muslim voices have spoken out against the Taliban on the Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy platform. Unfortunately, their sane voices are rarely amplified while any Muslim influencer who aggressively defends the Taliban instantly grabs the headlines. It reveals as much about the state of a compromised media ecosystem as it does about a fractured society where hate speech has a large constituency.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-agony-of-being-a-secular-indian-muslim-101629970221943.html
26-08-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Radiation is a deadly threat to human space travel||On July 20, American billionaire Jeff Bezos flew on a Blue Origin rocket past the Kármán line, which, at an altitude of 62 miles, is the widely accepted boundary of space. The spacecraft topped out at 66.5 miles above the Earth, and its crew experienced a few minutes of weightlessness. Billionaire Richard Branson had reached the NASA-designated space boundary of 50 miles only nine days earlier. The other billionaire interested in space travel, Elon Musk, heads SpaceX, a company which has taken astronauts up to the International Space Station (ISS). Though Musk has not been in space yet, he has made no secret of his desire to take humanity to Mars and back.Some futurists think a permanent colony on Mars will be possible. I don’t expect to see one in my lifetime. The challenges of travel to Mars and survival on the planet are exceptional. Mars has thin air, frigid weather, and trace oxygen. And after 10 years on Mars at lower gravity, a spacefarer’s legs and bones would be so brittle that re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere would render them useless.Also Read | There’s more to losing weight than counting caloriesBut one of the greatest risks in space is from radiation. Ionising radiation causes damage to cells and to DNA inside them. In deep space, ionising radiation is of two main types — galactic cosmic rays that originate outside the solar system from exploding stars, and solar energetic particles from the Sun.Radiation poses an existential threat to humans and to all other forms of life. Unsurprisingly, NASA considers radiation one of the major unresolved problems of sustained human spaceflight. Returning astronauts might face a greater risk of various cancers, eye ailments, and cardiac events.The risks are not unique to humans either. Any organisms that accompany humans into space and to Mars would need to be able to withstand ionising radiation. As Christopher Mason writes in his eminently readable new book, The Next 500 Years: Engineering Life to Reach New Worlds, “Sending an Earth-evolved organism to another planet would result in almost-certain death.”Earth is an incomparable planet. The magnetic field of Earth is created by currents of electricity that flow in the molten core. The Earth’s internal magnetism creates a region around the planet known as the magnetosphere, which protects us from the harmful effects of most of the radiation of space.Several planets in our solar system have magnetospheres. Earth’s is the strongest of all the ones possessed by rocky planets. Our magnetosphere is a large, comet-shaped bubble, which has played an essential role in our planet’s habitability. Life would not exist on the planet without it.The Earths’ magnetosphere extends to about 40,000 miles. The ISS is positioned at a higher altitude than Bezos’ or Branson’s flight, and normally maintains a planned altitude of 248 miles. But since it is in low Earth orbit, it is still within the earth’s magnetosphere.Also Read | The shape of things to come in biologyThe ISS circles the Earth every 90 minutes at 17,500 miles. Even at that altitude, there are enough molecules of the atmosphere to change its velocity, and cause it to dip towards Earth. To maintain a constant orbit, propellant is fired to reposition the station.Astronauts on the ISS also experience the effects of radiation on prolonged visits. When astronaut Scott Kelly, who spent nearly a year onboard, closed his eyes, he could see streaks of high-energy ions flash like shooting stars. But the radiation he experienced was much lower than the amount that might be encountered on a future mission to Mars.The Moon is at a greater distance from the Earth than the ISS is. When Neil Armstrong went to the Moon, he wore foil plates on his ankles. Streaks of high-energy particles can be seen on these plates. But that was a relatively short mission.Any attempts to colonise Mars would need to reckon not only with radiation exposure to the trip to the red planet, but on the planet itself as well. The current scientific consensus is that Mars has a molten core, but that the protection on the planet is much lower than on Earth.NASA estimates that the radiation exposure from one mission to Mars might exceed the lifetime limit of astronauts. The actual limits vary by age and sex. But a 30-month round trip mission to Mars could result in 1000 millisieverts, which is roughly the same as the radiation exposure from 10,000 chest X-rays.Shielding ships and protecting exposure of astronauts is a proposed solution to the massive amounts of radiation on a trip to Mars. It seems to work well against solar energetic particles. But currently there are no spacecraft that can shield against galactic cosmic rays. Clearly, solutions to the challenge are necessary if we are to contemplate prolonged human space flight.In the more distant future, we might see the development of drugs that protect against radiation-induced damage. Another solution might be to genetically enhance humans to make them more resistant to DNA-damage. While this seems far-fetched now, scientists are currently studying animals like tardigrades that have high levels of radiation resistance to learn how they achieve it.But even as we look to the planets and beyond, it is clear that Earth is our home and there is no place quite like it. We take our comforts for granted, but they will not be found on Mars or anywhere else.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-radiation-is-a-deadly-threat-to-human-space-travel-101629862388399.html
