27-08-2021||Today's||In India, the democratisation of air travel||It has been four years since the central government, under the leadership of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, embarked on the ambitious task of building a strong and affordable regional aviation system in India. The UDAN scheme has been seminal in its impact, having triggered air connectivity to hitherto unserved regions.The development and expansion of regional airports such as Darbhanga, Jharsuguda, Kadapa, Nasik, Belagavi, Jagdalpur, Hubli and Kishangarh have brought new destinations onto India’s aviation map and the concomitant unlocking of new economic opportunities in these regions (such as cargo) that were completely unexplored until five years ago.For instance, the Darbhanga airport, which was built at the time of Independence, and was fully functional from 1950 to 1962, had been wiped off the aviation map. The airstrip was revived under the UDAN scheme, and is now seen as a critical gateway for northern Bihar to the rest of the country. The airport offers connectivity with six to 10 major cities, and currently handles over 150,00 passengers annually.The Belgavi airport has facilitated travel for students to Belgaum, an education hub. The airport is being utilised for cargo operations as well, and soon will operate a flight training school — all in the span of a few years. Similarly, the Rupsi airport in Assam currently serves four key districts in Assam, as well as the neighbouring states of West Bengal, Meghalaya, and some parts of Bhutan.Also Read | The cost of crime and criminal justice in IndiaThe Jharsuguda airport in Odisha, another relic of the World War II era, was revamped for operations in 2019. Prior to this, the entire western Odisha region was uncatered for, and the only airport in Odisha was located in Bhubaneshwar, which is 339 km away from Jharsaguda. The airport handled more than 200,000 passengers in 2020-21 with 140 aircraft movements per week. The scheme has also opened up new modes of air transport such as helicopters which are providing access over 16 routes in the remotest areas of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The UDAN scheme has given birth to as many success stories on the other end of the spectrum too i.e; airline operators. We have witnessed a proliferation of new regional carriers, some having pivoted their businesses on the UDAN model: Participation of airline operators in Regional Connectivity Scheme-UDAN rose from five to 11 in the last two years.Additionally, we were able to operationalise seven airports, two heliports and one water aerodrome in the last year despite the disruptions caused by Covid-19. Here’s why.Our metro routes are adequately served, and major airports such as Delhi and Mumbai have already reached the zenith of their passenger-handling capacities. It is but natural that the path ahead for the growth of civil aviation will be paved with greater regional and remote connectivity, and building and serving more underserved or unserved airports/airstrips.This would fundamentally change civil aviation from an elitist mode of transportation to one where even a person who wears a “hawai chappal” can travel by a “hawai jahaz” — as spelt out under the PM’s vision.This democratisation of air travel and opening up to a high-volume, low-cost model for civil aviation, much along the lines of the telecom revolution in India, will also have a tremendous bearing on allied sectors such as air cargo, which quite remarkably, boomed during the Covid-19 times. The share of Indian carriers in the international cargo business has increased from 2% to 19% in the last two years.Also Read | Joe Biden has got it wrongDuring the lockdown, air cargo proved to be a lifeline not only for essential commodities, but also for our farmers to ship agri-perishables, especially from the Northeast. Now, with Krishi Udaan becoming the next focal point for the government, air cargo may well become a major force multiplier for the overall growth of the civil aviation sector in India.At the macro level, the true benefits of this scheme will accrue in the form of huge economic paybacks in the long run. A study by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) reveals that the output and employment multipliers of the aviation sector are 3.25 and 6.10 respectively i.e. every ₹100 spent on air transport contributes ₹325 to economic output; and for every 100 direct jobs birthed in air transport, 610 jobs are created in the economy as a whole. Thankfully, the government took cognisance of this potential early on, and has been proactively supporting and engaging the aviation sector.Pre-Covid-19, India was the third-largest domestic aviation market in the world with over 341 million passengers having travelled in FY20. The country was poised to become the third-largest overall market in three years till the Covid-19 headwinds hit markets across the world. However, a huge inequality among flyers has been observed across the world. As per a study by climate campaign group, Possible, in India, only 1% of our households take 45% of the flights, and so, in terms of our potential, we have only scratched the surface.Under the visionary leadership of PM Modi, the government’s flagship UDAN scheme has allowed a huge chunk of first-time flyers to take flight trips at the cost of a first-class AC train ticket. And by connecting regional skies, we have begun the process of democratising and universalising the tenet that we can all “reach for the skies”!Jyotiraditya Scindia is the Union minister for civil aviation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-the-democratisation-of-air-travel-101630069349088.html
27-08-2021||Today's||It is time to end the debate on marital rape in India||A division bench of the Kerala high court (HC) comprising Justice A Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath in a case recently held that “a husband’s licentious disposition disregarding the autonomy of the wife is a marital rape, albeit such conduct cannot be penalised, it falls in the frame of physical and mental cruelty.” This new judicial interpretation of cruelty as grounds for divorce is also espoused in section 13(1)(ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act.In another judgment by the Chhattisgarh HC on August 23, in a criminal revision, the court relied on Exception II of Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), stating: “...sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under eighteen years of age, is not rape. In this case, [the] complainant is legally wedded wife of applicant No. 1, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the applicant No. 1/husband would not constitute an offence of rape, even if it was by force or against her wish.”Exception II to Section 375 refers to sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his wife, the wife not being under 15 years old, is not rape. This implies that marital sex with a woman who is over the age of 15 is not rape, even if it is without her consent.Also Read | Minister blames survivor, says Oppn trying to ‘rape’ himBut in October 2017, in Independent Thought v. the Union of India, the Supreme Court (SC) ruled that sex with one’s minor wife, who is below 18 years old, would amount to rape — even with her consent. This effectively means that the law in the country penalises marital rape only where the wife is below 18 years old.Legally, there’s no anomaly between the two judgments as the Kerala HC judgment adjudicates a civil dispute and the Chhattisgarh HC adjudicates a criminal dispute. Legal principles are different in civil and criminal law. However, the judgments create a legal paradox for the future.The Kerala HC refers to the “autonomy of wife”, invoking the constitutional right to privacy in the institution of marriage. “Treating wife’s body as something owing to [the] husband and committing [a] sexual act against her will is nothing but marital rape. Right to respect for his or her physical and mental integrity encompass[es] bodily integrity, any disrespect or violation of bodily integrity is a violation of individual autonomy.” The Bench went beyond carving the ratio, writing an extensive obiter dictum in the judgment, which will have a significant impact on matrimonial jurisprudence.In an epilogue, constituting obiter dicta, it said: “Autonomy is now considered as a part of privacy and ennobled as a fundamental right... In a changed scenario of marriage in the society, shifting from the social philosophy to individual philosophy, we are afraid whether the present divorce law on enumerated grounds would stand to the test of constitutionality.”The argument is that if individual autonomy in a marital relationship is ennobled as a fundamental right, then marital sex without consent ought to be criminalised. If it is not criminal, then there can’t be individual autonomy in marriage, because individual autonomy and lifetime consent for sex in marriage are mutually exclusive propositions.Historically and universally, matrimonial jurisprudence has upheld the Anglo tradition that solemnisation of marriage results in giving unconditional and lifetime consent to sexual intercourse by the wife. It is this convention that the Kerala HC has challenged through its judgment.In the past, the SC has turned down petitions seeking the criminalisation of marital rape on multiple occasions stating that it is not in its jurisdiction and it is for Parliament to take a call. In 2019, the Delhi HC even turned down a petition seeking a declaration of marital rape as a ground of divorce — which the Kerala HC has judicially recognised in its judgment. The Law Commission (172nd Report, 2000) has opposed criminalising marital rape on the ground that it may amount to excessive interference with the marital relationship and refused to amend Section 375 in these terms. The government believes that if marital rape is penalised, the family system will be in tatters.The Kerala HC and Chhattisgarh HC judgments, along with the Independent Thought verdict, establish the need for a debate on marital rape because there can’t be an “artificial distinction” between the social predicament of a wife below 18 and above. It is unreasonable to say that a wife below 18 years has bodily integrity, but loses it on the attainment of the age of majority. Bodily integrity is inviolable at any age.The Kerala HC emphatically talks of “individual autonomy” which means consent in the “normal” sex life of a couple is itself a material question. Sexual violence and perversion are wrong, invoking both civil and criminal provisions. Consent in sexual violence and perversion is beyond question, but if consent in the normal sexual life of a couple is under consideration — as is implied by the Kerala HC by using terms such as individual autonomy and right to privacy — then any sexual act in a marriage without consent is criminal. It is for the apex court to clear the air.Seema Sindhu is a practising lawyer at Supreme Court. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-to-end-the-debate-on-marital-rape-in-india-101630068809166.html
27-08-2021||Today's||Joe Biden has got it wrong||For almost a month in November-December of 2001, Khyber (I am not using his full name given the conditions in Afghanistan) was by my side wherever I went — to Tora Bora, Jalalabad where Osama bin Laden was seen last; the dreaded Pul-e-Charkhi prison outside Kabul; or an appointment with a senior member of the Northern Alliance.Khyber, a Kabul University student who wore baggy jeans and an oversized leather coat, was my interpreter. He was at my guesthouse at 8am and left late at night. We had at least one meal a day together and when we travelled, we stayed in the same room. Hotel rooms were at a premium in Afghanistan those days. On the Tora Bora trip, four of us were packed in one room, Khyber, our driver, the AK-47-wielding security guard and me.But Khyber was more than my interpreter. He was my guide to Afghanistan, the key to understanding a simple people caught in a complex web of circumstances.Also Read | The cost of crime and criminal justice in IndiaI worked with another Afghan interpreter on a trip to Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of Balkh, and Sheberghan, the capital of the adjoining province of Jowzjan, a few months later in 2002. Let’s call him C. I am not sure if he would like to be identified even by his first name because he said he worked on and off with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).He had shown me a GPS tracker, which, he said, was given by the Americans. C was my interpreter when I interviewed Abdul Rashid Dostum, the Uzbek warlord who would go on to become vice-president of Afghanistan, and Mohammed Mohaqiq, a top Hazara leader.As the Americans evacuated Afghans in recent weeks, I wondered if Khyber and C were among them.Back in 2001 and 2002, they had seemed eager to work with foreigners, actually enthusiastic about it. Though the money was good — at rates fixed by the Afghan foreign ministry — it could not have been the sole or chief motivation.They were driven by their belief that Afghanistan had moved on. That the Taliban, which had fled Kabul, was done, gone. And the 1996-2001 Taliban regime was a nightmare that would never recur. The British, who occupied Kabul from 1838 to 1842, did not invade Afghanistan again (they played only a supporting role in the invasion of 2001); and the erstwhile Soviet Union did not repeat its 1979 invasion.But the Taliban returned, handed back the country they had abused, mauled and looted for five years and then abandoned, outmatched by American firepower.I am not sure if Khyber and C follow US politics. Robert Gates, a former CIA director who served as secretary of defence to a Republican president, George W Bush, and a Democrat, Barack Obama, had this to say about President Joe Biden in his 2014 memoir: “I think he has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.”The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/joe-biden-has-got-it-wrong-101630067969240.html
27-08-2021||Today's||Afghanistan’s anarchic jihadist landscape||The Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) has claimed responsibility for the attacks on Kabul airport on August 26. The terror strike, which happened in the final days of the United States (US)-led withdrawal from Afghanistan, accelerated by the Taliban’s takeover, has reportedly claimed the lives of more than 13 US soldiers along with over 90 Afghan civilians. Prior to this, since the inception of the ISKP in 2015, only one US soldier had died in operations against the terror group.Despite the Taliban being a predominant part of the Afghan jihadist landscape, it is imperative to remember that more than 20 terror groups have thrived in Afghanistan. Many of these groups are not Afghan and come from the neighbourhood due to the availability of safe spaces, resources, and access to financial tools such as smuggling, opium cultivation and arms trade. All of this is tied to a level of ideological cohesion and acceptance of the fact the Taliban reigns supreme — but this has not prevented deep differences and conflict among these groups.The US withdrawal has thrown up a striking contrast between claims and reality. President Joe Biden has claimed that “al-Qaeda is gone”, and maintained that the US mission has been accomplished as it got the perpetrators of 9/11. At the same time, Khalil Haqqani, who, as per the US state department, has ties to al-Qaeda, gave a speech at a mosque in the middle of Kabul. Both Biden’s own intelligence apparatus, as well as the United Nations (UN), have highlighted that al-Qaeda very much remains. Even though the US and the Taliban signed a deal in January 2020 in which the latter agreed to disallow al-Qaeda, it has already backtracked on its commitment. And now with little US intelligence presence in Afghanistan, the Taliban-al-Qaeda nexus is free to surge once again.Also Read | Over 550 people, including over 260 Indians, evacuated from Afghanistan: GovtBut there are others too. The Taliban views — and uses — groups such as ISKP as both a threat and an opportunity. ISKP has fought against the Taliban in Afghanistan, with both having different interpretations of what an Islamic state should look like. The Taliban offered itself as a force against ISKP, and this found resonance in both western and eastern capitals.Afghan forces have regularly dismantled the hierarchies of ISKP. After the Taliban conquest, it reportedly executed former ISKP leader Abu Omar Khorasani. Other fighters are either going to merge into pro-Taliban factions in various provinces or lie low till they are able and capable to regroup.Interestingly, the initial cadre of ISKP was widely known to be former Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) fighters, pushed across the Durand Line into Afghanistan by Pakistan’s military operations. In its formative years, a Pashtun-heavy ISKP was also infiltrated by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which offered weapons and money.Despite Pakistan’s blessing for the Afghan Taliban, the TTP has often conducted attacks inside Pakistan and has become emboldened on the back of the victory of the Afghan Taliban. The group’s leader, Noor Wali Mehsud, appeared on CNN, saying that the Taliban’s victory is a victory of all Muslim people. The TTP is a wild card in this theatre. Pakistan hosts most of the Taliban’s shuras, and backs the Haqqani Network, the “sword arm” of the Taliban that now reportedly controls Kabul. But Pakistan is yet to gain leverage over the TTP.One of the best methodologies to view other terror groups in Afghanistan is to investigate the country’s jihad ecosystem from the outside in. The TTP is not only a made-in-Pakistan issue for Pakistan itself, but has also dragged China in. A recent terror strike in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa that killed nine Chinese engineers was blamed on the TTP along with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a group having ties with Uyghur extremism in China’s restive Xinjiang province. Beijing’s push to control ETIM is not new and has previously brought it at odds with its ally, Pakistan.Russia’s President Vladimir Putin has said he did not want militants from Afghanistan coming into his country. Islamists from places such as Chechnya and Dagestan have previously joined groups like ISIS and al-Qaeda while other mujahideen from the Arab world along with those from Central Asia and beyond also joined the Bosnian war between 1992 and 1995. For both China and Russia, domestic considerations have played a significant role in their decision to build a rapport with the Taliban.In all of this, the country that gets short-changed significantly is India. Groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), designed to target Kashmir, have found little attention in the ongoing international discourse around Afghanistan. Much like the Taliban, the LeT and the JeM also run on the support of the “Rawalpindi Shura”, with the Pakistan military and its intelligence cohort in the ISI offering support in both cash and kind. Reports of ISI chief Lieutenant-General Faiz Hameed meeting the Taliban in Kandahar and JeM chief Mufti Rauf meeting the Taliban’s deputy chief and Mullah Omar’s son, Mullah Yaqoob, showcase the web that Pakistan has managed to create for itself in Afghanistan. But even as Pakistan sets itself up once again, in Steve Cohen’s memorable words, to negotiate with the world with a gun to its own head, the real victims remain the Afghans.How the Taliban handles this heterogeneous landscape and these complexities, while attempting to politically mainstream itself, will be its biggest test. As scholar Harsh Pant noted, in Afghanistan, there is never an endgame, but always a game in progress.Kabir Taneja is fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, and the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South Asia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/afghanistans-anarchic-jihadist-landscape-101630067609039.html
27-08-2021||Today's||The cost of crime and criminal justice in India||Crime and its management are becoming increasingly costlier. And this impacts us in two ways: First, the cost of managing crime often results in diverting resources, including budgetary allocations from other areas of governance. Second, crime impacts the quality of life and the levels of happiness in society.Along with its humanitarian costs, internal and external armed conflicts pose a risk to the country’s economic growth and development. Measuring the economic consequences of violence, therefore, becomes pertinent in developing resilient initiatives and optimally allocating resources.National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data revealed that 120,980 cases of non-heinous crimes were reported in the first quarter of 2021, while the number stood at 111,419 last year. There were 1,217 more cases of snatching reported in 2021 (3,829) compared to 2020 (2,612).India does not officially estimate the cost of crimes, unlike other countries. For instance, the crime calculator devised in the United States (US) estimates the aggregate cost of six major offences to the tune of $5,176.45, according to RAND, a non-profit research and analysis institution.Crime and Covid-19Crime is a major affront to peace in society. In its 2021 report, the Global Peace Index depicts a world in which, despite the hostilities and upheavals of the previous decade having subsided, they have been replaced by a new wave of unrest and instability due to Covid-19 and escalating tensions between several global powers. The index ranked India 135 of 163 nations and reveals critical aspects of India’s evolving security situation as well as their impact on economic growth.Also Read | Climate risk maps can mitigate the crisis and protect vulnerable livesOver the past year, India’s overall peacefulness has improved by 0.7% (Global Peace Index, 2021), owing to improvements in the arena of ongoing conflict, but the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has been ruinous, with the number of cases across the country prompting repeated lockdowns. According to some estimates, India’s economy contracted by 7.3% in the last year.The full scale of this pandemic on global peace is still unfolding. It has been observed that while some forms of violence have decreased in the short-term, mounting frustrations, unease and economic instability due to frequent lockdowns have resulted in increased civil and political unrest in India.Crime and conflictIt is estimated that India lost more than a trillion dollars of its GDP to violence in the past few years. During 2014-2018, the cost of violence incurred by the country went from $177 billion in 2014 to $742 billion in 2016 (Global Peace Index, 2017). India’s security concerns are also exacerbated by the convergence of interests between China and Pakistan. Additionally, the deepening of Chinese influence in Nepal has increased the threat to India’s internal security. The porousness of the border makes cross-border trafficking of contraband, weapons, and personnel relatively easy.Further, the continued unrest in Kashmir has increased tensions between India and Pakistan in the past few years. The recent incident of drone attacks in Kashmir uncovers a new page in terror tactics. Consequently, the country has seen a gradual increase in the allocation of budget for internal security issues. In the budget released by the Government of India in 2020-2021, $66.9 billion has been set aside for the ministry of defence. It has been observed that the primary contributor to the cost of containing violence is military expenditure. The data published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute released in April 2021 states that in 2020, India was the third-highest military spender in the world, behind the US and China (SIPRI Report: Trends in World Military Expenditure, April 2021).Also Read | In Kabul, India’s twin agendaThis hefty rise in manpower costs substantially increases the cost of the economic impact of violence and results in concerns about the sustainability of India’s defence modernisation. Lowering the cost of violence can result in a higher peace dividend towards India, but increasing terror attacks on the security forces coupled with geopolitical realities, make the realisation of the dream highly unlikely.The economics of crimeContrary to popular belief, Indian states do not spend enough on the criminal justice system. It has been observed that this pandemic has exacerbated the woes of the chronically under-funded justice system in India. It can be observed that the three heads of costs at all levels of governance are: Policing costs, legal and prosecution costs, and prison costs, in addition to many other indirect fallouts of crime. The India Justice Report 2020 shows that the increase in budgets for the police, prisons and the judiciary have not kept pace with the overall increase in state expenditure. Over five years, while police budgets, on average accounted for 3-5% of state expenditure, average prison budgets across states and Union Territories (UTs) stood at only 0.2%.The cost of crimeAccording to the India Justice Report, the majority of large and mid-sized states (Bihar and Punjab) spent between 3% and 5% of their overall budget on policing, whereas some states, such as Nagaland, Mizoram, and Manipur, spent as much as 6-13% due to their unique conditions. Goa had the highest growth in the country, exceeding the state’s overall spending by 4.4 percentage points. This means that if Goa’s overall state spending climbed by an average of 12.6% over the five-year period, policing spending grew by an average of 17%. With respect to the prison system, states continue to place a low priority on prison expenditure. Only four of the 16 states/UTs with the highest increase in jail spending. An overall analysis of this report could represent that poor budgeting has resulted in capacity restrictions in the judicial system.While these inputs present us with a good starting point, detailed studies are required to document the true cost of crime and criminal justice in India. Efforts are underway to revamp the criminal laws of our country. A holistic overhauling of the criminal justice system, however, requires us to develop a better understanding of the cost behind crime and criminal justice. Therefore, a cost of crime calculator based upon scientifically sound methodology is urgently needed for better planning of criminal justice in India.GS Bajpai is vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, PunjabThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-cost-of-crime-and-criminal-justice-in-india-101630059328509.html
