28-08-2021||Today's||The centrality of OBCs in Indian politics||The politics of backward caste assertion in India is undergoing a new resurgence. The possible culmination of a series of events, mostly unrelated to each other, is likely to transform Other Backward Classes (OBCs) from an administrative category to a political one. And this has the potential to irreversibly change the nature and character of Indian democracy.Let’s trace these events. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s victory in 2014 (and 2019) was not just due to greater consolidation of the upper castes, but also because of the deep inroads the party made among the lower castes, especially among the lower backward castes. The ascendance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has helped the BJP to continue harnessing the electoral potential of these communities.The BJP, for the first time, announced the formation of a national-level OBC Morcha in 2015 to be headed by SP Singh Baghel, recently inducted into the Union Cabinet. In October 2017, the central government announced a commission to sub-categorise OBCs into different groups. The commission, headed by Justice G Rohini, has, since then, received 11 extensions to submit its final report. The mandate of the Justice Rohini Commission, in principle, was based on the rationale presented by the Hukum Singh Committee (constituted by Rajnath Singh as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2001), to distribute the benefits of reservation equitably among the groups comprising OBCs.After this, a series of constitutional amendments were introduced, with important implications for the reservation architecture in the country. The 102nd Amendment Act in 2018 made the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) a constitutional entity. The 103rd Amendment Act in 2019 created provisions for 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS). The 104th Amendment Act extended the reservations for the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) for another 10 years. And the most recent 105th Amendment Act on August 10 restored the power of states to make their OBC lists.It is in this backdrop that the emerging debate on a caste census needs to be understood. The political consolidation behind the idea of enumerating castes indicates that it is now inevitable. However, it is not clear at the moment who will be the eventual winners and losers from the exercise for a range of reasons.One, a lot will depend on how political jostling shapes the mechanics of the caste census. But equally, there will be a political fallout from other associated demands such as lifting the cap of 50% on reservation, re-organising the status of each caste within their quota group, developing a better framework to identify the creamy layer (a threshold which is supposed to be made up of several indicators, but, at present, is limited to annual income), and perhaps extending reservation to the private sector. These associated demands will not remain limited to OBCs alone. The rise of a new discourse on sub-categorisation among the intended beneficiaries may even cast a long shadow on SC and ST reservations as well as on general category EWS beneficiaries.Two, since the 1990s, many state-level parties have exclusively relied on OBCs as their political base. This has, however, seen a rupture in the past decade. While the BJP received approximately 20% OBC votes in the 2009 general elections and state-level parties around 42%, in the 2019 elections, the BJP’s OBC vote share increased to 44% and the share of state-level parties reduced to 27%. This period witnessed a political fragmentation with the rise of new parties that are exclusively mobilising non-dominant OBC castes. The BJP hopes to cement its political base further with the sub-categorisation of OBCs, while state-level parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal hope to emerge as champions of the larger OBC constituency by demanding a caste census.But it is too early to determine who benefits from which demand. The BJP’s hesitation in taking a clear stand on the caste census, or the repeated extensions to the Rohini Commission, makes it evident that the party is unsure of the eventual fallout of a firm decision on any of these fronts. Similarly, state-level parties are nervous as they are aware that contradictions such as the one between dominant and non-dominant backward castes are now out in the open and it will be hard to put the genie back in the bottle.Three, caste enumeration in the census will not only provide a more precise estimate of each group at a very fine-grained geographical level, but also associated information on the socio-economic conditions of each jati. This is likely to result in a million mutinies and multiple demands. This is not to argue that the fear of either should stop the project of bringing the groups, which have not received their fair share, into the mainstream. But it is to recognise that the project of democratising power is often marked by a backlash.The decision to implement the Mandal Commission recommendations in 1989 saw violent protests across the country and several people died. In the second phase too, when OBC reservation was extended to educational institutions during United Progressive Alliance-1, there were marches and demonstrations across university campuses and state capitals. However, given the political consensus among parties on having some sort of reservation architecture, it is not clear whether the backlash will be limited to occasional rhetoric or lead to violence.Four, the Rohini Commission’s initial assessments indicate that among the approximately 2,500 jatis in the OBC list, over 1,000 have no representation at all in the 27% quota. This has also led to a wide disparity in state-level representation in nationally conducted exams (such as IIT-JEE or Union Public Service Commission) to recruit candidates. The Rohini Commission is learnt to have drawn up a proposal to divide the OBC list into four categories. Once the fine-grained caste census becomes available, it will shed light on the intra-OBC differences in access to benefits. This may well open up a discussion, depending on the emerging OBC sub-categorisation discourse, on re-designing the formula for implementation of reservation policies for SCs and STs (remember Nitish Kumar’s politics of positing Mahadalits against the Paswans or the BJP’s gambit of positing non-Jatav Dalits against Jatav Dalits).Finally, while caste has remained a primary marker of socioeconomic status and access to opportunities, social justice demands have to be rooted in the emerging political economy realities and challenges, even as they change them. The emerging discourse will not only reignite the debate on the basis of citizenship — individual or group-based. This may also lead to a renewed demand to tinker with the current electoral system too — moving from a first-past-the-post system to a more proportionate representation model.As India celebrates its 75th anniversary of Independence, it is time that we must re-formulate our social contract for a more egalitarian power-sharing arrangement, especially with the thousands of invisible communities who make up the bulk of our population. However, we must be prepared to deal with the brewing million mutinies that might come along the way.Rahul Verma is fellow, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-centrality-of-obcs-in-indian-politics-101630162358789.html
28-08-2021||Today's||Are we entering a new phase of Covid-19?||With news from Afghanistan dominating the headlines, it’s no surprise that it’s completely captured our attention. A tragedy of this horrific dimension can be riveting. What’s less explicable is that our 18-month-old concern about Covid-19 has been almost forgotten. No doubt, for many, that’s a relief. But the news on this front is good and needs recognition. It’s something to cheer about.The facts are convincing. After weeks, when daily cases seemed to plateau at 40,000 levels, the latest seven-day average shows they’ve fallen below 34,000. The R Number, which crossed 1.2, has reduced to 0.9. Even in Kerala, where the daily tally of cases is half the national total, and the positivity rate in all 14 districts has crossed 10%, the seven-day average has stabilised. Onam, no doubt, has set that back, and though cases have increased, hospitalisation has not.So, is India, at last, exiting the second wave? And are we entering a new phase of Covid-19? Dr Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist, clearly thinks so. “India could have reached some sort of stage of endemicity”, she says. That sounds carefully worded and measured until you hear the rest of her comment. “It’s very feasible we may continue like this with a few local but not severe ups and downs…that’s what seems to be happening.” That could explain Kerala.Now, the endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus. It’s very different to the epidemic stage when a virus overwhelms a population. In our case, what could have propelled us to endemicity is the massive second wave of April-May, which left behind seropositivity levels of 68%, and the fact that over 600 million people have received a single dose of a vaccine.So how does Swaminathan view the fear — it’s much more that than a probability — of a third wave? “No one has a crystal ball and it’s impossible to predict a third wave”, she says. Politely but firmly, she contradicts the voices forecasting when it will happen, who it will affect and how severe the impact will be. “One cannot say with certainty when, where and how bad it will be.” Actually, before all of that is the question: Will there be one? Swaminathan’s viewpoint suggests India could experience local or regional ups and downs, but it’s unlikely to see a nationwide third wave similar to the second wave.Swaminathan is also clear about the possible danger lurking in the future for unvaccinated children. It’s quite possible they could be infected in larger numbers than earlier, but they are unlikely to fall seriously ill. Of course, we must prepare for this, but there is no cause for panic. Some of the ill-informed forecasts, both now and earlier, have created unwarranted alarm.Meanwhile, when, not if, India reaches United Kingdom (UK) levels of vaccination, ie 75% of the adult population — which is, of course, way short of the government’s seemingly unachievable target of fully vaccinating every adult before the end of 2021 — India will also be “reasonably secure” as the UK seems to be today. Infections won’t stop, but instances of serious disease will be far fewer, and hospitalisations limited.Finally, what Swaminathan believes could be happening in India could also be the future that lies ahead for the rest of the world. I’m putting it simply, but not, I hope, simplistically. She believes — actually, the verb she used was hopes — Covid-19 will convert from its present epidemic status to an endemic one, as vaccinations spread across the world and people continue to observe Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.“We cannot reasonably hope to eliminate or eradicate the virus”, she says, “but in a year or so, perhaps by the end of 2022” we could see the virus take on a form we can more easily — that doesn’t necessarily mean happily or, even, willingly — live with. However, at that point, it’s also possible it may not be much more threatening than influenza.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/are-we-entering-a-new-phase-of-covid19-101630162178396.html
28-08-2021||Today's||Remembering Aurobindo and his quest for unity||We are now being encouraged to look back on the horrors of Partition on the eve of Independence Day. But in a message broadcast on All India Radio on August 14, 1947, the day before the country was divided, one of the most prominent philosophers and yogis of his time, Sri Aurobindo, saw hope in the Indian belief in the unity of all things.Aurobindo was born in Bengal, but educated at a British public school and then later, Kings College, Cambridge. He returned to India and entered the service of the Gaekwad of Baroda. From there, he moved to Kolkata (then, Calcutta) and joined politics because he wanted to establish a movement demanding Independence in place of “the futile ambling Congress methods then in vogue”. He was arrested and jailed. On receiving intimation of another arrest, and this time, deportation, he moved to Puducherry (then Pondicherry), which was a French colony at the time. He spent the last 40 years of his life there, evolving his philosophy through writing and yoga.In his broadcast message, Aurobindo described five dreams he had for India’s future, which unfortunately was overshadowed by Jawaharlal Nehru’s tryst with destiny speech. I was only reminded of these when I was invited to take part in a webinar this Independence day. It was arranged by Auroville, a universal city in the making, near Puducherry, dedicated to the idea of human unity, based on the vision of Aurobindo and his collaborator known as “The Mother”.The theme of Aurobindo’s message which struck me was unity. Not surprisingly, bearing in mind the timing of the broadcast, he dreamt first of reuniting India. That has not been fulfilled, and in the present climate, it might be considered anti-national to even think of it. But is it anti-national to dream, as Aurobindo also did, of “increasing recognition of the need for peace concord, and common action” in Indo-Pakistan relations?Aurobindo’s dream of a World Union has also not been fulfilled. It could be argued that the world has become more united over the last 74 years, but, at this time, the need for greater unity is particularly obvious. Countries must be united to make the Glasgow climate conference a success. United States President Joe Biden moved to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord after he was sworn in. His climate envoy, John Kerry, said that the Glasgow conference is “the last best chance to avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis”.Having sat back and watched helplessly as the Taliban swept back to power in Afghanistan, G7 nations, are scrambling to try and formulate a united stand to prevent this regime, like its predecessor, from committing human rights abuses and sheltering international terrorists.The last two dreams of Aurobindo were about India giving its spiritual gifts to the world. He believed “more and more eyes are turning towards her (India) with hope and there is even an increasing resort not only to her teachings but to her psychic and spiritual practice”. That, I believe, continues today. In a collection of essays called The Renaissance in India and Other Essays On Indian Culture, he wrote, “In the larger ideas of it (spirituality) that are now coming on us even the greatest religion becomes no more than a broad sect or branch of the one universal religion.”So, even in the tragedy of Partition’s disunity, when religion was taken as a justification for hideous violence, Aurobindo held on to his faith in unity. Furthermore, he maintained that unification was “a necessity of nature, an inevitable movement which only human imbecility and stupid selfishness can prevent.” Unfortunately, there is still no shortage of imbecility and selfishness today.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/remembering-aurobindo-and-his-quest-for-unity-101630162175387.html
28-08-2021||Today's||In Afghanistan 2001, as ‘doctors from India’||The 9/11 attack shook the world, and the United States (US)’s retaliation to it was swift and decisive. India had been quietly supporting the Northern Alliance, a key local component in the battle against the Taliban, and had set up a field medical facility for the rebels in Tajikistan’s Farkhor in the 1990s. After the Taliban’s defeat, it was decided to offer medical assistance in Afghanistan, and defence teams were sent to set up medical centres. An Indian Army team was sent to Kabul, and an Indian Air Force team to Mazar-e-Sharif.These teams usually comprise a surgeon, a physician, and an anaesthetist. Our mission was shrouded in secrecy, and we were told not to disclose our defence backgrounds. We were simply “doctors from India”. We left Delhi on December 2, 2001. Since there were no flights into Mazar, we flew into Tashkent, and from there, our ambassador took us by road, accompanied by KGB agents, to facilitate security clearances. We were first received by the Hazara leader, Muhammad Mohaqiq, and his soldiers at Hairatan. Then we went to Mazar, 70 km away. The following day, we moved to the foreign service guesthouse, which was our residence for the next couple of weeks.Having met Mohaqiq, the next part of our mission was to meet the two other warlords of Mazar — Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and Tajik leader Mohammad Atta Noor. Our ambassador took us for a formal presentation to each of them, and then, he returned to Tashkent. Our “umbilical cord” with our parent had now been cut. We were at the mercy of our new custodians in this alien, insecure land, to fend for ourselves.We decided to hit the ground running. Instead of setting up our establishment, we acquired a section of the region’s main hospital, Mazar General Hospital, and established our medical facility there. A quick survey of the health care facilities, however, left us disappointed. Given the scarcity of infrastructure and the poor quality of doctors, we used our resources to set up an operation theatre and outpatient department.I was soon performing a range of surgeries, some of which had never been performed before in the region. As our popularity grew, more patients flocked to the “Indian doctors”. Most of the local doctors didn’t know English and were reluctant to join us. But some young doctors knew a bit of English and were keen to learn. We gladly took them under our wing.After doing our due diligence, we then chose an abandoned barrack within the hospital premises as our living quarters. We made modifications to render them suitable for living, and moved in two weeks later. One of the locals was even kind enough to give us a TV and a CD player. They all were fond of Indians and were huge Bollywood fans, with shops full of Hindi movie CDs for hire. This was an oasis in our social desert.None of us knew how to cook, but we were lucky to find a local septuagenarian who fit the bill — he knew a bit of English and could cook. But provisions were hard to come by. And so, we made ourselves feel better by making minor “variations” to our menu. For lunch, we usually ate “tomato and potato”, and for dinner, we had “potato and tomato”. Breakfast was always Maggi noodles.With work and our basic living taken care of, we now confronted our next issue — social survival. Our only lifeline was our ambassador at Tashkent via a satellite phone. He would charge our account from Tashkent and inform us, permitting each of us five minutes of talk-time per week with our families in India. We were also instructed to be careful in our interactions, stay neutral and not be perceived as close to any warlord or group.I went into Afghanistan full of fear and apprehension. However, following my return, whenever I reminisce about my time there, I have nothing but fond memories, all the travails notwithstanding. I remember how much the locals appreciated us and our work. It, in its own way, reaffirmed my faith in God. My country honoured me with a presidential award, the prestigious Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM), in recognition of my meritorious services there. Dr (Group Captain) Deepak Rautray is a surgical oncologist The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-2001-as-doctors-from-india-101630162062407.html
