29-08-2021||Today's||The India story is back. But it needs courage and perseverance||Not long ago, India was termed the “darling of Davos,” a country destined to achieve greatness. In the first decade of this century, there was hardly an investor in the West who was not enamoured of the “India story”.Then came a series of miscalculations and poor legislative and executive moves, such as the retrospective tax law and the demonetisation of 2016 which changed the narrative. The good news is that the Indian government has begun to rewrite that story.Parliament recently passed a bill rolling back a controversial nine-year-old law that allowed the central government to collect retrospective taxes on overseas deals made by businesses. The legislation, which permitted the government to tax businesses going back six decades, had dealt a serious blow to India’s image as an investment-friendly destination. Perhaps no single law has done as much damage to the country’s investment prospects since the days of Prime Minister (PM) Indira Gandhi’s nationalisation of banks and other key sectors of the economy, more than half-a-century ago.The rollback of the tax legislation was one of the most positive signals New Delhi has sent to investors in a long while. According to news reports, the government will resolve at least 17 tax disputes by refunding at least $6.7 billion collected in retrospective taxes, provided the companies are willing to drop their claims. Also, recently, a bill that allows private investment in the insurance sector was also signed into law by President Ram Nath Kovind. Divestment of the four government-owned insurance companies has been one of the long-standing demands of international investors.This could not have come at a better time. Even before the onset of Covid-19, which decimated economies all over the world, the Indian economy had lost steam. It hit rock bottom last year, when it contracted more than 7% because of the pandemic.Despite current economic conditions, the India story can still be revived. Even after all the setbacks, the country’s economic fundamentals are still quite strong. Foreign exchange reserves are at an all-time high, at $621 billion — the fourth highest in the world. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman can easily right the ship, provided they continue on the reform path. They have already demonstrated their resolve to do so, but a number of additional measures are needed.The Washington-based Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS), keeps a scorecard of economic reforms in India. It credits the government for reducing the corporate tax rate, and allowing majority foreign ownership in the defence and insurance sectors. CSIS notes, however, that the country “still has a range of regulations that limit business growth and job creation, in addition to limiting foreign investment”. Areas in which more needs to be done include foreign direct investment (FDI) caps, corporate taxes and bankruptcy and labour regulations.However, many in the United States (US) remain optimistic about India. One such ardent believer in the India story is Richard Verma, former US ambassador to India.Speaking to students at an Indian university, Verma, who is Indian- American, said, “I look out at the year 2030, for example, and I see an India that may lead the world in almost every category… (The) most populous nation, the most college graduates, the largest middle-class, the most cell phone and Internet users, along with the third largest military and third largest economy, all coexisting in the world’s largest democracy…”Like ambassador Verma, I am an Indian-American who is very optimistic about the leadership potential of India in the world. My optimism, though, is tempered by realism.2030 is less than a decade away. It may take a bit longer than that to achieve true leadership in the world. That leadership requires proper planning, patience and perseverance, when there are setbacks, to reach India’s full potential. The India story is, fortunately, being revived now and the journey to global leadership has begun.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-india-story-is-back-but-it-needs-courage-and-perseverance-101630247687988.html
29-08-2021||Today's||On the Taliban and terror, stop irresponsible rhetoric||When intellectuals and public figures espouse dangerous ideas, the effects can be catastrophic on society. I have always been a fan of renowned poet Munawwar Rana, but his statement that the Taliban cannot be considered terrorists but can, at best, be called aggressive, is shocking. Allama Iqbal, the famous poet and composer of the evocative “Sare jahan se achcha Hindostan hamara”, promoted the vision for Pakistan. We are still suffering its consequences.That is why, when a Muslim Member of Parliament (MP) allegedly compares the Taliban to India’s freedom fighters, or when a member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board praises the Taliban, we must stop to think about the repercussions that such statements have, now and in the future. These can open old fissures and give communal elements from all sections a chance to exploit the situation.The Taliban has created problems for the world. When it came to power in Afghanistan in 1996, terrorists from many nations made their way into Kashmir. In December 1999, an Indian Airlines flight from Kathmandu to Delhi was hijacked and taken to Kandahar in Afghanistan. The plane was parked on an airstrip in Kandahar for over 100 hours. Suddenly, anonymous Taliban spokespersons appeared, giving “phone-ins” to emerging private television channels in India demanding that New Delhi release three terrorists — among them Masood Azhar.Who were those spokespersons? Undoubtedly, this was part of a greater game played by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). It was then that former external affairs minister Jaswant Singh left for Kandahar on December 31, 1999, with the terrorists who were released there.The United States (US) and the rest of the West did not seem to understand the dangerous implications of these developments. It was only after the 9/11 attack that they woke up to reality. The US invaded Afghanistan to get rid of the terrorists in power. Today, the US has withdrawn, leaving the field clear for the Taliban and other terror outfits. The explosion near Kabul airport last Thursday suggests that the Taliban is not the only player in Afghanistan today. The country could well become the epicentre of global terror again, a potentially alarming turn of events for India.Now, India and other countries will have to wait and watch to decide who they must engage with in the conflict-torn nation. And there is a likelihood of more bloody terror incidents.The time has come for the powerful countries of the West to abandon their hands-off approach and tackle the growing turmoil caused by terrorism across the world — particularly in Asia and Africa. The Taliban is not alone in its expansion; al-Qaeda and other terror groups have also expanded their activities in many African and Asian nations. In collaboration with local jihadi groups, al-Qaeda has been wreaking havoc in remote nations in Africa. On August 19, 15 soldiers were killed in Mali. France has been conducting Operation Barkhane in Mali, Chad, Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Niger since August 1, 2014, but to little effect. It is now drawing it down in its current form. These countries may well go the way of Afghanistan if the new proposed international coalition with significant French leadership in the Sahel does not work.In the name of jihad, these terror groups have killed far more Muslims than so-called infidels. This is why when people like Munawwar Rana make remarks like “we” once ruled Afghanistan, one can only look on in disbelief.Because of such remarks, egalitarian societies and systems of governance all over the world are being forced to adopt more narrow policies. Let us look at the world before 9/11 and the world we see today. The rules of air travel, for example, have changed so much after that attack. In the name of security checks, people can be detained at the drop of a hat when they travel. As terrorism grows, so does the violation of personal freedoms. All this goes against the concept of the global village.Why has the world become so helpless? Why is an organisation like the United Nations (UN) not able to do anything meaningful? The UN must make a much greater effort to counter not only the Taliban, al-Qaeda and Boko Haram, but illegal acts such as Russia’s bombing of Syria and Israel’s bombing of Lebanon. Whether it is a terrorist incident or a counter-terrorist act, the losers are always innocent citizens. This “chain reaction” must be stopped.The world’s powerful countries must set aside their differences and unite to deal with terrorist forces. Struggling with a crippling pandemic, the world is no longer in a position to face another brutal attack like 9/11.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-the-taliban-and-terror-stop-irresponsible-rhetoric-101630247686822.html
29-08-2021||Today's||The real crisis in PSUs: Leadership||The public-versus-private sector debate has dominated the national discourse. One school of thought believes that the public sector never had any business to exist, and sees it as the breeding ground for inefficiency, corruption and nepotism. An opposite school believes that, in the absence of the public sector, avowedly based on egalitarian concepts, the less privileged would not have access to the fruits of development.It is necessary to lay down a fundamental principle — efficiency is ownership-neutral. But the idea here is not to undertake comparisons, and come to judgments on the preferred form of ownership of productive enterprise. Instead, the focus here is on the missing element in the public sector — leadership.In any corporate structure, while shareholders and other stakeholders are at the apex of the organisational pyramid, the highest level of decision-making, and indeed of direction-setting, for all enterprises, is the board of directors. An inadequate board, in both numbers and quality, cannot hope to discharge the responsibilities cast on it by statute, regulation and convention.Even a cursory look at the boards of public sector undertakings (PSUs), including public sector banks (PSBs), tells a sad story. An analysis of vacant Board positions as on March 31, shows that in 24 Maharatnas and Navratnas, there are a total number of 149 board-level vacancies, comprising 11 positions of executive directors (EDs), 135 positions of independent directors (IDs), and three positions of nominee directors. Not one of these entities had the requisite number of IDs in position. In many entities, EDs are fewer than what the law, regulation or the Articles of Association contemplate.Additionally, there is the troubling phenomenon of the positions of chief executives falling vacant, and not being filled in time, even though many of these vacancies arose because of events such as superannuation, which should have been anticipated. The leadership position in the boardroom also presents a sorry picture, with non-executive chairpersons not being in position in a number of entities.If this was not bad enough, turn to PSBs. The composition of the boards of PSBs has been provided for in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 and 1980. Many of the positions, which had been carefully thought through, while the legislation was drafted, have been vacant for years.Three categories merit special mention. One, the board of every nationalised bank was to have one representative of workmen, and one representative of non-workmen (officers). The expectation was that the views and suggestions of the workforce should receive appropriate attention. These positions have remained vacant for years. It is often heard, in private conversation, that these representatives can obstruct the bank’s smooth functioning, and are, therefore, better kept outside the boardroom. In an inclusive society, this is perverse.Two, there is a specific position reserved for a chartered accountant on the board of each PSB. This position has also remained vacant in many banks. It is not clear whether the loss caused in terms of relevant expertise at the board-level has been compensated by preventing some members of the profession from seeking to convert board directorship into a profession.And three, a well-thought-out move in the context of nationalised banks going public, and raising a part of the money from the market, was to have shareholder directors, elected by the shareholders, other than the majority shareholder. Only some of these positions have been filled. Further, there are provisions for ensuring the representation of different sectors of the economy on each such board. This representative nature of the board, and the consequent ability to draw on the experience of persons with firsthand ground-level experience, has also been lost sight of. In sum, at last count, 60 positions of all categories of directors on PSB boards were found to remain vacant for at least a few months, if not several years.In 2015, the positions of chair and managing director on the boards of PSBs were split, and, over time, persons of proven eminence were brought in to head the board of directors in these banks. At present, with many of them having left, on the expiry of their terms, there is only one part-time non-executive chairperson in a total of 11 PSBs.Some companies, in their compliance reports, as well as in responses to shareholders, have stated that they have repeatedly written to the government to fill these positions. With no progress in this matter, some of them seem to have sacrificed the truth in filing their compliance reports. Is it fair to push these companies into a corner, where they have to shoulder the blame for what is clearly not within their powers?Given the vacancies at the level of vice-chancellors in universities, or members of tribunals, or other senior positions, one might be tempted to ask — why fret about vacancies in PSUs and PSBs? The simple answer is that both banks and other PSUs are intended to be entities that contribute directly to economic production and progress. To bind them hand and foot, and then accuse them of not being competitive when compared to private sector entities, which suffer from none of these infirmities, is as unfair as any comparison can get.In recent years, a number of tough decisions have been taken, reflecting the ability, courage and willingness to take decisions. Would it be fair to expect that some of these easier decisions will also get taken, sooner rather than later, and boards will become stronger and better equipped to provide leadership to the public sector?M Damodaran is chairperson, Excellence Enablers and former chairman, SEBI, UTI and IDBIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-real-crisis-in-psus-leadership-101630247685494.html
