30-08-2021||Today's||To Saleem Kidwai: A letter to a friendship||I never thought I’d be writing this to you. I didn’t think our friendship would get cut off so brutally and without any warning. From so far away all I can do is write this letter to you. When you came down to New York to meet me in 1975 from your time at the Islamic Institute at McGill University, Montréal, we instantly recognised that we were gay but of quite different flavours. You are very shy and reticent about joining the gay scene whereas I was already out and loud and proud. I was determined that you should join me in our liberating quest. It seemed at the time that we were the only two out gay men of Indian origin that we knew.Also Read: Historian, queer rights activist Saleem Kidwai dies in LucknowYou went back to teach history at Delhi University, and I didn’t manage to visit you till 1980. We became very close as you helped me in my quest to visualise Indian gay men. After five years of British art schooling, I had not been able to find any mention of them and it had become my overarching goal to locate them in the canons of art history. You were my informant and also my muse and appeared in my earliest pictures at a time when nobody else would. Together we cruised the parks and parties of gay Delhi hoping to meet like-minded men in search of gay liberation. We talked a lot about where one could live as a gay man at that time, and you opted to live in India and make a difference while I found it impossible to go back and live in the closet. We exchanged letters and postcards and occasional phone calls and sometimes even managed to meet in person in London or in Delhi. Then in the 1990s you began to research the work of excavating the hidden history of same-sex love in India along with Ruth Vanita, a fellow scholar at Delhi University at the time. The resulting book, Same Sex Love in India: Readings from Literature and History, became a vanguard for South Asian queer studies in academia around the world.In Photos: Artist Sunil Gupta remembers historian & activist Saleem KidwaiIt also became the historical backbone of the movement to overturn Section 377, the law that criminalized homosexuality in India. I returned to Delhi in the early 2000s when you helped me make a video on AIDS for the University of Southampton in the UK, about the local situation. You put me in touch with the Lawyers Collective, and the local queer community in Delhi, and helped make what eventually became “A World Without Pity”.The scene was changing rapidly, and you encouraged me to return to live in Delhi and [you would stay with me when you visited the city where you taught for over 20 years]. By now, you had established yourself back in Lucknow, where you had gone to make a base for your academic research work away from the social hubbub of Delhi. There, you translated several books from Urdu to English. I made a book too, “Pictures. From Here” and we exchanged them. Making books became another thing that brought us together. In 2009 we were proved wrong that we would never see the anti-gay law changed in India in our lifetime. We celebrated and we partied, and we had a great flat to do that in. We were both single and you revelled in that: you were quite happy to be single and gay. I had a number of disastrous but entertaining internet dates that you were witness to. But then you were also witness to my meeting the man who would become my husband eventually. This led to more conversations about whether queer people should get married or not, whether I had sold out the old gay liberation politics. It became difficult to live as a married and gay man in Delhi, so I returned to London, and you returned to your books in Lucknow. You, of course, remained a champion of our original gay politics that critiqued the accumulation of capital and hetero-normative family life as the source of patriarchal oppression in India.We had to make do with fleeting annual visits to see each other. I would keep turning up with the latest photo book I had made, and you had proudly given me a whole shelf to fill. Just the other day, we spoke about how I would soon be on my way to meet you clutching my latest book to add to your shelf. But now that will never be as I woke up this morning to the sound of my phone pinging endlessly to the messages from India announcing the news of your passing. You broke my heart my friend by leaving me so soon, but I will love you forever.(Sunil Gupta is a photographer based in London. He is the author of ‘Pictures. From Here’ and ‘Queer’, among other photography books. He is also renowned as a documenter of queer lives in India. His photos have been exhibited in galleries globally, and in India.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-saleem-kidwai-a-letter-to-a-friendship-101630338764308.html
30-08-2021||Today's||Asset monetisation holds the key to value creation in infrastructure||Top-quality, well-managed infrastructure lies at the heart of economic growth. With Covid-19 taking an unprecedented toll on economic activity, a significantly enhanced level of infrastructure investment is required to revive growth. Financing requires a diversified set of alternatives.In this context, asset recycling and monetisation serve two critical objectives — it unlocks value from public investment in infrastructure, and it taps private sector efficiencies in operations and management. Asset monetisation is a shift from privatisation and slump sale of assets to structured partnerships with private sector within contractual frameworks. It is not just a funding mechanism, but a paradigm shift in infrastructure operations, augmentation and maintenance.India has made massive strides in creating a mesh of infrastructure in recent years. For most sectors, this has been driven by public funding. Today, India holds one of the largest brownfield stocks of fixed assets in the world. However, while the public sector can build infrastructure, it is rarely able to run it efficiently. The private sector has much greater resource efficiencies in developing and managing infrastructure. Increasingly, therefore, the government looks to partner with the private sector. However, for effective co-working, public private partnership (PPP) models now need a reboot.Also Read | Expedite matters related to aviation infrastructure: Scindia to five CMsIndia has a robust PPP ecosystem. Concepts such as preservation of ownership with government, transfer back of assets at the end of concession and key performance indicators are ingrained in our PPP ecosystem. However, there has been reduced appetite among private sector and debt financiers for greenfield infrastructure. This necessitates innovative mechanisms, structured around mature brownfield assets, for tapping private investment. Asset monetisation, therefore, strives to tilt the axis from greenfield to brownfield models.The increased appetite for brownfield assets is evidenced by the flow of private and institutional capital into sectors such as roads, power and telecom. The private sector has utilised risk-managed structures to monetise assets such as toll roads, transmission towers, pipelines and telecom towers, thus bringing in a new investor class into India’s infrastructure. From the public sector, National Highways Authority of India has monetised close to 1,400 km of toll roads through Toll-Operate-Transfer (TOT) concessions and has raised ₹17,000 crore. PowerGrid successfully launched the first ever public sector Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvIT), monetising its first batch of transmission assets and raising ₹7,700 crore. Airports Authority of India (AAI) successfully monetised six brownfield AAI airports through Operation Management and Development Agreement (OMDA) model raising upfront proceeds and private investment towards augmentation of the airports. Indian Railways also launched a strategic foray into PPP in station redevelopment and running of passenger trains.Innovative structured vehicles such as InvITs and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are capital market plays. They are created and operated under the regulatory framework of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and target pooled long-term capital. Since the launch of regulations for these vehicles by SEBI in 2014, India’s private sector has effectively unlocked its invested equity by employing these vehicles and bringing in capital from global pension and sovereign funds. Assets Under Management (AUM) of ₹1 lakh crore from the private sector alone, is held by these vehicles.Through the asset monetisation programme, public sector entities will also tap into long-term institutional capital and build on the recent success of PowerGrid’s InvIT. More importantly, India’s public can also invest in InvITs and REITs as retail investors. These models interest a different investor class, comprising global pension and sovereign wealth funds and also retail investors. SEBI regulations bring transparency for investors and also efficiency in asset management.India’s tryst with monetisation is not a new thing, but an ongoing exercise. There is now a need to systematically adopt these initiatives across varied asset classes and streamline frameworks and modalities of such alternatives in a manner that can be readily absorbed, evaluated and replicated.The availability of a sustained and robust asset pipeline has been cited as a key concern by investors at various forums. A well-laid-out pipeline gives a comprehensive view to investors and developers of brownfield investment avenues in infrastructure and helps them plan their fundraising and due diligence activities.An initiative such as National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is pathbreaking at many levels. Creating a sectorally diverse pipeline beyond the traditional sectors of roads and power necessitated a “whole of government” exercise with a comprehensive scanning of brownfield asset inventory. A diverse and sustained NMP not only provides visibility to investors on potential financing opportunities but also in driving preparedness of public authorities to structure and launch transactions in a systematic and transparent manner.The states are equal partners in India’s infrastructure story. India cannot grow faster unless the states grow at higher rates. The states too present a significant potential for leveraging assets such as tolled state highways, transmission towers, discoms, bus terminals, sports stadiums and state warehouses to mobilise capital for investment, which can have multiplier effects on state economies.Recognising the criticality of enhanced capital expenditure, the Scheme for Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure is a pathbreaking measure. Under the scheme, an incentive is provided to the states in the form of 50-year interest-free loans. During the current year, ₹5,000 crore in incentive payments have been budgeted for the states undertaking monetisation and disinvestment.In order to give the needed fillip to the monetisation initiative, three aspects need concerted efforts and interventions — a relentless focus on implementation; developing brownfield models and frameworks; and driving the states and partnering with them in undertaking monetisation in a structured manner.Amitabh Kant is CEO, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/asset-monetisation-holds-the-key-to-value-creation-in-infrastructure-101630320583450.html
30-08-2021||Today's||Gail Omvedt, the truth-seeking sociologist||Gail Omvedt, 81, left us on August 25, 2021. Her mortal remains were greeted with “jai bhims and lal salaams” - salutations befitting the final journey of an anti-caste figure. Her public life — which was also her academic life — doesn’t have many parallels in mainstream Indian academy. One can compare her to Pierre Bourdieu, the French Marxist sociologist who stood with working people against the onslaught of neoliberalism in the 1990s. But even he fades in her company, considering the magnitude of Omvedt’s interventions on behalf of the oppressed majority in India. A bilingual activist-scholar who lived and wrote within the confines (and possibilities) of a middle-caste peasant household in rural Maharashtra, Omvedt stood away from the glitters of Delhi-centric academic practice. Her writings embodied a permanent protest site outside Indian sociology — always critical and satyashodhak (truth-seeking). In that sense, she liberated sociology (and history) from the tight knots of academic capitalism. Her life, as Bharat Patankar told Dalit Camera, was shaped by the progressive mobilisations of the 1960s United States (US) and later, the Karl Marx-Jyotirao Phule-Ambedkarite movements of Maharashtra. Omvedt was always in the midst of people’s collective actions. Her work was a yield, a possibility of such actions. It is all too easy to mystify her life by listing her personal achievements. But she wouldn’t have agreed to such heroic individualism.Also Read | Scholar, Ambedkarite movement activist Gail Omvedt dies at 81Omvedt was not simply a caste studies scholar, but a sociologist of anti-caste consciousness. She saw connections between such consciousness and the total emancipation of India. She was compassionate and identified a dignified place for the non-Brahmin, oppressed castes in the struggle for human liberation. Omvedt redefined India in a way that centred anti-caste thought. She questioned the taken-for-granted connections between religion and the masses. She underlined how a strong critique of religion (beyond Nehruvian secularism and Gandhian reform) always thrived in the Phule-Ambedkar-Periyar traditions of India. Through a detailed study of this tradition, she mobilised an anti-caste India, a begumpura. While professional sociologists approached the working masses as imposters, imitators or vote banks who are “easy” objects of academic gossip in urban institutional spaces, Omvedt explored their counter-hegemonic moves — always staying accountable to their questions. This was easy for her as she lived in their neighbourhood. While the doyens of Indian sociology, converted en masse into anti-reservation polemicists in the early 1990s, Omvedt saw them as actors in the “twice-born” revolt against the Mandal Commission. She argued that (Other Backward Classes) OBC reservation should be judged against its stated goal, ie, to end the caste monopoly of the twice-born in the public sector, and not anything else. She highlighted the need for a detailed caste census, an issue which remains unanswered, but is again in public discourse today. In her analysis of the land question in the context of caste, Omvedt questioned the theories which assign caste an “integrative and democratic” role. She always problematised the neat separation between caste and class, and argued that relations of production in the sub-continent cannot be understood without caste. Caste, according to her, was always a “material reality, with material base and economic results”. She emphasised that an anti-caste struggle is essentially a struggle against exploitative relations of productions. Omvedt approached Jotiba Phule as a radical intellectual who skillfully connected the questions of caste-gender exploitation with ecology and economy. Similarly, she made it a point to highlight the materialist thrust of Babasaheb’s (Ambedkar’s) social programme, including his decision to embrace Buddhism. In her interactions with the women’s movements, Omvedt tenaciously placed the poor working woman and her socio-economic struggles at the centre. Her writings serve as a socialist reminder. With increasing precarity and economic insecurity, her interventions are more relevant than ever. Though a neighbourhood sociologist of the rural masses, she never valorised rurality or glorified obscurantism. She was one with them yet maintained a rigorous, scientific distance in her writings. She pursued a “science which disturbed” and proved that seeking sanctuary in urban academe is not scientific detachment but more of arrogant elitism. From her room in Kasegoan, with her comrades by her side, she connected the struggles of the working poor across the globe. Her comparative studies on South Asia and beyond testify this succinctly. This universal focus, bring us to a question — what would it take to produce women academics in rural backgrounds? What kind of a world would allow peasant women to read and write not only about their own worlds, but about people everywhere, the way Omvedt could? We don’t have the answers. Yet, going back to Omvedt’s writings could serve as a starting point. She empathetically captured the drudgery of daily toil in the lives of the working people. Freeing oneself from this grind cannot be achieved without a total view of social and economic relations. This is a scientific pursuit par excellence. It requires irreverence and clarity of mind — facets so clearly visible in Gail Omvedt’s life. Asha Singh is an assistant professor of Gender Studies at the Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta. Nidhin Donald is a doctoral scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/gail-omvedt-the-truth-seeking-sociologist-101630319623873.html
30-08-2021||Today's||India is failing its Afghan friends||In March 1990, an Indian Air Force IL-76 took off from Trincomalee, in eastern Sri Lanka, en route to Mauritius. On board was Tamil leader V Perumal, the Northeast provincial council’s chief minister, along with his family and some 200 supporters, among India’s closest allies on the island.Perumal’s organisation, the Eelam People’s Revolutionary Liberation Front, had paid a bloody price for standing by India’s peacekeeping mission. So when India withdrew in defeat, it evacuated him as well as well as thousands of other threatened Sri Lankan Tamils. This was not merely about moral principle, but also out of interest to protect its assets and keep leverage over Sri Lanka.Now fast forward to the fall of Kabul, in Afghanistan. While India’s intervention was different, the challenge to stand by its Afghan friends is similar. Beyond just evacuating its own citizens and the Afghan Hindu and Sikh minorities, it was heartwarming to hear New Delhi swiftly promise to “stand by” its Afghan partners. However, the hard reality of the past fortnight reflects India’s inability to protect thousands of Afghans who worked with India to fight the Taliban and other terror groups supported by Pakistan.Also Read | Afghan TV anchor relays Taliban message surrounded by armed fightersThe Opposition naturally criticised the government’s lack of willingness or ideological bias in keeping Afghans out of India. The truth, however, is more simple and tragic. Translating India’s commitment into practice failed because of the lack of preparation and systems, including a much-needed asylum policy.The hurried announcement of emergency visas, for example, has still not been properly implemented, mostly due to bureaucratic frictions. Only a few dozen Afghans have been evacuated so far. It may be soothing to hear that Afghans prefer to go to North America or Europe, but the sad reality is that many gave up on waiting for an Indian emergency visa that never came.In the absence of clear asylum and other guidelines during a crisis, ambiguity quickly turns into bureaucratic inertia and political discretion. The most glaring case came when India deported Afghan parliamentarian Rangina Kargar, after letting her wait for three hours at New Delhi airport. The fact that the government recognised the error and apologised to her only attests to the glaring shortcomings.The Afghan crisis reflects the absence of systems and capability to protect India’s local partners in active conflict zones. More than a moral issue, this failure is also a strategic liability.First, in the short-term, many hundreds of these Afghans may be in possession of sensitive information about India, starting with officers who trained at Indian military institutions or worked with Indian authorities. Such people are likely to be the first to be interrogated or targeted, whether by the Taliban or other terror groups working closely with Pakistan. They are now under threat of being used and abused to turn against India.Second, in the long-term, by letting these Afghans down, what guarantee is India giving to other Afghans, in case India re-engages in the future? And what signal is New Delhi giving to potential partners in other conflict zones where India is engaged today and tomorrow? These people have alternatives and may think twice before working with India. This will cost India’s soft power and capability to operate in other countries.In Afghanistan, India chose a clear side and invested over a billion dollars to build a more inclusive, developed and democratic State that would be supportive of India’s regional interests. None of this would have been possible without Afghan partners. From Kabul to Kandahar, India deployed paramilitary forces that relied on locals for support and security.It’s a country where India ran five diplomatic missions that were bombed, killing not only Indian officials but also many Afghan staffers. India trained thousands of Afghan military and other officials to fight the Taliban and other Pakistan-backed terror organisations seeking to attack India. Afghan journalists, politicians and young leaders were supported by India to build a free media and vibrant women’s and minority movements.Nobody expects India to evacuate all of its Afghan partners. Nor do we know, yet, what India is doing behind the scenes for its political allies. But when even South Korea is able to evacuate hundreds of its Afghan partners, it shows that India must find ways to do better. That the United States and others largely failed to do this does not serve as an excuse for India’s own shortcomings. Relying on hopeful backchannels with the Taliban, waiting and watching to see whether it turns out more or less vicious and violent, is not a solution.Supporting Afghan friends, who stood by India through thick and thin, would have meant implementing a system to register local partners and establishing priority lists. It would have meant an emergency visa system in place before the crisis erupted. It would have meant pre-designated safe havens for assembly, local funds and maybe also forces for extrication. It would have meant not letting thousands of Afghan passports be at risk of being stolen at some outsourcing centre while the embassy evacuated. Finally, it would also have meant resources to host and support Afghan partners to settle in India or relocate elsewhere.The government will have to work more on all this before the next crisis erupts in the neighbourhood. Political commitment and bureaucratic notifications are no substitute for preparation, training and resources. For a regional power with global ambitions, India must ensure it has the capabilities to respond first and bring its allies to safety.Constantino Xavier is a research fellow at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-is-failing-its-afghan-friends-101630319383715.html
