31-08-2021||Today's||CAA is inadequate and flawed. Devise a new refugee policy, set up a commission||Recent developments in Afghanistan, with the withdrawal of American troops and rise of the Taliban, have led to a grave humanitarian crisis. This has serious implications for India. True to its ancient maxim of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family), India’s soil has historically been a home away from home for persecuted minorities. But India does not have a singular policy for dealing with refugees and crises of this nature.The June 2021 factsheet of the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHCR) states that 208,065 refugees reside in Indian territory at present. Of these, 95,829 Sri Lankan refugees and 73,404 Tibetan refugees are registered and assisted by the Government of India. Meanwhile, refugees and asylum-seekers from Myanmar (22,459), Afghanistan (15,217) and other areas (3,639) are registered with UNHCR India. The agency plays a significant part in verification, registration and resettlement of refugees in India.The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) of 2019 is the closest that India has come to enacting a policy on refugees and illegal immigrants. But the Act is highly inadequate for refugees and is severely flawed. It neither offers a definition for who is a refugee nor applies universally to refugees from all countries. In addition to being discriminatory on the basis of religion and country of origin, CAA also has a cut-off date of December 31, 2014. It offers no guidelines on how to deal with future refugee or immigration issues. The Act is also in clear violation of the right to equality and the right against discrimination, enshrined in Articles 14 and 15 of the Indian Constitution.Meanwhile, India is not party to international best practices either. It is not a signatory to the 1951 UN Refugee Convention or its 1967 Protocol. Even though there are no official explanations as to why India has not signed the Convention, the country’s porous borders and resultant security concerns are cited as a major reason. There is also the conventional logic that India’s reputation of being open towards refugees negates the need for signing any formal international agreement.Also Read | The political battle over reformsIf existing international refugee laws do not cater to the particular needs of our country, it is necessary that we draft a refugee policy inspired by the best practices included in those laws. As a first step towards drafting India’s refugee policy, I recommend that the Union Government set up a National Commission for Refugees at the earliest.This commission should draft an inclusive policy on refugees with respect for the rule of law. It should grant refugees legal protection and should be based on the principles of non-refoulement and non-discrimination. The policy should also account for physical protection such as secure accommodation and access to food and sanitation, and ensure that family unity among refugees is prioritised. Provisions for durable solutions for refugees such as voluntary repatriation, local integration, or resettlement in a third country must be incorporated into the policy.The people of Afghanistan have historically enjoyed a good relationship with India. Several Afghan students are enrolled in universities across the country. At a time of crisis, they must be treated with dignity. They shouldn’t have to wait at the mercy of an ad hoc policy that discriminates on the basis of religion. The Government of India should act promptly and come up with a refugee law that supports the people of Afghanistan and promotes India’s reputation as a champion of human rights. A policy that addresses Indian concerns and, at the same time, offers respite to refugees is, without doubt, the need of the hour.Gaurav Gogoi is deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok SabhaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/caa-is-inadequate-and-flawed-devise-a-new-refugee-policy-set-up-a-commission-101630408066391.html
31-08-2021||Today's||As states roll out NEP, address its twin deficits||As states begin rolling out the 2020 National Education Policy (NEP), they need to engage with two important issues that NEP did not address. One, Muslims, India’s most educationally disadvantaged group, were not mentioned in the 2020 NEP. Two, the use of English merited only a few lines of scant attention, despite the massive bottom-up demand for English skills.Muslims comprise about 15% of India’s population, and are among the most economically, socially and politically disadvantaged groups in India. What makes their omission even more striking in the 2020 NEP is that their education participation rates in schools and colleges are the lowest in India, more so than even Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. However, while Dalits and tribals were highlighted in the 2020 NEP as requiring special attention, as indeed they should be, Muslims were not.Also Read | With a climate action plan, Mumbai shows the wayAmong other reasons, this omission does not bode well for achieving one of the main goals of the 2020 NEP — that all Indian students should receive 15 years of quality school education. Without special attention to vulnerable groups, especially Muslims, achieving this goal even by the end of this century will be impossible.In the case of English, the 2020 NEP avoided discussing the English-medium schooling tsunami in India, where both government and private schools are increasingly teaching all school subjects in English. More importantly, it failed to address why improving the teaching and learning of English as a subject in government regional-medium schools needs to be prioritised, and did not articulate what pedagogical initiatives are required.With new employment opportunities that reward English skills, the importance of English-medium education has increased significantly in the last three decades. Earlier restricted to upper and middle classes, poor and disadvantaged groups have been at the forefront of the new and unprecedented demand for English-medium schooling. This resulted in low-fee, English-medium private schools mushrooming in India’s villages and towns.To stem the unabated migration of the poor from regional-medium government schools to private low-cost English-medium alternatives, all government schools in Kashmir, Nagaland and Andhra Pradesh have either begun, or will soon start, teaching all subjects in English. Other states are selectively expanding such English-medium government schools. Now more than 20% of all Indian students, which comes to roughly 50 million students, are attending low-cost private and government English-medium schools.The tragic irony is that several studies, including an NCERT report, indicate that the vast majority of students, mostly from poor- and lower- middle class families, acquire very limited English skills in these schools. This is principally because their teachers’ own knowledge of English was significantly substandard too. The standards of teaching and learning in regional-medium government schools, where English is taught as a subject in most states from Class 1 onwards, are equally depressing.Nearly all schools in countries where English is not the main language teach in their own languages. Similarly, reinforcing previous policy recommendations, the 2020 NEP correctly advocated the teaching of all school subjects in the mother tongue and regional language. What it failed to highlight was that if regional-medium government schools had to survive, let alone flourish, the teaching of English as a subject had to be improved significantly. The alternative is the continued precipitous decline in government school enrolment and the recent spectacular rise of private schools, as highlighted in the recent Central Square Foundation report on private schooling.Therefore, in the rollout of the 2020 NEP by states, an important focus of educational reforms should be the teaching of English as a subject in regional-medium government schools, still attended by the majority of Indian students. The top priority should be to ensure that their English teachers have a basic command over English and know how to teach it.A sustainable solution to declining enrolment in regional-medium government schools is improving their quality of teaching and learning in all subjects in general, and the standards of English in particular, and not expanding English-medium instruction, as is currently practised by all states. It may be desirable to curtail English-medium schooling, but politically unfeasible given the enormous public demand.However, states such as Uttar Pradesh should, at the very least, reverse their retrograde decision to convert existing government preschool centres, teaching in local languages and Hindi, to kindergarten classes conducted in English. The guaranteed outcome of such an early start is not better English, but the stifling of children’s language skills, foundational development and creativity.States must, thus, comprehensively address both the glaring omissions of NEP — pay special attention to provide all Muslim students with 15 years of quality school education and strengthen the standards of English in regional-medium schools. Both are critical to any agenda for transformational educational reform.John Kurrien has been working in the field of education for disadvantaged groups for four decadesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-states-roll-out-nep-address-its-twin-deficits-101630406806390.html
31-08-2021||Today's||Hindutva is Hindu modernity||With the rise of a medieval Taliban regime, some liberals have argued that the return of the Islamic Emirate to Afghanistan is somewhat akin to the rise of Hindutva in India. This is a mischievous and illiterate comparison. Unlike the undemocratic and violent Taliban, Hindutva envisages a democratic society based on equality and universal rights. Hindutva dreams of a modern future, the Taliban dreams of a regressive past. Hindutva works within a constitutional framework, while even the Taliban, unlike its apologists, won’t describe itself as constitutionalists.But fundamentally, the comparison is based on ignorance of the roots, evolution, and values of Hindutva.One of the most important developments of the last century is what Girilal Jain termed as “The Hindu Phenomenon”. It was a widely held belief that destiny of the Hindus was to fade away in the modern era and their homeland absorbed within the Islamic and Christian world. Yet, despite repeated attempts at ethnic cleansing over recent centuries, Hindus not only survived, but also created a powerful polity and State. While India had been invaded and colonised in the past, the challenge posed by British colonialism was unique. We often discount the traumatic and terrifying experience of the non-western world in its encounter with western colonialism, which was backed by modern industry, a new economic structure of capitalism, and a new political structure of nations and nation-States. Coupled with emerging modern academia, it also posed a formidable intellectual challenge.Also Read | The rise of the proud, global HinduHindu response to western imperialism emerged in the 19th century in the form of social and religious reform movements and political mobilisation seeking to draw inspiration from antiquity and Hindu philosophy. But reformers were not only imagining the future but also re-imagining the past. They argued that modern values such as social equality, political democracy, liberty, the idea of the nation are all rooted in Hindu tradition and philosophy. Hence, Hindu society and polity are naturally at home in the modern era.These views were propagated by Hindu thinkers, writers, poets, religious leaders, and social and political leaders throughout the Indian subcontinent. The fact that these views found rapid and widespread acceptance demonstrate that these ideas were not alien to the Hindu society and changing social and economic structures favoured them.The tantra movement in the medieval period and the Bhakti movement in the early modern period infused Hindu society with the ideas of social and gender equality. From the Nath Sampradaya and Vachana Sahitya to Ravidas and Kabir, Hindu society already had what could be called proto-modernity. Popular and highly symbolic oral epics such as Manteswamy Kavya even argued how technology must ultimately be liberated from its hereditary practitioners, i.e the practice of a birth-based caste system determining occupation needed to go for the progress of civilisation.In the absence of corresponding social and economic conditions, these ideas remained largely confined to the respective Hindu sects. But under colonial rule, with changing socio-economic structures and the import of newly emerging western, modern ideas, such views entered the mainstream of Hindu political thought.It is striking that all segments of the Hindu polity, from the Left to the Right, argued for a modern nation despite rooting their positions in the civilisational antiquity of India. None of them wanted a return to the past, unlike their counterparts in the Muslim polity, but wanted to learn from the values of a past and reinterpret it in a modern image. If one side was looking towards the West or the Soviet Union, the other was looking towards Japan and Korea to create a modern Hindu nation.Hindutva was the Hindu response to western colonialism and resurgent Islamic imperialism in the Indian subcontinent, and emerged under the new economic order based on industry and capitalism. Hindutva inherited the legacy of the Hindu proto-modernity and contemporary social and religious reform movements to imagine a modern-industrial Hindu nation. It sought to dismantle the caste system, and create a democratic State with individual rights, freedom of expression and religion. Hindutva argued for a modern Hindu nation with primacy to science and technology. It imagined a centralised State with strong defence capabilities, yet part of the world commonwealth in pursuit of stability and peace. Hindutva always confined itself to the aim of a Hindu Rashtra (nation), and, at no point, did it argue for a Hindu Rajya (State). Even the Hindu Mahasabha proposed a secular State based on the principle of one-man, one-vote.The main intellectual challenge for Hindus was to justify their existence as a society. Who were they? Tamil, Bengali, Punjabi, Marathi, Jat, Brahmins, Ahirs, Pasi, Rajputs, Vokkaligas? The coming together of various pagan traditions under the umbrella of Hinduism is a centuries-old process. But Hindutva consolidated it by welding Hindus into a political community and as a nation by emphasising the commonalities of a highly diverse Hindu society.Hindutva is both a product of the modern world and an argument for Hindu modernity. It sees itself as the protector of India’s religious and cultural diversity, which has been decimated in areas no longer part of India. Economic transformation dilutes caste and regional lines. Industrialisation and urbanisation are the precursors of modernity. And since Hindutva embodies the modern values and modern vision of Hindu society, the appeal and legitimacy of Hindutva have been increasing as India becomes more industrial and urbanised. The rise of a “Hindu Rashtra” and an industrial-urban developed India are two sides of the same coin. And this phenomenon is the opposite of what the new rulers of Afghanistan have envisioned for their Emirate.Abhinav Prakash Singh is assistant professor of economics at SRCC and national vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Yuva MorchaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/hindutva-is-hindu-modernity-101630406266372.html
31-08-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Who are the best PMs India never had?||Since last week’s ‘what if’ column (on what would have happened if Rajiv Gandhi had not been assassinated) evoked such a robust response, here is another ‘what if’. As we know, the best men and women do not always get to be Prime Minister (PM). Getting the top job is often just a matter of luck. (As HD Deve Gowda will tell you.)So what about those who lost out? Who are the best PMs India never had? I don’t have the historical perspective to tell you how good Sardar Patel would have been (though my guess is: very good), but here are some I watched closely while covering politics over the last few decades.Sharad Pawar: There is talk of Sharad Pawar being pushed as the Opposition candidate for PM at the next election. I don’t think anything will come of this move, but it does tell us how long Pawar has been around for.In 1991, after Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated, Pawar declared his candidacy for PM and pushed for an election for the post. At that time, Pawar’s image was that of a real estate-obsessed, crooked billionaire-politician who was surrounded by businessmen cronies. So the Congress panicked. Sonia Gandhi was asked to put her weight behind Narasimha Rao and Pawar only backed down when it became clear that he would lose an election to the post.If Sonia had not backed Rao and Pawar had won an election, what kind of PM would he have made?Oddly enough, I think he might have been very good.ALSO READ: Opinion | What kind of PM would Rajiv Gandhi have made in second term?Two big events took place during the Narasimha Rao era. The first was liberalisation. If Pawar had been in charge, he would have followed the process through to its logical conclusion (unlike Rao who chickened out eventually) because he believed in the market unlike Rao who had spent his life devoted to socialist objectives.The second was the fall of the Babri Masjid. Unlike Rao, I don’t think Pawar would have accepted the mealy-mouthed assertions of Kalyan Singh that no harm would come to the structure and would have acted to prevent the demolition. Pawar, unlike Rao, was always respected for his strong, decisive streak.Of course if Pawar had remained PM for five years, he would have left behind a very different Congress. But I doubt if he would have left it in the unelectable mess that Rao did in 1996.Arjun Singh: Throughout the Narasimha Rao regime there were always suggestions that Arjun Singh would topple him. And Arjun Singh did have his big chance. If he had resigned on the day that the Babri Masjid came down, he would have emerged as an alternative to Rao and got the top job.But he did not because in many ways, he was a lot like Rao: Devious, laconic, conspiratorial and indecisive. Plotters don’t always make leaders. For that you need courage and openness. Sadly, Arjun Singh had neither.Jyoti Basu: Few people can have been as frustrated by their failure to become PM as Basu was. The CPM regularly refused to join any government at the Centre, preferring to offer support from outside (which Basu called ‘a historic blunder’) thus denying an eager Jyoti Basu the chance to become PM even though many Third Front chieftains (such as Mulayam Singh) enthusiastically endorsed his candidacy.In my view, he would have been an utter and complete disaster as PM. I saw, firsthand, how the CPM, under Basu, destroyed Bengal, driving out industry while promoting the interests of a coterie of industrialists and encouraging a lazy, union-led work culture.India is lucky that Basu never got the top job.LK Advani: He probably came closer to the top job than anyone else. Advani was Vajpayee’s deputy PM when the BJP called the 2004 election which it thought it would win easily. The plan then was for Vajpayee to serve out a year or so before handing the keys to Race Course Road to Advani.It did not work because Sonia Gandhi surprised everyone by defeating the BJP and a United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was formed. When Advani tried again, on his own, five years later, the Congress was too strong for him.If it had all worked out, what kind of PM would he have made?I think he might have been rather good. He knew what the job entailed having been deputy PM and had demonstrated, while he was in office, a capacity to deliver steady governance.The only thing that was held against him in those days was his role as a Hindutva proponent compared to the moderate Vajpayee. In retrospect, that now seems like a joke. In today’s BJP, he is regarded as a dangerous, secular radical.Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj: In the days before Narendra Modi emerged as the unquestioned leader of the BJP, it was widely believed that the Vajpayee-Advani generation would give way to a Jaitley-Swaraj dispensation and that one of them would become PM.Of the two, Swaraj had the advantage of being a mass politician who had fought elections in difficult circumstances and had pulled off electoral upsets.Jaitley, on the other hand, was basically a Rajya Sabha politician (no bad thing; so was Manmohan Singh) whose great strengths were his formidable intellect and his ability to win friends across the political spectrum.Both would, I think, have made good PMs though Swaraj, because of her mass base, may have been more daring. On the other hand, the BJP would probably not have won an overall majority under either leader, so Jaitley's skills at winning over allies and the Opposition may have been more relevant.Pranab Mukherjee: If the Congress had needed the support of the Left in 2009, then Pranab would have become PM. The Left would not have accepted Manmohan Singh as PM again, (after the nuclear deal) while Pranab would have been acceptable to all parties.As PM, he would have had the advantage of being a far better administrator than Manmohan Singh. He would have surrounded himself with better civil servants. He would not have let the CAG run riot and he would have been a visible, aggressive presence unlike Manmohan Singh who hid himself away when things began to go wrong.On the minus side, he would have been stubborn and unreasonable on matters of policy (his baffling, if not suspicious, insistence on retrospective tax is just one example) and would not have embraced the reforms process with Manmohan Singh’s passion and skill.So it is a toss-up. But for better or worse, I do believe if Pranab Mukherjee had been PM during UPA-II, history could have been very different.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/opinion-the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-who-are-the-best-pms-india-never-had-101630395461537.html
