04-12-2020||First Edit||Verdict to curb police brutality||The Supreme Court order directing the installation of CCTV cameras in police stations and offices of other investigating agencies will go a long way in curbing police brutality and human rights violations which are common across the country. The verdict which also applies to federal investigating agencies like Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Narcotics Control Bureau, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Serious Fraud Office, among others, mandates that cameras with video and audio recording and night vision mechanism should be installed at all vantage points including entry/exit, interrogation room, corridors, lock-up and the chamber of the Station House Officer (SHO). The footage should be stored for a minimum period of 45 days and for up to 18 months for evidence, if need be. Another significant aspect of this important judgement is that an independent panel can seek the recordings from time to time to monitor police excesses while the victims of custodial torture will have access to such footage to enable them to approach the human rights commission or any other designated authority. The verdict will hopefully help protect the rights and liberties of the ordinary man in a country where police brutality is not just deep-rooted but institutionalised. The Human Rights Watch (HRW), a New York-headquartered organisation that conducts research and advocacy on human rights, has painted a grim picture of what it calls the abusive police culture: illegal detention, torture, forced false confessions, arrest on fake charges, absence of accountability and impunity for extra-judicial actions. Often, poor working conditions, lack of investigative skills that stem out of sub-standard training, and political interference, force the police to adopt shortcuts to defeat systemic impediments. Though these issues have been addressed by many police reform commissions, the reports have been put on the backburner, with no government keen to free the law enforcing agencies from the clutches of politicians. The apex court order is a repeat of a similar judgement in 2018, but in the words of the judges, “Nothing substantial has been done for over two-and-a-half years.”  Even in police stations where CCTV cameras were installed, they were found to be of not much use as in the case of the torture and killing of a father-and-son duo in Sathankulam, Tamil Nadu, where the footage was “automatically erased”.  Though the court has made the SHO responsible for ensuring the working of CCTVs and storage of footage, there is no doubt that given the ingenuity of our police officers, they will find a way out. Unless erring officers are subjected to strong, punitive and disciplinary action, this well-meaning order too will bite the dust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/verdict-to-curb-police-brutality-923085.html
04-12-2020||In Perspective||Teaching literacy, numeracy key||Ever since the release of Annual Status of Education (ASER) report in 2005 by Pratham, as a citizenship initiative with an aphorism about literacy and numeracy, fear gripped in society and more importantly among education departments of governments.   The report had pointed out that 35% of children in the age-group of 7-14 years in government schools cannot read even simple paragraphs and 52% were not able to read a short story. Further, 41% of children in the same age group were unable to solve even two-digit subtraction problem. Though the findings were based on the survey conducted in rural households of 485 districts, without standardised procedures, it still accounted for an alarming and sensational revelation.  Even the ASER–2018 report did not present an optimistic picture. It indicated that only 50% of children in grade-5 in rural India could read a grade-2 level text and only 28% of children in grade-5 could solve a division problem. It is similar to what in 1983 the US administration came out with a report titled ‘A Nation at Risk’.  The report divulged statistics of how 13% of all the 17-year-olds in US were considered functionally illiterate. The same among minority groups being as high as 40%, and all that in turn, could lead to downturn of the economy. Critics viewed this as ‘shock and awe’ campaign ignoring the significant improvement in US schools.  The New Education Policy (NEP) - 2020 also assumes that the ability to read and write and perform basic operations with numbers, is a necessary foundation and an indispensable prerequisite for all future schooling and lifelong learning. It affirms what is reported widely by ASER and others that currently more than five crore children in elementary schools have not attained the basic ability to read and comprehend basic text and the ability to carry out basic addition and subtraction with Indian numerals.  Perhaps, in order to resolve this, the NEP mandates three years of pre-school before class I, as part of foundational stage of learning for five years. This is a momentous departure from inadequate presence of pre-primary segment in government schools, or with two-years, mostly in the private sector.  Although Anganwadis, which were intended to provide health and nutrition to children in the age-group of 0-6 years facilitate learning, they will now be fully integrated into the school complexes/clusters as per NEP.  The major question now is not about provisioning, which the NEP has recommended in unequivocal terms, but of transaction. Schools are replete with examples of how in the name of learning, students are forced to undergo formal schooling even before grade-1. It involves abstract learning, rote memorisation, unwarranted evaluation, prominence to cognition, ignoring affective and psychomotor abilities which are critical at that stage. Losing interest If NEP recommendations are misconstrued on numeracy and literacy, the schools could whizz through to make tiny tots run the risk of losing interest before they are set for learning. However, NEP suggests far more child-friendly ‘flexible, multi-level, play/activity-based learning at foundational stage. Light textbooks, formal but interactive curriculum that paves solid groundwork across subject areas, are given importance.  The NCERT, in its pre-school curriculum-2019, points out that the aim of learning at this stage is to provide strong foundations for all round development and life-long learning and preparing the child for school. The learning outcomes developed at national level from grade 1-8 also point out what to expect from child in different subject areas. The learning outcomes at grade-1 maths such as ‘works with numbers 1-20 and applies addition and subtraction of numbers 1-20 in daily life’, radically redefine the expectations from students.  In the past, students who knew counting up to 500 or 1,000 at early grade levels were considered bright in mathematics. The counting involved abstraction, rote memorisation but did not emphasise on understanding of relationship of numbers with one another. Contrarily, if the child understands the relationship of numbers even up to 20, the same can be applied to any large number later.  Teaching of ‘zero’ to young children of grade-1 is difficult and this was overcome with a concrete learning experience. This exercise not only involved maths but also environment and language. It also integrates teaching, learning and assessment. This way, without much apparatus, children could be made to understand the stage specific learning outcomes such as the relationship of numbers from 0-20.  Branding children as poor performers is unjustified without providing them opportunities to learn. What we require is a deep reflection on how learning could be made a far more joyous and long-lasting experience. The problem is not that children are not learning, it is only that ‘we are teaching not in the way they want to learn’.  (The writer is Principal, Regional Institute of Education, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/teaching-literacy-numeracy-key-923087.html
04-12-2020||In Perspective||Betrayal of social contract||The foundation of the modern democratic state is the concept of social contract whereby individuals submit certain personal liberties to the cause of the greater common good. Free and equal citizens get together on the basis of an acceptable social contract that espouses the greatest common good.   This governing philosophy has run into rough weather in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. In India, the onset of the pandemic has let loose the “animal instincts” of the market-aided, abetted by a pliant state at the cost of the working class. The emergency measures initiated under the garb of controlling the pandemic have morphed into an exercise to enrich a select few at the cost of the great multitudes. Since the onset of the pandemic, the clear focus of the Central government has been to undermine the rights of the working class at the behest of large corporate houses. Never in the history of the working-class movement had there been as sustained and systematic assault on labour rights as seen during the recent past. The Central government swung into action as early as May 5, 2020, with the Union labour secretary shooting off letters to all state governments pressurising them to undertake critical labour law amendments “to address Covid-19”. The wish list contained several anti-worker measures such as increase in working hours to 12 hours, the introduction of fixed-term employment and increase in the thresholds in Industrial disputes Act, Contract Labour Act and Factories Act to exclude the majority of workers and factories from the purview of labour-friendly legislations. The main thrust of these amendments was to legalise a system of “hire and fire”. The BJP-ruled state governments in Gujarat, UP and MP followed suit by announcing a complete holiday from Labour laws for three-four years. The Karnataka government also announced increase in the thresholds in the Industrial Disputes, Factories and Contract Labour Acts along with the introduction of fixed-term employment. It announced a freeze in the payment of dearness allowance (DA) to minimum wages for a year in July 2020. In a case that points to the deep nexus between the corporates and the state, employers in the garment sector suspended payment of DA to lakhs of workers much earlier, from April 2020. The order to freeze DA has been subsequently stayed by the high court as being prima facie illegal. The stated purpose of these measures has been to encourage the ‘ease of doing business’. The ease of doing business is, at best, a hazy and imperfect parameter propounded by the World Bank. The parameters are collected only from Delhi and Mumbai. The data irregularities are so rampant that the World Bank has suspended the doing business report in August 2020. There is a strong belief underlying such measures that the economy can only be restored to normalcy by aiding large corporate houses. However, evidence suggests that private investment had declined well before the onset of the pandemic despite the drastic measures to slash corporate tax by over 10% in 2019. Private consumption The economy has been running on only the engine of private consumption, which has now taken a hit due to the ham-handed policies of the state governments. The policies dictated by large corporate houses have single-mindedly focused on supply-side measures such as tax holidays, undermining worker rights and disinvestment of valuable public sector units and only served to cripple domestic private consumption of citizens. Such policies have hurt both the working class and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimated that more than six million youth will lose jobs in India due to the pandemic. There is not a whimper nowadays about the grandiose Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the PM. Both the logic and the math behind the grand package were found wanting. The SMEs which generate 85% of all employment in the organised sector are struggling to raise credit from the troubled banking system due to the unprecedented rise in non-performing assets. Many SMEs say the package has been a grand failure. Not only has the government failed in protecting jobs but it has also failed miserably in protecting the SME sector.  Contrast this approach with the approach of a poor country like Pakistan, which launched an ambitious one-time direct cash transfer of $75 to over 12 million vulnerable families in order to provide them security. The approach of the state governments runs in direct contradiction to the suffering and miseries of the working class and is aimed at enriching a select few large corporate houses. The social contract that binds state policy has been given up under the garb of combating the pandemic. The current direction of state policy will push millions into unemployment and shrink the share of organised employment. Given the unprecedented nature of the crisis, only time will tell if these wounds inflicted by the state will ever heal. (The writer is Secretary, AITUC, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/betrayal-of-social-contract-923574.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 40 calves being sent to slaughterhouse rescued||Alert villagers rescued more than 40 calves, that were being allegedly transported to a slaughterhouse in Bengaluru, at Akkihebbalu village, in K R Pet taluk. The youths of the village, who came to know that calves were being transported, stopped the goods vehicle near the village and rescued the animals. They informed the police and handed over the vehicle and the animals to them. The vehicle driver fled from the spot. Akkihebbalu police have registered a case. The villagers also helped the police in feeding the calves. The calves were later shifted to a 'Go shaala' at Byadarahalli in Pandavapura taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-40-calves-being-sent-to-slaughterhouse-rescued-923274.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||62 persons held over Shivamogga communal clashes: IGP||Eastern Range IGP S Ravi said as many as 62 persons have been taken into police custody in connection with communal clashes that took place in various parts of the city on December 3. The situation is under control and police security has been beefed up across the city to prevent untoward incidents. He said in order to maintain law and order,  the services of police personnel from neighbouring districts including Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri had been utilised. As many as 148 areas have been identified sensitive and police bandobast has been strengthened there. Besides, police are keeping close watch over vehicles coming from other districts to the city. As many as 22 cheetah vehicles,13 patrol vehicles have been pressed into service. He also asked people not to give importance to rumours that disturb peace in the city. On Bajrang Dal activist Nagesh, the IGP said the assailants had worn masks, citing the victim, but he would identify them. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said curfew has continued in Doddapete, Kote and Tunganagar police stations in the city. He also made it clear that restrictons have not been imposed on sale of essential commodities including milk, vegetables and medicine. Sueprintendent of Police K M Shantaraju warned that police would initiate action against those posting communally sensitive images, videos or provocative messages on social media networking sites including facebook and whatsapp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/62-persons-held-over-shivamogga-communal-clashes-igp-923293.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bandh may not affect normalcy in district on December 5||The Karnataka Bandh called by Kannada organisations against the formation of Maratha Development Authority is not likely to impact normal life in the district on Saturday. Representatives of the Kannada organisations have requested people to participate in the bandh voluntarily. They won't force people to observe the bandh nor force commercial establishments to remain shut down.  The representatives conducted a meeting on Friday and decided not to force anybody to participate in the bandh. It is expected that the bandh will not affect routine life. "We have decided not to force people to observe the bandh. Let them participate voluntarily. We have left the decision to the people. We have decided to submit a memorandum to deputy commissioner instead of observing the bandh," Dhaniyakumar, a representative of the Kannada organisations told DH. People were in distress due to Covid-19 pandemic. Businessmen and industrialists were facing problems. They would incur more losses if the bandh was observed. Hence, a decision had been taken just to submit a memorandum, he said. It is said that there will not be any problem with routine activities. The movement of buses and auto-rickshaws will not be affected. Shops and business establishments will function as usual. Activities of the banking sector and government offices will not be affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bandh-may-not-affect-normalcy-in-district-on-december-5-923387.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||State executive to discuss agenda tabled by state president: Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said that the state executive to be held on Saturday would discuss the agenda tabled by BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel. Eshwarappa told reporters here on Friday that the state executive has been aimed at strengthening the party at the root and win about 80 per cent seats in the Gram Panchayat elections. Discussion on cabinet expansion or reshuffle and candidates for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency and Maski and Basavkalyan assembly constituencies will not be held, he said. He said that violence in Shivamogga was a conspiracy of those supporting cow slaughter and activists stopping the acts were threatened. Eshwarappa said there was no need to give a reply to statements made by Congress leader Siddaramaiah. None in Congress takes his statements and there was no need for me to reply to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-executive-to-discuss-agenda-tabled-by-state-president-eshwarappa-923404.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka records 1,247 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,247 new Covid-19 cases and 13 related fatalities on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 8,90,360 and the toll to 11,834. The day also saw 877 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban topped the list of fresh infections, accounting for 620 cases. Cumulatively 8,90,360 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 11,834 deaths and 8,53,461 discharges, the health department said in a bulletin. It said that out of 25,046 active cases, 24,759 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 287 are in Intensive Care Units. Eight out of the total of 13 deaths reported on Friday were from Bengaluru urban, followed by Tumakuru (two), and Dharwad, Kolar and Raichur (one each). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 620, followed by Mysuru 74, Tumakuru 73, Mandya 53, Hassan 49, Dakshina Kannada 42, while the rest were scattered in other areas Bengaluru urban district also topped the list of positive cases with a total of 3,72,582 infections, followed by Mysuru 50,922 and Ballari 38,304. Among discharges too Bengaluru Urban was on top with a total of 3,49,143 discharges, followed by Mysuru 49,590 and Ballari 37,539. A total of over 1,15,09,892 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,049 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-records-1247-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-923465.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Funds row: Siddaramaiah flayed for demanding inquiry||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Friday slammed former chief minister Siddaramaiah for demanding an inquiry over his remarks, in connection with the funds during the byelection. In a press conference here, Vishwanath pointed out that even Siddaramaiah said that JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda took money from the Congress, but worked for BJP candidate in Lok Sabha elections. “How much have you given? Is it accounted or an unaccounted amount? Let Siddaramaiah clarify,” he said. It may be mentioned that Vishwanath had recently stated that BJP had given a huge amount for the bypolls, but, BJP leader C P Yogeeshwar and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s aide, and also his political secretary N R Santosh, did not give it to him. Targeting Vishwanath, Siddaramaiah had said, “Was the money accounted or unaccounted? Investigation should be conducted to know who gave the money and from where it was brought.” Vishwanath questioned the state government’s move to establish Maratha Development Authority (MDA). When border and language issues are surfacing in Belgavi, it was not necessary for the government to establish MDA, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/funds-row-siddaramaiah-flayed-for-demanding-inquiry-923497.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt spending money on non-planning purposes: H D Kumaraswamy||Former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy alleged that the government has been neglecting the budget announcements and spending money for non-planning purposes. Addressing media persons here, on Friday, Kumaraswamy said, "The government has been spending crores of rupees illegally. I am collecting evidences for this and will expose it soon." With Gram Panchayat elections announced, the BJP has been taking out Grama Swarajya yatra and around three to four ministers are visiting each taluk giving speeches. "Have you listened to the problems of the farmers, or provide compensation to the affected," he asked. While the Deputy Chief Minister announced of allocating Rs 1.50 crore to each Gram Panchayat every year, the BJP president is saying Rs 1 crore. There is a danger of luring the candidates with money during the GP elections, he said. Commenting on the controversial 'coward' statement of Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Kumaraswamy ridiculed and said that the farmers of the state are blessed to have such a minister. "What were you doing for the last 16 months to stop such incidents," he questioned. "Former chief minister Siddaramaiah has been alleging that JD(S) has entered into a pact with the BJP. What did you do for the local body elections? We are also trying to retain our political power. There is no need for us to apply to Siddaramaiah for this," he said. Kumaraswamy also said that the BJP leaders have become experts in conducting elections and we need to learn the winning techniques from them. "I am not willing to field candidates for the byelections at Basavakalyan and Maski constituencies. However, a decision will be taken after discussing it with the party workers. Our candidate had won thrice from Basavakalyan and also got good votes in Maski. I will not accept the allegations that JD(S) does not exist," Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-spending-money-on-non-planning-purposes-h-d-kumaraswamy-923498.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||MUDA plans BDA model housing complex in Mysuru||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) is planning to build multi-storeyed housing complexes on the lines of Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA), to provide quality houses at affordable prices in Mysuru. A delegation, led by Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, inspected the residential complexes developed by BDA at Kommaghatta in Kengeri, Bengaluru.   The authorities inspected the design and structure of the residential complexes. MUDA Commissioner K Natesh and the technical team obtained necessary details from the BDA officers and engineers. Rajeev said, "MUDA has planned to construct 6,000 to 8,000 houses on the outskirts of Mysuru and near Ring Road. MUDA will gather people’s opinion in this regard before taking up the project and measures will be taken to construct more number of houses." The BDA has developed two and three bedroom houses and the team members obtained details such as technology used for the construction, locations where the houses were constructed and response from the people and plans to minimise the construction cost. The authorities also gathered information about elevator lifts, stair case, rainwater harvesting unit, roads, underground drainage system and other infrastructure. Rajeev also interacted with the residents and obtained information about the design and the facilities available. Rajeev told that Minister S T Somashekar and MUDA want to provide quality houses to the common people at affordable prices. MUDA aims at constructing the complexes using advanced technology to ensure quality. “We have obtained all the information about the structures and how construction was taken up,” he said. The chairman thanked S T Somashekar for taking an initiative to interact with the BDA officials. The civic works would be taken up quickly under the Minister’s leadership, he said. Minister Somashekar said, "Initially, Rajeev had proposed to construct apartments but, we have decided to provide quality houses to the people at affordable prices. The MUDA team will also inspect a few other projects and take measures to construct houses with a proper plan in Mysuru."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muda-plans-bda-model-housing-complex-in-mysuru-923499.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Alambadi village gets bus service after decades||The decades-old demand of the residents of Alambadi village, seeking bus service to their village, has been fulfilled with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) commencing the service, from Friday. Alambadi village, comes under Gopinatham Gram Panchayat, situated on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. There are around 150 families, living in the village and are into agriculture. The region is rain dependent though River Cauvery flows nearby. The residents have been seeking bus service to their village since several decades. There are 35 children studying at the Higher Primary School. But, those in High School have to walk 10-km to the school in Gopinatham. The residents too have to walk to Gopinatham to get ration under Public Distribution System. The villagers appealed to the In-charge Deputy Commissioner C L Anand, who visited the village last week seeking bus service. They also explained the problems faced by the students and elders. Responding to their request, Anand held discussions with the KSRTC officials in this regard and directed to begin a bus service to the village. The villagers accorded a warm welcome garlanding the bus, on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alambadi-village-gets-bus-service-after-decades-923500.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||A H Vishwanath tells Siddaramaiah to lead Kuruba agitation||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath chided former chief minister Siddaramaiah, also a Kuruba community leader, to lead the agitation in connection with the ST tag to the community. In a press conference here, on Friday, Vishwanath said, “Siddaramaiah was non-cooperative and reluctant for the development of the community, establishing mutt and Kanaka gopura. Let him at least now take the lead for getting ST tag. We will be with him,” he said. “The community has made huge sacrifices for your (Siddaramaiah) development and several people have sold their sheep for you,” he said and added that Siddaramaiah is not supporting the agitation. “No one is hijacking Kuruba community agitations, and the community has never disrespected Siddaramaiah. He has failed to make any contributions to the community and Mysuru when he was the CM,” he said. He also opined that Siddaramaiah would have continued as the chief minister for the second term if only he had accepted and allowed the debate on the socio-economic survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-h-vishwanath-tells-siddaramaiah-to-lead-kuruba-agitation-923502.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru region experiences chill weather, thanks to Burevi cyclone||There was a nip in the air in Mysuru city and surrounding areas, on Friday, due to the impact of cyclonic storm ‘Burevi’ over Southwest of Bay of Bengal. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted rainfall for two more days in Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Kodagu and other places. The weather was overcast in Mysuru city since the past two days. There was a chill in the air even during the day time for the last few days. Parts of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts experienced chilly weather in the last two days. The temperature is likely to plummet in the coming days, according to scientists.  The people woke up to misty mornings, forcing them to search for warm clothing to brave the chill, that is likely to continue for another month. Though the Organic Research Station in Naganahalli near city, predicted a maximum of 29 degrees and a minimum of 19 degree Celsius, the maximum temperature on Friday was below 24 degree Celsius and a minimum of 17 degree Celsius, in the afternoon. The night temperature was much lower.  According to Indian Meteorological Department, the winter season in Mysuru is from December to February. Winter in Mysuru is cool with temperatures ranging from a minimum of 16 degree Celsius to a maximum of 27 degree Celsius. There was also very light showers at some parts of the city, on Thursday and Friday. According to the Research Associate at Naganahalli Research station, the city and surrounding areas will experience chilly weather, more than the last year. The temperature may come down by one or two degrees in December this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-region-experiences-chill-weather-thanks-to-burevi-cyclone-923504.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spandana programme: Citizens support DC, even as politicians continue tirade||A section of the citizens supported Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, even as politicians continue their tirade against her. Social activist and writer Bhamy Shenoy said, “I was first shocked and then saddened, when I learnt how some of our elected representatives criticised the DC, for organising ‘Spandana’, to lend an ear to the grievances of the people and to find solutions.” It has to be recalled that the criticism of the DC, by Hunsur MLA H P Manjunath of the Congress started on November 24, during the progress review meeting on Karnataka Development Programme (KDP), that snowballed into a political issue. He was joined by MLC Raghu Achar of the Congress and MLA Sa Ra Mahesh of the JD(S) on November 27 and 28, respectively. On November 28, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar announced that he will sort out the issue between the people’s representatives and the DC. Further, on November 30, Revenue Minister R Ashoka announced that he has asked the DC to stall the ‘Spandana’ programme. Meanwhile, Varuna MLA Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah joined his fellow MLAs and MLCs against the DC. “It is the MLAs, who should conduct Spandana because the people ask their representatives, if works are not done. In turn, we can ask the officials. If officials leave the MLAs and conduct the programme, it will amount to violation of protocol. If at all the officials conduct such programmes, they should inform the people’s representatives in advance so that their engagements do not clash," he said on Thursday. Shenoy said, “In a democracy, people are ‘masters’ and bureaucrats are expected to serve us with minimum hurdles. However, even after 73 years of Independence, people dread to visit (even as an activist for over 30 years, I also dread) government offices, trying to get any service. Knowing this, citizen-friendly bureaucrats have conducted such grievance meetings in different forms, in the past also." "I have never heard any elected leader objecting to such meetings, stating that they were not invited and protocols were violated. Why such a hue and cry over 'Spandana', all of a sudden? Activists and the people should raise their voice in support of the DC,” he added. “What is the duty of a government officer? Is it to serve the public or to ensure that some unjustified protocols are satisfied? Let us assume that there are such protocols. However, a progressive and responsible leader should ignore such citizen-unfriendly protocols, in public interest. It is unfortunate that the Revenue Minister has asked the DC to suspend Spandana. I urge the minister to rescind his direction and support the DC, to hold more such programmes,” said Shenoy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spandana-programme-citizens-support-dc-even-as-politicians-continue-tirade-923506.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Day after communal violence, bandh-like situation in Shivamogga||A day after communal clashes broke out in parts of the city following an attack on Bajrang Dal leader, a bandh-like situation prevailed in the city on Friday. While the curfew continued in Doddapete, Kote and Tunganagar police station limits, prohibitory orders will remain till 10 am on Saturday in the remaining parts of the city. IGP (East) S Ravi told reporters that 62 persons had been detained on Friday in connection with communal clashes. Security has been beefed up in the communally sensitive areas. Additional forces have been roped in for security from the neighbouring Chitradurga, Davangere and Haveri districts. As many as 22 cheetah vehicles and 13 patrol vehicles have been pressed into service. The police personnel conducted a flag march in a few sensitive areas to instill confidence among people. With bunks, hotels and other commercial establishments downing shutters, delivery of essential services and goods was badly hit. Patients, their attendants and those who arrived in the city had a tough time with only a few buses and autos taking to road. Violence erupted in several parts of the city on Thursday when four bike-borne men in masks assaulted Bajrang Dal leader Nagesh. More than 15 people, who’d sustained injuries during the clashes are being treated at various hospitals in the city. The police have launched a manhunt to nab those involved in the attack against Nagesh. A total of 10 cases have been registered in three police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/day-after-communal-violence-bandh-like-situation-in-shivamogga-923507.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government directs panchayat staff to survey dropouts in villages||The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department has directed the gram panchayt staff to identify children who have dropped out from school in villages and ensure their enrollment. According to a circular, gram panchayat workers have been tasked with conducting a door-to-door survey from December 15 and upload the details by January 15, 2021. Along with the panchayt staff, the surveyors should include one anganwadi member and a representative from a women’s self help group, the circular stated. The surveyors will be paid Rs 5 per house and they are expected to cover 50 houses per day. The survey details will be uploaded on childrensurvey.karnataka.gov.in  The department’s directions are coming in the wake of an interim direction by the Karnataka High Court earlier this year, in which the state government was told to immediately conduct the household survey to identify out-of-school children.  Speaking to DH, Panchayat Raj principal secretary Uma Mahadevan said even though the survey dates coincided with the gram panchayat elections (December 22 and 27), it would not be in conflict with the polls. “This is an annual survey. The panchayat staff will take up the survey along with anganwadi and self help group members,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-directs-panchayat-staff-to-survey-dropouts-in-villages-923513.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Diploma syllabus to be completely revamped from next year||The syllabus for diploma courses in the state will be completely revamped in accordance with the requirements in the job market. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said this at a meeting with MLCs here on Friday. Responding to the demand from MLCs to revamp the curriculum, Ashwath Narayan said, "We are producing around 40,000 diploma graduates every year. But not even 20% of them are getting job opportunities. Considering this, we have taken a decision to revamp the syllabus completely for the next academic year. " He said that the current curriculum is not industry oriented. "There is a need to introduce contents which are reliable in the job market and those which are industry oriented," he added. The revised curriculum for diploma courses will also focus on the National Education Policy and will be framed without any additional financial burden on the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/diploma-syllabus-to-be-completely-revamped-from-next-year-923526.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP warns party leaders against outburst in media about cabinet expansion||BJP state core committee decided to warn party leaders of action against their outburst in the media and public forum regarding cabinet expansion. Party will take such statements seriously and leaders have been asked to desist from such acts. No talks were held regarding cabinet expansion with it being the prerogative of the chief minister. BJP state core committee meeting attended by State President Nalin Kumar Kateel, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP National General Secretary and State Incharge Arun Singh and other committee members was held here on Friday evening. BJP Spokesperson Arvind Limbavali informed reporters that the core committee discussed many issues. The cabinet expansion issue did not come for discussion as it was the prerogative of the chief minister who will hold talks with national leaders and make a decision. The core committee decided that cabinet expansion was an internal issue of the party. Party leaders and workers have been asked not to speak about it in the public or media, he added. It was decided to discuss the Cow Slaughter Prevention Bill during the state executive on Saturday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had tabled the bill in the year 2010, but the then-governor had returned it. Later successive Congress government too kept it in cold storage and the old act of 1964 was in force. Strong law to prevent cow slaughter will be discussed, he said. State executive will also discuss on Love Jihad bill. Luring women in the guise of love, later converting them to other religions, exploitation, and being pushed into terror activities was not acceptable to BJP. Bill to prevent such acts will be discussed, Limbavali informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-warns-party-leaders-against-outburst-in-media-about-cabinet-expansion-923533.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cluster varsities told not to be 'burden' on government||The newly established cluster universities in the state have been advised not to be a 'burden' on the government. At a meeting with vice-chancellors of all the three new cluster universities-  Maharaini Cluster University-Bengaluru, Nrupatunga Cluster University-Bengaluru and Mandya Cluster University on Friday, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan advised them to achieve self-sustenance.  Speaking to DH, a source in the higher education department who was present in the meeting, said, "It is necessary for the government to establish more universities under Rashtriya Uchatar Siksha Abhiyan (RUSA) in the coming days. But the universities must sustain themselves. This is what we have advised the newly established cluster Universities during the meeting. " The universities have also been asked to approach corporate companies for development funds under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes.  However, the vice-chancellors have submitted proposals seeking basic financial assistance of Rs 2.5 crore. "From the next academic year, we will function as universities in a full-fledged manner. We all need to generate revenue for development activities as salaries will be given by the department of collegiate education, " a vice-chancellor of a cluster university said.  Meanwhile, the minister and other experts advised these universities to work towards becoming model universities. "We have around 20 plus conventional universities and these newly established universities must be different in the way they approach, offer courses etc. We want them to be model universities," explained a senior official of the higher education department. The state government had recently issued orders appointing vice-chancellors for all the three new cluster universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cluster-varsities-told-not-to-be-burden-on-government-923572.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah flays Vishwanath for suggesting not to use singular||Slamming MLC A H Vishwanath for giving a suggestion that he stop addressing others in the singular, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Friday said, “We address God in the singular. Have you seen anybody using plural for God?” he asked. Reacting to the statements, Siddaramaiah said, “Shall I point out how many times Vishwanath has used the singular term against others? What language did he use against K R Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh?" Defending himself, he said, “I don't intentionally use the singular term against anyone. It is commonly used in rural areas. We also use singular to Gods.” Charging Vishwanath for claiming that Siddaramaiah grew as a leader after he quit Congress, he said, “I was a chief minister even before Vishwanath quit Congress. I joined Congress only because of Ahmed Patel and not because of any Congress leaders from Karnataka.”    Siddaramaiah said there was no need for any agitations to get ST tag for Kuruba community. "BJP is in power both in the state as well as the Centre. If Minister K S Eshwarappa is really committed, let the issue be placed before the Cabinet and recommended it to the Union government. RSS is behind the Union government and the state. Let them take measures to pass it. What is the need for agitations?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-flays-vishwanath-for-suggesting-not-to-use-singular-923378.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Will not discuss Cabinet expansion before media: Arun Singh||BJP National General Secretary and state in-charge Arun Singh said that he would hold talks with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa regarding Cabinet expansion, but would not discuss the issue before the media as it's an internal issue of the party. Arun Singh during his maiden visit to the state as BJP in-charge was in the city on Friday to attend core committee and state executive meeting. "Core committee meeting and state executive will also discuss issues pertaining to organising and strengthening the party. BJP has a good base in the state and this region is the gateway for the south," he added. He denied reaction on a statement by Yediyurappa earlier in the day that he was coming with a message from high command regarding Cabinet expansion. "We shall discuss Cabinet expansion with Yediyurappa", he said. Arun Singh said that the state executive will also discuss to showcase the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Yediyurappa-led government in the state before the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-not-discuss-cabinet-expansion-before-media-arun-singh-923408.html
04-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Central leaders not restraining BSY on Cabinet expansion: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said that BJP's central leaders were not restraining Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Cabinet expansion, but they were only safeguarding the interests of the chief minister. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, Eshwarappa said the party's central leadership was not keen to lose the government in Karnataka. "So, the central leaders are showing interest in Yediyurappa-led government in the state," he added. "If the chief minister accords ministerial berth to a legislator of his choice, it would pave the way for dissidence in the party. So, the central leaders will take a call on legislators to be included in the Cabinet and it will keep Yediyurappa safe in the top post," he said.  Referring to Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah's opposition to anti-love jihad and anti-cow slaughter legislations, he said that Congress should make its stand clear on these proposed legislations. "If it is against people Congress should mention in its manifesto and seek votes in the scheduled gram panchayat polls," he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/central-leaders-not-restraining-bsy-on-cabinet-expansion-k-s-eshwarappa-923514.html
04-12-2020||Main Article||Politics of backwardness||A former chief minister of Karnataka once told me that caste was a key element of the state politics and that cannot be ignored. That was in response to a question I had asked him about the selection to a high-level post of a certain officer whose credentials were questionable. Present Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s action in creating numerous caste-based bodies only reconfirms the dominant role played by caste in the politics and administration of the state. It is pertinent to recall that the erstwhile princely state of Mysore was a pioneer in taking affirmative action in favour of the backward sections of society. Over a century ago, in 1918, then Maharaja of Mysore Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar set up a committee to enquire into the grievances of non-Brahmins regarding inadequate representation in state services. The committee in its report considered backwardness more on the basis of ‘caste’ than on economic criteria and classified all non-Brahmins as ‘backward’. No doubt, Brahmins at that time enjoyed a predominant share in government positions. The Maharaja accepted and implemented the report despite opposition from none other than M Visvesaraya, who resigned from his position as Dewan of Mysore on this issue. There was an undercurrent of conflict between the two dominant communities of Lingayats and Vokkaligas, the latter suspicious of the former who were numerically larger. The dominance of these two communities has continued till this day.  During the last 72 years since independence, among the 22 leaders who have donned the mantle of the chief minister of Karnataka, nine have been Lingayats and six Vokkaligas, together accounting for 68%. The remaining seven have been shared between backward castes (5) and Brahmins (2). It is significant, though sad, that no person from scheduled caste or tribe has ever adorned the chair of the chief minister. The constitution enables the state to make provision “for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens” (Article 15(4)) and “to reserve vacancies in public service”(Art 16(4)). In Karnataka, the first Backward Classes Commission was set up as far back as 1972 under the chairmanship of L G Havanur and it was followed by two more commissions in 1983 and 1988.The Commission has now been made a permanent body with the chairman and members enjoying a term of five years. A Backward Classes Development Corporation was established in 1977 and a separate department of backward classes was carved out of the social welfare department. All these bodies are aimed at ameliorating the welfare of the backward classes and they are allocated funds every year in the state budget. The question then is why is there a mad race for setting up separate bodies for different castes which are already covered under backward classes? Three factors seem to lie behind this: 1) certain castes might nurse the feeling that they are still being ignored and have not derived the benefits they aspired for; 2) a strong sense of identity and desire to have an organisation that can attend exclusively to its awn causes; and, 3) a political leadership willing to consider their demand.  The first could be attributed to the feeling of inequality. The hierarchy of the system of castes and sub-castes is still a strong part of our social system. The crux of the matter lies in caste politics which may be translated as vote bank politics with an eye on retaining or capturing power. And this is what seems to have prompted Yediyurappa to create the Maratha Development Board to woo voters in the upcoming byelection in Basavakalyan.  The decision not only triggered a protest with a threatened bandh on December 5 but a chain reaction resulting in the creation of a series of caste-based organisations. The most vociferous demand came from the chief minister’s own community and he was quick to oblige, setting up the Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation with a magnanimous funding of Rs 500 crore.  Not surprisingly, this has been followed by a demand for Vokkaliga Development Corporation which in all likelihood will be conceded. People would be justified in asking questions about the need for such new organisations, that too at a time when we are in the midst of a severe health crisis and are short of resources forcing the government to resort to borrowing to the tune of Rs 33,000 crore. It may appear strange that increasingly, the demand for more privileges are coming from caste groups considered as ‘forward’ rather than those that are really backward. It is relevant to recall that the second BC Commission headed by Venkataswamy, a retired district judge, had recommended that both Lingayats and Vokkaligas be deleted from the list of OBCs. This was accepted by the government but the strong agitation by both the communities ensured that they were back on the backward list. A similar fate awaited the report of the third BC Commission chaired by Justice O Chinnappa Reddy who had produced one of the finest works on the subject.  Going forward, what is important is to establish accountability of the various bodies associated with the welfare of backward classes. The BC Commission is mandated to conduct surveys on the social and educational status of the citizens of the state and recommend to the government necessary measures for their amelioration.  What action has been taken by the government on the reports of the previous commissions? The Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation is charged with the task of promoting the economic and development activities for the backward classes.  What has been the impact of their activities? In what way will the newly set up bodies differ from the existing ones and how will overlapping be avoided? These are some of the questions that become relevant at this stage. The citizens of the state have a right to demand a white paper on the subject. (The writer is former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/politics-of-backwardness-923086.html
04-12-2020||Main Article||Pollution is religion-blind||In his book, “The History of Fireworks in India Between AD 1400 and 1900”, which was published in 1953 by the Indian Institute of World Culture, Bengaluru, late historian Parashuram Krishna Gode gave an account of how the use of fireworks started in India. According to him, Arabs brought gunpowder technology into India after 1400 AD from China where it was accidentally invented in the 11th and 12th century. Gunpowder was used in the Indian warfare. It later made its way into Diwali celebrations, as it was its main ingredient. The use of fireworks was limited to wealthy and royal households and infiltrated into the middle class as their economic prosperity improved gradually. As for the evolution of 'loudspeaker' is concerned, not before Johann Philipp Reis installed an electric device in his telephone in 1861, nobody had heard about it. Later, Alexander Graham Bell patented it in 1876. Ernst Siemens and Horace Short improvised it further in 1877 and 1898, respectively. However, the modern version of loudspeaker was developed by Chester W Rice and Edward W Kellogg in 1924. By 1930, fixed-magnet loudspeaker introduced by Jensen Company came into the market and was used widely including at ‘religious places’ across the world.  Durga pujas during Navaratri, and Ganesh Chaturthi came to be celebrated in public in Bengal and Maharashtra, respectively, towards the end of the 19th century as mass community events as a tool to fight the colonial regime. It slowly spread across the country, and its purpose was served. However, the nature of celebrating these festivals continued even after independence - in fact, with more fervour, pushing religious and spiritual essence to a relegated position. It was heartening to read a report in Deccan Herald (November 18, 2020) about a drop in air and sound pollution in the city of Bengaluru compared to last year due to the prevailing pandemic situation. Yet, there is no denying that the culture of bursting firecrackers even in small measures affects not only human beings but also hurts birds, animals and aquatics adversely. It is becoming menacing year after year despite appeals made by the government, celebrities and organisations working for saving the environment. As for sound pollution is concerned, there are court rulings already in place against the violation of the permissible decibel levels. Overall, religious activities performed as mass events are increasingly disturbing the normal life of common people. All this contributes to aggregating pollution - air (firecrackers), noise (loudspeakers and firecrackers) and water (immersion of idols prepared from banned materials like clay and toxic colours) besides causing traffic inconvenience by road blockades for hours and days. Why the evolution of religious celebrations as prelude? Here, history is illustrated as a prelude to the context to highlight the fact that except Sikhism which was founded in the 15th century, all major religions practised in India were born much before the invention of fireworks, loudspeakers and celebration of religious festivals as mass community events. It is clear that there is no link as such between the original tradition and what is practised in the present day in the name of religion. Hence, violation of legal norms of any kind cannot be acceptable – be it every day or once a year practice. Dissuading voluntarily from this culture would go a long way in restoring a serene and peaceful aura expected from religious practices or celebrations. Responsibility of the government: The discussed forms of pollution caused in the guise of religion cannot go unchecked forever. Nobody has the right to hold society to ransom with her or his whims and continue to harm the environment – religious and natural. It is high time the state governments acted sternly against the violators. The politicians in the government must remain neutral in dealing with these kinds of issues to make a telling difference on the ground. On the other side, as long as we remain polarised based on religion, we cannot focus on containing pollution caused by ‘bigger players’ who make huge profits at the cost of the environment which affect our lives profoundly. The concerns like industrial waste, vehicular emission, construction and demolition, chemical use, harmful light emissions, use of chemical and synthetic products and so on require urgent attention before nature takes its course for worse through climate change. White froth Spewing of ‘toxic white froth’ on a couple of occasions from the Bellandur lake in Bengaluru since 2015 is one example. Numerous disasters of similar kind happening all over the country go unreported.   Given the socio-religious set-up of our country, is it difficult for the government to function decisively? It is worth recalling here an article (How Personal is the Law?) written by M J Akbar on July 28, 2003 in Deccan Chronicle. It had a message in it. Describing the difficult decision to ban “sati”, Akbar wrote that Lord William Bentinck (Governor-General of India between 1828 and 1835) was able to call for it because the British Raj by then had a clear motto of “Just do it”.  The decision was significant because there was not a murmur in reaction. This was in complete contrast to what was feared by Lord Amherst who was Bentinck’s predecessor - he was advised against such move by all the seven European district magistrates of central India. They warned that such a move would not be acceptable to the people. Today, we have realised how humane and path-breaking this decision was in removing this social ill from our society. The moral of the story is, if the intent were clear on part of the administrators, the result would be effective and beneficial to the people. (The writer is a faculty member with the Gujarat Institute of Development Research, Ahmedabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/pollution-is-religion-blind-923545.html
04-12-2020||National||Australia important partner in post-Covid economic re-balancing: India||Australia is an important partner in the implementation of the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative tabled by India, as well as in the post-Covid economic re-balancing through building more resilient supply chains, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Responding to a question at a media briefing on the conversation between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne earlier this week, and if they discussed the recent Australia-China controversy, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said given the depth and importance of bilateral relations, the two countries exchanged views on regional and global developments as well as current issues of concern. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday had demanded an apology from the Chinese government for tweeting a "falsified" and "repugnant" image of an Australian soldier killing a child in Afghanistan, amid escalating political tensions between Canberra and Beijing. Asked about the conversation between Jaishankar and Payne on Tuesday, Srivastava said, "Australia is an important partner in the implementation of the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative tabled by India, as well as in the post-Covid economic re-balancing through building more resilient supply chains." India and Australia enjoy a strong bilateral relationship and both are democratic nations with shared values based on commitments to a rule-based global order, he said. At the media briefing, Srivastava also said the ships of Indian Navy and the Russian federation Navy will be conducting passage exercise or PASSEX. "This exercise is tentatively scheduled for December 3 and 4 and will be held in the Bay of Bengal. India and Russia are longstanding strategic partners and we share a special and privileged partnership. This proposed PASSEX will maintain the continuity of maritime operational engagement between the two sides," he said. Keeping in view the restrictions related to Covid-19, the PASSEX with the Russian federation Navy will be conducted as a "non- contact, at sea only event". To another question on whether India has invited UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade next month, Srivastava said the announcement regarding the chief guest is made closer to the event and as and when there is something to share, he will do so. Asked when the Nepalese Foreign Minister would visit India, Srivastava said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had extended EAM Jaishankar's invitation to the Nepali foreign minister to visit India for the joint commission meeting. The dates for the visit are still being worked out, he said. To another question on Jaishankar's talks in the UAE during his recent visit specially on job issues of Indians in that country, Srivastava said the external affairs minister had called on the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on November 25 and Ruler of Dubai who is also the Prime Minister and Vice President of UAE Sheikh Mohamed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on November 29 during his stopover in Dubai on the way back from Seychelles. He held discussions with his counterpart, the Foreign Minister of UAE, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan on November 26. During the visit, a range of bilateral, regional and multilateral issues were discussed, including the welfare of the Indian community, Srivastava said. EAM Jaishankar thanked the UAE leadership for taking excellent care of the Indian community during the pandemic and the UAE leadership was also effusive in its praise for the Indian community, he said. "As UAE returns to normalcy their leadership also assured EAM that they would give India’s request due consideration," Srivastava said. Giving an update on the Vande Bharat Mission, he said as on December 3, 34.10 lakh Indians have been repatriated through different modes of the Vande Bharat Mission through Air India flights, private and foreign carriers, chartered flights, naval ships and land border crossings. "Phase 8 of VBM, operational since November 1, 2020, has been extended to be operational until 31 December 2020. Under this extended phase, called Phase 8+, 897 international flights have been scheduled to operate from 15 countries, with a capacity to repatriate an estimated 1.5 lakh people," Srivastava said. In addition to this, flights operated under bilateral air bubble arrangements with 18 countries continue to be operated smoothly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-important-partner-in-post-covid-economic-re-balancing-india-923080.html
04-12-2020||National||Protesting farmers step up agitation, block Ghaziabad-Delhi stretch on NH-9||Scaling up their stir against the Centre's new farm laws, thousands of protesting farmers from Uttar Pradesh blocked National Highway-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday while those from Punjab and Haryana stayed put at other border points leading to the national capital as they remained adamant on their demands. The protesting farmers had on Wednesday threatened to block other roads of Delhi in the coming days if the new agriculture laws are not scrapped soon. Security personnel at border points -- Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur -- stand guard, with the ongoing protests entering their eighth day. The demonstrations are expected to continue as talks between three union ministers and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait held a 'maha panchayat' at one of the protest sites -- Gazipur border. He said there was no midway for settlement on the issue of MSP, adding that the government must give assurance in writing to farmers.   Thousands of farmers, who were staying put at the Ghazipur Border under a flyover, suddenly started gathering with tractors at the NH-9 on Thursday leading to disruption of traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi and later blockade of the busy stretch. "The local police have closed the routes on NH-9 and NH-24 from Ghaziabad to Delhi. On NH-1, both sides of the route have been closed near Shani Mandir," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. Farmers from several districts of western Uttar Pradesh continued their sit-in demonstration at the Chilla Border between Noida and Delhi amid heavy deployment of security personnel. The protest also led to partial closure of a key road connecting Noida and Delhi. One carriageway of the Delhi-Noida Link road – from Delhi to Noida - was open for commuters, while the other side --- Noida to Delhi – remained closed, causing inconvenience to travellers. Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S said, "The law and order situation is under control even though some protestors are continuing with their demonstration on and near the border." One of protestors at the Singhu Border claimed the new farm laws will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. From fixing cars and tractors free of cost to serving sugarcane juice to doctors attending to protestors, Rantir Singh, a mechanic from Punjab, has taken up many roles to ensure farmers camping at Delhi's Singhu border for the last eight days can continue their agitation. "My brother, Jaswant Singh, is camping at the Tikri border and doing the same. He too is a mechanic," says Rantir, from Punjab's Barnala district. Rantir said he has travelled all the way from his village where he has a garage. "I have already fixed 30 to 35 tractors of the farmers here at Singhu border. This is 'sewa' for which we do not charge anything. I have also repaired two to three cars," Rantir told PTI. The Delhi-Haryana border at Jharoda and Jhatikra remained closed for traffic movement. The Badusarai border is open only for two-wheeler traffic. However, people can travel to Haryana through Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri, NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera border points, the traffic police have said. The police also kept the Haryana-Delhi border at Singhu and Tikri closed for traffic for the eighth day on the trot. "Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Lampur, Auchandi & other small borders also closed. Please take alternate routes. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK Road," the traffic police tweeted. On Wednesday, the seventh day of the protest, the farmers demanded that a special Parliament session be convened to repeal the new farm laws. The farmer unions also called for a nationwide protest on Saturday to oppose what they claimed was the "corporatisation" of farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-step-up-agitation-block-ghaziabad-delhi-stretch-on-nh-9-923116.html
04-12-2020||National||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut undergoes angioplasty||Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Thursday underwent angioplasty, his family said. The 59-year-old Sena MP, often in news because of his blunt statements, had undergone his first angioplasty procedure on November 11 last year. "He got admitted into Lilavati hospital today and underwent angiography. Out of three stents placed earlier to remove arterial blockages, one was found blocked again. And a fresh blockage was detected this time," his brother and MLA Sunil Raut said. "Hence the doctors have now inserted another two stents for a smooth blood circulation. His health is stable," Sunil told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-undergoes-angioplasty-923117.html
04-12-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on December 4||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 95 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:    Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  96,02,093 as of December 4 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  139,250 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 89,73,373      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-december-4-923155.html
04-12-2020||National||PM Modi lauds Indian Navy on Navy Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded the Indian Navy on Navy Day, saying it fearlessly protects the country's coasts and also renders humanitarian assistance in times of need. "Navy Day greetings to all our valorous navy personnel and their families. The Indian navy fearlessly protects our coasts and also renders humanitarian assistance in times of need. We also remember India's rich maritime tradition over centuries," he said in a tweet.  Navy Day is celebrated on December 4 every year to commemorate the Indian Navy's attack on Karachi harbour during the 1971 India-Pakistan war, inflicting massive losses on the enemy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-indian-navy-on-navy-day-923172.html
04-12-2020||National||Farmers send legal notice to Kangana Ranaut over 'derogatory' tweets against farmers||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has sent a legal notice to actor Kangana Ranaut, seeking an unconditional apology for her "derogatory" tweets against farmers and activists involved in the protest against the Centre's farm laws, the committee's president said on Friday. The Bollywood star, who is known for her combative comments, was also asked to remove the particular tweets. "We have sent a legal notice to @KanganaTeam for her derogatory tweet calling the aged mother of a farmer as a woman available for Rs 100. Her tweets portray farmers protest as anti-national. We demand an unconditional apology from her for her insensitive remarks on farmers protest," Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of DSGMC, said in a tweet. Earlier this week, Ranaut misidentified a woman farmer from Punjab as Bilkis Bano, the octogenarian who made international headlines during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year in the Delhi neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh. She shared a tweet alleging that the 'Shaheen Bagh dadi' also joined the farmers' agitation over the new agriculture laws at various border points of the national capital.  She retweeted the post with pictures of two elderly women, including Bilkis Bano, and wrote that the "same Dadi" who featured in Time Magazine was "available in 100 rupees". Ranaut was also embroiled in a bitter war of words with actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh over the matter on Thursday. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.  The protesting farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana, as well as Uttar Pradesh, are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-send-legal-notice-to-kangana-ranaut-over-derogatory-tweets-against-farmers-923179.html
04-12-2020||National||NCRB doesn’t have transgender prisoners’ data, RTIs count 214 such prisoners||India does not officially know how many transgender people are lodged in the jails in the country while several prisons identify them as a male or female as per their genitalia and force them to stay in male or female cells citing lack of clarity in prison manuals. RTI responses received by a private watchdog Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) show that there were at least 214 transgender inmates in jails between May 2019 and April 2020 though the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has failed to collect such details in its annual Prison Statistics. Uttar Pradesh (47) and Telangana (40) had the highest highest number of transgender inmates during this period while Odisha (20), Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh (18 each) were other states with higher number of such prisoners. However, this number could be much more as only nine states, including Karnataka, maintain a separate data on transgender prisoners with the CHRI’s 'Lost Identity: Transgender Persons Inside Indian Prisons' report saying that the prisons continue to cater to primarily male populations, and fail to acknowledge the vulnerabilities of transgender prisoners. All jails in UP have not provided information on transgender prisoners. Only ten states, including Karnataka Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, keep transgender inmates separately from male and female inmates. Some jails in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh also do the same while some other states do the segregation by either confining them in separate cells, isolation wards or inside hospitals. States like Punjab and some jails in Jharkhand and Kerala said in RTI responses that a transgender is segregated on the basis of the gender mentioned in court warrants for judicial custody. "They were placed in the male/female wards based on their genitalia: In the responses received from Mizoram, Delhi, and some jails in the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh it was informed that the segregation was happening primarily on the basis of the genitalia/birth sex as identified by the medical officer," the report said. The failure to mention the transgender persons in the NCRB report, while it does it for the Crime in India reports, has also now the reached the Delhi High Court with a law graduate Karan Tripathi filing a petition seeking its inclusion. The petition has claimed that the absence of data on transgender inmates will lead to the community not being able to exercise its rights. "The recognition of a ‘third gender’ and respecting ‘self-identification’ are mandatory requisites which prison administrations must adhere to...It will also enable documentation of transgender prisoner cases, which are essential to understand impact of criminalisation and incarceration on such prisoners, as well as help understand special needs of transgender prisoners," the CHRI report said. "Not only prisons, but courts too fail to recognise a ‘third gender’ and the gender of transgender persons continue to be identified as per their genitalia, and documented in the male/female binary categorisation," the CHRI said. Not a single transgender person is recruited as a jail official across the country between January 2014 and January 2019 while a number of states follow questionable practices in identifying them as male or female by relying on the sex mentioned in court warrants and medical examination. When it comes to training and sensitising prison staff on the rights of transgender prisoners, only Karnataka held a session for its jail officials. Besides Karnataka, the CHRI report said that the states that keep data of transgender persons include Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim and Uttarakhand. Another nine states, including Tamil Nadu and Assam, categorically said they were not recording any such data while in the remaining states and union territories, some jails keep a record while other prisons in the same state keep a blind eye.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncrb-doesn-t-have-transgender-prisoners-data-rtis-count-214-such-prisoners-923188.html
04-12-2020||National||DDC polls candidate shot at by suspected terrorists in Kashmir’s Anantnag||Suspected militants shot at and injured a candidate contesting district development council (DDC) polls in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Friday. Police said unknown gunmen fired upon Anees-ul-Islam of J&K Apni Party in remote Sagam area of Kokernag in Anantnag, 80 km from here, on Friday noon. Anees, contesting DDC election from the area, received a bullet wound in the arm and was shifted to a hospital immediately, police added. Apni Party, which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, is led by Altaf Bukhari, the former Finance Minister of J&K, who quit PDP to form the new party. Immediately after the attack, security forces cordoned off the area to nab the attackers, reports said. The first-ever DDC polls are being held in Jammu and Kashmir in eight phases from November 28 to December 19. In the first phase of polling held on 28 November, 51.76% voting was recorded, while in the second phase held on 1 December, 48.62% polling was recorded. The polling for the third phase is underway. Security has already been beefed up across J&K as militant threats loom large over the DDC elections. Strict vigil is being maintained along the Line of Control and the International Border. Security has also been tightened in the interior areas of J&K. The DDC polls mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the region, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. In the absence of an elected government in the UT, these Councils are set to become a new unit of governance in Jammu and Kashmir. J&K has been under the central rule since June 2018 when the BJP pulled out of the alliance government with the PDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ddc-polls-candidate-shot-at-by-suspected-terrorists-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-923200.html
04-12-2020||National||NIA to probe Nagrota encounter case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will probe the recent encounter at Nagrota in the Jammu region in which four terrorists of the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a Pakistan-based outfit, were killed by police, officials said on Friday. The anti-terror probe agency took over the case following a notification issued by the Centre. The terrorists were killed on November 19 in Jammu and Kashmir's Nagrota area in a swift operation by the police. The NIA probe will try to ascertain the planning and final objective of the four JeM terrorists and the people with whom they were in touch with in Jammu and Kashmir. The NIA is already probing an encounter that took place on January 31 this year in which three terrorists from the JeM were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-to-probe-nagrota-encounter-case-923203.html
04-12-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine to be available in next few weeks, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Covid-19 vaccines would be ready in India in the next few weeks and sought suggestions from state governments and political parties on the planned roll-out of the immunisation drive. Addressing a meeting of floor leaders in Parliament, Modi said that the cost of the vaccine would be decided in consultation with the state government with the top priority being given to public health. The Prime Minister said that the vaccination drive would begin as soon as the government gets the green signal from scientists developing the vaccine and healthcare and frontline workers, besides senior citizens with co-morbidities would be the first to be inoculated. Prominent leaders who attended the virtual meeting included former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav, DMK leader T R Baalu. Chowdhury said that it was noteworthy that the government was planning to vaccinate healthcare workers but there was no roadmap for inoculating 130 crore, Indian citizens. "Will the daily wage workers who struggle to get two square meals a day be able to afford the vaccine," Chowdhury asked. Raut asked the Prime Minister to set up a monitoring committee to ensure that there were no irregularities in the vaccination drive. Yadav asked the government not to hurry on the vaccine front and it should be used only after assuring its safety and efficacy. CPI leader Binoy Biswam could not join the meeting due to technical glitches and a shot of a letter to the Prime Minister making his suggestions. Modi recalled his visit to India's top vaccine hubs to review the development of vaccines and the manufacturing process. He said he was assured that the country had the necessary infrastructure to manufacture the vaccine on a large scale. "Nearly eight vaccines are at different stages of trial with their manufacturing assured in India," he said. Modi said vaccine distribution and administration has been entrusted with a national experts group.  "Advice will be taken from them in a comprehensive and real-time manner. India has the facilities needed to manufacture the vaccine on a large scale. In fact, our preparation is better than most others," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-in-next-few-weeks-says-pm-narendra-modi-923209.html
04-12-2020||National||RBI asks banks to retain profit, not make any dividend payment for FY20||In view of the economic shock caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday asked scheduled commercial banks and co-operative banks not to make any dividends for the financial year ended March 2020. In view of the ongoing stress and the heightened uncertainty on account of the pandemic, RBI said it is imperative that banks continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses, if any. The decision is based on review of the September quarter financial performance of banks. In response to the pandemic, RBI has focused on resolution of stress among borrowers, and facilitating credit flow to the economy, while ensuring financial stability, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said. "In continuation of this effort and to help banks conserve capital while creating room for fresh lending, it has been decided after a review that commercial and co-operative banks will retain the profits and not make any dividend pay-out from the profits pertaining to financial year 2019-20," he said. Guidelines on the above measure will be issued shortly. In April, RBI had announced that scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) and cooperative banks shall not make any dividend payouts from profits pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2020, until further instructions, which shall be reassessed based on financial results of banks for the quarter ending September 30, 2020. Unlike banks, RBI said, currently there are no guidelines in place with regard to distribution of dividend by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). "Keeping in view the increasing significance of NBFCs in the financial system and their interlinkages with different segments, it has been decided to formulate guidelines on dividend distribution by NBFCs. Different categories of NBFCs would be allowed to declare dividend as per a matrix of parameters, subject to a set of generic conditions. A draft circular in this regard will be issued shortly for public comments," he said. RBI further said the ombudsman mechanism instituted by the Reserve Bank is an alternate grievance redress mechanism. "With a view to enhancing the efficacy of the grievance redress mechanism in banks, it has been decided to put in place a comprehensive framework comprising inter alia (i) enhanced disclosures on customer complaints, (ii) monetary disincentives in the form of recovery of cost of redress of complaints, and (iii) undertaking intensive review of grievance redress mechanisms and supervisory action against regulated entities failing to improve their redress mechanisms," he said. The framework would be put in place during January 2021, RBI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-asks-banks-to-retain-profit-not-make-any-dividend-payment-for-fy20-923215.html
04-12-2020||National||PM Modi addresses all-party meet on Covid-19, vaccine: Key things to know||PM Modi addressed an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation. Here are the key things to know: 1. "Eight vaccines are in different stages and three are in key trial stages. Experts believe that the world is weeks away from a vaccine," the Prime Minister said. 2. "Prices of the vaccine is of key importance. The government is in talks with states to determine prices and costs of vaccines and inoculation," he added. 3. "The world is keenly watching and waiting for vaccine development, and India is also at the forefront of its development and will get a vaccine as soon as it is deemed safe. India will start Covid-19 vaccination programme as soon as experts give nod," he said following the all-party meet. 4. On concerns of the cold chain distribution and logistical availability for distribution of vaccines, the Prime Minister reassured parties that India has a great and well-experienced cold-chain distribution network and measures are being taken to strengthen this network further. 5. Center and states are collaborating on this vaccine distribution chain network." India has the expertise & capacity in vaccine distribution & fare better compared to other nations. We have a very big and experienced network in the field of vaccination. We will fully exploit it," the PM said. 6. Health workers will be the first to get vaccines, the prime minister reiterated. 7. Our scientists are very confident of succeeding in their endeavour of making the coronavirus vaccine. The world is keeping a watch on the cheapest & safe vaccine. That is why the world is watching India. 8. Even as we are the doorstep of a vaccine, it is of crucial importance to maintain all precautions, social distancing and follow mask protocols, the PM reminded the nation. 9. PM Modi asked representatives of states to send suggestions in writing and assured that they will be taken seriously. 10. India has increased testing and has a low recovery rate, due to our scientific approach, said the prime minister. "The scientific approach is important on the way ahead. There will be rumours as such a massive vaccination programme will be underway, hence important to keep citizens alert on fake news," said Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-addresses-all-party-meet-on-covid-19-vaccine-key-things-to-know-923218.html
04-12-2020||National||Sandalwood drug case: SC notice to Karnataka govt on actor Ragini Dwivedi's bail plea||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by Kannada film actor Ragini Dwivedi for bail in a drug case. She filed a special leave petition, challenging the Karnataka High Court's order of November 3, declining her relief. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph sought a reply from the state government on the petition by the actor. She was represented by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra. Ragini (30) was arrested by the Central Crine Branch (CCB), Bengaluru on September 4 on charges of association with an international drug peddling racket involved in supplying psychedelic drugs to customers at parties and other events. She has been booked under provisions of the NDPS and IPC Acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sandalwood-drug-case-sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-actor-ragini-dwivedis-bail-plea-923221.html
04-12-2020||National||Indian Navy an outstanding force: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday described the Indian Navy as an "outstanding force" as he greeted it on the occasion of Navy Day. In a tweet, Singh hailed the Indian Navy's professionalism and particularly mentioned its efforts to keep India's sea lanes safe. "On the occasion of #indiannavyday2020 my greetings and best wishes to all personnel of this outstanding force. The @indiannavy is at the forefront of keeping our seas safe by ensuring maritime security. I salute their valour, courage and professionalism," Singh said. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria paid their tributes to the country's fallen heroes at the National War Memorial on the occasion of the Navy Day. Navy Day is celebrated every year on December 4 to commemorate the Indian Navy's achievement in inflicting heavy damage on Pakistani vessels in Karachi harbour during the India-Pakistan war in 1971. In a message, Admiral Singh reaffirmed the Navy's steadfast commitment to ensure India's maritime security and territorial integrity. The Indian Navy has increased its surveillance missions and beefed up operational deployment in the Indian Ocean in the wake of increasing forays into the region by Chinese naval vessels and submarines. "On the occasion of #NavyDay2020 we reaffirm #IndianNavy's steadfast commitment to the service of the Nation and towards ensuring our maritime security & territorial integrity," Admiral Singh said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, in a tweet, said his ministry has been a close partner of the Navy in securing India's interest abroad and that both sides have jointly delivered on humanitarian assistance and disaster relief that has enhanced the country's stature. "Look forward to continuing this partnership," he said. US Ambassador Ken Juster too conveyed greetings to the Indian Navy and mentioned last month's "successful" Malabar naval exercise. "On behalf of the U.S. Mission in India, a very happy #NavyDay to @IndianNavy.We thank you for hosting the US, Japan, and Australia for this year's successful Malabar Exercise and look forward to continued growth in the #USIndiaDefense partnership. Sham No Varunah!," he tweeted. India had invited Australia to be part of the Malabar exercise this year that effectively made it a drill by all the Quad member nations. The Quad, comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan, is aimed at ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific, a region that witnessed increasing Chinese military assertiveness in the recent years. At a press conference on Thursday, Admiral Singh said that Indian Navy remained steadfast in protecting India's maritime interests. "In these testing times, the Indian Navy aims to stand steadfast as a combat-ready, credible and cohesive force furthering our national and maritime interests," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-an-outstanding-force-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-923234.html
04-12-2020||National||BJP selling farmers' rights to corporate houses through farm laws, alleges TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Friday expressed its ire against the "draconian" farm bills, which it alleged were passed without consultation with stakeholders, and accused the BJP of selling farmers' rights to corporate houses. TMC Rajya Sabha leader Derek O' Brien met the agitating farmers in Haryana in the afternoon. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also spoke with the farmers over the phone and expressed her solidarity with their agitation, a party statement said. She tweeted earlier in the day, "14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre #StandWithFarmers." The TMC supremo was then an opposition leader during the Left Front rule in the state. Banerjee had on Thursday threatened to launch a country-wide agitation if the "anti-farmer" farm laws were not withdrawn. In a statement, the TMC said that Brien spent a few hours meeting various groups of farmers who have parked their tractors and other vehicles on a highway at Delhi's Singhu border with Haryana. "The CM spoke to the farmers. Four telephone calls to different groups from Haryana and Punjab. They shared their demand (Centre must repeal farmer bills) with the Bengal CM and thanked her for her solidarity. They also expressed their gratitude for all her support to farmers and land movements in the past," the statement said. Banerjee also said that she will stand by the farmers in this movement to repeal the farm laws, it added. Senior TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar alleged that the new farm laws are "unconstitutional" and were passed to help the corporate houses. "We demand that these laws be withdrawn. These laws were passed not to help the farmers but were done to help the multinational and corporate houses. The intention of the BJP is to sacrifice the interest of the farmers to serve its own interest," she told reporters here. She also said that the TMC will launch a country-wide movement if the farm laws were not withdrawn. Marathon talks between the Centre and the agitating farmer unions on Thursday failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws as the protestors refused to budge on their demands and another round of discussions will be held on Saturday in a bid to forge a resolution. The government side, led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, assured the group of nearly 40 farmer leaders that all their valid concerns would be discussed and considered with an open mind, but the other side stuck to their demand of repealing the three "hastily-passed" farm laws, saying there were several loopholes and deficiencies. Agitating farmers had on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and "take more steps" if it failed to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-selling-farmers-rights-to-corporate-houses-through-farm-laws-alleges-tmc-923241.html
04-12-2020||National||Three crore Indians to get Covid-19 vaccine shots||India plans to roll out its Covid-19 vaccination campaign by inoculating nearly three crore individuals out of which one crore would be doctors and healthcare workers, top officials of the Union Health Ministry informed an all-party meeting in New Delhi on Friday. The remaining two crore would mostly be frontline workers such as police, paramilitary forces, armed forces and fire service officials. A section of the elderly people with serious comorbidity conditions may also be considered in the initial round as indicated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who spoke at the meeting. Modi said eight vaccines would be manufactured in India after a green signal from scientists, with prices being determined in consultation with states to keep them affordable. Over the last weekend, the PM met six Indian manufacturers who would make these eight vaccines after obtaining regulatory clearances. They are: Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Zydus Cadila, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Biological Evans and Dr Reddy’s Laboratory. Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech will produce two vaccines each, subject to regulatory clearance. The first one off the block would be a two-dose vaccine made by Serum Institute with the same master-seed used in the Astra-Oxford vaccine. The company had indicated that it would shortly approach the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency authorisation.  SII had claimed it would make 100 million doses immediately available for use in India while 400 million has been promised by July 2021. Instead of universal vaccination as promised earlier, the Centre currently plans to vaccinate only a select group of people hoping to break the chain of transmission of the virus that has infected nearly 96 lakh Indians so far and killed in excess of 139,000. Modi said Covid-19 vaccines would be ready in the next few weeks and sought suggestions from state governments and political parties on the planned rollout. Prominent leaders who attended the virtual meeting included former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav and DMK leader T R Baalu. Chowdhury said it was noteworthy that the government was planning to vaccinate healthcare workers but there was no roadmap for inoculating 130 crore citizens. Raut asked the Prime Minister to set up a monitoring committee to ensure that there were no irregularities in the vaccination drive whereas Yadav, who also chairs the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health, warned the government not to hurry on the vaccine front and use it only after assuring its safety and efficacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-crore-indians-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots-923243.html
04-12-2020||National||Delhi HC grants bail to journalist Rajeev Sharma in espionage case||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to journalist Rajeev Sharma who was arrested for allegedly passing sensitive information to Chinese agencies, due to the failure of Delhi police to file a charge sheet within a period of 60 days. Justice Yogesh Khanna said that the period for filing charge sheet in cases lodged under the Official Secrets Act was 60 days, so the order passed by the judicial magistrate declining Sharma a relief was "illegal". The court allowed him to default bail under Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Delhi police counsel opposed the plea, saying that since the offence under the Official Secrets Act was punishable with a maximum of 14 years, the time limit to file the charge sheet was 90 days. So the petitioner was not entitled to default bail. "Where there is no minimum punishment prescribed and the maximum punishment is more than 10 years then the charge sheet can be filed beyond 60 days but before 90 days from the date of arrest," the police said. The court, however, said that the offences for which the petitioner was arrested entailed maximum punishment of 14 years of jail but no minimum sentence was prescribed. Thus, the petitioner would be entitled to default bail. The court asked Sharma to furnish a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and a surety of the amount for his release. He was arrested on September 14 by the Delhi police's Special Cell for possession of some defence-related documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-journalist-rajeev-sharma-in-espionage-case-923244.html
04-12-2020||National||Covid-19: UGC grants six months extension to MPhil, PhD students for thesis submission||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has granted a six-month extension for submission of the thesis to MPhil and Ph.D. students in wake of the prolonged closure of universities due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the students were granted an extension till December 31. However, the same has been extended till June 30 now but the tenure of fellowship for Ph.D. and MPhil will remain the same--5 years. "Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the universities have remained closed for the past several months. Therefore, the students have not been able to conduct their research or experiments in the university laboratories nor they were able to access library services that are critical for completion of the thesis," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said. The UGC had on April 29 issued guidelines on examination and academic calendar for the universities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. As per these guidelines, an extension of six months was conveyed for MPhil and Ph.D. students who were to submit their dissertation or thesis. "In view of the above and in the larger interest of the research scholars, a further extension of six months for terminal MPhil and Ph.D. students, who were supposed to submit their thesis by December 31, may be granted by the universities till June 30. "Extension of six months, as mentioned above, may also be granted for submitting evidence of publication and presentation in two conferences. However, the tenure of the fellowship of MPhil and Ph.D. will be the same (5 years)," he added. Universities were closed in March in order to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. A nationwide lockdown was announced later. The Centre has permitted phase wise reopening of varsities and colleges for research scholars and final year students while the majority teaching-learning activities continue to be done online. The decision about reopening of varsities and higher educational institutions has been left to state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ugc-grants-six-months-extension-to-mphil-phd-students-for-thesis-submission-923254.html
04-12-2020||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload further dips to 4.35% of total cases||Continuing with the trend of the last seven days, the country has also reported more daily recoveries than daily new cases in a span of 24 hours, it said on Friday. The trend of more daily recoveries than daily cases has led to a continuous contraction of India's active caseload which stands at 4,16,082 as on date, the ministry said. While 36,595 persons in India were found to be infected with Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, 42,916 new recoveries were registered during the same period, it said. "The difference of 6,321 between new recoveries and new cases has led to a net decline of 6,861 cases from the total active caseload in a day," the ministry said. India still continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population in the world (6,936), much lower than many other countries of the western hemisphere, it said. The recoveries have surged to 90,16,289 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.2 per cent as on date. "The gap between recoveries and active cases is steadily increasing and presently, stands at 86,00,207," the ministry said. It said that 80.19 per cent of the new recovered cases were contributed by 10 states and union territories (UTs). Maharashtra leads with 8,066 persons recovering from Covid-19 while Kerala recorded 5,590 recoveries. Delhi registered another 4,834 daily recoveries. Ten states and UTs have contributed 75.76 per cent of the new cases. Kerala reported 5,376 cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra registered 5,182 new cases on Thursday, while Delhi recorded 3,734 new cases. In a span of 24 hours, 540 case fatalities have been reported. The ministry said that 77.78 per cent of them are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra reported 115 deaths which was 21.29 per cent of the new fatalities. Delhi saw a fatality count of 82, while West Bengal reported 49 new deaths. When compared globally, India has one of the lowest case fatalities per million population at 101. India's total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,71,559 with 36,595 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,39,188 with 540 new fatalities, ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-further-dips-to-435-of-total-cases-923262.html
04-12-2020||National||Polling underway for third phase of DDC polls in J&K||Polling for the third phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir began on a dull note as foggy and chilly weather conditions kept most people indoors early on Friday, officials said. The polling for 33 DDC seats -- 16 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu division -- began at 7 am but little enthusiasm was seen at the polling stations in the valley,  the officials said. They said voter turnout in expected to pick up later in day as the polling is scheduled to conclude at 2 pm. There are a total of 305 candidates in the electoral fray including 166 from Kashmir division and 139 from Jammu division for DDC elections in phase 3. Out of 305 candidates, 252 are men whereas 53 are women candidates. Polling is also being held for vacant panch and sarpanch constituencies. Out of the 126 constituencies, polling will take place in 66 constituencies and a total of 184 candidates are in the fray. Forty sarpanch constituencies have been filled unopposed. Similarly, in panch by-elections, there are 1738 constituencies, and out of them 798 have been elected unopposed. Polling will take place in 327 constituencies and there are 749 candidates are in the fray. As many as 7,37,648 electors are eligible to cast their votes in phase 3 which includes 385675 men and 351973 women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/polling-underway-for-third-phase-of-ddc-polls-in-jk-923266.html
04-12-2020||National||Punjab farmers have brought Modi govt to its knees: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday said that the farmers from Punjab have brought the Modi government to its knees through their protest against the new farm laws and the world has taken note of the unity shown by them. "Despite the winter chill, the farmers from Punjab have made the Modi government sweat. The protesters seem to be getting aggressive. The Modi government had not faced this kind of a challenge earlier. The government's usual weapons of CBI, Income Tax, ED and NCB are of no use in this case. The farmers have brought the government to its knees," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "They are firm on their demand that the three controversial farm laws must be repealed. They even declined food and water provided by the government during a round of talks," it said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party hit out at the Modi government saying that it carried out "unjust" demonetisation, rolled out "devastating" GST. It also alleged that in order to hide the issues of unemployment and inflation, the government made use of issues like India-Pakistan conflict. "It offered Ram temple to the people troubled by the lockdown. However, no lollipop worked before the farmers from Punjab. This is the success of Punjab's unity. All attempts were made by the BJP's IT cell to discredit the protest," the party said. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya called Rahul Gandhi the most discredited opposition leader in the country when the former Congress president posted a picture of an old farmer being beaten by the police, the Sena said. "But Twitter made Malviya aware of the reality," it said. "We are not happy that the Modi government has been cornered by the protesters. But we only want the government to hear the farmers out. Today Punjab is on the boil, but what will happen if the entire country reacts in a similar way?" it asked. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The protesting farmers are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-farmers-have-brought-modi-govt-to-its-knees-shiv-sena-923268.html
04-12-2020||National||Covid-19: Zydus Cadila gets DCGI nod for phase 3 clinical trials with biological therapy||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has received the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to start phase 3 clinical trials with its biological therapy PegiHep in Covid-19 patients. The company had completed the phase 2 clinical trials with PegiHep last month. In a regulatory filing, Zydus Cadila said it has received approval from the DCGI to start the phase 3 clinical trials in Covid-19 patients with its biological therapy Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b or PegiHep. The trials, which will commence in December, will be conducted on 250 patients across 20-25 centres in India, according to the filing. Sharvil Patel, Managing Director of Cadila Healthcare Ltd, said, "we are encouraged by the results of phase 2 study of Pegylated Interferon alpha 2-b which has shown the potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease. "Our efforts are to look at possible treatment options to fight Covid-19 which are safe, can be administered easily and also reduce the disease burden". Further, the company said it is conducting a similar phase 2 trial in Mexico and is also working with the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to open an Investigational New Drug (IND) application for PegiHep in order to initiate appropriate clinical trials in the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-zydus-cadila-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-clinical-trials-with-biological-therapy-923275.html
04-12-2020||National||When will every Indian get free Covid-19 vaccine? Rahul Gandhi asks Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will clarify at the all-party meeting by when will every Indian get free Covid-19 vaccine. His remark came ahead of the all-party meeting convened by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country, the vaccine challenges and the way forward. "In today's all-party meeting, we hope the PM clarifies by when will every Indian get free Covid-19 vaccine," he said on Twitter. Floor leaders of various parties in Parliament have been invited by the government at the virtual all-party meeting on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-will-every-indian-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-rahul-gandhi-asks-modi-923280.html
04-12-2020||National||Don't label protesting farmers as 'Khalistanis', 'anti-nationals': Editors Guild to media houses||The Editors Guild of India on Friday asked the media not to label farmers against the Centre on three contentious farm laws as 'Khalistanis' and anti-nationals, saying the fourth estate should not be complicit to any narrative that derogates dissent. It issued an advisory to the media against the backdrop of a section seeking to depict the protesters, largely Sikhs from Punjab, as Khalistanis, who are separatists, and anti-nationals and some media, including news channels, started parroting this. The Editors Guild said that it was "concerned" about the news coverage of the protests at the Delhi borders "wherein certain sections of the media have been labelling them as 'Khalistanis', 'anti-nationals', and other such terms to delegitimise the protests without any evidence or proof". "This goes against the tenets of responsible and ethical journalism. Such actions compromise the credibility of the media," the advisory said.  It advised the media organisations to "display fairness, objectivity, and balance" in reporting the farmers’ protests, "without displaying partisanship against those who are exercising their constitutional rights to express themselves". "Media shouldn’t be complicit to any narrative that derogates dissent and stereotypes protestors based on their attire and ethnicity," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-label-protesting-farmers-as-khalistanis-anti-nationals-editors-guild-to-media-houses-923301.html
04-12-2020||National||India formally protests to Canada over Justin Trudeau's remarks on agitating farmers||India summoned Canada's ambassador on Friday and said comments made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau over protests by farmers near Delhi were an interference in its domestic affairs and would seriously hurt bilateral ties. Trudeau, speaking to the Indian community in Canada, said this week that he was concerned about the farmers, most of them from the Sikh-dominated Indian state of Punjab, camped out on the outskirts of Delhi in a protest against farm reforms. The Indian foreign ministry said in a statement that comments on "issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs." India and Canada have warm ties, but in recent years there has been a concern in India that some Sikh leaders in Canada have ties to separatist groups hostile to India. Canada is home to an influential Sikh community and Indian leaders say there are some fringe groups there that are still sympathetic to the cause of an independent Sikh state called Khalistan, carved out of India. The Indian foreign ministry said comments made by Trudeau and other leaders had emboldened radical groups and they were a risk to its diplomatic staff based in Canada. "We expect the Canadian Government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimize extremist activism," it said. There was no comment from the Canadian embassy. The Indian government has held talks with the farmers to end the impasse and persuade them that farm reforms were in their interest in the long-term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-formally-protests-to-canada-over-justin-trudeaus-remarks-on-agitating-farmers-923303.html
04-12-2020||National||Tata Motors delivers 26 AC electric buses to Mumbai's BEST||Tata Motors on Friday delivered 26 AC electric buses to Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) as part of an order for 340 e-buses under the central government's FAME-II scheme. The 25-seater state-of the art Ultra Urban 9/9 e-AC buses were flagged off by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at an event in South Mumbai, Tata Motors said in a release. The delivery of the first batch of the buses marks the commencement of the first-ever Gross Cost Contract (GCC) electric bus service to BEST, it said. The buses are delivered as part of the larger order of 340 e-buses from BEST under the government's FAME-II initiative, with the rest lined up to be delivered in a phased manner as per schedule, the company stated. Tata Motors will be undertaking to build, deploy, maintain and operate the complete charging infrastructure along with the buses across four Mumbai depots of Backbay, Worli, Malvani and Shivaji Nagar, it added. "Tata Motors is delighted to have delivered the first (batch) 26 of the 340 electric buses for the city of Mumbai. The buses have been specially designed keeping the comfort and convenience of Mumbaikars including a "lift mechanism" for differently-abled travellers," said Girish Wagh, President, Commercial Vehicle Business Unit, Tata Motors. Tata Motors' global standards of manufacturing processes and vehicle development centres have helped in innovating and leading the electric mobility solutions from the front, he said, adding that the company will continue to play a proactive role in the government's electrification drive. The e-buses are equipped with advanced features such as a lift mechanism that extends an automated ramp for easy ingress and egress of specially-abled passengers, along with ergonomic seats, roomy interiors, utility provisions like charging ports, WiFi hotspot for on-the-go connectivity, and wide entry and exit passages. Besides, the buses also come with Intelligent Transport System (ITS), telematics system, regenerative braking system, amongst other features, for efficient and smooth operations, Tata Motors said. The buses have been tested and validated by Tata Motors across states, including Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Assam and Maharashtra, to establish performance in diverse terrains, according to the automaker. Under the group's unique 'One Tata' initiative, Tata Power will be contributing by taking complete charge of upstream and downstream electrical facilities including supplies, and will also be responsible for the complete bus charging facility, the release said. Tata Auto Components will undertake collaborations, design, development, sourcing, and supply of select components to Tata Motors under the initiative, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-motors-delivers-26-ac-electric-buses-to-mumbais-best-923310.html
04-12-2020||National||Important to have large basket of Covid-19 vaccine candidates: DBT Secy||It is important to have a large basket of Covid-19 vaccines as it is really difficult to know which one is going to be the best among the lot, Department of Biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup said on Friday. She said the vaccines that are being developed indigenously are on different platforms and each has its own benefits and challenges. "It is important to have a large basket of vaccines as we move forward because we really don't know which one is going to be the best. "It is not necessary that the first one is the best, you may have one coming later which is going to be better but it is difficult to say right now," she said at a webinar. There are 30 vaccine candidates which are being developed within the country. Five vaccine candidates are under different phases of clinical trials in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting Phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR has already started the Phase-3 clinical trial.  Another indigenously-developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has also completed Phase-2 clinical trial in the country.   Dr Reddy's Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday announced the start of adaptive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. Also, Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.        Swarup said a lot of effort has gone in the development of the vaccine, like building capacity for clinical trials. Stressing that vaccine development is a complex process, she said a lot of science has gone in making it. She said the DBT has an expert committee to track the development related to Covid-19 vaccine. The panel, which also has experts from within the country and outside, meet every two weeks to discuss not just with the academic research groups but also the vaccine manufacturers and developers to understand what they need for its development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-to-have-large-basket-of-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-dbt-secy-923313.html
04-12-2020||National||Protesting farmers call for 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8, say will intensify agitation if demands not met||Ahead of their talks with the Modi government, agitating farmers on Friday toughened their stand for the repeal of the farm laws and gave a call for a nationwide shutdown on Tuesday even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar pinned hopes on a resolution to the deadlock. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders held a series of meetings throughout Friday to deliberate on the government’s offer for eight amendments to the three farm laws and consider relaxation to the punishment for stubble burning but decided to stick to their demand for the repeal of the three laws. “We will intensify the agitation in the days to come. Our program to burn effigies of the Modi government and corporate leaders will go as planned on Saturday,” Harinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), told reporters in Delhi on behalf of the protestors. He said that sportspersons and prominent personalities will return their state honours on Monday and farmers would stop the collection of toll on highways across the country on December 8 as part of the ‘Bharat Bandh’. Opposition parties such as Congress and Trinamool Congress have mounted pressure on the government with demands for convening a short session to repeal the farm laws, while leaders of 10 trade unions and Supreme Court Bar Association backed the farmers' protests. The farmer leaders are scheduled to meet a three-member ministerial team led by Tomar on Saturday afternoon as part of the talks to address their concerns over the farm sector reforms unveiled by the Centre. “Our only demand during the meeting with the government on December 5 will be a complete rollback of the three laws,” Lakhowal said. A series of meetings were also held by Tomar, including one with Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, to prepare draft amendments to the three farm laws as discussed with the farmer leaders on Thursday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting organisations, have called upon farmers from neighbouring states to march to Delhi from Jaipur and Agra and block highways. RSS-affiliated Bhartiya Kisan Sangh said that it is in favour of the purchase of farm commodities at minimum support price in APMC as well as private mandis, but had stayed away from the farmers’ agitation as it has turned violent. “We are sure things will reach to some conclusion on Saturday,” Tomar told CNN-News18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-december-8-say-will-intensify-agitation-if-demands-not-met-923331.html
04-12-2020||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on status of Rajoana's death sentence||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to inform within two weeks about the status of commuting the death sentence of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a death row convict, who is in jail for 25 years, on conviction in the case of assassination of then Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh.  "It is not denied that the petitioner has himself not filed any appeal against his sentence. Therefore, there is no question of awaiting the outcome of any appeal pending before this court," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The court also pointed out that it is obvious that the factum of the appeals pending at the behest of other co-accused would have no relevance to the proposal intended to be sent for consideration under Article 72 (power of President to grant pardon, reprieve, respite, and remission) of the Constitution. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was dealing with a writ petition filed by Balwant Singh. He was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi. The court's query came after Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj, appearing on behalf of the Union government, said that the proposal has not been sent in view of the pending appeals of the co-accused before the top court. On September 27, 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs, has written to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, and Delhi that on the occasion of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, special remission and release of prisoners are proposed.  As many as eight Sikh prisoners were to be given special remission under Article 161 of the Constitution and released from prison. However, the proposal for commutation of the death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner was to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution.  53-year-old Rajoana was sentenced to death by a special CBI court in Chandigarh on August 1, 2007, for his involvement in an explosion outside Punjab Civil Secretariat leading to the killing of then Punjab CM and 16 others in 1995. His hanging was stayed in 2012 by the then UPA government on the filing of a mercy petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-status-of-rajoanas-death-sentence-923347.html
04-12-2020||National||Covid-like pandemics can pose threat to country's internal security: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Covid-like pandemics can pose a threat to the country's internal security and policymakers should address this challenge, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Friday. Addressing the all-party meeting convened by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha also said that the country should be well-placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage. "Covid-like pandemics can be one of the greatest threats to the internal security of any country. In the future, policymakers at the national level should include Covid-like pandemics as a threat to internal security, besides external threats and internal insurgencies, if any," Azad said in the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress leader called for putting in place a vaccine safety monitoring mechanism to assess long-term adverse effects after immunisation. The former Union minister said that scientists, policy makers, and political leaders must work together on Covid-19 vaccine prioritisation and distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-like-pandemics-can-pose-threat-to-countrys-internal-security-ghulam-nabi-azad-923352.html
04-12-2020||National||Kolkata's air quality deteriorates to 'very poor'||The air quality in most parts of Kolkata deteriorated to 'very poor', while it turned 'severe' in the northern parts of the metropolis on Friday, a West Bengal Pollution Control Board (PCB) official said. The automated air monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) on B T Road in north Kolkata recorded the air quality index (AQI) of 408 PM 2.5 at 3 pm, which is categorised as 'severe'. "The AQI recorded at RBU during the day is the worst this year. It was caused mostly due to wintry conditions with particulate matters hanging in the air and a large number of vehicles hitting the roads," he said. AQI between 401 and 500 is designated as 'severe' and affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, causing respiratory difficulties, environmentalist S M Ghosh said. "It is caused by the plying of a large number of diesel-run commercial vehicles, use of coal-fired chulha (clay stove) by roadside eateries and garbage burning at dumping yards," he said. The air quality turned 'very poor' (301-400) in other parts of the city. It can aggravate asthma and other respiratory conditions. Ballygunge recorded AQI of 309, Bidhan Nagar 320, Fort William 324, Victoria Memorial 314 and Jadavpur 303. "Due to garbage burning and a higher number of vehicles on the roads, such situations may arise during the onset of winter. "The PCB is taking steps like banning coal-fired chulha and old commercial vehicles in the city. The board is also using water sprinkler vehicles to prevent the accumulation of dust in the air," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkatas-air-quality-deteriorates-to-very-poor-923353.html
04-12-2020||National||ED seizes Vijay Mallya’s property in France worth Rs 14 crore||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached businessman Vijay Mallya's property worth 1.6 million Euro (Rs 14 crore) in France under the anti-money laundering law. The French authorities undertook the action "on the request" of the ED on the property located at 32 Avenue FOCH. An ED statement said, "investigations conducted under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act revealed that "a large amount was remitted abroad from the bank account of Kingfisher Airlines Ltd (KAL)". The agency had initiated a money laundering probe based on a CBI FIR against the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, Mallya and others on 25 January, 2016. So far, the ED has attached properties worth Rs 11,231.70 crore, which was the value at the time of attachment. The ED has also managed to declare Mallya as a fugitive economic offender in January last year with a Mumbai court acceding to its plea. The 64-year-old liquor baron, who also owned the Kingfisher Airlines, was accused of over Rs 9,000 crore loan fraud and is presently in the United Kingdom. His leaving India in March 2016 had triggered a controversy. Presently, he is on bail on an extradition warrant, which was executed by Scotland Yard on 18 April, 2017. The West Minister's Magistrates Court had ruled in favour of his extradition in December 2018. "In its order, the court has observed that a clear evidence of dispersal and misapplication of the loan funds and prima facie, found that accused Vijay Mallya was involved in conspiracy to launder money. Appeals of Vijay Mallya to the UK High Court and later Supreme Court have been rejected," the ED statement said. However, he is yet to be extradited as India will have to wait till a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature, is resolved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-seizes-vijay-mallya-s-property-in-france-worth-rs-14-crore-923354.html
04-12-2020||National||PNB scam: No bail for top official of Mehul Choksi's firm||A special CBI court here on Friday rejected the bail plea of Vipul Chitalia, vice president of the Gitanjali Group of Companies arrested in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. Chitalia, who was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation in March 2018, had filed a bail application for the second time. Special CBI judge V C Barde rejected the application. The CBIhad alleged that Chitalia was the "mastermind" for putting through fraudulent transactions along with absconding accused Mehul Choksi, owner of the Gitanjali group. Chitalia was also the authorised signatory of the group for the issuance of applications for Letters of Undertaking (LoU), the agency said. He was instrumental in preparing applications for carrying out fraudulent LoU transactions with the active connivance of key accused Gokulnath Shetty, a former PNB official, the CBI alleged. An LoU is a bank guarantee under which a bank can allow its customer to raise money from another, typically overseas bank. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi, in connivance with some bank officials, are accused of duping PNB of Rs 14,000 crore by obtaining LoUs fraudulently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-no-bail-for-top-official-of-mehul-choksis-firm-923365.html
04-12-2020||National||ED moves court to get Iqbal Mirchi's family declared as fugitive economic offenders||The Enforcement Directorate has moved a Mumbai court to get three family members of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi declared as fugitive economic offenders followed by confiscation of their assets, the agency said on Friday. It said an application has been filed under section 4 (read with) section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act of 2018 before the court "with a prayer to declare Junaid Iqbal Memon, Asif Iqbal Memon (sons of Mirchi) and Hajra Memon (wife) as fugitive economic offenders". The central probe agency said in a statement that the application also seeks confiscation of their assets as envisaged under the law. "In the first phase, prayer has been made for confiscation of 15 Indian properties including the 3rd and 4th floor of Ceejay House (in Mumbai) having market value of about Rs 96 crore and six bank accounts having balance of Rs 1.9 crore." "Prayer has also been made for allowing ED to file supplementary applications under the fugitive economic offenders law," it said. Mirchi, his family and others are being probed by the ED under the criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and properties worth about Rs 798 crore have been attached by it till now in this case. An open ended non-bailable warrant has also been issued by a special PMLA court in Mumbai against the three family members of Mirchi after a charge sheet was filed against them by the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-moves-court-to-get-iqbal-mirchis-family-declared-as-fugitive-economic-offenders-923368.html
04-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Farmers' groups call for Bharat Bandh on December 8 against farm laws||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Covid-19 vaccine will be first given to about one crore health workers;  farmers' group give a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appeals to pro-Kannada organisations not to go for Karnataka bandh on Saturday; India beats Australia in the first T20 International and  Supreme Court issues notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by Kannada film actor Ragini Dwivedi for bail in a drug case.  Here are the top stories of December 4, 2020: The farmers' group on Friday gave a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. We have decided to give 'Bharat bandh' call on December 8, said farmer leader Harvinder Singh Ladkhwal after a meeting.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday made a fervent appeal to pro-Kannada organisations not to go for Karnataka bandh on Saturday against the formation of the Maratha Development Authority (MDA) Yediyurappa said he is making every effort to take all the communities along. He underlined that he is doing everything to give prominence to Kannada language. Diesel price on Friday crossed Rs 73 a litre in Delhi and petrol rate neared Rs 83 after 12th increase in the last fortnight. Petrol price on Friday was hiked by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise in line with the firming international oil rates, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. This is the 12th increase in rates since November 20 when oil companies resumed daily price revision after a nearly two-month hiatus. Yuzvendra Chahal turned out to be the perfect concussion substitute after an injured Ravindra Jadeja did his part with the bat as the duo played their roles to perfection in India's impressive 11-run victory over Australia in the first T20 International on Friday. While Jadeja smashed an unbeaten 44 off 23 balls to propel India to 161 for 7, his head injury turned out to be a blessing in disguise with India unleashing Chahal (3/25 in 4 overs) on an Australian side caught completely off-guard. The hosts could manage only 150 for 7 in 20 overs The covid-19 vaccine will be first given to about one crore health workers from both the public and private sectors, and then to about two crore frontline workers, the Union Health Ministry said in its presentation at the all-party meet on Friday, source said. The presentation was given by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan at the meeting, which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In its presentation, the ministry said that Covid-19 vaccine will be first given to about one crore health workers, including doctors and nurses, the sources said. Thereafter, it will be given to about two crore frontline workers such as police and armed forces personnel, and municipal workers, among others, they said The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by Kannada film actor Ragini Dwivedi for bail in a drug case. She filed a special leave petition, challenging the Karnataka High Court's order of November 3, declining her relief. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph sought a reply from the state government on the petition by the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-farmers-groups-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-december-8-against-farm-laws-923370.html
04-12-2020||National||Green cover on both sides of highways must to curb vehicular pollution: NGT||The National Green Tribunal on Friday said that green cover on both sides of highways is absolutely essential to mitigate the adverse impact of vehicular pollution. Slamming the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for not taking responsibility to put a green cover on both sides of highways, the NGT said that while granting environmental clearance, the Ministry of Environment and Forests must ensure that an effective monitoring mechanism exists to ensure compliance of requisite safeguards including the plantations on the roadsides. The principal bench of the NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that the roads are constructed by the concessionaire and it is their responsibility to comply with the law is patently untenable and shows indifference and breach of public trust and statutory duties. "If the NHAI in the course of its activities hires its agents, the liability of the principal does not end. The Criminal as well as Civil liability of NHAI and its highest officers under the Environmental Law to be prosecuted and to be required to pay compensation continues. Such inalienable duty cannot be abandoned on the specious plea that a contractor is being hired," the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Society for Protection of Culture, Heritage, Environment, Traditions and Promotion of National Awareness seeking execution of the September 5, 2017 order of the NGT where the NHAI had assured the tribunal that it would follow the Green Highways (Plantation, Transplantation, Beautification and Maintenance) Policy, 2015 in true spirit and substance. The NGT said that the NHAI and the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) have to be the role model to ensure compliance of environmental norms. "Same is expected from the state PWD and other concerned Authorities. There has to be continuous meaningful and responsible monitoring at the highest levels. It is not a charity but a Constitutional mandate. The observations came after perusing an affidavit filed by NHIDCL giving the status of encroachments and plantations without mentioning the action plan to take remedial action against acknowledged illegal encroachments and steps to strengthen the monitoring mechanism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-cover-on-both-sides-of-highways-must-to-curb-vehicular-pollution-ngt-923377.html
04-12-2020||National||National Education Policy to transform India into knowledge superpower: Pokhriyal||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday said that the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP) will transform India into a 'knowledge superpower' and a global leader in learning as it links the past with the future. The NEP, unveiled by the Centre amid the Covid-19 crisis in July, will pave the way for holistic and multidisciplinary education, Pokhriyal said while speaking at the 9th convocation of IIT Bhubaneswar through video conference. Scholars from across the world once travelled to India to study in the seats of learning at Nalanda and Takshila due to excellence in the country's education system, he said. "Armed with the New Education Policy, India will once again emerge as a global leader in learning and a knowledge superpower as it connects our past with the future. Our diversity and ability to blend ancient and modern systems will again take us to the top," the minister said. Pokhriyal said that the new policy will enable Indian students to grow and excel in all spheres of life and the country will emerge as a provider of employment and no longer remain a job seeker. The minister also stressed on the need to focus on linking India's talent with patent as it will play a significant role in the economic development of the country. The National Research Fund and the National Technological Forum, which are being initiated, will also bring about major changes in the environment for research and development, which will become more inclusive, he said. Hailing the NEP as a comprehensive framework for elementary to higher education as well as vocational training in both rural and urban areas, he said that it aims at presenting India's diversity in terms of regional languages with the benefit of providing primary education in mother tongue. Pokhriyal congratulated the graduating students of the institute and called upon them to strive hard to cherish their dreams despite challenges to be faced. Referring to Make in India, Digital India and Startup India, he said that these government campaigns seek to provide support to the young and talented to build a self-reliant and empowered India and achieve the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission. The minister also complimented the authorities of IIT Bhubaneswar for the outstanding wellness, teaching excellence and research aura the institute has created. Pokhriyal inaugurated the Student Activity Centre, the Play Courts, and the School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Management of IIT Bhubaneswar. Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Education, Sanjay Dhotre, commended the work done by the institute's faculty, students and researchers in innovating different techniques in various fields during the ongoing pandemic. Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh, Chairman of the institutes Board of Governors, expressed confidence that its students will be the torchbearers for nation building and paving the path for a modern and decisive India. During the convocation, the institute conferred degrees to 446 students - 35 PhD, 141 MTech, 70 MSc and 200 BTech. It was a live convocation done during the pandemic time in mixed mode, the first of its kind across the globe, IIT Bhubaneswar claimed. The graduating students took part in the programme either physically or virtually and the institute developed the mechanism in-house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-education-policy-to-transform-india-into-knowledge-superpower-pokhriyal-923384.html
04-12-2020||National||Chopper scam: SC stays HC order refusing to revoke Saxena’s approver status||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Delhi High Court order, which dismissed a plea by the Enforcement Directorate to revoke businessman Rajiv Saxena's status as an approver in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to Saxena, seeking his response on a petition filed by the ED against the June 8 order of the High Court.   Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, representing ED, submitted that the High Court had committed an error by saying that pardon can be revoked after Saxena deposed as a witness. The bench said that there is a provision in the CrPC that if he fails to give any evidence then pardon can be withdrawn.   Saxena, a Dubai-based businessman, was extradited on January 31 last year in connection with the Rs 3,600-crore scam case relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland.  In the High Court, ED had submitted that Saxena had undertaken to disclose all the facts related to the offence but he was not doing so. Therefore, Saxena’s approver status should be revoked, it said.  The ED moved the High Court after the trial court declined to entertain its plea to revoke Saxena's approver status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-sc-stays-hc-order-refusing-to-revoke-saxena-s-approver-status-923385.html
04-12-2020||National||Plea filed in SC against law allowing bigamy for Muslims||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court, challenging provisions of law that allowed Muslim men to indulge in bigamy, saying it made the life of women miserable, pitiable, and disgraceful, besides being against the basic constitutional framework. A group of women led by Kiran Singh and a Lucknow-based NGO, Jan Udghosh Sansthan claimed the bigamous marriages were a curse on the women and went against their dignity, prestige, and decency.  "This system is in fact, exploitative of women and against the spirit of human dignity, decency, and equality, the basic theme of the Constitutional framework," the petition filed by advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain on their behalf said. The petitioners sought a direction to strike down Section 2 of Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 in so far it recognised the system of bigamy or polygamy prevalent in the Muslim community. "Muslim law in so far it permits to have more than one wife at a time is against the very spirit of the Constitution as it discriminates on the basis of gender and there is no valid reason for continuing polygamy or bigamy in the national interest," their plea said. They also sought an order to read down Section 494 of the Indian Penal Code, which allowed such marriages, saying such a "system of bigamous marriage is irrational, illogical, discriminatory and oppressive for women and is ultra vires to Article 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution". The petitioners said since the criminal law was administered by the State, it cannot describe an offence on the basis of creed, caste, or religion.  The second marriage solemnised by a Hindu, Christian, or Parsi during the lifetime of his spouse would be punishable under Section 494 of IPC but at the same time such marriage is not punishable if contacted by a Muslim, the plea said. "Therefore, Section 494 is making discrimination only on the basis of religion, which is per se in violation of Article 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution," it claimed. "It cannot be that a particular act is valid for someone and same is an offence for the persons belonging to a particular creed, caste or religion and therefore, such provision will be offending Article 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution," their plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-law-allowing-bigamy-for-muslims-923391.html
04-12-2020||National||Farmers’ agitation gives birth to viral tunes of protest||The fields are alive with the sound of music, not wedding ditties or soulful melodies but songs of resistance born in the farmers’ protest against the new agri laws and echoing all the way from Punjab to Delhi. As thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, braved water cannons and teargas to camp at the national capital’s borders to demand a rollback of the laws and their representatives held talks with the government, the songs flowed, speaking of pride of the land, strength in unity and the rights of the people fighting a mighty establishment. Shared on YouTube, WhatsApp, and other social media platforms, the protest music has found a wide audience. Several singers said it is also an assertion of their Punjabi identity that they say is deep rooted and comes before caste or creed. "This is a big issue for us. We are all connected with the soil," said singer Kanwar Grewal, the voice behind the popular protest songs “Ailaan” and “Pecha” that support the farmers’ agitation. He is planning a third song "Jawani Zindabad" to highlight the participation of youth in the protest. "Pecha", which has been written by Harf Cheema and sung by both Cheema and Grewal, has got more than 30 lakh views on YouTube. While the song speaks of the rift between Punjab and Delhi, farmers’ suicides, the Centre’s "kaliya niti karde laagu (bad policies) and rouses people to wake up, the accompanying video has long shots of convoys of trucks and tractors blocking highways and men and women, young and old, shouting slogans and holding flags. "The song is about common people fighting against the government for their rights. It is a democratic country. Everyone has the right to express their views. Farmers are protesting and we are using music as a tool,” Cheema told PTI. He said the protest has become a mass movement with not just farmers but traders and small shopkeepers from 18 states also joining the protests. Cheema estimates that 70-80 protest songs have been composed and circulated in the last two to three months since the farmers have been protesting – before gathering at Delhi’s gateways, farmers from Punjab had been staging numerous protests, including ‘rail roko’ agitations. "All this is for farmers who feed us day and night. This is all we can do for them,” said Cheema, who has also penned and voiced the songs “Sarkare” and “Punjab” spotlighting the current stir. Take away agriculture from Punjab and there is not much left, said Grewal, adding that 75 per cent of the population is connected to farming in one way or another. "A brother of mine wrote the song and we started singing. It became a rage. We never thought we would come up with songs,” said the singer. Noted Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann, who has been supporting farmers' protests for the last several months, also came out with a new song on Wednesday. 'Murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye'... is all about how farmers, carrying rations for six months, are protesting and stresses that the safety of their fields is very important. It is a fight of their existence,” Mann said. The video of the song shows farmers braving water cannons and breaking police barriers as they try and push their way into Delhi. The Punjabi singer and actor, who had attended the protest in Delhi, on Friday announced he will not accept the Punjab government’s 'Shiromani Punjabi Singer’ award as a sign of solidarity with the protesting farmers “Though I'm grateful to be selected, I humbly cannot accept the Shiromni Gayak award from the Department of Language. People's love is the biggest award of my career, & all attention & efforts right now from us all must be dedicated to the peaceful farmers' protest,” Mann said on Twitter. He has also come out with "Anndataa, Khet Saadi Maa, Khet Saadi Pagg" (fields are our mother, fields are our pride).   "When farmers are facing tough times, it is our responsibility to stand with them. Farmers feel that these laws are not in their favour. We should support them in their agitation,” said Mann.   Famous singer Jasbir Jassi, best known for his hit "Dil Le Gayee", said it is good that Punjabi artists are supporting the farmers. "Punjab ka jo jeevan hai emotional raha hai (Punjabis are known to be emotional). After a long time, Punjab is seen as Punjab. There is no Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or rich or poor. Everyone has come together, including the youth, who were earlier being accused of consuming drugs. The important thing is it has been a peaceful protest,” Jassi told PTI. “It is about the culture of Punjab and Sikhism that they are feeding those policemen who have lathis in their hands. Punjab is known for making sacrifices,” he added. Punjabi musicians Sidhu Moosewala, Babbu Maan, Jass Bajwa, Himmat Sandu, R Nait and Anmol Gagan have also come up with their own songs hailing the fighting spirit of the Punjabis in songs such as “Jatta Takda Ho Ja”, “Asi Vaddange”, “Delhi Aa Punjab Nal Pange Thik Nahi” and “Kisaan vs Rajneeti”. The tune can change too. Singer Jazim Sharma, who hails from Bhatinda and is known for his composition of ghazals with a modern touch recently released a shabad (spiritual song), to bring peace in Punjab on the occasion of Gurpurab. He said the song "Satnam Da Chakra Firaya" is about peace and positivity in challenging times. "It's really sad to see what is happening with our kisan brothers. Today is the time when our jawans and kisans are standing against each other which is really disheartening." Others in showbiz are speaking out too. Actor Manav Vij, who  hails from Ferozpur, Punjab, said he is saddened by the situation. “The country's soldier is raising his hand against the country's farmer. How did we arrive at a situation like this? "The issue that our elders have come on the roads means something is wrong,” Vij, best known for his performance in “Udta Punjab” and “Andhadhun”, told PTI. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan thanked Punjabi artists and singers for standing in solidarity with the protesting farmers against the “black laws”.   “It is a historical fact that artists are very important for the success of any struggle. We hail the singers for standing with the farmers,” he said.   The farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, fear the new farm laws will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-gives-birth-to-viral-tunes-of-protest-923394.html
04-12-2020||National||Doctor's prescription not needed for Covid-19 test in Gujarat now||A doctor's prescription will no longer be necessary to get oneself tested for coronavirus in Gujarat, the state government announced on Friday. Earlier this week the state government had reduced the rate for RT-PCR test for coronavirus at private laboratories from Rs 1,500 to Rs 800. As per the new guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), people can get themselves tested at designated laboratories without any prescription or recommendation from doctors, which was compulsory till now for RT-PCR tests, a government release said. Till June, private doctors and hospitals in Gujarat were required to get approval from government authorities even for prescribing a coronavirus test. The rule was later scrapped. As of Thursday, Gujarat's Covid-19 caseload was 2,14,309, while the death toll had reached 4,031.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-prescription-not-needed-for-covid-19-test-in-gujarat-now-923396.html
04-12-2020||National||BJP chief Nadda begins 120-day national tour with visit to Uttarakhand||BJP president J P Nadda launched his 120-day nationwide tour on Friday by visiting Uttarakhand where he will hold more than a dozen meetings over the next four days besides participating in various booth and 'mandal' level programmes of the party. The nationwide tour is aimed at toning up the BJP's organisational machinery with an eye on upcoming assembly elections and Lok Sabha seats where it did not do well in the 2019 polls. Nadda after reaching Haridwar by helicopter attended a function at the Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya. "I often say that my journey began with I, gradually moved to we, then to all and finally to we in all," he said at the function. The BJP chief also met seers at the Niranjani Akhada and took their blessings before performing a puja along with his wife and party leaders at the 'Har ki Pairi' and participating in the daily 'aarti' on the banks of the Ganga. Later, addressing the seers, Nadda said he needed their blessings before setting out on the 120-day countrywide journey to galvanise the party so that it becomes an instrument to drive the country, under the illustrious leadership of Narendra Modi, to the summit of its glory. "I'm starting my journey of 120 days where I'll travel to all the states to strengthen my party. I have started it from Shantikunj to take the blessings of the Gurus,” Nadda said in a tweet. BJP chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said that Nadda will receive a "grand" welcome on Saturday at the Nepali Farm on the Dehradun border by party workers who will form a human chain to receive him. Nadda will address a meeting of the Amdebkar Nagar Mandal at the Hindu National Inter College and also hold deliberations with eminent personalities from Dehradun on Saturday, Baluni said. On Sunday, he will hold a meeting at Shastrinagar at a booth and later hold a virtual meeting with party cadres at the state BJP headquarters in the Uttarakhand capital. Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said Nadda will not only meet the state and core committees but also booth and mandal committees which are two primary units of the party. These meeting with booth and mandal committees will give a strong message about the equality and dignity of party workers in the BJP, he said The BJP president will tour across the country for 120 days as part of the party's top brass' exercise to keep its massive organisation battle-ready and also engage in a number of round the year activities, including reaching out to the masses with details of the Modi government's schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-chief-nadda-begins-120-day-national-tour-with-visit-to-uttarakhand-923412.html
04-12-2020||National||Indian jeweller's 12,638-diamond ring sets world record||An elaborate floral-shaped ring sporting 12,638 tiny diamonds has earned a place in the Guinness World Records -- but its creator has no plans to sell his priceless design just yet. Called "The Marigold - The Ring of Prosperity", the chunky circular band weighs a little over 165 grams (5.8 ounces). "It's wearable and comfortable," said 25-year-old Harish Bansal, who described his audacious creation as a dream project. Bansal said he got the idea two years ago while studying jewellery design in Surat, India's diamond hub. "My target was always more than 10,000 diamonds. I trashed many designs and concepts over the years to finally zero in on this," Bansal told AFP. In a statement, his company said that each tiny petal in the ring's eight-layer flower design was unique. Bansal said he had already knocked back requests of prospective buyers. "We have no plans of selling it right now," he said. "It's a matter of pride for us. It's priceless." The previous record determined by Guinness, also set in India, was for a ring containing 7,801 diamonds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-jewellers-12638-diamond-ring-sets-world-record-923424.html
04-12-2020||National||Multi-billion-dollar programme is at the heart of farmers' protests||Thousands of farmers angered by farm laws that they say threaten their livelihoods have intensified their protests by blocking highways and camping out on the outskirts of Delhi. The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders of protesting farmers' unions have held several rounds of talks but have not made any progress in breaking the deadlock over the set of laws passed by parliament in September. Although various farmer unions have supported the protest, the agitation is largely led by the growers of relatively well-off states of Punjab and Haryana. Every year the government spends billions of dollars on buying millions of tonnes of rice and wheat from Punjab and Haryana, and the world's most expensive food procurement programme has now become the centrepiece of India's biggest farmers' protest in years. HOW DOES INDIA RUN ITS MAMMOTH FOOD PROCUREMENT PROGRAMME? After calculating the cost of cultivation, the state-run Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) announces Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for more than 22 commodities yearly to set a benchmark. Although every year the CACP announces MSPs for most crops, the Food Corporation of India (FCI), the main state-run grain procurement agency, buys only rice and wheat at those prices due to a lack of storage and funds. After buying rice and wheat from farmers at MSPs, the FCI sells the staples at highly subsidised prices to the poor. The government compensates the FCI for its losses. HAS STATE PROCUREMENT PROGRAMME LED TO OVERPRODUCTION OF RICE AND WHEAT? Guaranteed prices offered by the FCI encourage farmers to produce large quantities of rice and wheat. Higher production puts pressure on the FCI to buy extra supplies from farmers, resulting in overflowing state warehouses and a ballooning subsidy bill that often pushes up the budget deficit. Despite sitting on massive mounds of rice and wheat, the FCI finds it challenging to export as the annual rise in MSPs and its own storage costs make FCI's rice and wheat more expensive than world prices, making overseas sales uneconomic. Once in a while, the Indian government gives small quantities of rice and wheat to other countries through diplomatic deals. Still, FCI's warehouses are chock-a-block. WHO LARGELY BENEFITS FROM FCI'S SAFETY NET? The safety net ironically covers relatively well-off farmers from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, forcing their poorer counterparts from Bihar and other underdeveloped states to sell at a discount. Every year, farmers from Punjab and Haryana sell almost their entire produce to the FCI at MSPs thanks to well-developed market yards and efficient procurement centres, a far cry from Bihar's underdeveloped grain procurement infrastructure. Also, unlike poor farmers from Bihar, the rich and politically influential farming community of Punjab and Haryana ensures that the FCI continues to buy large volumes of rice and wheat from their states, where agriculture is a mainstay. While Punjab and Haryana sell almost their entire rice and wheat output to FCI, the government agency's procurement in Bihar has remained at less than 2% of the state's total production. Left out of the safety net, most farmers from Bihar are forced to sell at a discount of 25% to 35%. Already deprived of assured returns, farmers from Bihar have not explicitly opposed the new laws which growers from Punjab and Haryana fear will eventually pave the way for the FCI to stop buying their grain at guaranteed prices, leaving them at the mercy of private buyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multi-billion-dollar-programme-is-at-the-heart-of-farmers-protests-923428.html
04-12-2020||National||Centre procures 330 lakh tonnes kharif paddy so far at MSP for Rs 62,278 cr||Paddy procurement in the ongoing kharif marketing season at MSP has so far increased by 20 per cent to nearly 330 lakh tonnes, valued at Rs 62,278.61 crore. In the ongoing kharif marketing season (KMS) 2020-21, the government continues to procure kharif 2020-21 crops at its MSP (minimum support price) from farmers, an official statement said on Friday. The marketing season starts from October. Paddy procurement for kharif 2020-21 is continuing smoothly in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar. The Food Corporation of India and state agencies have purchased 329.86 lakh tonnes of paddy up to December 3 as against purchase of 275.98 lakh tonnes in the corresponding period last year. "About 31.78 lakh farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 62,278.61 crore," the statement said. Out of the total purchase of 329.86 lakh tonnes, Punjab alone has contributed 202.77 lakh tonnes, which is 61.47 per cent of the total procurement, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-procures-330-lakh-tonnes-kharif-paddy-so-far-at-msp-for-rs-62278-cr-923434.html
04-12-2020||National||Last wish fulfilled: West Pakistan refugees after casting vote for DDC polls||Tears well up in the eyes of 87-year-old Lal Chand and his 82-year-old wife Trivita as they hold up their inked fingers after casting their votes in the third phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections at a polling station here on Friday. "Today, our wish to vote once in our lifetime was fulfilled," said the couple in unison. Chand and his wife are West Pakistan refugees who fled to India during the Partition in 1947. They along with nearly 1.50 lakh others became eligible to vote in Jammu and Kashmir's local elections after the Centre abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5 last year, paving the way for granting them domicile status. "This is the first time in my life that I have cast a vote," said Chand, who was just 14 years old when he fled from West Pakistan in 1947. "Our last wish has been fulfilled," he said. Chand and Trivita weren't the only ones ecstatic to have exercised their franchise. Their village, Chak Jaffar, home to several other West Pakistan refugees, wore a festive look. People, old and young, danced to drum beats as they celebrated "independence" and shedding the "unwanted citizens" tag. President of Pakistan Refugees Action Committee Laba Ram Gandhi led the celebrations and danced with other members of the community. "We are very happy to have voted in these elections. It is a message to the entire country that justice has been done to us after seven decades. We got our independence today," Gandhi said. The villagers thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for giving them their rights. "We thank Modi ji and Amit Shah ji. They have done justice with us. We were living as unwanted citizens of Jammu and Kashmir. We had no rights, from voting to getting jobs. Now we are proud citizens of Jammu and Kashmir. Now our children will get all the rights," a villager, Sukh Ram, 80, said. "It feels like a rebirth for us. It seems like we have started a new life. It is all because of the prime minister," he said. Another villager, Asha Devi, said, "Now our children will not live a miserable life as we did. They will have rights to vote, jobs, education and own property." Till August 5 last year, except for parliamentary elections, these refugees were barred from voting in Jammu and Kashmir's assembly, panchayat and urban local body polls. The refugees, who migrated from parts of West Punjab and Gujarat that are now in Pakistan, were also barred from government jobs, scholarships and admission in colleges, welfare schemes, and right to own land. The refugee youths are mostly illiterate and earn their livelihood by working as labourers in agriculture fields in border belts of R S Pura, Samba, Hiranagar and Jammu, while the elderly work as domestic help. After the scrapping of Article 370 last year, West Pakistan refugees can not only vote in local elections but also contest polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/last-wish-fulfilled-west-pakistan-refugees-after-casting-vote-for-ddc-polls-923461.html
04-12-2020||National||'Delhi Chalo' march: Farm reforms not done in a jiffy, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the farm reform legislations were brought in after elaborate stakeholder consultations and a lot of homework, and will benefit farmers. Asserting that the reforms were not done in a jiffy, she said the agriculture minister is meeting farmers with an open mind and hoped that a solution will be found soon. "Between 2014-2020, we have proven that we take MSP (Minimum Support Price) seriously," she said. Sitharaman said that the agriculture ministry has gone through the process of talking to stakeholders and these are the things that have been in discussions for very long time. She also said that national parties, state-level parties have all mentioned it at different times that these are reforms which were long-awaited. "Many Parliamentary committees have also discussed some aspects... it is not something which is just done in a jiffy. They have gone through the grind for sometime," she said. Sitharaman said that if there are farmers who have some doubt, "I am glad the agriculture minister is engaging in a meaningful conversation with them with an open mind. I am sure something will come out of it". On MSP, she said that between 2014 and 2020, compared to similar numbers of years previously, the government has proven that it takes MSP "seriously". "We procure under MSP much more than what the earlier governments' have done. We have allotted and also directly given the farmers a lot more money under MSP than what was done before," she noted. "More money, more crops being procured only proves that the intention of the government has been that MSP continues, APMCs continue. So doubts on those need not be there," the minister said. The government and the agitating farmer unions have so far failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws as the protestors have refused to budge on their demands. Another round of discussions is scheduled to be held on Saturday in a bid for a resolution. Enacted in September, the laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-chalo-march-farm-reforms-not-done-in-a-jiffy-says-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-923474.html
04-12-2020||National||Countries unable to protect their sovereignty become like India's 'neighbours': Rajnath Singh at Pak,China||In a veiled swipe at Pakistan, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said countries which are unable to protect their sovereignty and cannot even build roads or do trade on their own become like India's "neighbours". Singh's comments are seen as an indirect reference to Pakistan where China has been rapidly enhancing its influence in an increasing number of areas including trade and infrastructure development. In an address at an online event, Singh also highlighted the effective response by India's armed forces in dealing with various security threats including the challenge to the country's territorial integrity or confronting cross-border terrorism. "Countries which are not able to protect their sovereignty become like our neighbours. Those who can neither make their own 'road', nor walk on it, nor do trade themselves, nor stop anyone else from doing trade," he said. China is implementing a $50 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) besides developing the Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea. Several major Chinese companies have been playing a major role in Pakistani economy in the last few years. In his remarks, the defence minister also said that India's "brave soldiers" were fearlessly engaged in protecting the country's borders when people were largely confined to their homes in view of the rising cases of coronavirus. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for the last seven months. Indian troops had strongly responded to multiple attempts by the Chinese military to intimidate them. Multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded any concrete outcome to resolve the border standoff. "When COVID-19 cases were on the rise, we sat in our homes helplessly, but our brave soldiers were fearless and bravely engaged in protecting the borders. They not only protected the border with promptness, but also made supreme sacrifice when needed," he said. Singh further said: "Whether it is to win in multidimensional wars to protect India's integrity, and sovereignty, or to counter terrorist activities from across the border, our armed forces have responded to challenges with great vigour." The event was organised by the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) on the eve of the Armed Forces Flag Day. The KSB is the apex body of the government that formulates policies for rehabilitation and welfare of ex-servicemen and their dependants. India has been observing December 7 as the Armed Forces Flag Day since 1949 to honour those soldiers who valiantly fought on the borders to safeguard the country's honour. The defence minister also appealed to people to make contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, and even referred to donations made by the citizens during the 1962 war with China. "In the war of 1962, the people of this country had happily donated 'hot wool to warm blood' at the call of the nation. There was no count of money or jewelery. This is our feeling towards the nation," he said. He also mentioned how people of Bardhana Khurd village in Rajasthan had decided that one son from each family will be sent to the border knowing very well what could have been the result of going to the frontier. The government had constituted the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF) for the welfare and rehabilitation of the ex-servicemen (ESM) community. There are more than 32 lakh ex-servicemen and around 60,000 are added each year due to superannuation. "We must come forward with a 'big' and 'open' mind in fulfilling responsibility towards the security of our nation," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/countries-unable-to-protect-their-sovereignty-become-like-indias-neighbours-rajnath-singh-at-pakchina-923478.html
04-12-2020||National||HCs follow environment friendly steps of SC, preserve paper||Taking cue from the Supreme Court initiative on protecting environment, different high courts in the country have started accepting petitions and affidavits on A4 size paper printed on both sides instead of the bigger legal sheets, officials said. Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, who is hearing different PILs related to environment, has taken a series of steps both on the Judicial as well as on the administrative side at the Supreme Court which will result in protecting thousands of trees and huge amounts of water, they said. From April 1, 2020, for judicial filings in the top court, all the stakeholders are required to use A4 size paper, to be printed on both the sides. The officials at the top court said that this measure alone is estimated to save around 1.5 crore A4 sheets of paper per year. With an average fresh filing of 41,010 matters (average of fresh filing for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019) with an average paper book size of 200 pages (800 pages for 4 paper books), with both side printing it is a conservative estimate that around 1.5 crore pages will be saved in a year. Following the top court's initiative, different high courts including Calcutta, Karnataka, Sikkim, Tripura and recently Allahabad have adopted some of these environment friendly measures, the officials said. Following the decision to use A4 size paper, with one and half line spacing and reduced margins instead of earlier legal size paper for judicial filings, is estimated to save another 15 percent of paper usage that is around 45 lakh pages annually, they said. The legal size paper (35.56 cm x 21.59 cm) is roughly 23 per cent bigger in size, than A4 size paper (29.7 x 21 cm), however due to margin reduction and one and half line spacing for the same paper area around 15 per cent more content can be accommodated, thus saving equivalent amount of paper. Earlier, this year, the top court administration also permitted Advocate(s)-on-Record and Parties-in-person to file 1+1 paper books instead of 1+3 paper books at the time of initial filing, which is projected to save another 15 lakh A4 sheets of paper annually. The top court registry has also decided to dispense with the printing and distribution of hard copies of Judgments and Orders, to various agencies as the same are now being made available on the Supreme Court official website.   Sources said that based on the usage of the last three calendar years, around 8.5 lakh pages would be saved annually by this initiative. They said that it has been further decided that all communications from the Registry shall only be sent to the concerned Advocate(s)-on-Record through e-mail followed by an SMS on their registered mobile number. The Supreme Court has also decided that in all the administrative work of the Registry usage of A4 sheet with both the sides printing is mandatory and in the internal deliberations amongst various sections of the Registry, communication through e-mail/ electronic mode has been encouraged. The top court administration officials said that around 25 lakh pages are likely to be saved annually by this initiative. They said that as per the average consumption for 2017-2019 for various administrative works an estimated 20,000 reams annually were utilised by the Registry and assuming at least 25 per cent saving due to double side printing and reduction of size of paper around 25 lakh sheets are likely to be saved. Sources pointed out that due to these innovative steps by the top court for reducing usage of paper are likely to save around 2.4 crore sheets of paper, reducing felling of over two thousand eight hundred trees annually and conserve over one crore litres of water every year. As per generic estimate one tree makes 16.67 reams of paper (8,333 sheets) and around 500 ml water is required for one sheet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hcs-follow-environment-friendly-steps-of-sc-preserve-paper-923480.html
04-12-2020||National||India kick-starts two-day naval drill with Russia in eastern Indian Ocean||India on Friday kick-started a two-day naval exercise with Russia in the eastern Indian Ocean, two weeks after it conducted the Malabar wargames with the US, Australia and Japan. The Russian Navy has deployed its guided-missile cruiser Varyag, the large anti-submarine ship Admiral Panteleyev and medium ocean tanker Pechenga for the "passage exercise", officials said. The Indian Navy has been represented by indigenously constructed guided-missile frigate Shivalik and anti-submarine corvette Kadmatt along with their integral helicopters. "The exercise is aimed at enhancing interoperability, improving understanding and imbibing best practices between both the friendly navies. It would involve advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, weapon firings, seamanship exercises and helicopter operations," Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. "The passage exercises are conducted regularly by the Indian Navy with units of friendly foreign navies while visiting each other's ports or during a rendezvous at sea," he said. He said the ongoing exercise reflects the strong long-term strategic relationship between the two countries. "This exercise is being conducted on the occasion of 'Navy Day' which emphasises the strong bonds of friendship shared between the two friendly militaries. It would be another step towards strengthening Indo-Russian defence relations," Commander Madhwal said. Navy Day is celebrated every year on December 4 to commemorate the Indian Navy's achievement in inflicting heavy damage on Pakistani vessels in Karachi harbour during the India-Pakistan war in 1971. The Indian and the Russian navies conduct a biennial exercise called 'Indra Navy' and its last edition took place in the Northern Indian Ocean Region in September. Last month, India held the Malabar exercise. India invited Australia for the exercise, effectively making it a drill by all the Quad member nations. The Quad, comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan, is aimed at ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific, a region that witnessed increasing Chinese military assertiveness in the recent years. China has been suspicious about the purpose of the Malabar exercise as it feels that the annual wargame is an effort to contain its influence in the Indo-Pacific region. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian Navy participated in maritime exercises in the last few months with a number of countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-kick-starts-two-day-naval-drill-with-russia-in-eastern-indian-ocean-923484.html
04-12-2020||National||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee calls agitating farmers, extends support||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday spoke to leaders of farmers’ groups who are agitating at Delhi’s Singhu border and assured them of full support from the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The chief minister spoke to the leaders over the phone and the call was facilitated by TMC MP Derek’ O Brien who was at the venue for nearly four hours. “Your movement is our movement. It’s the movement of the entire country. Bengal stands by you. We will also hit the streets in support of your demands,” said Mamata. She also said that the agitating farmers agreed to her proposal of sending her own party workers to the venue of the protest in support of their movement. She added that her party is totally against the amendments made to the Essential Commodities Act and want it to be withdrawn at the earliest. “They (BJP) are trying to sell everything in the country. Together we will stop them and make this the India of farmers, of crops and of mothers and sisters,” said Mamata. She also said that she was confident that the farmers’ movement would successfully achieve its objectives. Earlier in the day she expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers and also referred to her “26 day-long hunger strike” in demand of returning the land of unwilling farmers acquired by the then Left Front Government at Singur in Hooghly district for the Tata Nano car factory. “14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre,” tweeted Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-calls-agitating-farmers-extends-support-923487.html
04-12-2020||National||BJP-ally JJP asks Haryana minister Vij to withdraw cases against protesting farmers||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the BJP's coalition partner in Haryana, met Home Minister Anil Vij here on Friday and sought withdrawal of cases registered in the state against farmers participating in the "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre's farm laws. A three-member JJP delegation led by the party's state unit chief Nishan Singh met the state home minister. Senior party leader Digvijay Singh Chautala was also part of the delegation. "We have requested the minister that the cases filed against the farmers during their movement to the national capital must be taken back immediately," Chautala said after the meeting. He told reporters that the minister assured him of taking up the matter with Chief Minister M L Khattar. JJP is party of the farmers, Chautala said. "We all are connected with the ideology of Chaudhary Devi Lal, and it is our moral duty to stand with the farmers." He added the party was hopeful of positive results from the talks being held between the Centre and the protesting farmers in Delhi. Chautala had on Thursday said cases against farmers registered by the Haryana Police must be withdrawn to ensure that the situation does not worsen and no mistrust is created between the farmers and the government. The JJP has been facing the opposition's ire for "clinging to power" and not walking out of the alliance over the farmers' issues. Haryana Police has booked state Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and several farmers on attempt to murder and rioting charges in Ambala. Hundreds of farmers were booked on charges of rioting, participating in unlawful assembly, obstructing public servants from discharging their duty, damaging public property and violating various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 in Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak, Kaithal, Sirsa and other districts of the state a week ago. The Congress has claimed that over 20,000 farmers in Haryana have been booked by the police for various violations during the "Delhi Chalo" march. Delhi's border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab and other states held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day, after Thursday's talks with the government failed to yield any resolution. The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are "anti-farmer", and would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government maintains that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-ally-jjp-asks-haryana-minister-vij-to-withdraw-cases-against-protesting-farmers-923491.html
04-12-2020||National||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu, Puducherry receive heavy rains||Heavy rains pounded Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Friday, inundating several low-lying areas, while the weather in the northern parts of the country remained mostly dry barring Kashmir. In Tamil Nadu, there was widespread rainfall covering many parts of the state while several regions reported heavy to extremely heavy showers, even as the IMD said the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram is likely to weaken into a depression and then into a well-marked low pressure area. In a relief to Kerala, the Met department withdrew the red alert issued for cyclone Burevi and rains in the seven southernmost districts of the state owing to the weakening of the deep depression into a depression. In Delhi, the air quality remained "very poor" and no significant change was predicted soon. The national capital's air quality index (AQI) was 364 at 9 am. The India Meteorological Department said the minimum temperature was 8 degrees Celsius and the maximum was 28.8 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Further north, several parts of Kashmir received rainfall while there was snowfall in the upper reaches of the valley. The weatherman said the western disturbance is expected to affect the weather system in J-K till December 10 and the weather is expected to remain wet with light to moderate rainfall and snowfall in the hilly areas of the valley. Pahalgam was the coldest with minus 2.5 degrees Celsius while Gulmarg and Srinagar recorded a low of minus 2.2 and 1.2 degrees Celsius respectively. Kokernag and Bandipur were the two weather stations where mercury was recorded above freezing points last night. In the hills, the weather in Himachal Pradesh remained dry with Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district being the coldest recorded place in the state at minus 6.9 degrees Celsius.  The weatherman has predicted rains and snowfall in middle and high hills of the state in coming days. Rain and snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places in middle hills from Monday and Tuesday and in high hills from Monday to Thursday, the weatherman said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of 0.1 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature in Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie was 2, 7.7 and 7.9 degrees Celsius respectively.  In parts of Rajasthan, night temperatures hovered several notches above normal limits, with Sikar recording the lowest night temperature at 8 degrees Celsius. There has been a change in the wind pattern and due to the impact of westerly winds temperatures have slightly risen in the last couple of days, a MeT department official said. In Haryana and Punjab, the minimum temperatures hovered above the normal limits at most places. At some places in the two states, including Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab and Ambala, Karnal, and Kaithal in Haryana, fog reduced visibility early in the morning. The minimum temperature at Chandigarh settled at 10.6 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal. While in Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.3 degrees Celsius, Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal. Churk was the coldest at 6.6 degrees Celsius in Uttar Pradesh, where the weather remained dry with dense to very dense fog at isolated places with no change in day temperatures. Basti recorded the highest maximum temperature in the state at 32 degrees Celsius in Jhansi district. In the south, heavy rains continued to pound Tamil Nadu leading to inundation of crops and waterlogging in many rural and urban areas. The IMD said the deep depression over Gulf of Mannar, near Ramanathapuram district's coast remained stationary, about 40 km southwest of Ramanathapuram and it would remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours and then into a well-marked low pressure area. Heavy to extremely heavy showers was also reported in Kollidam (36 cm, Nagapattinam district), Chidambaram (34 cm, Cuddalore) and over two dozen areas received between 10 and 28 cm rain. Crops including paddy and sugarcane were inundated in districts including Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Ariyalur falling under the Cauvery delta zone and complete submergence of agricultural fields was also seen as showers continued for the third successive day. While Chennai received moderate rains, Madurantakam near here recorded 10 cm. On December 3, cyclone 'Burevi' weakened into a deep depression. Heavy rains also lashed Puducherry and its suburban areas recording around 14 cm of rainfall. Several housing colonies and main thoroughfares were waterlogged as a result of the torrential rains while power supply was disrupted for several hours in some localities. There was a respite for Kerala as the Met department withdrew the red alert issued for cyclone Burevi and rains in the seven southernmost districts of the state. The IMD has issued yellow alerts for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad and Malappuram. Meanwhile, the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport had rescheduled nine flights scheduled for Friday. The state has also opened over 2,000 relief camps to face any contingencies as heavy rains were expected when cyclone Burevi made landfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-burevi-tamil-nadu-puducherry-receive-heavy-rains-923525.html
04-12-2020||National||Dalits still face harassment under Yogi govt: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged on Friday that Dalits were continuously facing atrocities and harassment under the Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a 'Dalit mahapanchayat' organised by the state Congress Scheduled Castes department through video conference, Priyanka Gandhi referred to the Hathras case and accused the state government of being indifferent to the case. The Congress leader also mentioned about alleged cases of atrocities on the Dalits in Kanpur, Lalitpur and Azamgarh districts. Priyanka Gandhi told party workers to stand with the people and raise their voices against these "atrocities". She said there should be active party workers in every village and they should fight for social justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalits-still-face-harassment-under-yogi-govt-priyanka-gandhi-923536.html
04-12-2020||National||India's vision of Indo-Pacific envisages free, open, inclusive, rules-based region, says Muraleedharan||India's vision of the Indo-Pacific, of which CLMV (Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Vietnam) countries are a part, envisages a free, open, inclusive and rules-based region, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has said. Speaking on 'Building Bridges for Constructive Development' at the 6th India-CLMV (Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Vietnam) Business Conclave, Muraleedharan said it is India's firm belief that promotion of businesses and private investments is essential for growth in CLMV region. "Towards this end, a Project Development Fund titled 'PDF-CLMV Fund' with a corpus of Rs 500 crore has been created by government of India in order to catalyse investments from Indian private sector in the CLMV region by setting up manufacturing hubs in CLMV countries," he said. In this regard, currently two projects in Myanmar and one project each in Vietnam and Cambodia have been identified for collaboration with the Indian private sector. India's vision of the Indo-Pacific, of which CLMV countries are a part, envisages a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific region with an emphasis on ASEAN centrality, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations in the region, peaceful resolution of disputes, avoidance of use or threat of use of force and adherence to international laws, rules and regulations, Muraleedharan said at the conclave on Thursday. India's objective is a multi-faceted engagement with all countries in the region and those with stakes in it, to enhance Security And Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR), he said India is committed to ASEAN integration and connectivity agenda, and looks forward to ASEAN countries for the utilization of USD 1 billion credit line for enhancement of physical and digital connectivity, the minister said. "I would like to take this opportunity to invite CLMV countries to join the International Solar Alliance (ISA), Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) and participate in activities of seven pillars of Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI), which has synergies with ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific (AOIP)," Muraleedharan said. Platforms such as these can go a long way in reassuring an uncertain world about the progressive policy decisions which national governments are undertaking to counter the negative effects of this pandemic and to suggest the way forward, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-vision-of-indo-pacific-envisages-free-open-inclusive-rules-based-region-says-muraleedharan-923541.html
04-12-2020||National||Maharashtra accounts for most number of active Covid-19 cases, deaths in country: Health ministry||Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of both 86,612 active Covid-19 cases and 47,472 fatalities in the country, according to the latest Union health ministry data on Friday. In terms of active cases, Maharashtra is followed by Kerala with 61,342 cases and Delhi with 29,120 cases. As far as the number of fatalities is concerned, Maharashtra is followed by Karnataka (11,821) and Delhi (9,424). Maharashtra also accounts for the highest number of recoveries so far which is over 17 lakh. It is followed by Andhra Pradesh (8,56,320) and Karnataka (8,52,584). The health ministry said 80.19 per cent of the new recovered cases reported in a span of 24 hours are contributed by 10 states and union territories -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Maharashtra leads with 8,066 persons recovering from Covid-19, while Kerala recorded 5,590 recoveries and Delhi 4,834. Ten states and union territories contributed 75.76 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Kerala reported 5,376 new cases in the 24-hour span. Maharashtra registered 5,182 new cases, while Delhi recorded 3,734 new infections during the period. The ministry said 540 case fatalities were reported in the span of 24 hours, with 77.78 per cent of them from 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Haryana, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. It said 21.29 per cent of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (115). Delhi saw a fatality count of 82, while West Bengal reported 49 new deaths. When compared globally, India has one of the lowest case fatalities per million population at 101. India also continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population in the world at 6,936, which is much lower than many other countries of the Western Hemisphere, the ministry said. India's total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,71,559 on Friday with 36,595 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,39,188, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,16,082 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.35 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-accounts-for-most-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-country-health-ministry-923543.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||PM Modi chairs all-party meeting on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired an all-party meeting with leaders of various political outfits and top union ministers to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country, sources said. Floor leaders from all parties in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been invited to attend the virtual meeting which started around 10:30 am. About 12 leaders from prominent political parties having five or more than five MPs, will be speaking at the meeting, the sources said. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad will speak on behalf of the Congress in the meeting. Sudip Bandyopadhyay from the TMC, Sharad Pawar of the NCP, Nama Nageswara Rao from the TRS and Vinayak Raut from the Shiv Sena among others will also speak during the meeting, they said. Opposition leaders are also expected to question the government about the expected availability of the Covid-19 vaccine and plans for its distribution, the sources said. This will be the second all-party meeting called by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation since the outbreak of the pandemic. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan are present in the meeting. Besides them, Parliamentary Affairs Ministers Pralhad Joshi and ministers of state in the same ministry Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan, who reached out to floor leaders for the meeting, will also be a part of it. The meeting is likely to begin with a presentation by the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The presentation would explain India's fight against the pandemic so far. The meeting also assumes significance as it is being held after Modi's visit to pharmaceutical companies in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review coronavirus vaccine development work there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-chairs-all-party-meeting-on-covid-19-situation-923195.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||Former boxing coach G S Sandhu offers to return Dronacharya in support of agitating farmers||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India secured its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, on Friday said he will return his Dronacharya award if demands of the farmers protesting against new agriculture laws are not addressed. Sandhu, who served as India's national men's coach for over two decades before guiding women boxers for a couple of years, said it is his way of showing support to the farmers, who are protesting in "bitter cold without any consideration for their own well-being". "By doing this, I feel a huge morale pressure is off me. I come from a family of farmers, their fears need to be addressed. If the ongoing talks do not yield a result satisfactory to the farmers, I will return the award," Sandhu told PTI from his home in Patiala. Sandhu was the national coach when Vijender Singh became the first Indian boxer to fetch an Olympic medal back in 2008. It was during his tenure that a then unprecedented eight Indian boxers qualified for the 2012 Olympics in London. Sandhu won the Dronacharya much before that in 1998. He also served as the national women's coach after his stint with the men came to an end. "This award means a lot to me but the plight of my fellow farmers means even more. It is painful for me to see them sitting on roads in this cold. All that the government needs to do is talk to them, clear their doubts and assure them," he said. "If the situation is resolved to their satisfaction, then I would not go ahead with it but if it is not, I will return the award," he added. Sandhu joined several former sportspersons in extending their support to the agitating farmers. Among them are Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the past few days, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-boxing-coach-g-s-sandhu-offers-to-return-dronacharya-in-support-of-agitating-farmers-923270.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||BJP failed to judge MVA's strength: Fadnavis on poll results||With the BJP facing setbacks in the Maharashtra Legisltive Council polls, its leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said his party failed to gauge the combined strength of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies. He said the party will analyse the poll results and prepare for the next election in a better way. In a setback to the opposition party, MVA candidates have so far won three out of five constituencies- three graduates' and two teachers'. Elections for these five seats along with one local bodies seat were held on December 1. The Dhule Nandurbar local bodies seat was won by BJP's Amrish Patel. Talking to reporters here, Fadnavis said, "We could not judge the combined strength of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress in these polls. Now we know how big fight they can put up together. We will prepare better for the next polls." "We could only win one seat out of the six. We will analyse the results and plan for the next challenge. We will also discuss the issue of selection of candidates, though prima facie I think they were suitable ones," he said. "This time, the state administration carried out registration of voters for the MLC elections. But the names of some members of my family as well as that of Union minister Nitin Gadkari were not found in the voters' list despite the submission of forms in time," he said. "Generally voter registration in such polls is done by the political parties, but this time administration took the responsibility," he said.. He also taunted Shiv Sena saying, "Although Shiv Sena has the chief minister' post, it could only win one seat. The election has actually benefited the Congress and the NCP more than the Sena. The party should think about it." Another BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, "We will introspect over the setbacks that the party received in these polls. I think we were caught unawares in this election," he said. "We had won most of the earlier elections, which might have led to complacency among the BJP leaders. But we cannot immediately analyse what happened in the polls. We will sit and discuss with party leaders," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-failed-to-judge-mvas-strength-fadnavis-on-poll-results-923276.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||GHMC polls: TRS catches up, wins seven wards and leads in 50||The opposition BJP in Telangana on Friday seemed unable to build on its initial leads in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, with the ruling TRS putting up a quick catch-up act to possibly upset the saffron party's dreams of capturing the civic body. Ruling TRS and the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM bagged seven wards each while the TRS was leading in about 50 seats and BJP in around 40, as per the latest trends following the counting of votes, polled on December 1. The SEC said Congress bagged one ward. AIMIM was leading in another 25 seats. The BJP's performance, if the present trend holds, leading to the saffron party possibly netting a significant number of seats, will be seen as a massive improvement against its 2016 show of winning just four seats, in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) then. The K Chandrasekhar Rao-led Telangana Rashtra Samiti swept the elections four years ago, winning 99 of the 150 wards. Ballot papers were used in the election to the 150- ward GHMC pollson Tuesday. Counting of votes began at 8 AM with postal ballots being counted first and BJP was ahead of its rivals in the postal ballot votes in about 80 wards. The results are expected to be known in the evening in view of ballot papers being used as against the EVMs. The polling percentage was an unimpressive 46.55 percent. Out of the 74.67 lakh voters, 34.50 lakh electors exercised their franchise. While the ruling TRS fielded candidates in all the 150 wards, BJP set up nominees in 149 of them. The Congress, AIMIM and TDP fielded candidates in 146, 51 and 106 wards respectively. The BJP seemed to invest much stake in the polls, evident by the likes of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda among others hitting the campaign trail for the party. TRS banked on the charisma and performance of KCR, as chief minister Rao is known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ghmc-polls-trs-catches-up-wins-seven-wards-and-leads-in-50-923291.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||Congress slams Modi govt over Covid-19 vaccine distribution plans||The Congress on Friday raised with the government issues concerning the availability of a prospective Covid vaccine at the grassroots level in the country with party leader Rahul Gandhi asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clarify when every Indian will get it. The Congress also asked what would happen to the BJP's poll promise in Bihar of providing the coronavirus vaccine free of cost to every person in the state. "In today's all-party meeting, we hope the PM clarifies when will every Indian get a free Covid vaccine," Gandhi said on Twitter ahead of the all-party meeting chaired by the Prime Minister to discuss the Covid-19 situation. In today's all-party meeting, we hope the PM clarifies by when will every Indian get free Covid vaccine. हमें आशा है कि आज सर्वदलीय बैठक में PM ये स्पष्ट करेंगे कि हर भारतीय को मुफ़्त कोरोना वैक्सीन कब तक दी जाएगी। At the virtual all-party meeting, to which floor leaders of various parties in Parliament were invited by the government, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said Covid-like pandemics can pose a threat to the country's internal security and policy makers should address this challenge. The senior Congress leader while addressing the meeting said the country should be well placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage and distribute them up to the grassroots level. Prime Minister Modi said at the meeting that experts believe the wait for a Covid-19 vaccine will not be long and it may be ready in a few weeks, asserting that the vaccination drive in India will begin as soon as scientists give the nod. Modi said healthcare workers involved in treating Covid-19 patients, frontline workers including police personnel and municipal staff, and old people suffering from serious conditions would be inoculated on priority. Noting that there have been questions about the price of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Prime Minister said it was natural to have such queries and asserted that public health will be accorded top priority in the matter and the states will be fully involved. In his concluding address at the meeting, Modi sought to address the most significant aspects of the issue -- ranging from India's vaccine readiness to its pricing -- and reiterated that in tackling the pandemic the country has done better than even some developed countries and those with better health infrastructure. Taking a swipe at the PM, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he has an "obscene sense of priorities" as he was going ahead with spending on the central vista project. "The PM says that the Centre is in talks with states over the price of vaccines, while he splurges crores and crores on personal vanity projects like new Parliament and Central Vista. Obscene sense of priorities! What happened to the BJP's Bihar manifesto promise of free vaccines," he said on Twitter. Azad at the meeting also said "Covid-like pandemics can be one of the greatest threats to the internal security of any country. In the future, policy makers at the national level should include Covid-like pandemics as a threat to internal security, besides external threats and internal insurgencies, if any". Expressing hope that the country's pharma manufacturers in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will get the final nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for a Covid-19 vaccine soon, he said mechanisms for delivery of vaccine at the grassroots level should be ready. "Considering the challenges due to the population and size of the country, we should be well placed to get vaccines at an affordable price and at an early stage," he told the meeting. Scientists, policy makers and political leaders must work together to set parameters for vaccine prioritisation and distribution, said Azad, a former Union health minister. The government must prepare for building capacities for vaccine availability up to the district, community and primary health care levels, the Congress leader said. "We are hopeful that a vaccine will be introduced shortly," he said. "I am sure by January, our pharmaceutical manufacturers in collaboration with the ICMR will get a final nod from the DCGI," he said. He also asked the government to deal with issues of storage, distribution, number of dosages, eligibility and side effects of the vaccine. The Congress leader called for putting in place a vaccine safety monitoring mechanism in place to assess the adverse events after immunisation. "There could be adverse effects or side effects or even long term after-effects which may need time to be identified and which are not discovered in Phase I, II or phase III clinical trials. India has to be more cautious since we have a large and young population and the government should rigorously monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine," he said. This was the second time that the government convened an all-party meeting to discuss the pandemic situation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-modi-govt-over-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-plans-923437.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||Those in touch with opposition free to leave TMC, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday issued a stern warning against "anti-party activities" and said TMC leaders in touch with the opposition are free to quit the ruling party in the state. Although the TMC supremo did not take any name, party sources said that her jibe was at disgruntled leader Suvendu Adhikari, who has recently resigned from her cabinet, and a few other MLAs who have spoken out against the party top brass. "At a party meeting held during the day, Banerjee said that if one leader quits the party, she can create a lakh more such leaders," a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. She also spoke with Suvendu Adhikari's father and Purba Medinipur TMC chief and Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari and asked him to rein in anti-party activities and sack the "traitors" from the party's district unit. "Sisir da said he will look into it," the TMC leader said. Banerjee extended her support to the farmers' agitation in north India against the new farm laws and asked the TMC's farmers' wing to stage a three-day sit-in demonstration in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in central Kolkata from December 8. "She said that anti-party activities will not be tolerated and those in touch with the opposition camp are free to leave the party. "Banerjee said those in the TMC have to abide by the norms and rules laid down in the party constitution and no one is above the party," the TMC leader said. Sending a strong message to a section of the party leaders who have been vocal against the leadership and the government, Banerjee said during the video conference with the TMC leaders that those speaking against the party are free to leave rather than "weakening it from inside". The rift between the TMC and Suvendu Adhikari widened on Thursday, with the party describing the rapprochement efforts as a "closed chapter" and the disgruntled leader taking potshots at its top brass. During the four-hour-long party meeting which began at 2 pm on Friday, Banerjee spoke about how the TMC was built from scratch in 1998 and narrated the initial days of struggle. She also unveiled a new outreach programme 'Bangodhwani' (voice of West Bengal) to inform people about the development work undertaken by the TMC government during the 10 years of its rule in the state, sources said. During the outreach programme, which will be conducted from December 11 to 24, party leaders and cadre will reach out to the people in every nook and corner of the state. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal assembly are due in April-May next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-in-touch-with-opposition-free-to-leave-tmc-says-mamata-923442.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||Panneerselvam welcoming Rajinikanth's political plunge is his view, says TN CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday said his deputy O Panneerselvam welcoming actor Rajinikanth's decision to float a political party next month was his "opinion" and that he would respond on the matter only after the superstar registers his outfit. The AIADMK Co-Coordinator also kept up his attack on DMK leader and Lok Sabha MP A Raja over the 2G Spectrum allocation scam, questioning the "first come first serve basis" of its allotment that prompted allegations of loss to the exchequer by the former Telecom Minister. Responding to reporters' queries here on Rajinikanth announcing on Thursday, his decision to float a party in January 2021 and face the Assembly polls next year, the chief minister said "let him first register the party." "He has only announced no...I can't say anything without (him) registering it," he said. Asked about Panneerselvam, the AIADMK Coordinator, wecloming the actor's decision to take the political plunge and hinting at a possible future alliance with him, the chief minister said his deptuty has shared his views. "He has said his opinion, that's all. Everybody can share their views, there is nothing wrong in it." "As far as I am concerned, let him (Rajinkanth) first register the party, after that a response can be given.. how can I respond to imaginary questions," he added. Panneerselvam had on Thursday welcomed the actor's political innings. Anything may happen in politics, he had said, adding, "if there is an opportunity, there will be an alliance with him." Keeping up his attack on Raja, earlier acquitted by a special court in the 2G spectrum allocation scam, Palaniswami said he was freed only because the "CBI did not produce evidence" and that he was "not pronounced innocent." "That is why they (CBI) have appealed (in the Delhi High Court)," he said. Questioning the "first come first serve" basis vis- a-vis the spectrum allocation that was closely scrutinised, Palaniswami asked "in which tender rules do you find" such a concept. "..thousands of crores. not sum small amount. Rs 1.76 lakh crores they had looted in 2G. An appeal has been made... all can understand where he (Raja) will be after the case gets over," the chief minister said. Irregularities were "clearly visible" since the government in which he was a part, the Congress-led UPA, had put him behind bars. "What else do you want," he added. Palaniswami had lashed out at DMK and Raja over the same issue on Thursday as well but the Lok Sabha MP challenged him to a debate on the matter after asking him to point out one party leader who had been punished for graft. DMK MPs Kanimozhi and Raja were earlier accused in the scam but acquitted by a special court. The CBI has since appealed against the lower court verdict in the Delhi High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/panneerselvam-welcoming-rajinikanths-political-plunge-is-his-view-says-tn-cm-923455.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||GHMC election success has made way for national-level political thinking in Telangana: Ravi||BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi said that the success of BJP in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has paved way for national-level political thinking in Telangana. Ravi told reporters here on Friday that success in GHMC election has laid the foundation stone for the spread of BJP's influence in Telangana. "Winds of change were being witnessed in the southern state," he said. "BJP has emerged as a political alternative in Telangana. The saffron party was successful in the Assembly by-election in Telangana and success of GHMC election has further strengthened it," he said. "Party's national leaders have instilled strength among party cadres," he added. Ravi said that the objection for Maratha Development Corporation is not fair. "Earlier too corporations have been formed for the development of different communities. We have not compromised on Kannada language and state language has been the first and prime priority. There was no need to hate other languages to conserve Kannada. We also have Konkani and Kodava academies to save the culture," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ghmc-election-success-has-made-way-for-national-level-political-thinking-in-telangana-ravi-923475.html
04-12-2020||National Politics||EC must call all-party meet before deciding on NRI voting: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) asked the Election Commission on Friday to call an all-party meeting before deciding on any changes in voting procedures, amid a proposal by the poll body to permit NRIs to cast their votes through postal ballots. In a letter to the EC, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the move was both surprising and shocking. "ECI must call an all-party meeting adhering to the practice since independence before making major changes in voting procedures, like the current proposal for NRI voting," he said. "Lately, ECI has not been adhering to its practices on upholding democratic culture." "We are surprised and shocked to come across media reports that Election Commission has forwarded a legal framework for facilitating the voting of overseas Indians/NRIs to exercise their franchise in the upcoming assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Pondicherry," Yechury said. "Our sense of shock flows from the blatant departure from the conventional modus operandi adopted by the Election Commission of consultations with political parties before finalising issues of such major import," he said. No reaction was immediately available from the EC on the matter. The commission has proposed last week to extend the electronically transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS) facility, so far available to service voters, to eligible overseas Indian voters. It requested the Centre to make necessary amendments at the earliest "which will go a long way in not only facilitating the exercise of the right of overseas electors but also further boosting the image of the country internationally". The CPI(M) leader said the party had suggested the setting up of polling booths at India's embassies and other facilities in different foreign countries to permit Indian citizens to cast their votes in those countries where they are currently residing. "This practice is followed by many democracies in the world and conforms to the practice of physical verification of the voters," he said. The EC had first taken up in 2014 the proposal to permit non-resident Indians (NRIs) to cast their votes. It had held an all-party consultation to discuss the possible methods to set up a full-proof mechanism to ensure a free-and-fair poll as the NRI voters are concerned. Subsequently, the Supreme Court also upheld the rights of the who are Indian passport holders to be able to more meaningfully participate in the democratic electoral process. A bill to extend the facility of proxy voting to overseas Indians had lapsed with the dissolution of the 16th Lok Sabha. "The ECI's letter to the Law Ministry now proposes to give postal voting rights not proxy voting to NRIs. This means the government only needs to amend the Conduct of Election Rules 1961. It doesn't require Parliament's approval. "The current reported proposal of the ECI has never been discussed at an all-party consultation as is the normal practice and a well-established precedent. It is clear that none of the alternatives which were part of the study of the expert group commissioned by the ECI in 2015 to draw up a concrete proposal could come up with a full proof arrangement," he said. The CPI(M) is of the firm opinion that the Election Commission should immediately convene an all-party meeting at the earliest for deliberating the complex issues involved in the effective extension of voting rights to NRIs, before moving further, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-must-call-all-party-meet-before-deciding-on-nri-voting-cpim-923481.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control, cases going down, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Covid 19 situation in the national capital is "under control" and the number of cases are also going down. At a meeting with a delegation of Delhi Bar Council and Coordination Committee of Bar Associations of Delhi, the chief minister said his government invested the most in the field of health and education and the result of that investment in the health sector is visible now during the pandemic. Delhi has shown the path to other states by first implementing the welfare scheme for lawyers, and now other states can follow suit, he said.  The chief minister said, "Delhi is showing the path in various sectors. Now the Covid-19 cases are also going down in the capital and the situation is under control. Delhi has fought a very difficult battle at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic." During the third wave of Covid 19 pandemic, Delhi reached a peak of 8,500 cases one day and around the world, there is no such city where so many cases were reported, he said. "During the peak of corona in New York, the patients were lying on the streets, but due to our strong hospital management system, nothing such has happened." "Even at the peak of 8,500 cases a day, Delhi had 7,500 empty beds," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-cases-going-down-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-923070.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Non-bailable warrant against BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi in model-code violation case||An Uttar Pradesh court issued a non-bailable warrant against BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi on Thursday in connection with an eight-year-old case of violation of the model code of conduct. Special MP/MLA court judge P K Rai also issued a notice regarding the sureties and fixed January 4 as the next date of hearing. An FIR was lodged on February 17, 2012, at the Krishna Nagar police station in Lucknow against Joshi, the then state Congress president, for allegedly electioneering in Bajrang Nagar for the assembly election even after the time for the campaign was over. After a probe, a charge sheet was filed against her under Section 133 of the Representation of the People Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/non-bailable-warrant-against-bjp-mp-rita-bahuguna-joshi-in-model-code-violation-case-923094.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||J&K BJP expels 10 members for anti-party activities||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Thursday expelled 10 members for anti-party activities after eight of them contested the District Development Council (DCC) polls and the panchayat by-elections in the union territory against the party's official candidates. They were found guilty of anti-party activities and expelled on the recommendations of the disciplinary committee of the party, BJP functionaries said. The expelled leaders include Santosh Kumari, general secretary of Ramkot Mandal, who contested as an Independent from the Nagrota Gujroo territorial constituency; Satish Sharma, Shakti Kendra chief, who contested as a candidate of DSS from Billawar, and Makkhan Lal Jamoria, executive member of Mandal, who contesting as an Independent from Billawar and was supported by Surinder Singh, Shakti Kender Pramukh Baggan. Others on the list include Neena Rakwal, district general secretary of Mahilla Morcha, and Garmail Singh, who contested as Independent candidates from Basohli. Lokesh Sumbria (Raju), former Mandal president Yuva Morcha, Billawar Mandal, who contested as a candidate of Ikkjutt Jammu, has also been expelled from the BJP with immediate effect, the party functionaries said. Tirath Singh, vice president of Ramban Mandal, and Ranbir Singh, vice-president of BJYM Ramban, have been expelled for contesting as Independent candidates from Ramban-A, they added. The party said these leaders contested against its official candidates and did not withdraw candidature despite instructions from it. "This type of indiscipline is creating unrest in party cadre and bringing a bad name to the party known for discipline and unity. The disciplinary committee recommended that all above mentioned people be immediately expelled from primary membership of the party to set an example that indiscipline will not be tolerated," a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bjp-expels-10-members-for-anti-party-activities-923098.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' stir: Protesters continue to camp at Delhi borders amid heavy police deployment||With the protesting farmers sticking to their demand for the repeal of the Centre's new farm laws, thousands remained at the national capital's border points on Friday amid heavy police deployment. Representative groups of agitating farmers will meet later in the day to discuss the future course of action after talks between them and three union ministers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. Protesting farmers from Uttar Pradesh have blocked National Highway-9 near the UP Gate while those from Punjab and Haryana are staying put at other border points leading to Delhi. Another round of discussions between the farmer unions and Centre is slated for Saturday. Security personnel at border points - Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur - stand guard, as the ongoing protests entered their ninth day on Friday. Meanwhile, the Delhi Police suggested alternative routes to commuters entering or exiting the city. The Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to inform commuters about the closure of Singhu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. They also said that National Highway-44 was closed on both sides. "Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK Road, NH 44," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. According to the police, Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for any traffic movement while Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers, it said. However, if anyone needs to commute towards Harayana, they can go via Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri National Highway-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders, the police said. "The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND," they said in a tweet. Since the Ghazipur border on National Highway-24 is closed for traffic due to the protests, the police advised commuters coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi to use the Apsara or Bhopra borders or the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) expressway. The protesters had on Wednesday threatened to block other roads of Delhi in the coming days if the new agriculture laws were not scrapped soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-protesters-continue-to-camp-at-delhi-borders-amid-heavy-police-deployment-923184.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers protest: Traffic snarls ensue at key entry points in Delhi||Traffic moved at snail's pace at several border points of the national capital as police kept key routes connecting Delhi to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh closed in view of the farmers' protest against the new farm laws, which entered its ninth day on Friday. Groups of farmers from Uttar Pradesh on Thursday had blocked another important national highway -- NH-24 -- that connects Delhi to Ghaziabad, leaving those travelling from there to the capital city stranded. "The Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on NH-24 at Gazipur remains closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi on Friday, too," a traffic police official said. The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted, "People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND instead." The Chilla border on the Noida Link road also remained shut for the fourth day on the trot for traffic coming from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers' protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. The traffic police suggested people to avoid the Noida Link road for coming to Delhi and use the DND flyway instead. As farmers remained unyielding on their demand for scrapping the new farm laws, the police kept the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli closed for traffic movement. It said border points at Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri, NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera are open for travel between Delhi and Haryana. "Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two wheeler traffic," it tweeted. The closure of borders led to diversion of traffic from Mukarba and GT-Karnal road that led to traffic jams on alternative routes. Scaling up their stir against the Centre's new farm laws, thousands of protesting farmers from Uttar Pradesh had blocked NH-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday while those from Punjab and Haryana stayed put at other border points leading to the national capital as they remained adamant on their demands. The protesting farmers had on Wednesday threatened to block other roads of Delhi in the coming days if the new agriculture laws are not scrapped soon. Security personnel at border points - Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur - stand guard, with the ongoing protests entering their ninth day on Friday. The demonstrations are expected to continue as talks between three union ministers and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait held a 'maha panchayat' at one of the protest sites - Gazipur border. He said there was no midway for settlement on the issue of minimum support price and added that the government must give assurance in writing to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-traffic-snarls-ensue-at-key-entry-points-in-delhi-923212.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' stir on at Noida-Delhi border for fourth day||Scores of farmers opposing the Centre's new farm laws stayed put at the Noida-Delhi border for the fourth day on the trot on Friday, even as a key road connecting Uttar Pradesh and the national capital remained partially shut due to the stir. The protesters, including some women, are camping at one carriageway of the Delhi-Noida Link Road at the Chilla border, while some are demonstrating at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal near the Mahamaya Flyover, according to officials. "One carriageway of the Noida-Delhi road is closed while the other side, Delhi to Noida, is open. The law and order situation is under control and commuters have been advised to take alternative routes of the DND and the Kalindi Kunj to travel to and fro Delhi,” Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S told PTI. The Noida Traffic Police also issued an advisory on Thursday night, suggesting alternative routes instead of the Chilla road for hassle-free commutation, even as the alternative routes -- Delhi-Noida Direct expressway and Kalindi Kunj -- witnessed more than usual traffic that led to snarls during peak morning hours on Friday. Farmers from western Uttar Pradesh districts like Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Firozabad, Kasganj, Gautam Buddh Nagar and belonging to groups like Bharatiya Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) are protesting at the border here. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.   However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-on-at-noida-delhi-border-for-fourth-day-923252.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||UP police stop interfaith wedding despite both parents' consent||As final preparations were underway -- the bride, a 22-year old chemistry postgraduate, and the bridegroom, a 24-year old pharmacist -- were asked by the police Para station officials to seek permission from the district magistrate before they tying the knot. The wedding, which was being held in Lucknow's Duda Colony, was according to police officers, set to follow Hindu rituals." Both families, it is believed, have agreed to postpone the wedding till the necessary approval(s) is granted. SHO Triloki Singh told The Indian Express that his men acted upon the objections raised by members of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, and noted that there was no coercion from either family. The objective, he noted, stemmed from the was that the girl's family was Hindu, while the boy's family was Muslim. He added that he made clear to them that they were under "no pressure to convert," and that the bridegroom intended to convert to Hinduism. "The families were told that the new ordinance has provisions to check religious conversions carried out through allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage. Both the families have now decided to follow the proper process for interfaith marriages," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP), south, Suresh Chandra Rawat said on Friday. No FIR was lodged in the matter, the police said. "Under the provisions of the ordinance, an inquiry will be conducted about the intention or purpose of the conversion, and violation of this provision will have the effect of such conversion being rendered null and void," said senior lawyer Hemant Kumar Upadhyay. "The converted person will have to make another declaration in the prescribed format within six months of conversion. A violation of this will invite punishment from six months up to three years with a fine of Rs 10,000," he said. The law provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. With inputs from PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-stop-interfaith-wedding-despite-both-parents-consent-923265.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi government starts enrolling process of healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination||The Delhi government has begun the process of enrolment of healthcare workers of different hospitals, nursing homes and other facilities for Covid-19 vaccination. For uploading data a link has been provided on the website of the Delhi State Health Mission, according to a public notice published in a national daily. Hundreds of healthcare workers (HCWs) at government and private facilities in Delhi had contracted the novel coronavirus, and many more are still getting affected by it. "Delhi government is enrolling healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination. Many registered nursing homes and hospitals have already submitted data, along with many smaller unregistered clinics," the notice said. The Delhi government invites all those remaining healthcare facilities to submit the names of healthcare workers in their institutions, nursing homes, clinics and OPDs, it said. Healthcare workers include medical and paramedical staff, supporting, security and administrative staff of all allopathic, dental, AYUSH, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings, the notice said. According to Union Health Ministry officials, the anti-coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Covid-19 inoculation programme, using processes, technology and network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). The government has initiated preparations for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine upon its availability and as part of it, one of the activities is creating a database of healthcare workers who will be prioritised for coronavirus vaccine. Also, the Centre in a letter to states and union territories has said MBBS and BDS doctors as well as interns, staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives and pharmacists would be considered as potential vaccinators, for carrying out the drive, provided that they are actively involved in day-to-day provision of clinical care and have experience in administering injections. Delhi recorded 3,734 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday with over 70,000 tests being conducted for the second consecutive day, even as the positivity rate dipped to 4.96 per cent, authorities said. The Thursday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 5,82,058, while the recovery rate stood at over 93 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-starts-enrolling-process-of-healthcare-workers-for-covid-19-vaccination-923267.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC asks Bar Council for online enrollment of law grads||The query was posed by Justice Navin Chawla while issuing notice to the BCD and Bar Council of India (BCI) on a plea by four law graduates who are seeking online mode of enrollment as all of them hail from Bihar and cannot come to Delhi for attending the physical process of enrollment. The law graduates -- Abhishek Anand, Gaurav Kumar, Priya Ranjan and Anurag Yadav -- told the court that without getting enrolled they would not be able to sit in the All India Bar Exam for which applications have to be submitted by December 19. They also told the court that Bar Councils of several other states - like Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh -- started online enrollment of law graduates in August-September this year. They also said that in a similar plea filed in August this year, the BCD had told the high court in September that certain steps were being taken to address the issue of online or electronic mode of enrollment. However, till date no steps have been taken by BCD, they claimed and added that representations sent by them have also not elicited any response from the lawyers' body. Apart from seeking online enrollment, the petitioners have also sought directions to BCD to exempt them from filing rent agreement or proof residence till normalcy is restored. Their plea also seeks a declaration from the court that the requirement of rent agreement/ proof of residence as one of the conditions precedent for enrolment in BCD was "illegal and unconstitutional".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-bar-council-for-online-enrollment-of-law-grads-923269.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Don't leave city, be available on WhatsApp: Delhi govt to officials on work from from||The Delhi government has asked its officials allowed to work from home to remain available on phone and WhatsApp, and to not leave the city without prior permission. The order from the departments of Women and Child Development, and Social Welfare comes after the city government allowed 50 per cent of its employees associated with non-essential services to work from home. “The officials allowed to work from home will remain available at any time as and when so required on phone, WhatsApp, messages and e-mail. Any official allowed to work from home may be called to office, if required,” the order read. The departments also asked those working from home not to leave the city unless prior permission is granted by the competent authority in writing and conveyed to the official concerned only in exceptional circumstances. “This arrangement will be effective till December 31 or till further orders,” the departments said. In an order issued on November 29, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had said, "All government offices shall function with officers of the level of grade 1/equivalent and above to extent of 100 per cent strength. The remaining staff will attend up to 50 per cent as per requirement till December 31 or till further order. Private offices are advised to stagger timings and the presence of staff." According to the order, Delhi government offices, autonomous bodies, public sector undertakings, corporations, and local bodies will function with officers of grade-one level or equivalent and above to the extent of 100 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-leave-city-be-available-on-whatsapp-delhi-govt-to-officials-on-work-from-from-923297.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Waqf Boards to be soon established in J&K, Ladakh, says Naqvi||Waqf Boards will soon be established in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, and the process for it has already started, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Friday. After chairing a Central Waqf Council meeting here, Naqvi in a statement said that Waqf Boards will be established in the Jammu-Kashmir and the Leh-Kargil areas for the first time since Independence. It has become possible to do so only after the revocation of Article 370, he said and added that the Waqf Boards in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will ensure proper utilisation of Waqf properties for the welfare of society. The central government will provide adequate financial assistance to construct infrastructure for socio-economic and educational activities on Waqf properties in the Union Territories under the 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram (PMJVK)', Naqvi said. There are thousands of Waqf properties in the Jammu-Kashmir and the Leh-Kargil areas, and the process has been started to register them, he said in the statement. Digitisation, geo-tagging or GPS mapping of these Waqf properties has also been initiated and the work will be completed soon, the minister said. In Friday's meeting, while taking serious note of bungling and encroachment of Waqf properties by "Waqf mafias" in several states, state governments were asked to take strict action in such cases, Naqvi said. He said that a team of the Central Waqf Council will visit these states in this regard. Naqvi said that just like in other parts of the country, the central government will construct schools, colleges, ITIs, polytechnics, girls hostels, hospitals, multi-purpose community halls 'Sadbhav Mandap', 'Hunar Hub', common service centres, employment oriented skill development centres and other basic infrastructure on Waqf land in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh under the PMJVK. These basic infrastructure will ensure quality education for the needy and employment opportunities to the youths, he said. Naqvi said that while only 90 districts of the country had been identified for minority communities’ development earlier, the Modi government has expanded development programmes for minorities in 308 districts, 870 blocks, 331 towns and thousands of the villages. The minority affairs minister said that about 6,64,000 registered Waqf properties are there across the country and digitisation of all the state Waqf boards has been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/waqf-boards-to-be-soon-established-in-jk-ladakh-says-naqvi-923298.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Hope government will meet demands, else farmers' protest will continue, says Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the farmers are hoping that the government will meet their demands during the fifth round of talks scheduled on December 5, failing which they will continue their protests against the new farm laws. "The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed.  "If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday's meeting," Tikait told PTI. Delhi's border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day, after talks between three union ministers and a representative group of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. The two sides are scheduled to meet on Saturday again. The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are "anti-farmer", and would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.      However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hope-government-will-meet-demands-else-farmers-protest-will-continue-says-tikait-923305.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||UP MLC polls: BJP wins 3 seats, SP 1 in initial results||The ruling BJP won three of the six Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats for which results were announced initially on Friday. Altogether, polling was held on 11 seats reserved for graduates and teachers in the biennial elections. The BJP on Friday won a maximum of three of these seats, Samajwadi Party one, and Independent candidates bagged the remaining two. The results for the remaining five seats were expected later in the day, BJP's Umesh Dwivedi, Shrishchandra Sharma and Hari Singh Dhillon were declared winners from Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly-Moradabad teachers' constituencies, respectively, an official statement issued here said. SP candidate Lal Bihari Yadav won from Varanasi teachers' constituency, while Independents Akash Agarwal and Dhruv Kumar Tripathi won from Agra and Faizabad teachers' constituencies, respectively, it said. The counting for the 11 seats started on Thursday and the results of the remaining are likely to be announced by Friday evening, officials said. The voting for the 11 seats was held on December 1 and a total of 199 candidates were in the fray. The BJP, SP, Congress and teachers' associations contested the polls. Of the 11 seats, five are graduates' constituencies and six teachers' constituencies. The term of office of the MLCs from these constituencies expired on May 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-mlc-polls-bjp-wins-3-seats-sp-1-in-initial-results-923320.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||UP cops stop interfaith couple's wedding citing 'Love Jihad'; families plead saying consentual||Uttar Pradesh police stopped a wedding citing the new anti-conversion law against 'Love Jihad', although the two families, hailing from different communities, had already agreed to their marriage and the wedding party had also reached the venue but the interfaith couple's marriage could not be solemnised. The police asked the couple, both residents of Lucknow, to take permission from the district magistrate before marrying as it is mandatory for interfaith couples to get one from the concerned district magistrate for the marriage under the state's new law. According to the sources a Hindu girl had been having an affair with a Muslim youth for the past several years. After initial reluctance, their families finally agreed to their marriage. All the arrangements were made and invitations sent. The marriage was to be solemnised. The 'baraat' on time at the venue on Friday. A police team from the local police station reached the venue before the rituals began and asked the two families to cancel the marriage as the required permission from the district magistrate had not been obtained, sources said. The two families pleaded that the marriage had their consent but the cops remained adamant. Sources said that members of a local saffron outfit had tipped off the police and sought cancellation of the marriage. ''We have no objection to the marriage...we are only trying to enforce the law,'' said a senior police official here, when queried in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-stop-interfaith-couples-wedding-citing-love-jihad-families-plead-saying-consentual-923325.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Roshni scam: CBI initiates 4 preliminary enquiries to probe complicity of JDA officials with encroachers||Widening its probe in Roshni scam cases in Jammu and Kashmir, the CBI has registered four preliminary enquiries into the alleged non-compliance of high court directives by officials of the Jammu Development Authority (JDA) and others to "cover up" the complicity in illegal acts of encroachment of land. The first enquiry registered by the CBI relates to matter pertaining to the encroachment on 784 kanals, 17 marla of land in Gole, tehsil Jammu which was transferred to JDA.  A preliminary enquiry (PE) is the first step initiated by the CBI to assess criminality in prima facie allegations levelled by a complainant. If the allegations appear to be serious enough, the agency proceeds with an FIR or else the PE is closed. On April 24, 2014, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court had directed the deputy commissioners of Jammu, Samba, Udhampur, Srinagar, Budgam and Pulwama districts to submit the compliance report on handing over the relevant record of the present case to the vigilance director, who was enquiring into the matter. In spite of subsequent repeated directives of the high court, no action was initiated by the competent authorities.  "The above court proceedings establish the reluctance of these senior officers and all authorities revenues, Jammu Development Authority etc. to assist the inquiry, which reluctance in fact tantamount to obstruction and hurdles created by these authorities to prevent disclosure of the truth, protect law breakers and facilitate misappropriation of public properties of which they were guardians. "Such acts and omissions of these officials tantamount to complicity in the illegal acts and criminal offences. These officers in the State have flouted court orders with impunity," the high court had noted while handing over the probe to the CBI.  The second preliminary enquiry registered by the CBI pertained to alleged encroachment on 154 kanals of land and its conversion to commercial use by a businessman named Bansi Lal Gupta in collusion with unidentified JDA officials and private persons, officials said. Gupta has allegedly covered the JDA land with plinth and four walls but managed to get rights under the Roshni Act. "Since the land was duly recorded JDA land in the revenue record and in view of /bar contained in Section 3(b), the case in hand for conferment of ownership rights should have been rejected at the threshold on this score only by the then district collector, Jammu," the high court had noted and sought a response which was not furnished by authorities. The divisional commissioner of Jammu in August had filed a response stating that a committee has been formed to resolve the matter.  "We have strong apprehension that the JDA and the revenue authorities have now commenced a huge cover-up exercise now," the high court had noted.  The CBI has registered third preliminary enquiry into refusal of JDA to comply with court orders to demarcate of 66436 kanals of land transferred to it by the government. The high court noted that the non-compliance of its orders by the JDA "reflects the depth of involvement of the official machinery with the encroachers". "It was observed that the revenue department had entered into superficial correspondence with the JDA with regard to transfer of the land and its demarcation," it had said. The court on November 12, 2014, had directed the revenue department as well as the JDA to file a status report with regard to the demarcation of this balance land which has not been complied with even after six years.  "Having seen the record of this case, we are compelled to state that the non-compliance was for obvious reasons," the court had noted.  The fourth preliminary enquiry pertains to publication of Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Rules, 2007 in purported exercise of power under section 18 of the Roshni Act in the official Gazette on May 5, 2007.  "It seems that no approval of these rules was sought from the legislature and they were unauthorisedly published in government Gazette," it had noted. The Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act 2001 known as Roshni Act was enacted on November 9, 2001, and was published in the Government Gazette on November 13, 2001.  The law was repealed in 2018.  "The very enactment of the J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001 as also its amendments and J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Rules, 2007 are completely unconstitutional, illegal, unjustified and void ab initio," the high court had held. After the orders of the high court to the CBI to take over investigations from Vigilance Bureau of Jammu and Kashmir, the agency has registered nine FIRs in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roshni-scam-cbi-initiates-4-preliminary-enquiries-to-probe-complicity-of-jda-officials-with-encroachers-923335.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Positivity rate below 4% for 5 days would mean Delhi has been successful in combating Covid-19: Jain||If the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital stays below 4 per cent for five consecutive days, it would mean Delhi has been successful in combating the pandemic, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. Interacting with reporters, he also said there is "enough resources for the application as well as storage of vaccine" and mohalla clinics, polyclinics, dispensaries and hospitals will facilitate the application. "The positivity rate has become less than 5 per cent as compared to the surge since November 7 which is a sign of relief as it points to perpetual declining of the effect of the pandemic in Delhi," Jain said. "If this continues for five consecutive days, Delhi will successfully combat the outbreak," he said. The positivity rate in Delhi decreased to 4.96 per cent on Thursday. "For people who have already recovered from Covid-19, their body has produced antibodies naturally so they do not need to be vaccinated in the first phase," he said. Delhi recorded 3,734 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with over 70,000 tests being conducted for the second consecutive day, even as the positivity rate dipped to 4.96 per cent, authorities said. These fresh cases came out of the 75,230 tests conducted on Wednesday, including 33,298 RT-PCR tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. Eighty-two fatalities were recorded, pushing the toll in the national capital to 9,424.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/positivity-rate-below-4-for-5-days-would-mean-delhi-has-been-successful-in-combating-covid-19-jain-923339.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||MP Home Minister found 'unfit' for Covid-19 vaccine trial||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra was found unfit for Bharat Biotech's coronavirus vaccine trial as his immediate family members had tested positive for the infection, a doctor said on Friday. Dr Anil Kumar Dixit, Dean of the city-based People's College of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, where the clinical trial of the vaccine is being held, said, "Mishra was found unfit for the vaccine trial as some of the members in his family had tested Covid-19 positive earlier." Talking to reporters here, the minister said he wished to volunteer for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin trial as he wanted to do something for the society. "But I was found unfit for it as my wife and children had tested positive in the past," Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-home-minister-found-unfit-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial-923343.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Woman dies by suicide after tiff with hubby over fish||Tiff with husband is quite normal for any woman, and vice-versa. But imagine a young woman, in her 30s, who killed herself simply after an altercation with her hubby over the quantity of fish he purchased. The unfortunate incident took place in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district on Thursday where Kundan Mandal, a farmer by profession, brought two kg of fish from the market for his family comprising six members, including his four children. Kundan’s wife Sara Devi cooked fish curry for the lunch. So delicious was the dish that Kundan and his four children had their meal full plate. In the process, hardly any fish was left for Sara Devi when she eventually sat to have her lunch after feeding everyone. A verbal tiff ensued between the couple over the quantity of fish when Kundan told his wife to have the ‘leftovers’ while he would bring in additional fish from the market the same evening. But the ‘leftovers’ term hurt the wife so much, that she consumed poison as soon as her husband went to the farmland after having his lunch. Kundan was informed about the incident. He rushed to his home and took Sara to the nearby hospital where the 31-year-old woman died while undergoing treatment. “I never thought someone would end her life after a tiff over fish,” said Kundan, reiterating that Sara earlier never showed any tendency to die by suicide over such trivial issue. The cops are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-dies-by-suicide-after-tiff-with-hubby-over-fish-923345.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Plea in SC seeks removal of farmers protesting at Delhi borders||Amid the farmers' protests, a petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the authorities to open the Delhi borders and shift the protesters at the allotted place, as the blockade affected essential supplies as well as emergency medical services. A law student, Rishabh Sharma, said it was very necessary to remove the mass gathering at Delhi borders to protests in order to stop the spread of coronavirus. The cases of such patients were increasing rapidly in Delhi and many people were frequently travelling to Delhi from different states in order to get treatment in big government hospitals situated in the national capital, he said. The petitioner referred to the apex court's judgement of October 7 in the Amit Sahni case (Shaheen Bagh) where it was held public roads and spaces can't be occupied in an indefinite manner for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, as such demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. The plea said that due to the ongoing protest at Delhi borders, roads have been blocked and vehicular movement have been affected. “Because of the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders, the roads have been blocked by the protesters and closed border points, which have affected vehicular traffic and people who are travelling to and from Delhi to get medical treatment in reputed government/private hospitals situated in Delhi are also affected,” said the plea, filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar. Traffic moved at snail's pace at several border points of the national capital as police kept key routes connecting Delhi to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh closed in view of the farmers' protest against the new farm laws, which entered its ninth day on Friday.  "Even though the police has allotted a dedicated place for the protesters to protest peacefully, but they are not shifting or moving to the allotted place and in order to create trouble for the commuters they have blocked the border," he claimed. “It is pertinent to note that in view of the prevention of the community spread of the pandemic disease Coronavirus (Covid-19), it is very necessary to remove the gathering and this protest is further blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus..,” it said.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-sc-seeks-removal-of-farmers-protesting-at-delhi-borders-923346.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police issues notice to Hannan Mollah, Kisan Sabha calls it attempt at intimidation||Delhi Police has issued a notice to All India Kisan Sabha General Secretary Hannan Mollah, who is part of the delegation holding talks with the Centre on behalf of protesting farmers, naming him as an accused in connection with a protest in September, prompting condemnation from activists that it was aimed at intimidation of leaders. In a notice issued by Sub Inspector Lalit Kumar on Thursday, police said that a case under Section 188 (disobeying the instructions of a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Mollah, also a Polit Bureau member of the CPI(M) with regard to the protest against farm laws at Jantar Mantar on September 25. Police have charged Mollah and others claiming that they have violated the Covid-19 guidelines. The notice came two days ahead of a call by leaders, including Mollah, to burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani as part of the protests against the three agriculture laws. The Delhi Police notice said that he is not being arrested now though the case registered against him is a cognizable offence as the punishment in the case is up to seven years imprisonment. However, it said it would be Mollah's responsibility to comply with the terms set by the police and he would appear before the investigators as and when required. The conditions also included that he will not commit any offence or destroy evidence and appear before the court on its directions. The notice said he would be arrested if he violated any of the terms. The Kisan Sabha found the timing of the notice as suspicious and said it was a "bid to intimidate leaders and activists protesting" against the "anti-farmer" laws. It said Mollah was participating in an all-India protest action and the BJP government is taking recourse to the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to curb political protests. "This is a clear violation of fundamental rights and the BJP government is on the pretext of the pandemic and lockdown seeking to clampdown democratic protests," a Kisan Sabha statement said. The statement alleged that the BJP government has been misusing the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act all through the lockdown "selectively" on protests against its policies and against organisations building resistance to them. "Violations by RSS-BJP on numerous occasions are ignored. Kisan Sabha calls upon all democratic organisations to rise up to protect our right to protest. Kisan Sabha demands unconditional withdrawal of cases filed across India on protesting farmers, workers and activists," the statement said. The Kisan Sabha also called its supporters to protest against the "attack on democratic rights and the notice issued" to Mollah on Saturday during the already announced effigy burning protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-issues-notice-to-hannan-mollah-kisan-sabha-calls-it-attempt-at-intimidation-923349.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||People must continue to take all precautions against Covid-19, says UP CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said though the state and central governments are making efforts to check the spread of Covid-19, people must continue to take all precautions against the disease. He also said his government was able to control encephalitis deaths up to 95 per cent this year. Adityanath was speaking at the inaugural function of the Founder's Week celebrations of Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad (MPSP) here. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat also attended the event. The chief minister said the state government and the Centre are putting in huge efforts to check the spread of Covid-19 and also preparing for vaccination in the future but "we have to continue taking precautions and following Covid-19 protocols". So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 5,51,179 Covid-19 cases, including 7,877 deaths, according to officials. Adityanath credited the Centre's Swachh Bharat campaign for bringing down encephalitis deaths in Uttar Pradesh. "This year, we are able to control encephalitis deaths up to 95 per cent and PM Modi's visionary Swachh Bharat campaign helped a lot in achieving this target," he said. Citing the example of Rajput warrior king Maharana Pratap, Adityanath advised youths to stay strong in the face of challenges. "Youths should set goals and choose the right icons for life," he said. "Mahant Digvijaynath ji established Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad taking inspiration from Maharana Pratap 88 years ago. We need to stay strong in the face of challenges and work on turning them into opportunities," he added. Addressing the gathering, CDS Rawat underlined that hard work and teamwork are important for success. He also said teachers are very important in life and they can't be replaced with technology. Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma stressed the importance of education in life. He said a human being is like an animal without literature, art and culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-must-continue-to-take-all-precautions-against-covid-19-says-up-cm-adityanath-923364.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Nitish Katara murder: HC grants 5-day custody parole to Sukhdev Yadav to attend daughter’s marriage||The Delhi High Court Friday granted custody parole to Sukhdev Yadav alias Pehalwan, serving a 20-year jail term without remission for the murder of business executive Nitish Katara in 2002, to attend the marriage of his daughter. Justice Anu Malhotra allowed Pehalwan to go to Kushinagar to attend his daughter’s wedding, scheduled on December 6, and other related functions in custody parole for five days. The high court directed the jail personnel to take him to his native place where the marriage is scheduled and to bring him back on expiry of custody parole. Pehalwan had urged the court to release him on parole. However, the court said the allegations of animosity alleged by the witness cannot be ignored and did not grant him that relief. Advocate Kanhaiya Singhal, representing Pehalwan, said he has challenged the Delhi government’s Home Department order rejecting his application for grant of parole. He said the convict was earlier also granted parole in 2019 for the purpose of making arrangements for fixing daughter’s marriage and he had not misused the liberty. The counsel for State and Nitish Katara’s mother Nilam Katara opposed the parole plea saying Pehalwan has already been granted the relief for making arrangements for his daughter’s marriage and if at all the court wanted to consider, he should be granted only custody parole. Eye witness in the case, Ajay Katara, also opposed the plea saying in November, his wife was attacked and he has been implicated in 24 criminal cases, including gangrape and molestation, allegedly at the behest of father of convict Vikas Yadav and politician D P Yadav’s gang. Advocate Pradeep Dey, representing Nilam Katara, submitted that threat perception to both Nilam and Ajay continues till date and they both have been provided with security. On October 3, 2016, the Supreme Court had awarded a 25-year jail term without any benefit of remission to Vikas Yadav and his cousin Vishal for their role in the sensational kidnapping and killing of Katara. Co-convict Sukhdev Yadav alias Pehalwan was also handed down a 20-year jail term in the case. Prior to this, the Delhi High Court, while upholding the life imprisonment awarded to Vikas and Vishal Yadav by the trial court, had specified a 30-year sentence, without any remission, to both of them. It had awarded a 25-year jail term to third convict Pehalwan. All three were convicted and sentenced for kidnapping Nitish Katara from a marriage party on the intervening night of February 16-17, 2002 and then killing him for his alleged affair with Bharti Yadav, the sister of Vikas. Bharti is the daughter of Uttar Pradesh politician D P Yadav who is in jail in connection with another murder case. Katara was murdered as Vishal and Vikas Yadav did not approve of his affair with Bharti because they belonged to different castes, the lower court had said in its verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-katara-murder-hc-grants-5-day-custody-parole-to-sukhdev-yadav-to-attend-daughter-s-marriage-923376.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||CBI searches 3 locations in Delhi in alleged Rs 1,800-crore State Bank of India fraud case||The CBI on Friday carried out searches at three locations here after booking Jay Polychem (India) Ltd in an alleged Rs 1,800-crore bank fraud in a consortium led by State Bank of India, officials said. The agency has received a complaint from the SBI against the Lajpat Nagar-based ISO-certified company and its promoters and directors for causing a loss of Rs 1,800.72 crore to a 13-bank consortium led by it, they said. The CBI has booked the company, its managing director Satinder Singh Dhingra, director Sandeep Singh Madhok, another company, Jaspark Speciality Chemicals Ltd, and unidentified others. Look-out circulars have been opened against Satinder Pal Madhok, Sandeep Madhok, Prakash Kaur, Harneet Kaur and Sumohita Kaur, the bank said in its complaint, which is now part of the FIR. The company is engaged in import and trade of industrial chemicals and its account was not satisfactory, the bank alleged. It said the company forayed into different businesses, including oil exploration. The bank alleged that the account had minimal transactions and was running irregularly since May 2014 due to continuous instances of Letters of Credit (LCs) devolvement of all banks in the account. It turned non-performing asset in August 2014 due to sustained irregularity for over 90 days, it said. A forensic audit by Ernst and Young showed alleged diversion and syphoning off of bank funds, fictitious transactions, forgery etc, resulting in the FIR, the officials said. It showed that the company indulged in business dealings with companies appearing to be potentially suspicious, the bank alleged, adding that LCs worth Rs 453.59 crore were issued to these companies. The bank also alleged that financial statements of the company showed that the Capital Work in Progress (CWIP) increased to over Rs 408 crore in 2015 towards exploration and assessment of oil block under NELP VIII. The data from the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons showed the cost incurred by the company for two oil wells to be around Rs 15.35 crore. The bank alleged that Rs 392 crore were diverted by the company. "Searches are being conducted today at three locations in Delhi at the office and residential premises of borrower company and other accused," CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-searches-3-locations-in-delhi-in-alleged-rs-1800-crore-state-bank-of-india-fraud-case-923389.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||25-member team of Muslim men serve 'langar' 24/7 to protesting farmers at Singhu border||A 25-member team of Muslim men have been serving 'langar' (community kitchen) since Wednesday to the farmers protesting against the Centre's new farm laws at Delhi's Singhu border. The team of the Muslim Federation of Punjab, led by Faaroqi Mubeen, say they have arrived at the Singhu border to "serve the farmers who feed everyone". "The 'langar' will go on 24X7 till the protests continue. The farmers do so much for us. It is out turn to return the favour," he said. "It is our responsibility to take care of the farmers. We are a team of 25 volunteers who are working non-stop to keep the 'langar' going," Mubeen said. Key routes at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained choked as thousands of farmers held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day, after talks between three union ministers and a representative group of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. The protesting farmers had on Wednesday threatened to block other roads of Delhi in the coming days if the new agriculture laws are not scrapped soon. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the farmers are hoping that the government will meet their demands during the fifth round of talks scheduled on December 5, failing which they will continue their protests. As farmers remained unyielding on their demand for scrapping the new farm laws, the police kept the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli closed for traffic movement. It said border points at Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri, NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera are open for travel between Delhi and Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-member-team-of-muslim-men-serve-langar-24/7-to-protesting-farmers-at-singhu-border-923399.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees 4,067 new Covid-19 cases, 73 deaths||Delhi recorded 4,067 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 5.86 lakh on Friday, while the toll rose to 9,497 with 73 more deaths, according to a health bulletin. A record 85,003 tests, including 40,191 RT-PCR tests, were conducted the previous day and the positivity rate dipped to 4.78 per cent, the Health Department said. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped to 28,252 from 29,120. The number of cases climbed to 5,86,125, including 9,497 fatalities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-4067-new-covid-19-cases-73-deaths-923420.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh unveils logo for 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday virtually unveiled the logo of the state-level 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur. The celebrations are slated to be held in April-May 2021. Born on April 1, 1621, Tegh Bahadur was the ninth of 10 Gurus of the Sikh religion. He was executed in 1675 under the orders of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Chairing a meeting of the executive committee for the celebrations, the chief minister suggested dedicating the year-long celebrations to the 'Hind Di Chaddar' as 'Sarv Dharam' year to mark the secular character of the nation. It was tentatively decided at the virtual meeting that the main programme should commence on April 23 next year and culminate on May 1 in a grand event, according to a government statement. A 'nagar kirtan' (Sikh religious procession) will be held on April 23, starting from Guru Tegh Bahadur ji's birth place at Guru Ka Mahal in Amritsar and arriving at Baba Bakala to mark the launch of the event. He directed Tourism Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to prepare a proposal of works to be undertaken to commemorate the historic occasion. The chief minister said special development works should be undertaken in all the 103 rural and urban areas of the state associated with Guru Tegh Bahadur. He suggested allocation of Rs 40 to 50 lakh for each of the 80 villages and Rs 1 crore for development of the 23 urban areas in this respect. Amarinder accepted the suggestion of Vidhan Sabha Speaker and MLA K P Rana that separate development projects and funds should be earmarked for Anandpur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib, the two towns associated with the great Guru. Meanwhile, the chief minister dedicated two 66 KV grid sub-stations, in Mansa and Mohali districts to the people of Punjab through video-conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-unveils-logo-for-400th-birth-anniversary-celebrations-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-923421.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi 'held hostage' through protest, says Kapil Mishra in letter to President||Amid the ongoing agitation by farmers on city's borders, Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to take steps to provide respite to Delhiites who he claimed were being "held hostage" through protests. In his letter to Kovind, Mishra said workers of many political parties have held Delhi hostage for many days. He said the supplies of essential items like milk, vegetables, oxygen cylinder and medicines has been affected, he said. "This is not the first time but it has been recurring. At the start of this year, Delhi was held hostage in the name of Shaheen Bagh movement and an atmosphere of hatred and violence was created in the capital," he said in his letter. Mishra's name has figured in connection with the Delhi riots, with many political and social outfits accusing him of giving "provocative" speech at Jafarabad that was followed by riots in north east Delhi. Referring to the farmers' protests, Mishra said the people of Delhi were getting "deprived" of their fundamental rights and simple freedoms like going to office, opening shops and hospital visits for treatment were being snatched away from them.   "Delhi people being held hostage frequently. This toying with the lives of children and elderly must stop," he said in his letter. He requested the President for "concrete and decisive step" to stop Delhi being held hostage, and added that political jugglery of this kind cannot be permitted to play with the lives of crores of people. Key routes at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained choked as thousands of farmers held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day, after talks between three union ministers and a representative group of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday. The farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws have blocked Delhi's Singhu and Tikri borders, affecting supplies of fruits, vegetables, milk and other essential items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-held-hostage-through-protest-says-kapil-mishra-in-letter-to-president-923427.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||India biggest buyer of Covid-19 vaccine with 1.6 billion doses, experts say this could cover 60% population||India is the largest buyer of Covid-19 vaccines in the world with 1.6 billion doses, according to a global analysis, a number some scientists say could cover 800 million people, or 60 per cent of its population, and will be enough to develop ‘herd immunity’. India has purchased 500 million doses of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, one billion from the US company Novavax and 100 million doses of the Sputnik V candidate from Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, according to the US-based Duke University Global Health Innovation Center.  The ‘Launch and Scale Speedometer’ analysis, which is updated every two weeks, shows India has confirmed 1.6 billion doses of three vaccines as of November 30 while the US and the EU have purchased doses of six candidates. According to the analysis, India is the top Covid-19 vaccine buyer followed by the European Union which has confirmed 1.58 billion doses and the US, the worst affected country so far, that has managed to purchase just over a billion doses. As countries strategise to secure more shots to protect their populations against the novel coronavirus infection, Duke University has released a new global assessment of purchasing agreements for Covid-19 vaccines, even before any candidates are in the market. “Countries with manufacturing capacity, such as India and Brazil, have been successful in negotiating large advance market commitments with leading vaccine candidates as part of the manufacturing agreements,” the Duke researchers noted in their analysis.     "The data is based on what is in the public domain and after speaking to government officials, especially in India," explained noted virologist Shahid Jameel.   In November, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said 400-500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines were estimated to be made available for 250 to 300 million (25 crore to 30 crore) people in India by July-August 2021.   Jameel told PTI that all the vaccines ‘pre-booked’ by India are manufactured by Indian companies – Oxford-AstraZeneca and Novavax by Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune and Sputnik V by Dr Reddy’s Lab in Hyderabad.   India’s domestic vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech also entered Phase 3 clinical trials this week.   “Bharat Biotech and Zydus-Cadila would also add about 400 million doses annually. In brief, the numbers appear reasonable over 2021 and 2022,” said Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University.   “We can expect the first 250 million to be vaccinated in 2021; the remaining in the following years. The problem will not be vaccine doses, but the ability to deliver them,” Jameel explained.   He noted that 1.6 billion doses would cover 800 million people or 60 per cent of India’s population. This, the virologist said, should be enough to develop herd immunity,  a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection. The first 500 million doses, the virologist said, are likely to go to 250 million people in the group that includes frontline workers, healthcare workers, sanitation, emergency services, and security services.   This group also includes the elderly above 65 and patients with comorbidities.   Immunologist Satyajit Rath said there is currently no particularly reliable estimate of the percentage of community coverage needed to be vaccinated in order to reach the point of 'herd immunity'. The reliability of models being used for these estimations is far from clear, he stressed.   “Since all the vaccine candidates that are being discussed as purchased have two-dose vaccine regimens, the current number for India would vaccinate, at best, 80 crore (800 million) people. This, of course, does not account for logistical losses, which can be substantial,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII)  in New Delhi, told PTI.   “Also, this seems to imply that Covid-19 vaccination is a one-time exercise. But it is not clear how long the vaccine-mediated protection will last, and therefore it is not clear when repeat vaccination will be needed, and how that will be delivered,” he added.   Flagging some uncertainties about the Covid dose purchases, Rath said he is “curious” about about the "confirmed" purchase by India.  “Have these been paid for or at least committed to at a given price, are these acquisitions through the COVAX programme or independent of it, and most of all, of course, what is the delivery schedule agreed to in this acquisition, etc.”   Rath also noted that it is difficult to predict how many will be immunised, and when.   “The next set of uncertainties I have is whether there are credible and well-worked out plans in India to match these delivery schedules with downstream transport, uptake and actual vaccination, plans for multi-stage transport, multi-point cold storage, provision of injection accessories... , the recording-keeping needed and most of all, the skilled personnel to administer the injections.”   In Rath’s view, a certain sector of healthcare workers will likely be immunised in the next few months, as well as a certain proportion of 'first responder' people at high occupational risk of infection. “Beyond that, we are simply whistling in the wind at this stage,” he said.   The Duke analysis also found that Canada and the UK have each struck deals for over 350 million doses from seven developers.   The analysis doesn’t include Russia and China, both of which have their own vaccine programmes for their citizens.   The researchers noted that a flurry of nearly 200 Covid-19 vaccine candidates are moving forward through the development and clinical trials processes at unprecedented speed.   More than 10 candidates are already in Phase 3 large-scale trials and several have received emergency or limited authorisation.   The number of advance market commitments (AMCs) made by countries and multilateral partnerships eager to reserve vaccine supply, even before any candidates are on the market is unprecedented.   “High-income countries currently hold a confirmed 3.8 billion doses, upper middle-income countries hold 829 million doses, and lower middle-income countries hold more than 1.7 billion doses,” according to the report.   The researchers said they have not been able to find evidence of any direct deals made by low-income countries, suggesting that such countries will be entirely reliant on the 20 per cent population coverage from COVAX.   COVAX is a global initiative led by the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and international vaccine alliance organization Gavi that aims to bring governments and vaccine manufacturers together to ensure all countries have access to Covid-19 vaccines once they become available.   Since none of these vaccines are approved, Duke researchers said some of the purchased candidates may prove to be unsuccessful, adding countries that can afford to are purchasing a portfolio of vaccines, in hopes that one or more will get through the regulatory process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-biggest-buyer-of-covid-19-vaccine-with-16-billion-doses-experts-say-this-could-cover-60-population-923431.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Haryana Congress seeks special Assembly session for no-trust vote against Khattar govt||The Congress in Haryana will seek the convening of a special session of the Assembly to bring a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led state government, its legislature party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said Friday. Hooda claimed that the ML Khattar government has lost the confidence of both the people and the House, and said a Congress delegation will meet Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya soon to demand summoning of the House. When asked if some BJP MLAs were in touch with him, the Congress leader told reporters in Gurgaon, “I cannot disclose all things before you.” He said two Independent MLAs have already withdrawn support to the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party coalition and some JJP legislators have given statements against the government, while supporting the farmers’ protests. “In the last session of the Vidhan Sabha, we had said the government should hold a discussion on farmers’ issues,” Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the House, said. “Now, the Congress Legislature Party has decided to meet the Governor and urge him to convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to discuss farmers’ problems,” he said. “We will bring a no-confidence motion because the present government has not only lost the confidence of the people, but of the House.” Independent MLAs Balraj Kundu and Sombir Sangwan had earlier withdrawn support to the BJP-JJP government, which completed a year in office over a month ago. But Hooda claimed that some MLAs are playing a “double role”, making statements against the government but are continuing to support the government. “This will make it clear who stands with the farmers,” he said, referring to the planned no-trust motion. He said while farmers are on the streets, the JJP and some Independent MLAs continue to enjoy the fruits of power. Hooda said when the assembly convenes, the Congress will also seek an amendment to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) with punishment for those purchasing crops below it. At present, the Khattar government enjoys a comfortable majority in the 90-member State Assembly. The BJP has 40 MLAs and its ally JJP 10. There are 31 Congress MLAs and one each from the Indian National Lok Dal and Haryana Lokhit Party. Seven members are Independents, out of whom five, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, support the ruling combine. Hooda said Khattar has “insulted” farmers by saying that those from Haryana are not part of the protest at Delhi’s borders. “Not only this, one of his ministers rubbed salt on the wounds of farmers by saying the current agitation is foreign-funded. He should immediately apologise for his remarks,” he demanded. The 73-year-old former chief minister said he has not seen a bigger farmers’ agitation in his entire life. Thousands of farmers – mostly from Punjab but many from Haryana – are now protesting at Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September. Farmer unions say the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system, which the government denies. “The Central government should immediately accept their demands, otherwise more problems may arise,” Hooda said. At a separate press conference in Chandigarh, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said if the Centre does not repeal the farm laws, her party will do so when it comes to power. She said those in JJP and BJP who are with the farmers' should stop supporting the government. She said the Congress will fight the December 27 municipal bodies’ elections in the state on its party symbol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-congress-seeks-special-assembly-session-for-no-trust-vote-against-khattar-govt-923450.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Air quality 'severe' in Ghaziabad, Noida; 'very poor' in Gurgaon, Faridabad||The average air quality plunged to "severe" level in Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida, while it was "very poor" in Faridabad and Gurgaon in the national capital region, a government agency data said on Friday. The presence of pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Friday was 440 in Ghaziabad, 414 in Noida, 415 in Greater Noida, 383 in Faridabad and 318 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer application. On Thursday, it was 377 in Ghaziabad, 360 in Noida, 358 in Greater Noida, 336 in Faridabad and 316 in Gurgaon. On Wednesday, it was 421 in Ghaziabad, 406 in Greater Noida, 394 in Noida, 326 in Faridabad and 324 in Gurgaon. On Tuesday, it was 424 in Ghaziabad, 388 in Greater Noida, 387 in Noida, 335 in Faridabad and 311 in Gurgaon. The CPCB states that an AQI in the "very poor" category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while "severe" affects even healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the application.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-quality-severe-in-ghaziabad-noida-very-poor-in-gurgaon-faridabad-923453.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||AAP MP seeks Parliament’s special session to repeal farm laws||Amid the ongoing farmers' agitation, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann on Friday said he has sought a special session of Parliament for the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. He said it is the only way forward to end the “agrarian stalemate.” Mann, who is a Lok Sabha member from Sangrur seat in Punjab, has written a letter to Speaker Om Birla, seeking convening of a special session of the Lower House to repeal the Center’s three farm laws. In a statement here, Mann also accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of having a “stubborn attitude” towards farmers' demands. "The Centre is maintaining a stubborn stance against farmers and their demands,” he said, adding had the government’s intentions been clear, the issue would have been resolved in minutes. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Regarding the implementation of one of the farm laws by the Delhi government, Mann dubbed it as "malicious propaganda" by the BJP and the Congress against the Aam Aadmi Party-led dispensation in Delhi. He said it was Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who first raised his voice against the “draconian” laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-mp-seeks-parliament-s-special-session-to-repeal-farm-laws-923456.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Interstate DTC bus services suspended since Nov 27 due to farmers' protests||Interstate buses of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) have not been plying since November 27 due to the farmers' protest against the Centre's new farm laws at the borders of the city, a senior official said on Friday. The DTC's interstate services, mainly to Gurgaon and Bahadurgarh, were suspended after the start of the farmers' protest at the borders on November 27, the official said. Due to demonstration by farmers, most borders with other states have been closed for traffic movement. Accordingly, some routes have been diverted by the DTC as advised by area Traffic Police, said R S Minhas, deputy chief general manager (PR) of DTC. "The Interstate operation is closed and will be restored after the position normalises," he said. Key routes at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained choked as thousands of farmers held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day against the Centre's farm laws The agitating farmers have blocked Delhi's Singhu and Tikri borders. A total of 104 DTC buses operate to Gurgaon and Bahadurgarh from different depots in the city, the officer said. The protest by farmers has led to closure of traffic at Singhu and Tikri borders of the national capital and the Noida link road due to which traffic has been badly affected. The DTC has deputed sufficient number of traffic supervisory staff on strategic points to divert the buses and provide all possible help to the passengers, Minhas said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interstate-dtc-bus-services-suspended-since-nov-27-due-to-farmers-protests-923462.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Militants attack DDC poll candidate in Jammu and Kashmir||In the first attack on a District Development Council (DDC) election contestant in Jammu and Kashmir, militants shot at and injured an Apni Party candidate in Anantnag district on Friday, police said. Aneesul Islam Ganaie was shot at by the terrorists in Sagam area of Kokernag in the south Kashmir district, a police official said. Ganaie, who is contesting the ongoing DDC polls on an Apni Party ticket, sustained minor injuries to his hand and leg. "Today at about 1200 hours Anantnag police received information about a terror crime incident at Sagam Kokernag area of District Anantnag, where terrorists had fired upon a DDC candidate. Senior police officers immediately reached the terror crime spot," a police spokesperson said. This was the first attack on a candidate contesting the eight-phase DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir being held from November 28 to December 19. The spokesperson said Ganaie was allocated cluster accommodation in Khanabal. "After the end of the scrutiny period, Ganaie was instructed to get escort personnel for campaigning purposes which he did not take," he added. The police spokesperson said all the candidates have already been instructed to inform the police before going out for campaigning. "The information regarding Ganaie's movement was neither conveyed to PCR nor to concerned police station," he added. IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar has requested all the candidates and vulnerable people to inform concerned PCRs or police stations as and when they are desirous of going for poll campaign or other such movements so that appropriate security arrangements are accordingly provided to them, he said. Meanwhile, several political parties including the Apni Party and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami condemned the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-ddc-poll-candidate-in-jammu-and-kashmir-923467.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police carried out 'insidious' prosecution, JNU student to Court||JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, alleged before a Delhi court on Friday that the police had carried out an “insidious” prosecution against her in a case of north east Delhi riots. The submissions were made before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat during hearing of her bail plea in the case related to larger conspiracy in the communal violence. The police has claimed in the charge sheet that Kalita along with others i had allegedly given provocative speeches at the protest sites to instigate the crowd. Prosecution will counter the arguments of the accused on Saturday. During the hearing on Friday, advocate Adit Pujari, appearing for Kalita, referred to the seizure memo files submitted with the charge sheet and said the police allegedly submitted incomplete documents “deliberately” to falsely show that around 300 women, who came from Jahangirpuri to Jafrabad where protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were held, precipitated the violence. He said the prosecution's case was that these women came allegedly armed with acid bottles and chilli powder and were instigated by Kalita and others to cause violence. He said the prosecution has allegedly put selective messages from the WhatsApp chats of police officials to prove their purpose and chosen not to put on record the messages where they are aware that another kind of protests or march was ongoing by pro-CAA protestors. “The police have submitted screenshots of WhatsApp group where police is closely monitoring the movement of the 300 women who came from Jahangirpuri and allegedly precipitated the riots… Police has deliberately declined to place on record messages from 12:39 pm to 12:49 pm with a view to paint an incomplete picture. Police suppressed the messages that were actually talking about the violence which started at Maujpur. “This is mischievous. This is insidious. They are hiding these messages,” Pujari alleged. Pointing to a message by a police official in the group that stone pelting had almost stopped and the situation was under control, he said it was in response to another message saying stone pelting was by a rally at Maujpur. “Instead of showing these messages, the police chose to demonstrate one message to prove that women from Jahangirpuri had caused the violence,” Pujari alleged. He further said that as per the documents in the charge sheet, police was strictly motioning the movement of the buses carrying these 300 women and if they had carried any weapon or committed violence, then the police could have tried to arrest them then and there. Pujari noted that one of the chats by the police also read that the women protestors who went from Jahangirpuri to Shaheen Bagh to Jafrabad have returned to their houses in Jahangirpuri. “Further, anywhere where Kalita was sitting, the police was present there. If these allegations of women being led by Kalita, throwing chilli powder and acid bottles were true, not at one point of time did the police try to stop them?… All of the Delhi police cannot be scared of these 300 women and let them commit violence. In this plaint of the Delhi police, not charge sheet, how are they even relying on incomplete documents? The larger question is why are they doing that? “We have all these lofty sayings that liberty of an individual is sacrosanct, where is the liberty going when you are looking at these kinds of allegations. The women have returned home peacefully and this was the prosecution's own case. This is not a case where a women needs to be in jail in terrorist charge,” Pujari alleged. He added that it was a case where in fact Kalita needed to be called as witness and asked what really happened. “I am indicating how not only the allegations are false, they are insidious. No prima facie case was made out against Kalita,” Pujari alleged. He said JNU student and co-accused Sharjeel Imam's statement cannot be read against Kalita as as per his statement, he did not want the anti-CAA protests to be secular and wanted it to be Muslims based. “Kalita is a Hindu among other women who are Muslims. If this is not a secular protest, what is? Her protest was antithetical to what Sharjeel Imam wanted. What he wanted as per his own statement was a protest where the community takes control of its own cause. Kalita at not point of time would consider fomenting a communal violence when she was in the middle of the people from the opposite community. “The police's allegation is not that she instigated the women from her own community. An argument can never be that she would sit in the middle of another community antithetical to her and instigate the other community against her own community,” Kalita's lawyer argued. Natasha Narwal and Gulfisha also members of Pinjra Tod are accused in the case. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. PTI URD he police has claimed in the chargesheet that Kalita along with others had allegedly given provocative speeches at the protest sites to instigate the crowd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-carried-out-insidious-prosecution-jnu-student-to-court-923490.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Voter turnout rise shows attacks cannot derail democracy in J&K: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Friday said the "rise" in voter turnout in the local body polls shows attacks cannot derail democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.  Thakur's comments came while he was campaigning in favour of BJP candidates for the ongoing district development council polls in the Union territory. “The attack on DDC candidate in Anantnag is an act of cowardice and desperation by terrorists. The ballot will emerge more powerful than the bullet once again because the people of J&K want a secure future," he said. The Union minister of state for Finance and Corporate Affairs said the government has taken all measures to ensure free and fair elections and that every voter is able to vote for the future of J&K. The eight-phase DDC polls in the UT are being held from November 28 to December 19. The first two phases of the polls held on November 28 and December 1 recorded voter turnouts of 52 per cent and 48.62 per cent respectively. In the third phase held on Friday, 43 per cent voters had cast their vote till 1 PM. Attacking the Gupta alliance formed by political parties of the erstwhile state, Thakur claimed that after the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A, the "Gupkar Gang" has become "desperate". "They considered J&K their personal estate and that era has come to an end. The people have given them a befitting reply by coming out in higher numbers to cast their vote. Neither is there an atmosphere of fear nor fraud,” he said. Thakur further said the BJP believes in the politics of development for all, decisive action and democracy. He said during the third phase of polling "we saw long queues of voters, so many elderly voters, some over 100 years of age and many from remote locations. They have come out to vote because they believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's promise of development and proactive measures to kickstart growth in this region.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voter-turnout-rise-shows-attacks-cannot-derail-democracy-in-jk-anurag-thakur-923495.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Life term for man who raped 4-year-old girl in UP's Hathras||A 21-year-old man was sentenced with life imprisonment by a special court in Western Uttar Pradesh Hathras district for raping a four-year-old girl, a police officer said on Friday. The sentence followed within 50 days of the commission of the crime, in line with the deterrent theory of penal laws entailing quick punishment. The accused has also been slapped a penalty of Rs one lakh by the district court, which delivered its verdict within 50 days of the incident that took place in Sasni area on October 13, Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal said. He said when the matter reached the police, an FIR was lodged at the Sasni police station and the accused arrested and booked under Indian Penal Code sections 376 AB (raping a child under 12 years of age) and various provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The district police treated the matter with the utmost sensitivity. Forensic experts were engaged and quality evidence collected. The investigation was also completed only in nine days after which a charge-sheet was filed in the court,” Jaiswal said. “The police ensured strong arguments in the court while witnesses, evidence and documents were produced in the court on time that has led to the court's verdict within 50 days,” he said. “The court has sentenced the accused to a life term in jail and slapped a penalty of Rs one lakh on him,” the district police chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/life-term-for-man-who-raped-4-year-old-girl-in-ups-hathras-923496.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' protest: 5th round of talks with farm leaders to be held on November 5||The government and farmer leaders are scheduled to meet again on Saturday for their fifth round of talks to end the deadlock over the new farm laws.     Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State of Commerce and Industry Som Parkash, who will be present in the meeting, will deliberate on the points that farmer leaders had raised and offer possible solutions.     According to sources, the government has worked out possible solutions to the provisions on which farm leaders have raised objections. It hopes to break the deadlock on Saturday so that the farmers' protest ends at the earliest.     In the previous meeting on Thursday, Tomar had assured 40 farmer union leaders that the government is open to considering ways to strengthen APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with proposed private markets, and provide a provision for approaching higher courts for dispute resolution, while asserting that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) will continue.     But the other side stuck to their demand of repealing the three "hastily-passed" farm laws, saying that the legislations with several loopholes and deficiencies cannot be amended.     It needs to be seen whether farmer leaders will accept solutions offered by the government and end the protest due to which Delhi's border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day.       Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has threatened that the farmers' agitation would intensify if the government fails to meet the demands.   "The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed.     "If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday's meeting," Tikait told PTI.     The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are "anti-farmer", and would pave the way for dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-5th-round-of-talks-with-farm-leaders-to-be-held-on-november-5-923501.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Centre to demolish Jawarlal Nehru Bhavan building near India Gate under Central Vista plan||The Jawaharlal Nehru Bhavan (JNB), which currently houses External Affairs Ministry near India Gate, is likely to be demolished to make way for a new building under the Central Vista redevelopment plan. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is in charge of redeveloping Central Vista, has identified JNB for demolition. In the place, the CPWD has proposed to construct a 7-floor new building. According to CPWD official, the new building will have better utilisation of land and have more space. The government started construction of the JNB on Janpath in 2006 to have a separate building for the external affairs ministry. The building work was completed in 2011 after spending Rs 220 crore. According to Ministry of External Affairs website, JNB has a built-up area of nearly 60,000 sq metres and has three main interconnected blocks — one of three storeys and two of 5 storeys, four distinct zones with separate entrances and houses many important divisions of the ministry. "Incorporating a host of green features, JNB is the first ECBC (Energy Conservation Building Code) compliant government building. The building which has a Green Building Certification with ‘LEEDS’, " says the ministry website. The redevelopment project of Central Vista envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. Construction of new residences of prime minister and vice-president will be part of the project. The deadline for completion of the entire project is 2024. To make way for new buildings under the Central Vista project, several existing buildings around India Gate will be demolished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-demolish-jawarlal-nehru-bhavan-building-near-india-gate-under-central-vista-plan-923510.html
04-12-2020||North and Central||Amarinder calls return of Padma award by Badal 'theatrics'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday called the decision of Akali Dal stalwart Parkash Singh Badal to return his Padma Vibhushan theatrics and wondered why he was even given the country's second-highest civilian honour. Badal had returned his Padma Vibhushan award on Thursday in protest against the Centre's new farm laws, over which thousands of Punjab farmers are now protesting at Delhi's borders. “I don't know why Parkash Singh Badal got the Padma Vibhushan in the first place,” Singh said in a statement which also attacked AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, calling him a "slimy fellow." The Punjab CM said Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh got the Padma Vibhushan for winning the 1965 war with Pakistan and mocked, “What war did Parkash Singh Badal fight or what sacrifice did he make for the community?” Singh claimed that the former CM is now saying he has made a big sacrifice by returning the award. “Stop politicking on this,” he said. “This 'dramebaazi' (theatrics) might have worked 40 years ago but it does not work now.” Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party, the main opposition in Punjab, too had called Badal’s gesture a “drama”. Amarinder Singh said Badal has been claiming all his life that he represents the interests of the farmers. “Then why did his party support the central ordinances after initially opposing them, and then did an about-turn and started publicly criticising the legislations,” he said. He said as a member of the Union Cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal was very much a part of the meeting that passed the farm ordinances. “Is she illiterate that she can't read,” he asked, referring to the former Union minister and Badal’s daughter-in-law who later quit the Narendra Modi Cabinet over the contentious farm laws. He also slammed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for allegedly twisting his statement on national security. The AAP had targeted Singh for linking the farmers’ agitation to national security, in remarks made after a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Singh on Friday said he had told Shah that the amendment bills passed in Punjab Vidhan Sabha were the solution to breaking the deadlock over the farmers' issue. Describing Kejriwal as a “slimy fellow” who was in the “habit of lying”, Amarinder asked the Delhi chief minister to first explain why his government had notified one of the central farm laws. “When other Opposition-ruled states, including Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, have passed amendment bills to counter the central laws, why did he not call a session of the Delhi Assembly to reject the latter,” he asked. “Does Kejriwal not have villages around Delhi?” he said. He charged that while Kejriwal is in the habit of lying, his Haryana counterpart M L Khattar has the habit of thrashing people, an apparent reference to attempts by the police of that state to stop Punjab farmers from marching to Delhi. The Conngress leader said he is not scared of the Enforcement Directorate, reacting to the charge by rivals that he is under pressure from central agencies. "For 13 years, I have been going to courts because of the cases initiated against me by the Badals, I am not bothered about ED. I can go to courts and fight for another 13 years,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-calls-return-of-padma-award-by-badal-theatrics-923530.html
04-12-2020||Oasis||The facets of truth||The celebrated Tamil Poet Thiruvalluvar, in his seminal work Thirukkural (circa 300 BC), describes one of the facets of truth thus – “Even falsehood has the nature of truth if it confers a benefit that is free from fault”. While the definition of truth refers to the real facts about a situation or person, a good lie is an untruth in which the justice of the outcome supersedes the wrong of having lied. This fact is beautifully illustrated in Mark Twain’s Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.  Jim is a mild mannered slave who made his escape from slavery, befriends Huck and they travel on the Mississippi river together on a raft. When the slave hunters of the river demand they come aboard his raft to check out the tent for an escaped slave, Huck lies to them that his father who is suffering from smallpox is lying inside the tent. He knows that the fear of the dreadful disease would keep the men at bay. The genius of Mark Twain shines here as not only this lie elicited the expected fear but also sympathy to send some money over on a floating plank. Another facet of truth is attributed to Dr. Wayne Dyer - “When given the choice between being right and being kind, choose kind.” This quote was introduced as a precept (rules about important things) by a teacher on the first day of the school in the Children’s book ‘Wonder’. This heart-warming book is about a boy with severe facial disfiguration entering middle school after being homeschooled until then.   The protagonist, August Pullman is shunned by all his classmates for his ‘weird appearance’ and eats his lunch alone. All of a sudden his classmate Summer joins him at his table saving him from total isolation. While another classmate Jack thinks she is really brave to have sat down with Auggie, Summer thinks she has only followed the precept taught in the class. On the surface it’s a small gesture but to Auggie it’s a monumental act of kindness and gives him the strength to deal with the bullying throughout the school year. Indeed there is much truth and power in any act of kindness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-facets-of-truth-923088.html
04-12-2020||Opinion||Conflicts of interest and Covid-19||Many of our leaders, from politicians to university administrators to business owners, face difficult trade-offs during the Covid-19 pandemic, which has created increasingly tense conflicts of interest. Across the globe, decision-makers grapple with dilemmas that weigh economic outcomes with responsibilities for public safety and health. Conflicts of interest impact decisions to close borders, implement quarantines, impose lockdowns, stagger reopenings, enforce social distancing and mandate mask-wearing.   What's striking is that many of these decision-makers believe, and sometimes explicitly state, that they are not at all influenced by financial incentives. The problem with these statements is that, if our leaders and decision-makers were influenced by their conflicts of interest, they would not necessarily be aware of it. Decision-makers may think they are not biased by their conflict of interest, but that assumption is based on an inaccurate mental model of how such conflicts work. Research has repeatedly shown that conflicts of interest operate without our awareness and sometimes against our best intentions. Without external accountability, decision-makers will continue to fall prey to their biasing influence. The science behind conflicts of interest The public, professionals and policymakers alike appear to make the same assumptions regarding conflicts of interest: that those who succumb to their biasing influence are making a deliberate choice to place financial interests over their professional responsibilities. By extension, we consider those that do succumb to bias to be corrupt. In reality, abundant evidence from social science research shows that influence from conflicts of interest often occurs on a subconscious and unintentional level. Even when decision-makers try to be objective, their judgments are influenced by financial incentives. And studies show that advisors routinely deny being influenced by financial inducements despite data demonstrating the opposite. People are unable to remain objective, even when motivated to be impartial, which suggests an unintentional element to their decision-making. What’s more, people succumb to bias while denying they have done so, which suggests succumbing to bias is unconscious. The implication is that even decision-makers who are ethically engaged can make biased recommendations. In medicine, for example, physicians typically report that their patients’ health and well-being comes first and that they would never be biased by financial incentives. A large body of evidence, however, suggests that physicians are indeed influenced by gifts and compensation from pharmaceutical companies and medical device manufacturers. Physicians who receive payment from industry are more likely to prescribe their sponsors’ drugs and request that specific drugs be added to a hospital formulary than physicians who are not paid by industry. Many professionals, including physicians, take offense at the notion that they might be influenced by financial incentives. Their offense reveals, yet again, the robust belief that bias from conflicts of interest is within our conscious control. Although conflicts of interest can lead to deliberate corruption and bad decisions in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, the problem of unintentional and subconscious bias remains a pervasive problem that self-regulation cannot solve. Ambiguity increases bias Policy makers must consider many factors in the highly uncertain environment of the coronavirus pandemic, which makes their decisions complex. Under this ambiguity, the effect of conflicts of interest are amplified. It is not difficult to understand how certain anticipated financial fallouts can at times loom larger for decision-makers than uncertain but potentially catastrophic future public health consequences. During the Covid pandemic, apparent failures such as the United Kingdom’s delay in implementing a lockdown, Sweden’s relatively loose restrictions, and Florida’s inability to mandate face masks likely have driven up the death toll from the coronavirus. The consequences of biasing influence from conflicts of interest can lead to reversals and confusing messaging. In the past few months, the UK government’s call for the public to “eat out to help out,” and decisions by US colleges and universities such as the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, to reopen their campuses to students have been reversed after they led to somewhat predictable surges of new Covid-19 cases. With a new virus, uncertainty regarding its impact and danger cloud every decision. Even as we see mortality rates decrease, the long-term disability and morbidity effects from Covid-19 are yet to be identified. The trade-off between immediate economic outcomes and public safety may ultimately be moot as the lack of a clear strategy in managing the conflict decreases public trust and ultimately damages both the economy and public health. In fact, recent data show that those countries that prioritised protecting their population’s health from the start also ended up with greater protection to their economy. Accountability can decrease bias When conflicts of interest arise, attempts at self-regulation and statements of unbiased reasoning are woefully inadequate. They may even make matters worse, as advocating for a decision you’ve made can strengthen your belief that your decision was the right one, even if it is not. The only effective way to manage conflicts of interest is through sincere attempts to eliminate, or at least mitigate, the conflict. When such conflicts cannot be eliminated, leaders must make their decision-making processes transparent and open to public scrutiny to increase accountability. If outcomes can be observed by others and expectations to be careful and accurate are strong, accountability may reduce displays of bias. Decision-makers need to accept that if they are influenced by financial incentives, they are unlikely to recognise the bias themselves. This recognition can make leaders more open to dissenting opinions. Politicians, businesses and others who make decisions on our behalf must grant informed stakeholders voice, power and influence in managing the pandemic. People wrestling with conflicts of interest may not succumb intentionally to their biasing influence, but they nevertheless need to be held accountable for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/conflicts-of-interest-and-covid-19-923131.html
04-12-2020||Panorama||Hurdles in India becoming a ‘global power’||“It is imperative for India to become an industrial power in order to be a global power, Nisha Biswal, president of the US-India Business Council (USIBC) at the US Chamber of Commerce had told The Print. No nation can become a global power without contributing at least 5% or more to global GDP.  The United States of America, with a GDP of about $21 trillion, has almost a quarter of global GDP. China, with a GDP of about $15 trillion, has 15% share of global GDP.  Japan, with a population of less than 10% of India's population, contributes 6% to global GDP. Germany's share in global GDP is 4.56% while its population is only 1% of global population. India shares just 2% of world’s land and 3% of global GDP, but is home to 16% of world population. India has posted a GDP of $2.94 trillion in 2019 and the same is expected to shrink by about 10% in 2020, thanks to the pandemic and lockdowns.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for making India a $5 trillion economy by 2024, soon after he resumed his second term in May 2019. Even if India achieves a $5 trillion GDP by 2024, its share in global GDP will still remain at about 4 to 5%. For India to become a $5 trillion economy, Amitabh Kant, CEO, Niti Aayog, says that “the economy needs to grow (at) 8%-plus year after year, to nearly double from its current $2.9 trillion”. India was growing at 5% even during the pre-Covid period. After the pandemic, GDP contracted by 23.9% in Q1 and by 7.5% in Q2. India has now technically entered a recession. India’s growth pattern is also skewed with benefits being distributed disproportionately among the population. Oxfam reports suggest that during last year, “wealth of top 1% in India increased by 39% whereas the wealth of the bottom 50% increased at a dismal 3%”. Due to the non-inclusive growth pattern, the growth in the per capita incomes of lower and lower-middle class people may be well below the national average GDP growth rate. Rather than having an ambition of $5 trillion economy (which seems impossible by 2024), it is important to build back the economy and take it out from the situation that it is in.  Atmanirbhar Bharat provides a vision of India's plans to become a $5 trillion economy by promoting 'Make in India - Make for World' and this will happen through an integration with the global economy, a senior official of the Ministry of External Affairs, MEA Secretary (CPV&OIA) Sanjay Bhattacharyya, recently said in his address to the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) at India e-biz Expo 2020. The phrase 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' was first coined by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his national address on May 12, 2020. By now its scope and meaning has expanded so far and wide, that it subsumes every economic policy, reform and stimulus package in it.  The Centre announced an Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package (1.0) in mid-May, which amounted to 10.3% of GDP, to stimulate the economy. While the direct fiscal stimulus component was less than 1.3% of the GDP, more than 7.8% of GDP was about providing easy credit to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), traders, farmers etc and liquidity infusion measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). If the aggregate demand for credit does not rise, clearly, 75% of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package would simply fail to stimulate the economy. The RBI has now released Quarterly Statistics on Deposits and Credit of Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs) on November 25. Bank credit growth (Year-on-Year) decelerated to 5.8% in September 2020 from 8.9% a year ago. The aggregate demand for credit would increase only if the aggregate investment demand rises, which in turn, depends on the consumption demand.  Consumption demand  The aggregate consumption demand for goods and services again is dependent on the income and purchasing power of people, which has come down drastically, due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the resultant unemployment and under-employment. 'Make in India - Make for World' has also not taken-off in any significant manner.  Economist Amartya Sen once said that India can’t become a global economic power with an uneducated, unhealthy workforce. A quantum jump in investment in the education and health sectors are needed to lay foundations for a high-productive economy. Skilling of the youth is a must if India has to really reap the demographic dividend.  China no longer considers India as a competitor, because its economy and military capabilities lag far behind China’s. But Beijing does see India as a possible future rival. Therefore, it wants to create hurdles for India’s evolution as a future competitor, say 30 years from now, a story published by Asia Times says. So, China wants India to stray from its economic priorities and hence forced India into a long-haul border stand-off. India will have to defend the border by pouring enormous financial resources into the Himalayas. China wants to prevent India from setting priorities for economic growth and wants to divert India’s national energies and effort.  Hopefully, India will focus its energies on economic growth, employment, health and education and defeat China's game plans diplomatically. (The writer is an alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad and a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hurdles-in-india-becoming-a-global-power-923089.html
04-12-2020||Panorama||Coping with a loss during the time of Covid-19||In December 2019, thin whispers were going around the world of a virus Covid-19, killing people in Wuhan, a city in Hubei Province of China. In just a few months, at the time of writing this piece, Covid 19 has affected tens of million of people. It has also created unprecedented economic disaster, brought the world to its knees and steeped it in individual and collective grief. What has stood out, however, is the astounding ability of humanity to survive in the face of death. This story is not about Covid-19. It is about my own traumatic encounter with grief and how I dealt with it. It might hold out hope. Just weeks before Covid-19 broke the world, my husband died suddenly of a cardiac arrest. Amidst a harsh, isolating lockdown, I was left bereft of support systems. My battle with grief did not follow the classic five stages described by Dr Elisabeth Kubler-Ross and widely accepted, that is, denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. Instead it was one or the other; it was none or all together. One day I felt I could take on the world and the next, I did not get out of bed. As time went on, I learnt that my feelings were not abnormal or self-indulgent.  It began with understanding grief. Dr Aravind Sheshadri, Psychiatrist and Psychotherapist, with specialisation in rehabilitation and recovery, says, “Grief is a normal response to personal loss and an exit event that is a part of life. There is no abnormal grief reaction and grief issues normally resolve their natural course.”  Kannika Iyengar, Director, Sneha Society for Counselling, Bengaluru, a counsellor with 10 years of experience adds, “Grief can also be caused by job loss or difficult relationships resulting in equally intense emotional and physical distress. A counsellor can help achieve acceptance if not complete resolution.” My own quest for help began with confusion. I did not know whether I needed a psychiatrist, psychologist or lay counsellor. A Google search threw up an array of bewildering options, mostly for counsellors, some costing ₹ 3000/- per hour. One site even advertised the top 10 counsellors in India. At another end was a clutch of voluntary organisations offering free services. It did not help that India faces a dearth of mental healthcare providers. “Number of psychiatrists in India: Baby steps forward, but a long way to go”, a paper published in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry in 2019 says, “…the number of psychiatrists in India currently is about 9000. India has 0.75 Psychiatrists per 100,000 populations, while the desirable number is anything above 3 Psychiatrists.” This indicates that we are currently short of 27,000 Psychiatrists (per 100,000 population).  I struggled long and hard to find help but it can be easier. A clinical psychologist (name withheld by request) says, “People who need help fear stigma are unaware of where to go. Even a family physician can identify cases that need counselling and or medication and make a referral. This calls for good coordination between physicians, psychologists and counsellors.”  My story had a happy ending and over time I understood that death is but a moment and life is the real journey. But I’m left with the feeling that something as important as this must not be left to chance. There is an urgent need to assess our resources and compile a reliable data base of affordable and credible mental healthcare providers. It is also important to publicise it aggressively. There is little time to waste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coping-with-a-loss-during-the-time-of-covid-19-923090.html
04-12-2020||Right in the Middle||Bearing: Lost and found||As a young boy, my son was doing homework, and out of the blue, he asked a question completely unrelated to his studies, “Papa, why is there a sudden change in an aeroplane’s sound level sometimes?” As it happened, we lived on the flight path to the old Bengaluru airport and he had noticed this happened regularly. Trying to explain this to a child, I told him that the pilot just changed gears like in a car! Not convinced with my answer, he turned to his mother and ask her “Howda Amma?” (Is that true mother?) Many years later, my wife and I were visiting my son’s family in California, and found flying manuals lying around. He had taken up flying as a hobby and was learning to fly in a Cessna 172 four-seater aeroplane. He usually flew on weekend afternoons, but one Saturday he left at 8 pm. It was a night flight training session, and he was flying with his instructor to a far-off airport. He said he would be back around midnight. We couldn’t sleep that night out of worry. He finally returned around 3 am, much to our relief, and we all went to bed. The next morning, I asked why he was so late. What I heard was an interesting story. He had navigated using landmarks, clocks and speed (no GPS) to his destination airport. It was completely dark over Central Valley. As he approached the airport, he followed the procedure to turn on runway lights (by pressing the microphone button five times) and was on final approach. About five seconds before touching the ground, he realised the runway numbers were “wrong” – he expected to touch down on runway 36, but instead saw 31 in large paint below! He realized he was about to land at the wrong airport! While my son had been busy with landing procedure, his instructor realized they were approaching the wrong airport. While ensuring it was safe, he stayed silent to let my son land anyway! Hiding his embarrassment in the dim light of the cockpit, my son planned the route to the correct airport, took off and accomplished the task. Never again would he make that same mistake! The reason for the error was simple: there are many airports in the vicinity, and navigating with compass headings and speed is only approximate. Beginners are taught to navigate the old-fashioned way, not using a GPS. While a valuable lesson and a good story, the experience didn’t shake my son’s confidence. He continued to train and enjoyed the hobby for many years. All was well that ended well!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/bearing-lost-and-found-923108.html
04-12-2020||Second Edit||Ending anobnoxious practice||The Central government’s move to amend the Manual Scavenging Act, 2013, to make mechanised cleaning of septic and sewer tanks mandatory will hopefully aid the efforts to put end to this obnoxious practice. The government also wants to replace the word manhole with ‘’machine-hole’’ in all official usage and set up a round-the-clock helpline for reporting of violations. It has set a deadline of August 2021 to completely eliminate the practice. The deadline for mechanisation is April 2021, and it has been made clear that proper gear should be provided to workers if in emergency situations they are to enter sewers. The government plans to make the movement a success with the participation of states and civic bodies. The efforts are welcome, but past experience with the implementation of various plans which were launched to end the practice is not encouraging.   Manual scavenging is banned in the country since 1993 and it is a criminal offence to engage manual scavengers, force any one to do the work and aid anyone in the activity. But according to the government’s data, it has led to 376 deaths over the past five years, including 110 in 2019. There was a 61% increase in the number of deaths in 2019 from 2018. The government has admitted that states have not reported any convictions for employing manual scavengers. That shows how ineffective the law has been. Government organisations have themselves been found to be involved in the practice. Very often local bodies give sewer cleaning contracts to private agencies or individuals who engage manual scavengers for work. No one is held accountable for any mishap and the practice continues very much with the knowledge of the authorities who are expected to end it and take action against offenders.   It is clear that ending manual scavenging is not as easy as changing practices in areas like agriculture or eliminating hazardous work with the help of machines. Scavenging is mixed with caste, social hierarchies, economic deprivation and other factors, and many of those who work in sewers and septic tanks are unable to get out of their dire and demeaning situation. Though a scheme for rehabilitation of manual scavengers is in place, many have not benefitted from it. The government has now decided to give funds directly to workers to buy the cleaning machines instead of the municipalities. This will mean that existing workers will continue to do the cleaning work, though with the use of machines. Use of machines may not be possible in all septic tanks and sewers. In spite of these limitations, efforts must be made to make a success of the initiative to end the dehumanising practice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ending-anobnoxious-practice-923084.html
04-12-2020||Second Edit||West Asia in tension again||The assassination of Iran's top nuclear weapons scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh has plunged West Asia in grave tension again. Iran has accused Israeli intelligence operatives of masterminding the attack.  Israel’s complicity in the assassination cannot be ruled out; its intelligence agency, Mossad, is said to have assassinated at least half-a-dozen Iranian nuclear scientists over the past decade. On the face of it, it seems that Fakhrizadeh was eliminated to weaken Iran’s nuclear programme. However, this is unlikely. Surely Israel would have been aware that his killing would only steel Tehran’s resolve to the programme. It is more likely that the assassination was aimed at provoking Iran to act in a way that would make it difficult for the US to rejoin the 2015 nuclear deal that President Donald Trump had abandoned in 2018. President-elect Joe Biden proposes to revive talks with Iran and it is to pre-empt such a move that the plan to derail the talks by assassinating Fakhrizadeh was executed. The attack lays bare huge gaps in Iran’s intelligence and security grid. It is a major embarrassment for the government; Prime Minister Hassan Rouhani is likely to come under pressure from hardliners to retaliate. Iran’s army chief has already warned of "severe revenge" against the scientist's killers. Fakhrizadeh’s assassination could therefore set off tit-for-tat violence in the region.  The situation in West Asia is likely to be fragile in the coming weeks and months. Iran must move cautiously. The Trump administration, the Saudis and Israel will be hoping that Iran will retaliate the Farkhrizadeh assassination with major missile and other strikes. It has been careful not to fall into their trap in the past. In January this year, a Trump-ordered drone strike targeted and killed Iranian general Qasem Soleimani. Although Tehran did strike back at US bases in Iraq, they did not lead to fatalities, indicating that it was keen to avoid an escalation of violence. It emerged subsequently that Iran’s rather low-key response was to bide time till Trump departed from the White House. Keen to get the US back on board the nuclear deal, it avoided escalation of tensions with Washington then, knowing that such violence would only serve to shore up Trump’s domestic support. Trump exits in January. The chances of the nuclear deal being revived are strong when Biden returns. Iran should avoid a major retaliation now as that would scupper chances of negotiations and a deal with Biden. Iran stands to gain from a nuclear deal and lifting of economic sanctions. A cautious response is in its interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/west-asia-in-tension-again-923544.html
04-12-2020||South||Cyclone Burevi: Kerala declares public holiday in 5 districts today||The Kerala government has declared a holiday in five districts for Friday as the state remains on high alert with heavy rains expected when cyclone Burevi makes landfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its latest bulletin, has said Burevi may make landfall in Kerala on December 4 and has issued red alert and cyclone warning for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala coasts. A statement issued by the state government said a public holiday has been declared for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki in the state. Over 2,000 relief camps have been opened in Kerala, it said. "A public holiday for all government offices including public sector undertakings has been declared for the five districts in the state," the statement said. It, however, said the disaster management authority and concerned services, emergency services and election-related services will function normally. The international airport here will remain shut from 10 am to 6 pm on December 4. The IMD has predicted that the course of the storm will be through the border areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts and the government, along with various departments and the Army, were ready to face the contingencies, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-burevi-kerala-declares-public-holiday-in-5-districts-today-923077.html
04-12-2020||South||Kerala High Court seeks report on minister’s wife’s temple entry amid Covid-19||The Kerala High court on Thursday sought a report from the police on a petition that a minister's wife and family members were allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the renowned Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple flouting the Covid norms. Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran's wife and some other family members were allegedly allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum when they visited the temple last month as part of the 'Ekadasi' festival. A BJP local activist and devotee approached the high court alleging that though he approached the local police with a petition in this regard, the police did not initiate action. Considering this, the court sought a report from the police. Advocate T S Harikumar, who represented the petitioner, said there were reports in a section of media that a group, including the minister's wife, was allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple on November 25 and 26 even as the entry to the sanctum sanctorum was now restricted only to the temple priests given Covid. The petitioner urged that the video footage of the CCTV cameras of the temple should be immediately seized and examined as there were chances of tampering with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-seeks-report-on-minister-s-wife-s-temple-entry-amid-covid-19-923133.html
04-12-2020||South||DH Toon | 'Three months before April Fool's Day, mark the date'; Rajinikanth to float party in January 2021||Six months before Tamil Nadu goes to its most crucial Assembly elections in recent times, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday announced that he will launch his political party in January next year, declaring that the time has come to "change the state’s fate". Tamil superstar Rajinikanth has been teasing his fans about his political entry since 1996, the first time he took a political stand. From then till 2017, the speculation on his impending political entry was non-stop. On the last day of 2017, however, he ended the speculation saying his entry into politics is certain. Naan eppo varuven, eppadi varuvenu yaarukkum theriyathu, aana vara vendiya nerathula correcta varuven (No one knows when and how I will come, but I will come at the right time) - Rajinikanth in and as 'Muthu' Tamil superstar Rajinikanth truly lived up to this very famous punch dialogue that he delivered in his 1995 movie Muthu on Thursday when he announced that he will launch his political party and contest the 2021 assembly polls in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-toon-three-months-before-april-fools-day-mark-the-date-rajinikanth-to-float-party-in-january-2021-923152.html
04-12-2020||South||Red alert in 7 Kerala districts; cyclone Burevi weakens||In a relief to Kerala, the Met department has withdrawn the red alert issued for cyclone Burevi and rains in the seven southernmost districts of the state as the deep depression was likely to weaken further into a depression. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had in a late-night bulletin issued on Thursday withdrawn the red alert and issued a yellow alert for 10 districts of the state. In a bulletin released on Friday morning, the IMD said the deep depression is likely to move slowly west- southwestwards and cross Ramanathapuram and adjoining Thoothukudi districts in Tamil Nadu during the next six hours with wind speed of 50-60 gusting to 70 kmph. "It is very likely to weaken further into a depression (wind speed 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph) during next 12 hours," IMD said. It has issued yellow alerts for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad and Malappuram. Meanwhile, the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport has rescheduled nine flights scheduled for Friday. "The operations of the airport have been suspended till 6 PM today and all the flights were rescheduled. There is a review meeting from Delhi today to assess the situation,"C V Ravindran, Airport Director, told PTI. The state government had declared a public holiday on Friday for five districts in the state in view of the red alert which was issued earlier. The state has also opened over 2,000 relief camps to face any contingencies as heavy rains were expected when cyclone Burevi made landfall. A deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal had intensified into a cyclonic storm 'Burevi' and the IMD had predicted heavy rains and wind in the seven southern districts of the state from December 3 to 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/red-alert-in-7-kerala-districts-cyclone-burevi-weakens-923196.html
04-12-2020||South||Cyclone Burevi weakens after bringing rain to South||A cyclone that brought heavy rain to parts of southern India and neighbouring Sri Lanka has weakened into a "practically stationary" deep depression, India's weather office said on Friday. It was not immediately clear how much damage the rains caused in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, which had declared a government holiday in some areas and urged people to stay at home ahead of the cyclone. "(A) deep depression over Gulf of Mannar...is close to Ramanathapuram district coast, remained practically stationary," the Indian Meteorological Department said in a statement, referring to the state's southeast. A cyclone that lashed Tamil Nadu last week killed 23, uprooting trees and cutting power and communication links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-burevi-weakens-after-bringing-rain-to-south-923199.html
04-12-2020||South||Heavy rains continue to pound Tamil Nadu, deep depression to weaken||Heavy rains continued in Tamil Nadu on Friday leading to inundation of crops and waterlogging in many rural and urban areas while the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram is likely to weaken into a depression today. The India Meteorological Department tweeted saying the deep depression over Gulf of Mannar, near Ramanathapuram district's coast remained stationary, about 40 km southwest of Ramanathapuram. It would remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours and then into a well-marked low-pressure area, it said. While there was widespread rainfall covering many parts of the state, several regions reported heavy to extremely heavy showers including Kollidam (36 cm, Nagapattinam district), Chidambaram (34 cm, Cuddalore) and over two dozen areas received between 10 and 28 cm rain. Crops including paddy and sugarcane were inundated in districts including Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Ariyalur falling under the Cauvery delta zone and complete submergence of agricultural fields was also seen as showers continued for the third successive day. While Chennai received moderate rains, Madurantakam near here recorded 10 cm, and rainfall was reported from several other regions including Yercaud in Salem, Sivaganga, Namakkal, Tuticorin, Ranipet and Karur districts as well. Low-lying residential areas in parts of Madipakkam, Velachery, Pallikaranai and Kovilambakkam here and several other urban and rural areas in districts including Cuddalore saw water entering the neighbourhoods and as a precautionary measure, electricity supply was halted in several districts. In view of the heavy showers, the ancient Sri Nataraja temple at Chidambaram witnessed flooding of its inner corridors and photographs showing the inundation surfaced on the social media. The government had already declared Friday a holiday for Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Tuticorin, and Ramanathapuram districts in view of the weather system. On December 3, cyclone 'Burevi' weakened into a deep depression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-continue-to-pound-tamil-nadu-deep-depression-to-weaken-923236.html
04-12-2020||South||GHMC polls: BJP ahead in postal ballots||The BJP was leading over its rivals in postal ballots which were taken up first in the counting of votes on Friday in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. The BJP is leading in around 80 wards while the ruling TRS is ahead in around 20. However, the party lead position would be known as the votes cast in the ballot boxes are counted. Ballot papers were used in the election to the 150- ward city civic body on December 1. The counting of votes began at 8 AM with postal ballots being counted first. The results are expected to be known in the evening. The polling percentage in the election was an unimpressive 46.55. Out of the 74.67 lakh voters, 34.50 lakh electors exercised their franchise. While the ruling TRS fielded candidates in all the 150 wards, the BJP did so in 149 wards. The Congress, AIMIM and TDP fielded candidates in 146, 51 and 106 wards respectively. With BJP leading as per the initial trends, Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that "policies of transformative development are hard to beat." "Early trends emerging from Hyderabad indicate a change in popular mood & shape of things to come," he said. "Policies of transformative development are hard to beat & always triumph over hollow populism & fake narrative," he said in a tweet. The party's National General Secretary (Organisation), B L Santhosh lauded the Telangana BJP unit saying "you made a mark." "WELDONE BHAGYANAGAR ......!!!! Great going team @BJP4Telangana You made a mark," he tweeted. He further said the party's state unit was up against "a deadly mix of communal, money & manipulative politics." "With this, Team @bandisanjay_bjp (State BJP chief) have put up a great fight," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ghmc-polls-bjp-ahead-in-postal-ballots-923248.html
04-12-2020||South||1,850 sensitive polling booths in Kerala in local body polls||As the crucial civic body polls are just days away in Kerala, the State Election Commission (SEC) has categorised 1,850 polling booths as 'sensitive' and decided to introduce a webcasting facility to keep a watch on the poll proceedings there. The booths, located in all the 14 districts of the southern state, were identified as sensitive based on the report of police chief Loknath Behera and State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran gave directions for webcasting, a SEC statement said here. The politically volatile Kannur, the north Kerala district which had once witnessed several political murders and clashes between political parties especially between CPI(M) and BJP, has the highest number of sensitive booths-785 while Pathanamthitta has the lowest- 5. While Thiruvananthapuram district has 180 sensitive booths, Malappuam (100), Kozhikode (120), Palakkad (182), Kasaragod (100), Wayanad (152) and so on. Comparatively, the northern districts have the highest number of sensitive booths. Meanwhile, the poll proceedings would be videographed in the sensitive booths, identified jointly by the district election officers, district police chiefs and city police commissioners, the SEC said. The videography facility would be installed in such booths, where there is no webcasting, and it would be conducted at the expense of the Election Commission. Either candidates or political parties can seek videography at their own expense in booths where there is no videography or webcasting, the Commission said adding that they can ask permission from the district polling officials for the same. A total of 74,899 candidates including 36,305 women and one transgender, are trying their luck in the upcoming local body polls, which is considered the curtain-raiser for the Assembly polls due next year. Malappuram district has 8,387 candidates, the highest in the state, while Wayanad has the lowest at 1,857. While the first phase of the three-tier poll, scheduled on December 8, would cover the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki, the second phase is on December 10. It would be held in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad while Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod would go to the polls in the third and final phase on December 14. An electorate of over 2.76 crore would exercise their franchise to elect representatives to 941 gram panchayats, 152 block panchayats, 14 district panchayats, 86 municipalities and six municipal corporations. The votes would be counted on December 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1850-sensitive-polling-booths-in-kerala-in-local-body-polls-923256.html
04-12-2020||South||10 TDP MLAs suspended from Andhra Pradesh Assembly||Ten MLAs of the Telugu Desam Party were suspended from the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly for the fifth consecutive day on Friday, the last day of the winter session, on the charge that they disrupted the proceedings of the House. The remaining TDP members, including their leader N Chandrababu Naidu, walked out of the House in protest. The TDP gave a notice for an adjournment motion on the pending payments under the MGNREGA and sought an immediate discussion. Speaker Tammineni Seetaram disallowed the motion and took up the listed government business. The TDP legislators insisted on a discussion on the critical NREGA issue as lakhs of workers were not paid wages for over a year now. They went into the Well of the House and raised their demand. "You are disrupting the House every day. I am pained at having to suspend you but I am left with no option," the Speaker remarked. Information Minister Perni Venkataramaiah then moved a motion for the suspension of the opposition members and it was carried by a voice vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-tdp-mlas-suspended-from-andhra-pradesh-assembly-923287.html
04-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth will not click in politics: Congress leader Veerappa Moily||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth will not click in the southern state's politics, where the ethos of Dravidian culture has always manifested, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily claimed on Friday. The former Union Minister recalled that the Congress could not get "independent existence" in Tamil Nadu and always aligned with either the AIADMK or DMK. "I don't think the Rajinikanth politics will click because the ethos of Dravidian culture has always manifested in the politics of Tamil Nadu," Moily, who was in-charge of Congress affairs in Tamil Nadu several years ago, told PTI. "Any political party in Tamil Nadu cannot survive without the affiliation to a Tamilian party, regional party," the former Karnataka Chief Minister said. Rajinikanth, Moily said, has already given an impression that he is more or less aligned with the "ideals" of the BJP, adding, "that's why it (his party) cannot take-off." "Unless Rajinikanth again nurtures himself from out of the ethos of Dravidian culture, I don't think he will have any (political) future," he said. Rajinikanth announced on Thursday he would launch a political party in January 2021 to contest in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-will-not-click-in-politics-congress-leader-veerappa-moily-923334.html
04-12-2020||South||GHMC Polls: Telangana HC suspends State Election Commission's circular on 'special' ballot papers||Telangana High Court on Friday suspended a circular issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) which allows counting of votes with "distinguish marks" other than the standard Swastik symbol (crossed arrow mark), for the polls held for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on December 1. Hearing a House Motion, Justice Abhishek Reddy while suspending SEC's circular said the ballots which have "distinguish marks" should be kept separately and if they are detrimental to the poll results, the outcome should not be announced. "If the margin is less than the disputed ballot papers, then the disputed ballot papers shall not be taken into account and the result of the Ward may not be declared," the court order said. Earlier some Returning Officers asked the SEC what they should do in case they find some "distinguish mark" instead of Swastik symbol on any ballot paper. Based on that the SEC on Thursday night issued a circular saying "if the intention of the voter is clear on marking to a particular candidate the vote can be treated as valid since it is the mistake of the polling officer..." The petitioners Antony Reddy and K Surender (a candidate in the GHMC polls) sought the court to declare the circular issued by the SEC as illegal, arbitrary and contrary to the election laws. Sources in the SEC told PTI that all the returning officers have been communicated about the High Court directive and act accordingly. The matter was posted to December 7 for further hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ghmc-polls-telangana-hc-suspends-state-election-commissions-circular-on-special-ballot-papers-923361.html
04-12-2020||South||Drones for election campaign at the time of Covid-19 in Kerala||Election campaign at the time of Covid-19 pandemic is posing a challenge for candidates to get in touch with voters, especially those staying in high-rises. A candidate for local body elections at Kottayam in Kerala has found a solution to this by using drones. Jiby John, a left front candidate for elections to Kottayam municipality has come out with the innovative idea which was indeed suggested by one of his friends who is a licensed drone operator. Jiby is contesting as CPM candidate at Kanjikkuzhi ward on the suburbs of Kottayam town where there are a number of flats. Owing to Covid-19 most flats have imposed restrictions on entry of public. This had become an obstacle for candidates to meet the voters in person. Jiby's friend Sooraj, who used to operate drones for film shooting, suggested him that drones could be used to reach out to voters in the high-rises. While the candidate stays at the front of the high- rises, drones with the banner of the candidate seeking vote would reach near the balcony of each flat. Once the voters come out to the balcony, Jiby would wave hands at them. Sooraj said that though Jiby is a very familiar person in the locality he could not meet many voters staying in flats owing to Covid-19. He came across this and hence suggested the use of drones. Drones were used at some of the high-rises in the locality and it indeed attracted many voters, he said. Masks with pictures and symbol of candidates seeking votes has been quite common during the election campaign at the time of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drones-for-election-campaign-at-the-time-of-covid-19-in-kerala-923379.html
04-12-2020||South||Envoys of 80 countries to visit Covid-19 vaccine firms in Hyderabad on December 9||Ambassadors and High Commissioners of around 80 countries will be landing in the city on December 9 to visit Bharat Biotech and BE limited which are working on the Covid-19 vaccine. An official release said on Friday Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting with an advance team, including Chief of Protocol Nagesh Singh and other senior officials of the state government and discussed the arrangements to be made in connection with the high profile visit. "Chief Secretary informed that the dignitaries will be visiting Bharat Biotech Limited and Biological E limited the industrial units which are working on the Covid-19 vaccine in the country. He asked the officials to make foolproof arrangements duly following all the Covid-19 protocols during the visit of the dignitaries," the release said. As many as five well-equipped buses and a special medical team should be put in place for the envoys. A presentation should also be made to showcase the state's potential in the production and supply of vaccine and should also include the Pharma City and Genome Valley, he added. The Ministry of External Affairs is organising the visit of Ambassadors and High Commissioners to familiarise the foreign envoys about some key research and development activities being done by the country, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/envoys-of-80-countries-to-visit-covid-19-vaccine-firms-in-hyderabad-on-december-9-923382.html
04-12-2020||South||ED summons Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's additional private secretary Raveendran again||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's additional private secretary C M Raveendran for the third time for quizzing. Though Raveendran was summoned twice last month, he did not turn up as he was infected by Covid-19, and was hospitalised for post-coronavirus treatment also. Raveendran's hospitalisation just ahead of ED summoning him for the second time had triggered allegations that it was a deliberate attempt to evade ED quizzing. The ED was learnt to have already collected details regarding the wealth and investments of Raveendran and his close family members. He is directed to appear before ED on December 10. With the second phase of local body polls scheduled to be held on December 10, a section in the Left-Front government is suspecting a political ploy on summoning Raveendran on that day itself. It was learnt that Raveendran came under the ED scanner on the basis of information received from quizzing the chief minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar. Raveendran has been a close confidant of Vijayan as well as many top CPM leaders. Hence his quizzing would be very crucial for the state government. Meanwhile, the gold smuggling case is now assuming more significance as key accused Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS have told the Customs about the involvement of many prominent persons behind the racket. The Customs has also recorded the statement of the two before a magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-summons-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-additional-private-secretary-raveendran-again-923388.html
04-12-2020||South||GHMC results: BJP makes massive inroads at the expense of TRS||The TRS, which swept the 2016 GHMC polls seizing 99 out of 150 wards and looked firmly positioned throughout the day to repeat the feat, was by Friday evening left searching for options to retain the Hyderabad mayor chair. The BJP has emerged as the biggest gainer in the municipal polls that drew national attention, by winning 48 wards, surpassing its own internal estimates of 40 seats. The figure marks the massive inroads the saffron party has made in the city of over one crore population, a microcosm of the Telangana state, from its position of four wards five years back. With the Congress relegated to the fringes after a dismal show here and the Dubbaka by-poll last month, political observers say the Hyderabad success would establish BJP as the principal political challenger to the TRS, aiding it spread its sway statewide for the 2023 assembly polls. Almost all of the gains made by the BJP in the city are at the expense of the TRS. In an electoral outcome startling the political circles, analysts and the pollsters, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's party was reduced to 55 seats in the civic body polls dubbed by his son KT Rama Rao “as a gully vs Delhi, Gujarati rule fight.” KTR's reference was to the gamut of BJP's national leaders including Amit Shah, Yogi Adityanath who descended for the short but intense 10 days municipal polls campaign. Even PM Narendra Modi made a brief appearance in the city three days ahead of the 1 December polls, the visit, however, being to review the Covid-19 vaccine development at the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech. On Friday, KTR thanked the voters for positioning the TRS as the single largest party in the GHMC. The Neredmet ward result, where TRS was leading, was withheld as per the Telangana high court orders, over the use of means other than the swastik stamp to cast votes. However, going by the tally, political analysts say the TRS has to be dependent on the AIMIM to gain control of the mayor seat. “(If the councillors and the ex-officio member votes do not add up to their need), it is natural that the AIMIM comes to the TRS's rescue,” political analyst Omer Farooq tells DH. The TRS, AIMIM were always seen as friends, however, during the campaign course, KTR and other TRS leadership distanced itself from the AIMIM as the BJP's engaged in constant diatribes against “the secret alliance between the two.” The AIMIM has managed to continue its hold in the old city by winning the same number of 44 wards. But here too the Asaduddin Owaisi's party had to face a tough fight from the BJP, which had aggressively appealed to its core Hindu vote base by targeting the AIMIM, and promising “surgical strikes on the old city to flush out the Rohingyas, illegal Bangladeshis.” In the rest of Hyderabad, the contest was between the BJP and the TRS. The Congress which failed to match the combative campaigning by TRS and BJP was left with two wards like in 2016. “Some resentment against us and the Congress's half-hearted fight helped the BJP appear as the alternative for people,” a senior TRS leader remarked on “his party's disheartening show.” The October floods that caused widespread misery in Hyderabad and lapses in the distribution of the Rs 10,000 relief are also believed to have played part in TRS's drubbing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ghmc-results-bjp-makes-massive-inroads-at-the-expense-of-trs-923392.html
04-12-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh to get one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in 3-4 months: CM||Andhra Pradesh is expected to get one crore doses of the prospective vaccine for coronavirus in the next three to four months, Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said here on Friday. The state government was fully geared up for administering the vaccine, he said. Winding up a short discussion in the Legislative Assembly on COVID-19 containment measures, the Chief Minister spelled out the government's plan to administer the vaccine once it became available. The Centre indicated that the vaccine would be available in 3-4 months and one crore people would be covered in the first phase in the state. "We got signals to that effect from the Centre. Accordingly, we are readying necessary cold chains and human resources," Jagan said. In the first phase, 3.6 lakh health care workers, seven lakh frontline staff of other departments, including police and sanitation workers, and 90 lakh people above 50 would be given the vaccine, he said. The Chief Minister said that 4,065 cold chains at 2-8 degree centigrade and 29 refrigerated vehicles were ready to handle the coronavirus vaccine. The Centre would supply necessary cold boxes and syringes. He said that 19,000 ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery) would be used for administering the vaccine while Asha workers were also being trained for the purpose. Task forces were constituted at the state, district, and Mandal-levels to ensure distribution of the vaccine. The Chief Minister, however, said people should take all precautions for some more months. Even if the vaccine for Covid-19 is available, everyone will not get it in one go. So, we need to be careful for some more time. The cases could go up in winter months, he said. There is a surge in cases in states like Delhi, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh with a dip in temperature, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-get-one-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-3-4-months-cm-923401.html
04-12-2020||South||Cyclone Burevi: IMD withdraws red alert issued for 7 districts of Kerala||The IMD has withdrawn the red alert issued for seven districts of Kerala after Cyclone Burevi weakened into a deep depression. However, the ban on venturing into the sea for fishing will continue until further directives. The flight operations from Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, which were stopped from 10 am, resumed in the evening. According to the latest alerts, the deep depression will further weaken in the next 36 hours and the speed of the depression might reduce to 30 to 40 kmph before entering Kerala. Isolated heavy rains were expected in some parts of Kerala. Heavy wind of 35 to 45 kmph is likely at some part of south Kerala. Yellow alerts were issued in 10 districts on Friday. The state government had also declared a public holiday for five districts on Friday. Many families were shifted to safe destinations and NDRF units were deployed at various districts in south Kerala. Around 2,500 relief camps were also opened as part of the state government's elaborate arrangement to face the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-burevi-imd-withdraws-red-alert-issued-for-7-districts-of-kerala-923410.html
04-12-2020||South||Kerala logs 5,718 new Covid-19 cases, 5,496 recoveries||Kerala recorded 5,718 fresh Covid-19 cases and 5,496 recoveries on Friday, as the toll mounted to 2,358 with 29 additional fatalities, Health minister K K Shailaja said. In the last 24 hours, 57,456 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate climbed to 9.95 per cent. So far, 64,96,210 samples have been sent for testing, the minister said in a press release. Of the positive cases, 60 are health workers, 95 had come from outside the state and 4,991 were infected through contact. The total caseload soared to 6,25,767 while 5,61,874 people have been cured of the disease and 61,401 are undergoing treatment, the minister said. Malappuram accounted for 943 cases, followed by Kozhikode 773, Kottayam 570 and Thrissur 528. As many as 3,14,029 people are under observation in various districts, including 15,100 in various hospitals. Six new areas were added to the list of hotspots in the state and 38 removed, taking the total number to 444.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-5718-new-covid-19-cases-5496-recoveries-923418.html
04-12-2020||South||Moral victory, party only alternative to ruling TRS in Telangana: BJP on Hyderabad local polls||BJP's performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls is a "moral victory" for the party and it has emerged as the "only alternative" to the ruling TRS in Telangana, its general secretary Bhupender Yadav said on Friday. Counting of votes is underway, and as per the latest trends, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has either won or was leading in over 60 seats, while the corresponding tally for the BJP was 43 and the AIMIM 42. The Congress has managed two seats, as per the latest results. The K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS had swept the elections four years ago, winning 99 of the 150 wards, whereas the BJP had won only three seats. The BJP's performance has confirmed the trend that it is replacing the Congress as the main challenger to the TRS, Yadav said. The saffron party had won four seats in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and then dealt a surprise defeat to the ruling party in Assembly bypoll in Dubbaka. "The results are very encouraging and a moral booster for the BJP, and in a way, it is a moral victory of the party. The results reaffirms that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and his model of good governance has acceptability across regions," Yadav, who was deputed as in-charge for the local elections in Hyderabad, told PTI. While the TRS fielded candidates in all 150 wards in the election, the BJP put up nominees in 149. The Congress, AIMIM and the TDP fielded candidates in 146, 51 and 106 wards respectively. Asked how he sees the local elections results in the context of the Telangana assembly polls in 2022, Yadav said, "The BJP has emerged as the only alternative and main challenger to the ruling TRS in the state." He said the party's performance also shows that people have given their mandate against dynasty politics and corrupt practices of the TRS. Responsibilities given to the BJP will be carried out by the party with its best abilities, Yadav added. The BJP invested its full energy in the elections by appointing one of its key electoral managers, Yadav, who had successfully handled the party's campaign in the Bihar assembly polls. The BJP also ran a high octane campaign with rallies and road shows by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, party president J P Nadda and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/moral-victory-party-only-alternative-to-ruling-trs-in-telangana-bjp-on-hyderabad-local-polls-923429.html
04-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt accords priority to drinking water schemes, says CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday said the state government gives priority to drinking water supply schemes, and the Mullaiperiyar drinking water scheme for Madurai would be completed in 2023. Laying the foundation for the scheme and launching various government projects here, he said the Rs. 1,295-crore water supply scheme for the city would meet its drinking water needs and help give 1.10 lakh new connections in the Corporation limits. The Chief Minister said the government was making a mark in all fields and he used the occasion to lash out at DMK president M K Stalin for criticising the government only with elections in mind. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said the present state government was doing well and that there was no lapse on any front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-accords-priority-to-drinking-water-schemes-says-cm-923443.html
04-12-2020||South||Will Rajinikanth's bet on 'spiritual' politics, 'change' mantra catapult him?||If his political package of 'spiritual politics' plus 'change everything' clicks, Rajinikanth would be the third star from the celluloid world to taste political success in Tamil Nadu after AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran and his protege J Jayalalithaa. Whether or not his charisma and fan following would catapult him to political primacy could also be gauged, to an extent, from how he was going to explain his spiritual politics and the mantra of change to the people besides a host of other factors. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu during April-May 2021. According to the actor, spiritual politics is honesty, transparency and graft free politics transcending the barriers of caste and religion to provide good governance. The 'change everything' slogan in addition to the 'now or never' is about a complete overhaul of the 'system' in governance and at the level of party structure as well to facilitate a real change for the benefit of the people. The star, who had described himself in the past as a fanatic fan of late MGR, had invoked his legacy to assure a good administration for the benefit of poor and common man. Before he founded the AIADMK in 1972, MGR was with the DMK and had been also been active in politics. Virtually challenging Dravidian ideology, he had asked if honesty, belief in God and overcoming the barriers of caste and religion was alien to the Dravidian land. On the poll prospects for the actor, political analyst Sumanth Raman said it was too early to predict since there were many questions to be answered by the actor. Raman wondered, "What is the meaning of change everything ? what is his policy and programmes ?" He said the actor should explain how he would usher in the change that he has promised. Many things-- like if his party would contest all the 234 seats, if it is so, who would be the candidates or whether there is a possibility of stitching an electoral alliance are not known, he said. Rajinikanth would also need a large team of credible faces to be fielded as candidates, he pointed out. To a question on the actor saying in March that he would prefer to name a youth as Chief Minister and stay out of governance, Raman wondered if that view was still "valid." "Rajinikanth will make an impact. But for the impact to be really huge, there should be answers for such questions. I can see that both AIADMK and DMK is rattled by his political innings." he told PTI. On spiritual politics, he said the DMK may try to give a spin to it, but he did not see 'negativity' about it. Dravidian ideologue V M S Subagunarajan, however, did not concur. He said the actor could not get a political foothold in Tamil Nadu since neither spirituality nor nationalistic politics have ever been successful in the state. Despite rooted in Periyar's ideology, the state has some space for film stars but only for those who have either acknowledged or endorsed the Dravidian ideology like actors Vijayakanth (founder of DMDK) and Kamal Haasan (chief of Makkal Needhi Maiam), he said. "Rajinikanth's brand of spirituality is no doubt Hindu spirituality. His claim that he embraces all faiths is only hollow," he said, adding the actor's party, with its hues of spiritualism and nationalism may only be a clone of the BJP. "Nationalistic politics has no place in Tamil Nadu and yesteryear top star Sivaji Ganesan's failure to take off politically is a very good example," he said. Renowned actor Sivaji Ganesan, who founded a political party after associating with the Congress, was defeated by DMK's Durai Chandrasekaran in the 1989 Assembly election (Tiruvaiyaru assembly constituency) by a margin of over 10,000 votes. Ganesan could only emerge as the runner-up. Film critic and political analyst M Bharat Kumar pointed out that the actor has said his spiritual politics treated all religions equally and that it transcended all barriers. "The AIADMK is already following soft spiritualism through several welfare measures for the benefit of all faiths including Christians and Muslims. So, we need to see how he is going to distinguish himself from the AIADMK to succeed," he said. The actor has promised 'spiritual politics' driven by the 'change' mantra in Tamil Nadu which is dominated by Dravidian politics of the AIADMK and DMK for over five decades. The death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi in 2016 and 2018 respectively, provided the perfect setting for Kamal Haasan and now Rajinikanth to aspire to climb the political ladder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-rajinikanths-bet-on-spiritual-politics-change-mantra-catapult-him-923468.html
04-12-2020||South||Left MPs from Kerala want Covid-19 vaccine to be provided free of cost||Left MPs from Kerala on Friday demanded that the proposed vaccine for Covid-19 should be made available free of charge. CPI-M leader Elamaram Kareem and Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Shreyams Kumar saidthere was no clarity on the part of the central government on the distribution and storage of the vaccine. They were speaking to reporters here after an online all-party meeting with leaders of various political outfits and top union ministers, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country. "The declared price of Rs 2,500 is not affordable to common man who has already been struggling to meet ends. At least two doses of vaccine need to be administered for a person," the Rajya Sabha MPs said. Kumar said poor people, including Adivasis, will not be able to meet the cost given the fact that all in a family have to take two doses of vaccine. In his closing remarks at an all-party meeting with leaders of various political parties to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country, Modi said experts believe the wait for the Covid-19 vaccine will not be long and it may be ready in a few weeks. Nearly eight vaccines are at different stages of trial with their manufacturing assured in India, Modi said. Three vaccines from India are also at different stages of trial, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/left-mps-from-kerala-want-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-provided-free-of-cost-923492.html
04-12-2020||South||Heavy rains batter Tamil Nadu, deep depression weakens||Heavy rains continued to batter Tamil Nadu on Friday leading to the inundation of crops and waterlogging in many rural and urban areas even as the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram weakened into a depression. The India Meteorological Department said the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar close to Ramanathapuram district's coast remained practically stationary for 18 hours and then weakened into a depression. "The depression is likely to remain practically stationary over the same (Ramanathapuram) region and weaken into a Well marked Low-Pressure Area during the next 12 hours (by early Saturday)," the latest bulletin said. While there was widespread rainfall covering many parts of the state, several regions reported heavy to extremely heavy rains, including Kollidam (36 cm, Nagapattinam district), Chidambaram (34 cm, Cuddalore). Over two dozen areas received between 10 and 28 cm rain. Rescue personnel evacuated people marooned in flooded areas of Cuddalore district and brought them to shelters. Crops like paddy and sugarcane were inundated in districts, including Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, and Ariyalur falling under the Cauvery delta zone, as heavy rains continued for the third successive day. Ramanathapuram and Tirukovilur (Kallakurichi district) in southern and northern Tamil Nadu were among the regions that received 7 cm rainfall. While Chennai received moderate rains, nearby Madurantakam recorded 10 cm. Rainfall was reported from several other regions, including Yercaud in Salem, Sivaganga, Namakkal, Tuticorin, Ranipet, and Karur districts as well. Low-lying residential areas in parts of the metropolis and several other urban and rural areas in districts, including Cuddalore, saw water entering neighbourhoods. As a precautionary measure, power supply was cut in several districts. Rameswaram, Thangachi Madam, Pambam, and Mandapam saw power cuts for the fourth consecutive day. Rameswaram also faced drinking water shortage as pumps could not be operated in view of power cuts in residential neighbourhoods. The downpour led to flooding of the inner corridors of the ancient Sri Nataraja temple at Chidambaram and photographs showing the inundation surfaced in social media. The government had already declared Friday a holiday for Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar, Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram districts in view of the weather system. On December 3, cyclone 'Burevi' weakened into a deep depression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-batter-tamil-nadu-deep-depression-weakens-923516.html
04-12-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh Legislature passes Disha Bill||The Andhra Pradesh Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill 2020, was passed in the State Legislature on Friday. Though party chief N Chandrababu Naidu called the Disha Bill a 'fake', the Telugu Desam supported it in the Legislative Council where it is in a majority. The AP Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill 2020 did not contain any of the proposed clauses under which up to death penalty was sought to be made the punishment for sexual offenders During the five-day winter session, which ended on Friday, the government withdrew the AP Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill 2019 and introduced a new Bill in its place. Home Minister M Sucharita had moved the Bill and the Assembly hurriedly passed it by by voice vote on Thursday amid protest by the TDP and the Council completed the formality today. The earlier Bill was sent to the Centre for approval. The AP Government proposed drastic changes in the Indian Penal Code and also the Code of Criminal Procedure, pushing for completion of investigation in sexual assault cases in seven working days and trial within 14 working days from the date of filing the charge-sheet. Official sources said the Centre, when the Bill was sent to it for the Presidents assent, did not approve the amendments and returned the Bill to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-legislature-passes-disha-bill-923532.html
04-12-2020||South||BJP to decide on alliance with AIADMK for Tamil Nadu 2021 polls: Murugan||The decision on firming up alliance with the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu and formally announcing it will be made by the BJP high command, the party's state unit chief L Murugan said here on Friday. Murugan's remarks come weeks after AIADMK top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami announced at an event attended by BJP veteran and Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the alliance forged for 2019 Lok Sabha elections between the two parties will continue for next year's Assembly polls. Apparently indicating that alliance with AIADMK for the Assembly election next year is yet to be confirmed, Murugan said, "the leadership in Delhi will decide and make an announcement." Responding to a reporter's query on whether BJP's alliance with the AIADMK has been firmed up, he said his party high command is in touch with the AIADMK leaders and that his leadership will "decide on it and announce." During Shah's visit here on November 21, AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister Panneerselvam had announced that his party's alliance with the BJP will continue for the 2021 assembly elections also, which was endorsed by Palaniswami. On Tamil film superstar Rajinikanth's announcement on launching a political party next month, Murugan said everyone has a right to launch a party in a democracy. He described the veteran actor as "patriotic." "It is annan (elder brother) Rajini's right to launch his party. Let him (first) launch his party as he has announced. We will decide our stand under the guidance of our high command (later)," Murugan said when asked if the BJP would forge an alliance with the actor. He asserted that the National Democratic Alliance will storm to power in Tamil Nadu in 2021. Tamil Nadu Assembly elections are due in April-May 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-to-decide-on-alliance-with-aiadmk-for-tamil-nadu-2021-polls-murugan-923538.html
04-12-2020||South||Transgender community up in arms in Kerala alleging police harassment||A section of transgender members at Thrissur district in Kerala are up in arms alleging police harassment. The agitators alleged that a section of police personnel was unnecessarily harassing them when they move around. Transgender community member Deepthi Kalyani who led the protest on Friday said that a couple of police personnel were even questioning the gender of the members. They were even stating that the community would be eradicated from the district. "If we are seen on the streets even during day time some police personnel are seeing us with suspicions of immorality and are being abused and chased away. The police even cause trouble to us at our houses and hence many of us were also getting suitable houses on rent," said Kalyani who is also president of Foundation for Innovation and Cultural Organization, Thrissur. The protestors alleged that though they submitted petitions in this regard to the government, there was no response. Hence they were forced to stage the public protest. The transgenders staged a protest march to the office of the Deputy Inspector General - Thrissur range. Senior police officials assured to look into their grievances. Later the transgenders withdrew the protest stating that if the police torture continued they would stage stirs in front of the residences of police officials. Sheetal Shyam, a member of Kerala Transgender Justice Board, said that it was an issued faced by the transgender community in all districts and hence the government should swiftly intervene.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/transgender-community-up-in-arms-in-kerala-alleging-police-harassment-923578.html
04-12-2020||State||BJP holding state executive meet for political gains: Hebbalkar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Spokesperson and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar alleged that BJP has been holding its state executive meeting in Belagavi on Saturday for political gains and gimmicks, while grievances of people from North Karnataka region affected by floods during two consecutive years remain unresolved. Hebbalkar told reporters here on Friday that Chief Minister B S Yeddiyurappa-led BJP government has not been conducting winter session of the state legislature at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha here for the second consecutive year and the government has been running away from the problems of the people. Farmers, masons and other communities, who are living their lives hand-to-mouth have not been given the relief announced and to remain away from such problems, legislature session has been scheduled in Bengaluru, she added. Congress neither welcomes nor opposes the state executive meeting of BJP to be held here as it is the internal matter of that political party. Along with political gimmicks, BJP leaders should also discuss the problems of people from North Karnataka region and particularly those affected by floods, she demanded. Yediyurappa has written to the centre regarding GST compensation, but state was yet to get it. Revenue Minister R Ashok had stated that flood losses added up to Rs 58,000 crore, but as per information available state has received Rs 625 crore. It appears as if the Centre has not been giving necessary cooperation to Yediyurappa, Hebbalkar stated. She demanded that the government come up with a white paper regarding relief given to different classes as announced. Problems of Anganwadi and Asha workers too have not been resolved. Covid-19 pandemic has been cited as reasons for funds not being released for different projects and developmental works by government. BJP has funds for holding its state executive meeting, but not for people, she expressed. "By-election from Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency due to the sudden demise of union minister Suresh Angadi was unanticipated. We shall face the election and work towards victory of Congress candidate shortlisted by the party," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-holding-state-executive-meet-for-political-gains-hebbalkar-923302.html
04-12-2020||State||Karnataka records 1,247 new coronavirus infections, 13 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,247 new Covid-19 cases and 13 related fatalities on Friday as the case tally swelled to 8,90,360 and the toll to 11,834. The day also saw 877 patients getting discharged from hospitals across the state. The total number of recoveries have reached 8,53,461. As on December 4, there are 25,046 active carriers of the virus in the state. Of which, 287 are in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 620 new cases. Among the districts, Mysuru reported 74, Tumakuru 73, Mandya 53 and Hassan 49. A total of over 1,15,09,892 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,049 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-1247-new-coronavirus-infections-13-deaths-923503.html
04-12-2020||State||Temperance Board gets new chief||The state government has appointed Belagavi-based Hanumantha Thammaji Kotabagi as the chief of Karnataka State Temperance Board. The Board, which functions under the purview of the Department of Information and Public Relations, is charged with organising public awareness programmes on the ill effects of alcohol addiction and substance abuse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/temperance-board-gets-new-chief-923505.html
04-12-2020||State||IAS, KAS officers transferred||The state government on Friday transferred some junior IAS and KAS officers and posted them to various Zilla Panchayats (ZP), ahead of the gram panchayat elections, later this month.  The officers and their postings are: Lakshmikantha Reddy G, Vijayapura ZP CEO; Mohammad Roshan, Haveri ZP CEO; Shaik Tanveer Asif, Raichur ZP CEO; K Nandhinidevi, Chitradurga ZP CEO; Priyanga M, Uttara Kannada ZP CEO; M R Ravi Kumar, Bengaluru Rural ZP CEO; Bharathi D, Hassan ZP CEO; N M Nagaraj, Kolar ZP CEO and Paramesh, Mysuru ZP CEO.  Two senior IAS officers were also given additional responsibilities: Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Mahendra Jain will also head the Minority Welfare department and Additional Chief Secretary (Public Enterprises) B H Anil Kumar has been given concurrent charge of the Department of Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ias-kas-officers-transferred-923508.html
04-12-2020||State||Act tough against Covid-19 norm violators during bandh: Karnataka HC to govt||The High Court has directed the state government to put authorities on the vigil and to penalise the violators of rules regarding wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during the bandh on Saturday. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this direction on PILs filed seeking direction for strict implementation of rules of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. One of the PILs had mentioned about the violation of these rules during political rallies and also pointed that a bandh has been called by Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha on December 5. The court had directed the petitioner to implead major political parties, including the one which had called for the bandh. Since only CPI(M) was represented through an advocate, the court said it cannot pass any specific orders directing the political parties to ensure adherence to the rules. “Any bandh will naturally draw a crowd. Today, we are not on the question of the legality of such calls for a bandh. We are directing the state government that the police and other authorities empowered to take action shall keep strict vigil and action of recovery of the fine is done from each and every participant who violates the rules,” the bench said. The bench pulled up the state government for neither showing any statistics of penalty levied on participants of political rallies nor prosecuting the violators and organisers under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. The state government had proposed to amend the provisions and pass a fresh ordinance. Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) informed the court that whenever political rallies are organised by them, masks and hand sanitisers are distributed. The court directed the party to submit an affidavit in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/act-tough-against-covid-19-norm-violators-during-bandh-karnataka-hc-to-govt-923517.html
04-12-2020||State||Karnataka Bandh unlikely to hit normal life in Bengaluru, districts||The statewide bandh on Saturday called by pro-Kannada organisations, condemning the formation of Maratha Development Corporation, will partially affect normal life with auto rickshaws and taxi services are likely to continue while essential services will remain unaffected. Leaders of two auto rickshaw unions and representative of taxi owners and drivers union said they have given “full support” to the shut down call. Meenakshi Sundaram of Auto Rickshaw Drivers’ Union and C Sampath of Adarsh Auto Rickshaw Union said drivers had expressed their solidarity with the pro-Kannada groups. However, two leaders representing taxis, including those working with Ola and Uber, as well as auto rickshaw unions said thousands of auto rickshaw drivers were not in a position to remain off the road. Another leader said those working with aggregators will not stop work. “The economic hardship created by Covid-19 is such that the drivers are in no mood to let go of a day’s earning. There will be taxis but the numbers might be less,” he said. In a release, the Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association said they will only extend “ethical support” but “will not shut down” operations. Security heightened Meanwhile, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said that no organisation had sought permission to hold a bandh and that they too have not granted any permission. Security has been heightened in the city to prevent any untoward incidents, he added. Over 15,000 police security personnel, including 12 DCPs, ACPs, Hoysala vehicles, 33 KSRP and 32 CAR battalions, will be deployed across the city to prevent untoward incidents. Pratap Reddy, ADGP, Law and Order, said that elaborate security arrangements have been made in all districts and an instruction has been given to all superintendents of police to beef up security in respective districts. KSRP and CAR platoons are already on ground to handle any situation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bandh-unlikely-to-hit-normal-life-in-bengaluru-districts-923524.html
04-12-2020||State||Government plans six-month internship for engineering students||Soon, undergraduate engineering students may spend one full semester in a dedicated internship, a “new strategy” planned by the higher education department is aimed at producing industry-ready graduates. A proposal to this effect was discussed in a meeting chaired by Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan in Bengaluru on Friday. A committee, headed by the vice-chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Prof Karisiddappa and comprising members from various industries and commerce, was constituted to formally decide on the duration of the internship and other modules. Currently, it is mandatory for students to undergo a  four-week internship during the end of the seventh semester as per the guidelines from the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). All the experts present in the meeting opined that the existing four weeks internship will not help students to learn anything. “They need first four weeks to get exposure to the subject/industry or to that atmosphere,” mentioned official. Ashwath Narayan said the proposal to enhance the internship was to make “our graduates industry-ready with hands-on experience” during the internship period. Meanwhile, the committee will also look into the possibility of paid internships under the concept ‘earn while learn’.  A senior official from the state department of technical education said, “There are a plenty of industries in our state in all sectors and the committee constituted will discuss with industry representatives about stipend along with certificates during the internships.”  Officials also mentioned that this will be decided and implemented from the 2021-22 academic year. Industry collaboration Considering the difficulty for several students in getting internship opportunities, mainly those who are from government engineering colleges, the meeting,  chaired by Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, discussed bringing a higher level of collaboration between colleges with the industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-plans-six-month-internship-for-engineering-students-923527.html
04-12-2020||State||Three of Harihar family die in car-lorry collision||Three members of a family, including a 12-year-old girl, hailing from Harihar were killed when the car they were travelling in crashed into a stationary container lorry at Kamdode Cross on National Highway 4 near here on Friday. Deceased are: K N Hanumanthappa Ningappa (60), Rajeshwari (45) and their granddaughter Shivani, all natives of Kumbaluru in Harihar taluk of Davangere district. Injured Veena has been admitted to Ranebennur taluk hospital. The accident occurred when the victims were returning home after attending a wedding in Hubballi. The Halageri police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-of-harihar-family-die-in-car-lorry-collision-923528.html
04-12-2020||State||Transparency crucial in clinical trials of coronavirus vaccine: Former ICMR chief||India’s premier research body - the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has had its hands full, handling a pandemic of a scale, the country has never seen before. Prof Nirmal Kumar Ganguly, former Director-General of the ICMR, spoke to Suraksha P of DH on how the apex body is doing and the need for transparency in clinical trials. Excerpts from the interview: Q. You’ve been at the helm of ICMR in the past. How has the research body handled the Covid pandemic so far? A. The ICMR has been at the forefront of handling pandemics. In my time, we handled 11 of them. We did well in handling H5N1, SARS, Japanese Encephalitis, Chandipura virus, H1N1, Congo hemorrhagic fever, and Nipah virus outbreak. As soon as the sequence information was obtained, the diagnostics was prepared early on. The transmission dynamics were studied and attempts were made to break the transmission by making the public aware with communications and advocacy. ICMR is a research agency, not an agency to control diseases. The National Centre for Disease Control essentially does that. It’s not a regulatory body like the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). Q. Why do vaccine trials take years? Previously, the vaccine trials took eight to ten years, sometimes even more. Understanding how a new organism binds, its pathogenesis, structure and how it gets internalised takes time. In Covid too, we’re still learning. While doing this, we need experiments to see if the virus can be neutralised, blocked from entry or what kind of drugs will kill it. Trials go from developing a proof of concept to an animal model, where mice and rats are used, to higher species like dogs or humans. In these, pre-clinical trials are done to see if it affects any of the organs. Safety studies in animals take time. It usually takes more than a year to do only this part. This is phase 1 that consists of about 100participants. Phase 2 and phase 3 can be merged where up to 1,000 participants of various age groups are involved. With Covid vaccine, developers administered three doses to three different age groups. Phase 3 is an efficacy study.     Q. How are adverse events in clinical trials handled globally? A. Public transparency is very important. There is a law according to which any adverse event, whether the trial succeeds or fails, has to be updated in the Clinical Registry and its website. Pfizer also had an adverse event where one of the volunteers died. They immediately stopped the trial and found that it was avolunteer who got the placebo, not the vaccine. Moderna also found that when a higher dose was given, volunteers experienced body aches and gastrointestinal problems so they switched to the lower dose. All the three vaccines including Astra Zeneca’s saw side effects like pain at the site, redness, and fever. Oxford gave paracetamol to control it. Mild influenza symptoms were also reported.  Q. How are adverse events being handled in India? A. In India, I do not know what is happening at the moment. I only heard of adverse events being reported in the newspaper. There is no official communication by which I could verify it as it happened in international trials. There was no official communication from the Drug Controller General of India but this is how international trials were done, with rigorous monitoring.  When Oxford University-Astra Zeneca found a side effect of transverse myelitis in one of the volunteers in the UK, it paused the trial for a safety review and then resumed. If the Data Safety Monitoring Board and Ethics Committee feel the trial has to be paused, it is. Although minor side effects are not reported to the public, severe effects are.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/transparency-crucial-in-clinical-trials-of-coronavirus-vaccine-former-icmr-chief-923529.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka looks for export high with new plan||Karnataka is losing out on precious export revenue due to critical gaps in infrastructure, according to a new report, which has laid bare the problems and outlined a road-map for repairing the strategy.  Take the case of cashews. Karnataka is India’s fourth-largest cashew producing state, yet the state doesn't lead in exports. Reason? Manual processing of the produce which slows down the process. As a result, the state loses out to countries such as Vietnam, which have embraced mechanisation and sell the produce at a cheaper price in Europe and the US. This is just one example of how Karnataka is unable to harness its full export potential.   Now, the government wants to get its act together by boosting exports across sectors over the next five years. To enable this, it has readied an ‘Export Strategy’. Prepared by the Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO), the document aims to make Karnataka among the top 3 exporters of merchandise in the country. Currently, Karnataka accounts for 18.83% of India's exports. According to the document, delay in Integrated Goods and Service Tax refunds was severely affecting working capital for exporters and needs immediate attention from the government. Speaking to DH, Gunjan Krishna, Commissioner for Industrial Development and Director of Industries and Commerce, said the report looked into problem areas hindering the growth of each sector, while suggesting measures to overcome them. Gunjan said the state has to focus on improving infrastructure, skilling, minimising logistics, providing warehouse facilities, ensuring international standards for export among others. Some of the infrastructure issues bedeviling the state are surprising. For example, mangoes grown in Kolar, Dharwad and Ramanagar districts are sent to Mumbai and Hyderabad for processing, as the state does not have pack-house facilities where mangoes can be stored for a long time. Handicrafts, the document states, has huge growth potential, and recommends the state tie-up with e-commerce platforms for online marketing. Logistics is another area where the state falls short, according to the report. At Kempegowda International Airport, perishables accounted for 37 percent of the international export cargo. There was an immediate need for cold storage facilities, the document said. Further, absence of direct flights to high-end markets for cut flowers like Japan and Australia, was resulting in delays at intervening airports, owing to huge losses, it added. Ajay Sahai, Director General and CEO of the FIEO, said the strategy gave a road-map for sustained growth in exports for Karnataka, focusing on products that were traded in large value globally on the one hand and those which generated employment on the other. The document identified iron and steel, machinery, instruments and apparatus, aerospace, apparel electrical and electronics, chemical and coffee as champion export sectors, carrying an export value worth US$ 10.21 billion with a share of 66% in overall exports from Karnataka. In addition, it has identified pharmaceuticals, agri and allied sectors, cashew, gherkin, floriculture, marine, plastic, granite, leather and handicrafts as potential export sectors, which can be boosted with adequate infrastructure support from the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-looks-for-export-high-with-new-plan-923092.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka moves SC against High Court order on NLSIU quota||The Karnataka government on Thursday moved the Supreme Court challenging the validity of the Karnataka High Court's order quashing 25% domicile quota at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru. The state government had passed the NLSIU Amendment Act, 2020, on April 27. But the HC on September 29 declared it as ultra vires and contrary to provisions of the parent law, as the NLSIU had an independent identity with a national character.  In a special leave petition, the Karnataka government contended the NLSIU was created by the state legislature and fell within its control.  It also maintained that the object of the amendment was to promote legal education and enrich the profession by allowing students from the state to get admission and serve its interest. The NLSIU has been provided 23 acres of land on lease at a concessional rate besides the annual aid, the state government said, seeking a stay of the HC's judgement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-moves-sc-against-high-court-order-on-nlsiu-quota-923109.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka tackled Covid-19 the best in November in South India||Karnataka has registered the steepest fall in the rate of cases as well as deaths among the five southern states, an analysis of Covid-19 cases reported in November shows. The good news comes amid anxiety over a likely second wave forecast in January. After battering the state for months, the unpredictable virus is currently in retreat across the state. Over the last one month, Karnataka saw the highest reduction in moving growth rate (a term used to compute percentage growth of Covid cases over a period of time) of cases and mortality compared to other southern states, according to Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership project analysing Covid-19 outbreaks.     The state saw a 71% fall in the moving growth rate as cases fell from 2,11,575 cases in October to 61,485 in November. Andhra Pradesh saw a 64% fall, while Tamil Nadu and Kerala saw 53% and 26% plunge in growth rate. Apart from that, Karnataka's share of Covid cases in the south (including Puducherry) reduced to 18% in November from 31% in October.  Another positive sign was the fall in mortality growth rate in Karnataka, which nosedived by 72% — the highest compared with other states. In October, the state accounted for 41% of Covid mortality (2,174 deaths) among southern states; it came down to 27% last month with 610 deaths. Sanjeev Mysore, Convenor of Jeevan Raksha, who did the analysis, told DH that the challenge was to maintain these rates. "The state is contemplating a night curfew in the last week of December. It is taking initiatives and mulling restrictions. In the first wave, the surge happened within two to three weeks," he said. Sanjeev cited the example of Gujarat, where a night curfew was announced in Ahmedabad the moment a surge was seen. "We need to look at containment measures that suit the state. There were 135 deaths in a single day in October. Now there are only 10 deaths. The drop is fantastic. All the efforts are showing up in the numbers. We need to continue the strategy of testing and other management tactics," he added. Meeting on Friday Health Minister K Sudhakar is set to hold a meeting with the members of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) to discuss its recommendations on Covid-19 as well as the measures needed during Christmas and New Year celebrations. “Social distancing would be difficult to maintain as people would congregate in small spaces. We do not know experts’ opinion on the second wave in January. While some restrictions are needed, enforcing curfew does not seem necessary. However, all the matters will be decided only after holding a meeting on Friday with experts and the chief minister," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tackled-covid-19-the-best-in-november-in-south-india-923111.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No night curfew in Karnataka, assures CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Friday his government had no plans to impose a night curfew going forward as recommended by the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).  “For now, there are no such plans,” Yediyurappa told reporters when asked if the government was thinking about bringing back night curfews.  In an advisory submitted to the government on November 30, the TAC has warned that a second wave of Covid-19 was expected during January-February 2021.  The TAC has recommended banning New Year celebrations or parties from December 26 to January 1, while pitching for the imposition of night curfew (8 pm to 5 am) during this period to prevent people from gathering. It specifically sought a ban on celebrations in resorts, hotels and on Bengaluru’s high-streets such as MG Road, Brigade Road and so on.  On Thursday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters in Mangaluru that the government had not discussed introducing night curfews.  Health Minister K Sudhakar, however, favoured restrictions on New Year celebrations.  Till December 3, Karnataka has reported 8.89 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 24,689 are currently active. More than 11,000 people have died due to the pandemic. There are 18,938 active cases in Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-night-curfew-in-karnataka-assures-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-923185.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa appeals to pro-Kannada outfits to give up Karnataka bandh plans tomorrow||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday urged the pro-Kannada groups not to go ahead with Saturday bandh, calling it "unnecessary".  Pro-Kannada groups have called for a bandh on Saturday against the government's decision to establish the Maratha Development Corporation.  "I'm trying to take all sections of society together," Yediyurappa told reporters. "Whatever importance is needed for Kannada, we're doing that. I'm ready to do anything else that the Kannada leaders want," he said. "I kindly request them to cooperate by not going ahead with the bandh. There's no permission for it." Yediyurappa said he had made repeated pleas to the Kannada groups to drop the bandh plan. "Vatal Nagaraj and others, they shouldn't trouble people with the bandh. It's not necessary," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-appeals-to-pro-kannada-outfits-to-give-up-karnataka-bandh-plans-tomorrow-923257.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to impose curbs on new year celebrations to control second Covid-19 wave||Contradicting the recommendations made by the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), which in its report submitted to the government four days back, said, ban New Year celebrations or parties from December 26 to January 1, and impose night curfew from 8 pm to 5 am during this period to prevent people from gathering, Karnataka Health Minister Dr Sudhakar said no night curfew recommendation was made.  The TAC report, a copy of which is with DH, specifically sought a ban on celebrations in resorts, hotels, and on Bengaluru’s high-streets such as MG Road and Brigade Road. To repeated questions from reporters about night curfew and on being informed that the CM had spoken against clamping one, Sudhakar said, "They (TAC) haven't made any such (8 pm to 5 am curfew) recommendation. Since they have recommended banning any kind of celebrations or gatherings from December 20 to January 2, for 15 days, I will talk to CM and announce our decision soon." He informed reporters that the reproduction number or R0 (the number of cases directly generated by one case) is currently 0.46 in the State. The TAC in its report had said that the second wave is termed when the reproduction rate R0 is more than 1.5, and the cases are increasing steadily after crossing this basic rate.  "Our positivity rate is currently 1.2%. The TAC has recommended taking strict measures in the next 45 days as the winter months of January-February-March are cold. Experts have recommended there should not be mobs of any kind as now we are seeing market gatherings where people don't wear masks. If there will be a second wave, the surge will happen over two to three weeks' time and not suddenly. They've recommended banning all religious festivals till February 2021. Marriages should not exceed 100 guests, funerals 50 and any personal functions or events should not exceed 200," Sudhakar added. Meeting on reopening of schools in December third week  Sudhakar said a meeting to discuss the reopening of schools will be held in December third week and the fourth week. "We will have a meeting with the CM, Education Minister, TAC members and discuss reopening of schools," he said. Covid Care Centres if required will be opened on a PPP model, as recommended by TAC.  As per TAC's recommendations, 1.25 lakh tests will be conducted, one lakh of which will be RT-PCR tests, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-impose-curbs-on-new-year-celebrations-to-control-second-covid-19-wave-923328.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine should be kept affordable, free of cost for economically vulnerable: Deve Gowda||Even as there is much anticipation on availability of Covid-19 vaccines, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who took part in an all-party Covid-19 review meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, urged the government to make vaccines free for economically vulnerable sections of society. He also asked the Centre to ensure that the vaccine prices were affordable to all sections of society.  In the meeting, the JD(S) supremo also recommended that the government constitute a high-level team to coordinate vaccination efforts. The transport and storage of vaccines will be a challenge. A high-level team reporting to the PMO directly, should at the same time coordinate with medical and paramedical volunteers at the gram panchayat level, he said. He also appraised the PM of the need to establish cold storage centres for long-term storage of vaccines. “The PM should pass on this challenge to our IITs. They should tell us how to convert any room into a cold storage facility with an inexpensive assembly unit,” Gowda said, according to a note shared by his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-should-be-kept-affordable-free-of-cost-for-economically-vulnerable-deve-gowda-923360.html
04-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt forms Cabinet sub-committee to take decisions over CEPMIZ||Karnataka has constituted a four-member ministerial committee to take decisions and plan legal measures on the Comprehensive Environmental Plan for Mining Impact Zone (CEPMIZ) that needs the Supreme Court’s approval. The CEPMIZ is an ameliorative measure for the environmental damage caused by illegal mining in the Ballari, Chitradurga and Tumakuru districts. The Cabinet sub-committee will be headed by Law Minister J C Madhuswamy with Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, Mines Minister C C Patil and Forest Minister Anand Singh as members. The sub-committee will supervise and decide on legal steps to be taken with respect to the CEPMIZ prepared by the Karnataka Mining Environment Restoration Corporation (KMERC), a special purpose vehicle tasked with the clean-up and development of the three mining-affected districts. In 2012, the Supreme Court ordered implementation of CEPMIZ in the three districts. But since then, the state government has not succeeded in convincing the top court with its proposed plan of action. The government’s last CEPMIZ proposed an outlay of Rs 24,995 crore to be spent in three categories — a socio-economic and development plan at Rs 17,165 crore, road infrastructure at Rs 2,559 crore and railway infrastructure at Rs 5,271 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-forms-cabinet-sub-committee-to-take-decisions-over-cepmiz-923539.html
04-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: NCP wins Aurangabad and Pune graduates' constituencies||The NCP, which is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, on Friday won Aurangabad and Pune graduates' constituencies of the state Legislative Council. NCP's Satish Chavan won the Aurangabad division graduates' constituency, defeating BJP nominee Shirish Boralkar. Chavan polled 1,16,638 votes, while Boralkar bagged 58,743 votes, the state electoral office said. In Pune division graduates' constituency, NCP's Arun Lad defeated BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh by a margin of 48,824 votes. Lad polled 1,22,145 votes, while Deshmukh bagged 73,321 votes. BJP's defeat in Pune graduates' constituency is considered to be a big blow to party's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, who along with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had campaigned extensively to retain the seat. Patil represented the Pune graduates' constituency before he became a member of the Legislative Assembly from Kothrud constituency in the 2019 state elections. The biennial elections to six legislative council seats - three graduates' and two teachers' as well as one local body seats were held on December 1. In Nagpurdivision graduates' seat, Congress's Abhijit Vanjari was leading over his nearest rival Sandeep Joshi (BJP). In Pune division teachers' constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar of the Congress was leading over Independent Dattatraya Sawant. In Amravati division teachers' constituency, Kiran Sarnaik (Independent) was leading over Shiv Sena's Shrikant Deshpande. Talking to reporters in Mumbai, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the result was a reflection of the MVA government's performance in the last one year. The Dhule Nandurbar local bodies seat was won by BJP's Amrish Patel. The by-election was held as Patel, who was earlier with the Congress, quit the party to join the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ncp-wins-aurangabad-and-pune-graduates-constituencies-923190.html
04-12-2020||West||Chargesheet filed against Chhota Rajan in Datta Samant murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed chargesheet against jailed underworld don Chhota Rajan in connection with the 1997 gunning down of veteran trade unionist Datta Samant in Mumbai.   Samant (65) had led the Mumbai textile strike in 1982 that crippled the mills of Mumbai, eventually leading to its shutdown and left more than 1.5 lakh workers unemployed. The CBI filed the chargesheet in a special CBI court in Mumbai against Chhota Rajan accusing him of hatching the conspiracy to murder Samant. “Yes…chargesheet has been filed against Chhota Rajan in the Datta Samant murder case. The chargesheet runs into three volumes and a set of annexures,” Special Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat told DH on Friday. Samant was killed on 16 January, 1997, outside his home in Powai and the gunmen had fired 17 rounds on his head, chest and stomach. The brutal murder of Samant, popularly known as Doctor-saab, had shocked Mumbai – and the then Shiv Sena-BJP government led by Dr Manohar Joshi had come under sharp criticism over the law and order situation. BJP leader late Gopinath Munde was the Deputy Chief Minister and in charge of the Home portfolio. Chhota Rajan was deported from Indonesia in 2015 and is lodged in Tihar Jail in New Delhi. He had been convicted in some cases including the gunning down of journalist J Dey, for which he was given life sentence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chargesheet-filed-against-chhota-rajan-in-datta-samant-murder-case-923201.html
04-12-2020||West||MVA celebrates first anniversary with a bang, slams BJP by snatching Nagpur first time in 58 years||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi has given a major blow to the opposition BJP defeating the saffron party in all the seats including one in the stronghold of Nagpur in the biennial elections to five seats of Maharashtra Legislative Council. The MVA has snatched away from BJP the prized seat of Nagpur division graduates’ constituency. The Congress has won the seat for the first time in 58 years – as the Jana Sangh and subsequently, the BJP maintained dominance in this prestigious seat. The MVA victory coincides with the first anniversary of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government that is under regular attack from the ranks and files of the BJP. Congress's Abhijit Wanjari won defeating BJP's Sandeep Joshi, the Mayor of Nagpur Municipal Corporation. Nagpur is the headquarters of RSS-BJP’s ideological parent - and hometown of stalwarts of the Sangh Parivar. This seat was represented earlier, among others, by Union Shipping Minister Nitin Gadkari. Prior to him Gangadhar Fadnavis, the father of Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis held the seat. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect and mentor of the MVA, said that the results are a reflection of the performance of the three-party alliance. “Clearly the picture has changed…the Congress has won the Nagpur division seat,” said Pawar, adding that people have shown faith in the new government. “We have just won one seat, the result is not as per our expectations…the three parties have contested together and we have misjudged their combined strength, we will have to work hard,” said Fadnavis. The BJP had been claiming that the MVA government will be the first to collapse in a year’s time in the state, post the elections. The MVA has bagged four seats, while an Independent won one seat – in the elections that were held in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP won just one seat – that too in bye-elections, the result of which was much on expected lines. The Shiv Sena lost the only seat it contested. The polls involved bye-election to in Dhule-Nandurbar Local Bodies’ seat and biennial polls to three Graduates’ constituencies of Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad divisions and two Teachers’ constituencies of Pune and Amravati divisions. State Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said: “The verdict is blessings of the people to the MVA government based on its work in the last one year.” In Pune Division Graduates, NCP's Arun Lad won defeating Sangram Deshmukh of BJP. In Pune Division Teachers’ constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar of Congress was leading over Independent Dattatraya Sawant. On the other hand, in Amravati Division Teachers’ constituency, Kiran Sarnaik (Independent) won defeating Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena. The sole seat that BJP won after contesting all six was Dhule-Nandurbar Local Bodies’ seat which was bagged by Amresh Patel, a former four-time Congress MLA and one-time MLC, who switched sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-celebrates-first-anniversary-with-a-bang-slams-bjp-by-snatching-nagpur-first-time-in-58-years-923220.html
04-12-2020||West||Mumbai Congress president to be named soon||The faction-ridden Mumbai Congress would get a new president soon. The Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) functions as a separate Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) and is one of the most powerful Congress units in the country. The Indian National Congress was founded in Mumbai, then Bombay, and the city being the financial capital, the Mumbai unit has its own importance. The interim president of MRCC is Eknath Gaikwad, a two-time MP and three-time MLA, whose daughter Dr Varsha Gaikwad is also the state’s Education Minister. After the debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the MRCC went through a big phase of crisis and internal bickering. While the campaign was underway, Sanjay Nirupam was removed and replaced by Milind Deora. The latter, however, left the post in September 2019, just ahead of Vidhan Sabha polls and was subsequently replaced by Gaikwad. Senior Congress leader from Karnataka, HK Patil, who is the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Maharashtra, initiated discussions with senior leaders, including state’s Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, who is the president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). Among the frontrunners for the post of MRCC chief are Suresh Shetty and Mohammed Arif Naseem Khan – both ex-ministers in the erstwhile Congress-NCP Democratic Front government -- and senior leaders Bhai Jagtap, Charan Singh Sapra and Amarjeet Singh Manhas. “The new Mumbai Congress President will be appointed by the end of December or early January,” a senior Mumbai Congress leader told DH on Friday. According to him, the unit has to start preparations for the 2022 polls to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “The election to BMC is fiercely-contested as it is one of the biggest civic bodies in terms of jurisdiction and budget,” the leader said. Mumbai has six Lok Sabha and 36 Vidhan Sabha seats. In the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress and NCP lost five seats and one seat, respectively, that they contested. In Assembly polls last year, Congress could win just one seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-congress-president-to-be-named-soon-923225.html
04-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: NCP leaders hail MVA's performance in MLC polls||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the victory of MVA candidates in the biennial state Legislative Council polls was a symbol of the unity among the alliance constituents. He said it showed that the people of the state have reposed their faith in the government. His statement comes after the NCP, which is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, won the Aurangabad and Pune graduates' constituencies of the legislative council on Friday. Results of three other seats are yet to be declared, but the MVA candidates are leading in two seats. Biennial elections to six legislative council seats — three graduates' and two teachers' as well as one local body seat — were held on December 1. The BJP has won only the Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies seat. In a statement, Pawar thanked voters for their mandate favouring the MVA candidates. "The victory of the MVA candidates is a symbol of the unity among all the alliance constituents and the faith reposed in the state government by the people," he said. Maharashtra minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil said the poll outcome showed that apart from farmers, workers and middle-class people, highly-educated voters also support the MVA government. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh also thanked the voters and added that they "bent lofty necks" of rival parties by backing the MVA candidates. "We were humble before the people yesterday, are so today and will always be so. Congratulations to the #MahaVikasAghadi candidates," he tweeted in Marathi. Deshmukh also said that the opposition parties should now support the government in the state's development. "If it cannot do so, it should at least stop anti- Maharashtra activities #BJP," the minister said. Thanking the voters, NCP MP Supriya Sule congratulated all those who "worked hard" to ensure a victory of the MVA candidates. PWD minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan also hailed the MVA's performance in five of the six constituencies which went to polls. Referring to 'Maharashtra Express', a train service between Kolhapur and Gondia, Chavan tweeted, "In the elections to the five council seats for which people voted directly, the BJP has been routed in around 24 districts from Kolhapur to Gondia. This is the 'Maharashtra Express' of the Maha Vikas Aghadi."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ncp-leaders-hail-mvas-performance-in-mlc-polls-923229.html
04-12-2020||West||Teaching is all about giving: Maharashtra teacher on global award win||Ranjitsinh Disale, a primary teacher from Maharashtra's Solapur, who won the USD 1-million Global Teacher Prize 2020, said teaching was all about giving, and added that he would like to work for students "across the borders" as he believed that the world was his classroom. He also said that he would like to allocate 20 per cent of his prize money for his "Let's Cross the Borders" project that aims to build peace among student and young people from the conflict-torn countries such as India, Pakistan, Palestine, Israel, Iran, Iraq and North Korea. Disale, 32, who works as a teacher at the Zilla Parishad Primary School at Paritewadi in Solapur, was on Thursday named the winner of the Global Teacher Prize 2020 in recognition of his efforts to promote girls' education and trigger a quick-response (QR) coded textbook revolution in India. After winning the award, he had announced that he would share 50 per cent of the prize money equally among his fellow finalists. Speaking to a Marathi channel, Disale said, "A teacher always shares his knowledge, insights with students. I received the prize for the work I did for the teachers, students and for the field of education." "So if I share 50 per cent of the prize money with other runner-up teachers, it would help them do what they desire to do in their countries," he said in response to a query about why he decided to share the prize money. "Of course, I want to work for the students in India. But at the same time, I would like to work for the students across the borders as I believe that the world is my classroom," he added. "There are several teachers in the country, who possess innovative ideas to transform education and I think that fund can be used for such talent," he added. He said he had decided to develop himself as a "professional teacher". "Teachers abroad are more professional. They spend some part of their earnings on their own development. As a teacher, when I came in their contact, I could see the difference," he added. Disale feels that he is a teacher from the 20th century and the students are from the 21st century. "So it is like students from the 21st century are being taught by a teacher from the 20th century with the 19th-century curriculum using techniques of the 18th century. This is the gap that we need to bridge and I think technology is the main enabler in this," he added. Disale, who studied in a government school, became a teacher after clearing his DEd course and joined Paritewadi in Solapur district in 2009. When Disale arrived at the school in Paritewadi, it was a dilapidated building, sandwiched between a cattleshed and a storeroom. He took on the task of turning things around and ensuring the textbooks were available in the local language for the pupils and not only translated the class textbooks into his pupils' mother tongue, but also embedded them with unique QR codes to give students access to audio poems, video lectures, stories and assignments. The impact of his interventions has been that there are now no reported teenage marriages in the village and 100 per cent attendance of girls at the school. Disale's school went on to become the first in Maharashtra to introduce QR codes and after submitting a proposal and successful pilot scheme, the state ministry announced in 2017 that they would introduce QR coded textbooks across the state for all grades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teaching-is-all-about-giving-maharashtra-teacher-on-global-award-win-923230.html
04-12-2020||West||Journalist named in murder case of NCP activist||A journalist-advocate has emerged as one of the alleged key conspirators beind the brutal murder of NCP activist Rekha Jare in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. The suspect, Bal Bothe, is absconding and a manhunt has been launched to track him down. Rekha (39) was president of the Yashaswini Mahila Brigade, a local organisation working for women’s welfare. Rekha was murdered by two motorcycle-borne persons in Ahmednagar district on Monday. The incident took place when Rekha Jare was travelling from Pune to Ahmednagar in a car along with her mother, son and a friend. The assailants slit her throat. Initially it was suspected to be a road rage incident but later it emerged to be a contract killing. Ahmednagar Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil is personally supervising the investigations into the case. Police are investigating the case from various angles. The cause of the murder is yet to be established. Three persons have been arrested in the case and investigations were in progress. Bothe has been named as an absconding accused in the case. He works in a top position with the Ahmednagar edition of a popular Marathi daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/journalist-named-in-murder-case-of-ncp-activist-923238.html
04-12-2020||West||Maharashtra MLC polls: Congress wins Nagpur graduates' constituency||Congress candidate Abhijit Wanjari on Friday won the Nagpur division graduates' constituency election of the Maharashtra Legislative Council by defeating BJP's Sandip Joshi by a margin of 18,910 votes. This is a big setback to the BJP, as it had held the seat for the last 58 years. Union minister Nitin Gadkari had also represented it for several years in the past. Wanjari defeated his nearest rival Joshi by securing 61,701 votes, while the latter bagged 42,791 votes. The counting for the votes had begun on Thursday and continued till Friday afternoon. A total of 1,32,923 voters, out of more than two lakh registered ones, cast their votes for this seat. Voting was held in 322 polling booths spread across Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Nagpur. There were 19 candidates in the fray and the main contenders were the BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) candidates. Joshi is presently the Mayor of Nagpur city. Till now, Nagpur division graduates' constituency was considered a stronghold of the BJP. Nagpur is the hometown of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Wanjari was a senate member of Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University for several years. His father late Govindrao Wanjari was a Congress MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mlc-polls-congress-wins-nagpur-graduates-constituency-923260.html
04-12-2020||West||Mumbai becomes part of C40 cities to tackle climate change||India’s financial capital, Mumbai has secured a place in the ‘C40 Cities’, on tackling climate change and driving urban action that reduces greenhouse gas emissions and climate risks, while increasing the health, wellbeing, and economic opportunities of urban citizens. In this regard, Maharashtra’s Environment, Tourism, and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray made the formal announcement on Friday and assured Mumbai’s commitment towards tackling climate change issues. “Happy to inform all the climate change action believers that I have received a confirmation mail on a unanimous vote to accept Mumbai as a ‘C40 Cities’  member city,” he said, adding that the government had applied to be a part of this group as we believe that our cities can lead the climate change initiative. The C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group is a group of 97 cities around the world that represents one-twelfth of the world's population and one-quarter of the global economy. Thackeray thanked Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti for chairing the steering committee and all the member cities for accepting this application. “We are committed to being a leader in climate change mitigation and adaptation action and will initiate the process for other cities in Maharashtra as well,” he said. Thackeray pointed out that cities across Maharashtra like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Thane have the capacity to lead climate change adaptation and mitigation measures in Maharashtra. He also thanked former Los Angeles Mayor Mike Bloomberg for seeding this idea through his initiatives to bring cities onboard for the environment While C40 originally targeted megacities for their greater capacity to address climate change, C40 now offers three types of membership categories to reflect the diversity of cities taking action to address climate change. The categories consider such characteristics as population size, economic output, environmental leadership, and the length of a city's membership – megacities, innovator cities, and observer cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-becomes-part-of-c40-cities-to-tackle-climate-change-923288.html
04-12-2020||West||Chargesheet filed against Chhota Rajan in Datta Samant murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against jailed underworld don Chhota Rajan in connection with the 1997 gunning down of veteran trade unionist Datta Samant in Mumbai. Samant (65) had led the Mumbai textile strike in 1982 that crippled the mills of Mumbai – leading to shutting down of several mills and left more than 1.5 lakh workers unemployed. The CBI filed the charge sheet in a special CBI court in Mumbai against Chhota Rajan accusing him of hatching the conspiracy to murder Samant. “Yes…charge sheet has been filed against Chhota Rajan in the Datta Samant murder case. The charge sheet runs into three volumes and a set of annexures,” Special Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat told DH on Friday. Samant was killed on January 16, 1997, outside his home in Powai and the gunmen had fired 17 rounds on his head, chest and stomach. The brutal murder of Samant, popularly known as 'Doctor-saab', but the underworld had shocked Mumbai – and the then Shiv Sena-BJP government led by Dr Manohar Joshi had come under sharp criticism over the law and order situation. BJP leader late Gopinath Munde was the Deputy Chief Minister and in-charge of the Home portfolio. Chhota Rajan was deported from Indonesia in 2015 and lodged in Tihar Jail in New Delhi. He was convicted in some cases including the gunning down of journalist J Dey, in which was given a life sentence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chargesheet-filed-against-chhota-rajan-in-datta-samant-murder-case-923306.html
04-12-2020||West||Avoid crowding at Chaityabhoomi on December 6: BMC urges people||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday appealed to people to not crowd Chaityabhoomi in Dadar to pay tributes to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar on his death anniversary on December 6 in view of the pandemic. BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal urged the people to pay homage to Dr Ambedkar from their homes as a precautionary measure against coronavirus and considering the possibility of the second wave of infection. "Social distancing, physical distancing, wearing masks, using sanitizers is the new norm. We have to avoid crowding at any cost because the threat is not yet over," Chahal said. Every year lakhs of followers of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar visit Chaityabhoomi from across the state on the occasion of Mahaparinirvan Din, he said. Flowers will be showered on Chaityabhoomi from a helicopter as a mark of respect to Dr Ambedkar on December 6, Chahal said. He also said that arrangements have been made for the live telecast of the programmes at Chaityabhoomi on Doordarshan, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. The civic body also appealed the people not to visit 'Global Pagoda' at Gorai in Western suburbs on December 6 as it will be kept shut for people between December 5 and 7. A large number of people visit the Pagoda, to pay homage to Dr Ambedkar on December 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/avoid-crowding-at-chaityabhoomi-on-december-6-bmc-urges-people-923311.html
04-12-2020||West||Malegaon blast case: Trial resumes post coronavirus disruption||The trial in the Malegaon blast case resumed on Friday with defence lawyers cross-examining the panch witness who had conducted the spot panchnama and identified two motorcycles and five bicycles recovered from there. He had recorded his testimony before the special court in July last year and his cross-examination was pending since then. Six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon, a north Maharashtra town 200 kilometres from Mumbai, on September 29, 2008. As per the police, one of the bikes found from the spot was registered in the name of accused BJP Bhopal MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who is out on bail currently. As the trial resumed on Friday, the witness was cross-examined by lawyers of Thakur and Ramesh Upadhayay. Around 140 of 400 witnesses have been examined in the case. The matter has been adjourned for further hearing to December 7. The trial was halted in March due to the coronavirus outbreak. Seven accused, including Thakur, are facing trial under relevant provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Indian Penal Code and Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malegaon-blast-case-trial-resumes-post-coronavirus-disruption-923327.html
04-12-2020||West||MLC poll results show picture in Maharashtra has changed: Sharad Pawar||The results of biennial polls to the Legislative Council show that the political situation in Maharashtra has changed, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said here on Friday. As of Friday afternoon, candidates of the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress `Maha Vikas Aghadi' (MVA) had won three out of five constituencies while in one place its candidate was leading. Pawar said the result of the byelection to Dhule- Nandurbar seat, where the BJP's Amrish Patel won, was expected. "He resigned (from the Congress) and contested. He had support from one big section which continued to support him in the election, so it can not be a real victory," Pawar said. But the result of the remaining constituencies where the MVA won was a reflection of the MVA government's performance, he said. "The picture has changed in the state," he added. Asked about state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil's statement that the outcome would have been different had the MVA constituents contested separately, Pawar said he was known for making comic statements. "We know how he won the (MLC) election last time," he said. Senior NCP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the victory of MVA candidates reflected the unity among its constituents and people's faith in the government. The BJP's monopoly in Nagpur and Pune was broken, he said, adding that the results were a tight slap for some "loquacious" leaders . Minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil said the poll outcome showed that besides farmers, workers and the middle class, highly-educated voters also supported the MVA government. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh thanked voters, saying they "bent the lofty necks" of rival parties. Deshmukh also said that the opposition party should now support the government for the state's development. "If it cannot do so, it should at least stop anti- Maharashtra activities #BJP," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mlc-poll-results-show-picture-in-maharashtra-has-changed-sharad-pawar-923350.html
04-12-2020||West||Government should find a solution to farmers' protest soon, says Dharmendra||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday urged the central government to find a solution to farmers' protests over the farm laws, a day after he deleted a similar post on Twitter. On Thursday, the 84-year-old actor had urged the government to resolve the protests soon, citing the growing number of coronavirus cases in Delhi. "I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers’ problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful," Dharmendra had written in a post. However, the veteran actor soon deleted the post, without any explanation. On Friday morning, a user posted the screenshot of the tweet, wondering what prompted the actor to delete the tweet. Dharmendra said, "I deleted the tweet because I felt saddened by comments like these. You can abuse me to your heart’s content, I am happy that you are happy. Yes, I am sad for my farmer brothers." The "Apne" actor further said, "The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us." When another user claimed that he must have deleted the post on the insistence of his son, actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol, Dharmendra replied, "I won't say anything about your mentality." Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.  The protesting farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana as well as Uttar Pradesh are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/government-should-find-a-solution-to-farmers-protest-soon-says-dharmendra-923369.html
04-12-2020||West||Only one new coronavirus case reported in Dharavi||The count of Covid-19 cases in the slum-dominated Dharavi area of Mumbai rose to 3,716 with only one new case coming to light on Friday, a civic official said. On Thursday, the area had reported 15 Covid-19 cases, a double-digit spike after a gap of 11 days. Out of 3,716 Covid-19 patients, 3,380 have recovered, while there are 25 active cases. The civic body does not disclose the casualties of the pandemic in the area. Spread over 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi is considered to be the largest slum in Asia with a population of over 6.5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/only-one-new-coronavirus-case-reported-in-dharavi-923375.html
04-12-2020||West||Price of Remdesivir injection fixed at Rs 2,360 in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Friday fixed the price of Remdesivir injection, used for treating critical Covid-19 cases, at Rs 2,360 apiece. The government has also put together a list of 59 pharmaceutical outlets where it can be purchased, covering all the major cities, towns, and districts, said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health and family welfare. "The injection is available free of cost in the state-run hospitals. But private hospitals are also treating Covid-19 patients," he said. "The price of a single dose of the injection is fixed at Rs 2,360," Dr Vyas added. The Food and Drugs Administration has issued an order accordingly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/price-of-remdesivir-injection-fixed-at-rs-2360-in-maharashtra-923397.html
04-12-2020||West||President Kovind to attend Goa Liberation Day event on December 19||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said President Ram Nath Kovind will be attending the 60th Goa Liberation Day function on December 19. Addressing a press conference after holding a meeting to plan year-long events to mark 60 years of liberation, Sawant said the President will attend the cultural programme on the day. The programme would be held in the evening, while a formal function of flag hoisting will take place in the morning, the chief minister said. The President will pay floral tributes to freedom fighters at Azad Maidan before attending the cultural programme at Campal Ground, located 2 km away, he said. Sawant was in New Delhi last week to invite the President for the Liberation Day function. The chief minister said an initial draft for the year-long events was drawn during the meeting held on Friday, while follow-up meetings will be held to finalise the programmes. During the entire year, stress would be given on making Goa "swayampoorna" (self-sufficient) and also on highlighting the uniqueness of the state, he said. Freedom fighters who took part in the Liberation movement would be felicitated during the year, he said, adding that people engaged in traditional occupations will also be felicitated in the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/president-kovind-to-attend-goa-liberation-day-event-on-december-19-923400.html
04-12-2020||West||Charge sheet filed against Arnab Goswami in 2018 suicide case||The police on Friday filed a charge sheet against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment of suicide case. The charge sheet was filed before a court in Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district, where the case for alleged abetment of suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud has been registered. Besides Goswami, the other two accused named in the charge sheet are Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda, said special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat. As many as 65 persons are named as witnesses, he added. Incidentally, Goswami had moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday seeking a stay to the filing of the charge sheet, but the petition is yet to be heard. Goswami, Sheikh and Sarda were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in the case, but they got bail from the Supreme Court on November 11. Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud committed suicide in 2018, allegedly because of non-payment of dues by firms of Goswami and other two accused. The case, closed for want of evidence in 2019, was reopened in May this year, with Goswami alleging that the Maharashtra government was pursuing a vendetta against him for his work as a TV journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/charge-sheet-filed-against-arnab-goswami-in-2018-suicide-case-923425.html
04-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Ruling MVA wins 4 of 5 Council seats, BJP loses in Nagpur||The one-year-old Shiv Sena-NCP- Congress government in Maharashtra got a shot in the arm on Friday as the ruling coalition won four of the five Legislative Council seats from the Graduates' and Teachers' quota. In a setback for the BJP, which lost power in the state after Assembly elections last year, its candidate also lost in Nagpur, a bastion of the saffron party. The biennial elections to the upper house, held on December 1, were a sort of litmus test for the unlikely `Maha Vikas Aghadi' (MVA) of the Shiv Sena and Congress-NCP which came to power after the Sena parted ways with the BJP. The term of five sitting members had ended in July this year but the election was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The NCP's Satish Chavan defeated the BJP's Shirish Boralkar to win the Aurangabad Division Graduates' constituency. In Nagpur Division Graduates' seat, the Congress's Abhijit Wanjari trounced the BJP's Sandeep Joshi. In the past, this seat had been held by BJP stalwart and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. In Pune Division Graduates' seat, the NCP's Arun Lad defeated Sangram Deshmukh of the BJP. In Pune Division Teachers' constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar of the Congress trounced sitting MLC and Independent Dattatraya Sawant. In Amravati Division Teachers' constituency, Kiran Sarnaik (Independent) defeated sitting MLC and independent Shrikant Deshpande who contested onthe Shiv Sena ticket. Reacting to the results, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said, "The results are a clear reflection of the MVA's work in the last one year." The MVA government led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray assumed office on November 28 last year. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said his party failed to gauge the combined strength of the MVA. Another BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, "We will introspect over the setbacks that the party received in these polls. I think we were caught unawares in this election." The Maharashtra Legislative Council has total 78 seats, of which 12 are filled from the Governor's quota and are currently vacant. The MVA has submitted a list of 12 names to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The only solace for the BJP was that its candidate Amrish Patel won the by-election to Dhule Nandurbar Local Bodies constituency. Patel had resigned after quitting the Congress and joining the BJP, necessitating the by-election. In the upper house, the BJP at present has 22 members, Shiv Sena 14, NCP nine, Congress eight, RSP, PWP and Lok Bharati party one each, and four are independent legislators. There were 18 vacancies 12 from governor's quota, five from teachers' and graduates' quota and one from local bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ruling-mva-wins-4-of-5-council-seats-bjp-loses-in-nagpur-923426.html
04-12-2020||West||5,229 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 127 deaths||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally on Friday rose to 18,42,587 as it recorded 5,229 new cases of infection, a health official said. With 127 new fatalities, death toll reached 47,599, he said. A total of 6,776 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recovered people to 17,10,050. The number of active cases is 83,859. Mumbai city reported 813 new cases during the day, which pushed its case count to 2,84,509, while the death toll in the state capital rose to 10,945 with 14 new deaths. The state has so far conducted 1,11,32,231 tests. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 18,42,587, new cases: 5,229, death toll: 47,599, discharged: 17,10,050, active cases: 83,859, people tested so far:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5229-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-127-deaths-923459.html
04-12-2020||West||Goa mining can restart within six months, says CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the beleaguered mining industry in the state may restart in six months. This comes a day after top ore-exporters from Goa along with Sawant and the state government's mines department officials met Union minister Prahlad Joshi in the national capital. Sawant said that bureaucrats from the Goa government's Mines and Geology department and central mines ministry are daily corresponding to find a resolution to the crisis in the industry in Goa. "Taking into account all related factors, I can say that Goa's mines would be in a position to resume operations within six months," Sawant told reporters here. He also said that "quick resumption" of the mining sector in Goa was a priority for the state and central governments. The announcement comes at a time when the state is heading for polls to two Zilla panchayats and 11 municipal councils. Similar announcements have been made on the eve of 2017 state Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls by successive governments. On Thursday, Sawant had led a team of top bureaucrats as well as representatives of the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association to meet Joshi in order to seek a solution to the mines sector issues. "We had a meeting of stakeholders in a bid to restart mining in Goa. Our clear-cut intent is to start mining. Prahlad Joshi also told us that the central government would also aid Goa in restarting the sector. Whether mining is restarted by way of auctioning or not, is also being examined," Sawant said. The mining issue has been hanging fire in Goa ever since the apex court in 2018, citing irregularities in the processes adopted by the state government to renew 88 mining leases, scrapped the leases rendering them invalid. As a result of the order, all fresh ore extraction activity has stopped, bringing the industry to a standstill— the second time in less than a decade. Mining was banned the first time in 2012 after a judicial commission exposed a Rs 35,000-crore illegal mining scam, indicting top mining companies as well as politicians and bureaucrats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-mining-can-restart-within-six-months-says-cm-pramod-sawant-923534.html
04-12-2020||West||In-person hearings to continue on experimental basis: Bombay High Court||Physical hearings which resumed in courts in Maharashtra this week have been going on smoothly and would continue till January on an experimental basis, the Bombay High Court said on Friday. A `notice' or statement issued by the high court's Registrar General S G Dige said Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and other senior judges considered the demand by several lawyers' bodies that virtual hearings should continue in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. But the judges thought that the resumption of in-person hearings was going well, the statement said. "At an informal gathering held on December 4, the judges were of the view that the experiment to open up more courts for physical hearing while maintaining the prescribed Covid norms.... has not shown any adverse results," the statement said. "On the contrary, physical hearings have been smooth and seamless, and beneficial not only for the Judges but also for the members of the Bar. Also, loss of precious judicial hours, at times, while hearings were conducted through virtual mode due to lack of proper connectivity has been obviated," it added. The judges unanimously favoured continuation of physical hearings till January 8 on an experimental basis, the registrar general said. On December 3, Chief Justice Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni went around all courtrooms in the HC and did not find any overcrowding as alleged by some lawyers' organisations, Dige noted. In-person hearings at high court as well as subordinate courts in Maharashtra were suspended after the outbreak of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-person-hearings-to-continue-on-experimental-basis-bombay-high-court-923540.html
