22-12-2020||First Edit||An indictment of government||The verdict of a metropolitan magistrate in Delhi acquitting 36 foreigners of the charge of violating health protocols by participating in a religious congregation held by the Tablighi Jamaat in March again exposes the most unsavoury side of the criminal investigation system in the country, especially when it is prompted by politics. They faced the specific charge of contravening Covid-19 protocols and aiding the spread of the disease by attending the congregation. But the court said that the CBI, which investigated the case, and the prosecution have failed to prove that they were present at the event. More disturbingly, the court also raised the possibility that they may have been picked up by the police with the intention of implicating them in the case. The court clearly said: “None of them were present at the markaz in the relevant period and they had been picked up from different places so as to maliciously prosecute them upon directions from the Ministry of Home Affairs”. The court’s judgement and its observations are an indictment of not only the investigators and the prosecution but also the government. The facts and proceedings and the outcome of the case show how wrongly the State and its agencies can act, driven by prejudice, and frame people in cases. About 900 foreigners who had come to attend the congregation had pleaded guilty as part of a “plea bargain’’ as they did not want to stand trial in the country. Among 44 others who decided to face the cases against them, eight were acquitted by a Delhi court in August as there was no evidence against them. The other 36 have now been found not only to be innocent but also grievously wronged as they were implicated maliciously and deliberately in cooked up cases. In August, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court had also dismissed the charges against 29 Tablighis and observed that they had been unfairly targeted. It had also noted that the government and the investigators had acted with bias.  The treatment of the Tablighis by the government and sections of society, including the media, is a shameful chapter in our recent history. They were maligned and vilified as “super spreaders’’ of Covid-19 and accused of conspiring to spread the infection. The congregation took place on March 13-15, many days before the lockdown was announced in the country. The participants who came from countries which had a Covid-19 burden could have been screened. While the government failed in this, a campaign was later unleashed against them, and Indian Muslims smeared with the same brush. They were called terrorists and human bombs. Justice has finally prevailed but, unfortunately, the damage will linger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/an-indictment-of-government-930447.html
22-12-2020||In Perspective||Joe Biden’s domestic challenge||Now that the American Electoral College has confirmed Joe Biden as President-elect, he confronts a secession-like domestic crisis. Unlike the one faced by Abraham Lincoln during 1860-61, this one will not lead to a civil war, but Biden must address it by uniting the majority of Americans committed to the reality of his election victory. Lincoln’s crisis featured the secession of seven states. South Carolina was the first, followed by Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Texas. They all feared that Lincoln would dismantle the slave economy, and the newspapers, operating at speed due to the recent innovation of the telegraph, helped to fuel the alternative reality. Biden’s crisis is not primarily about the states in the US union but about states of the mind. About two-thirds of Americans believe that Biden won the election, but the other one-third does not. About 36% of all voters -- which is 77% of the 47% that voted for Trump -- believe that Biden’s victory was due to fraud. Those people are angry and bewildered at the idea that Biden could win and choose to believe that the election was rigged. The failed appeal to the US Supreme Court, supported by as many as 19 state attorneys and 126 members of Congress, is a vivid manifestation of the United States as a deeply divided nation. The lawsuit repudiated the actions of various Republican officials in those states that certified the election results, and the Republican-appointed judiciary which rejected the election-rigging charges for lack of evidence. Both reliably Republican media outlets Fox News and the Wall Street Journal have warned that overturning the choices of millions of voters may forever undermine the American democratic process. Biden’s adversaries are not necessarily bigots or racists and as a group they are not yet violent, though threats of violence against election officials are rising.  Donald Trump’s ideological followers reject more institutions than just the election management procedures. Their hostility is directed against the courts, media, academia and science, and they are starting to create a new imagined nation by referencing media platforms like Newsmax, One America News, Epoch Times, and Parler to stimulate a parallel polity and society. How should Biden react? Lincoln tried to unite a disparate collection of states and peoples by pleading for peace and reconciliation, arguing that Americans must be friends, not enemies. Biden does the same and has said repeatedly that he would be a president for all Americans, “not just for the ones who voted for me.”  His first priority must be to solidly unite the two-thirds of the nation who accept the reality of his election. More than 51% of voters, or about 81 million Americans, chose Biden. Another roughly 20 million did not vote for Biden but accept that he won. Consolidating those 100 million voters should be Biden’s first order of business. His base is made up of centre-left voters, and his challenge is going to be how to maintain the loyalty and patriotism of both centrist Democrats and centrist Republicans who accept his victory but fear the ‘socialism’ of the Democratic left.  Each of the nation’s present crises offer opportunities for uniting Biden’s disparate groups of supporters. The coronavirus pandemic is most obvious because three quarters of the population support common-sense actions to counter the further spread of Covid-19, to treat the ill and to vaccinate the healthy. Economic revitalisation is another necessity. While Democratic socialists and centrist Republicans have different economic priorities, there is strong political support for the $900 billion emergency package that has been passed, and perhaps for a second one later to focus on infrastructure investments and to support industries that will take time to recover, such as airlines, hotels, restaurants, tourism, and services in general. Biden emphasised racial justice and climate change during his campaign, which are higher priorities for his core support than they are for Republicans, but he could find allies across the aisle dedicated to ending discrimination, lowering emissions and producing clean energy. Biden has a reputation of believing in bipartisanship and has applauded officials of all parties who courageously secured fair elections in ‘battleground’ states like Georgia, Arizona, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Republican election officials may not appreciate a new Democratic president’s endorsement, but Biden must at least be receptive to their concerns.  One-third of the United States rejects the election results that brought Biden to power. President-elect Biden cannot endorse their sense of deprivation, but if they want to meaningfully participate in further strengthening the election systems, his administration should engage with them. If they want equally to address bias in the media, universities, and other institutions, Biden should be open to such discussions. All that said, Biden’s willingness to review and reform the American polity must be linked to acceptance of the reality that has already been acknowledged and recognised by the other two-thirds of the nation that support his incoming presidency. (The writer is a former foreign secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/joe-biden-s-domestic-challenge-930445.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Doctors perform limb salvage surgery on a 4-year-old boy||Yenepoya Oncosurgical team performed complex limb salvage surgery on a four-year-old boy with femoral osteosarcoma. The surgery was performed by the Department of Surgical Oncology, Yenepoya Cancer Centre, Yenepoya Medical College, Deralakatte, to save the leg of the boy. Dr M Vijayakumar of the department said that he was suffering from high-grade rare bone cancer (osteosarcoma of the femur).  The child's parents had consulted major cancer centres and specialist hospitals across India and were advised that the amputation of the limb was the only option. Then, they approached Dr Jalaluddin Akbar K C, head of the department, Yenepoya Cancer Center, Deralakatte, for advice. This case was discussed in the hospital tumour board and was taken up as a challenge to save the leg of the boy as parents his refused amputation he said. Dr Akbar and Dr Vijayakumar, along with the Department of Surgical Oncology, designed a special expandable prosthesis for the child and approached two companies to custom manufacture it. A German company quoted Rs 30 lakh and a Chennai company was willing to do at Rs 1.5 lakh. Accordingly, the prosthesis was manufactured in Chennai. The child underwent a complex surgery for a period of six hours and both the leg and life of the child was saved. The post-operative period was uneventful. The challenge, in this case, was that no centre in India had done such surgery in this age group and very few cases are reported across the world as per literature review. The problem in performing limb saving surgery on such a young child is managing the growing bone and maintaining equal limb length on both sides, and unavailability of a prosthesis to do that. Hence, a custom-made expanding prosthesis was designed, said Dr Akbar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/doctors-perform-limb-salvage-surgery-on-a-4-year-old-boy-930161.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Residents campaign, bear expenses of candidates in Mangaluru||At a time when gram panchayat seats are auctioned, residents of wards have become a model for others by spending money for the election expenses of candidates at Panja village in Sullia taluk. The residents also campaign for the candidates as they (candidates) are neither backed by political parties nor do they identify themselves with any political party. The village goes to polls in the second phase on December 27. The five candidates in the village visit each house in their ward seeking votes along with the citizens of the ward. “Even if they lose, they will work for the development of the village and fulfil the promises made in the manifesto,” Purushotham, who has a guiding force for the candidates to make Mahatma Gandhi’s gram swaraj concept a reality at the ground level. Purushotham was earlier associated with the literacy movement in the district as well.  Jinnappa Gowda is contesting from the first ward of Aivathoklu, Lakshman Pallodi from the second ward, Venugopal and Vinod from the third ward of Aivathoklu and Appi, hailing from aboriginal tribe community, is contesting from the second ward of Koothkunja.  All these contestants are associated with the literacy movement and want to bring in changes in the system. Purushottam said, “The village development should be taken up without any politics. Accordingly, we have fielded five candidates as people’s candidate. Even if they lose, they will continue to serve the people. We are not contesting for only winning the election.” They have plans to strengthen the gram sabhas and ward sabhas along with working towards the litigation-free village. “We also decided not to field the same candidate after five years. New faces should come and work towards development,” he said. The manifesto of these candidates gives priority to basic facilities. They also want to set up of a post office, construct a nutritious garden (paushtika vana) and well in every house. Besides, they want to construct toilets in all households. Candidate Jinnappa Gowda said, “We want to ensure that 100 days of employment is guaranteed under MGNREGS to those who are in need of it. Further, there is a need to work towards cleanliness in the village. In the panchayat raj system, it is the people who are kings and elected representatives are sevaks.”  Here, they have a unique Panchatantra system, wherein there are five volunteers at the booth, ward and panchayat levels. Those, who are at the panchayat level, guide others. Banners and flexes have not been used for campaigning. Instead, the candidates, along with the residents, visit the households, understand the residents’ problem, make a note of it and later they work to solve it with the new gram panchayat - irrespective of their victory or defeat in the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residents-campaign-bear-expenses-of-candidates-in-mangaluru-930163.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Gram Panchaya polls: Official found with loaded revolver at polling station in Belagavi||An official was found to be in possession of a loaded revolver at a polling station at Desur village in Belagavi taluk during the first phase of Gram Panchayat polling on Tuesday. Other staff who noticed the polling official with revolver informed the police who subjected him for inquiry. Polling official has been reportedly identified as Suleman Sanadi. The revolver in his possession was fully loaded and the police asked him to empty the rounds. More details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-gram-panchaya-polls-official-found-with-loaded-revolver-at-polling-station-in-belagavi-930170.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Voting for GP polls begins in Kalyana Karnataka||Voting for the first phase of Gram Panchayat polls began on Tuesday in Kalyana Karnataka. Voting is going on peacefully. The district administration and police have kept an eye on sensitive polling stations. Polling has begun in some taluks of Kalaburagi, Bidar, Raichur,  Yadgir, Koppal and Ballari districts. Voting after 26 years Voting for Kallahalli Gram Panchayat in Hosapete taluk is being held after a gap of 26 years. Election to this GP could not be conducted as members were electing unopposed.  Cop suffers a heart attack A police constable on election duty at polling station-3 at Kaddirampur village under Hampi Gram Panchayat suffered a heart attack. Constable Tavarenaik has been admitted to local government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/voting-for-gp-polls-begins-in-kalyana-karnataka-930176.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Polling in 106 Gram Panchayats in Dakshina Kannada begins||The gram panchayat elections in 106 GPs in Mangaluru, Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks of Dakshina Kannada (DK) commenced on Tuesday morning.   The polling began at a slow pace from 7 am and is likely to pick up the pace by noon. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik exercised his franchise at the Thenka Edapadavu Government Primary School in Mangaluru taluk. While former minister B Ramanath Rai cast his vote at Thodambila School in Kallige Gram Panchayat of Bantwal after offering special puja at Venkatramana Temple in Bantwal. There are 3854 candidates contesting for 1631 seats in 106 gram panchayats in Mangaluru, Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks. The Asha workers were seen checking the body temperature of the voters using thermal scanners at the polling booths.    DK registered an average of 14.48% polling by 9 am. Mangaluru registered 14.6% polling, Moodbidri-15.64% polling and Bantwal 13.7% polling. There are 817 polling booths with 322 in Mangaluru taluk, 99 in Moodbidri and 396 in Bantwal taluks. Out of 322 polling booths in Mangaluru, 119 are sensitive, 47 hypersensitive and 156 are general booths. In Moodbidri, there are 42 sensitive, 21 hypersensitive and 36 general polling booths while in Bantwal has 86 sensitive, 46 hypersensitive and 264 general polling booths. Udupi While in Udupi a total of 2349 candidates are in the fray for 1047 seats in the first phase of gram panchayat elections in 67-gram panchayats in Udupi, Hebri, Baindoor and Brahmavara taluks. No nominations were filed for 12 seats in Kodi Kanyana Gram Panchayat in Brahmavar. Minister for Fisheries and Muzrai exercised his franchise at a polling booth in Kotathattu in Udupi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/polling-in-106-gram-panchayats-in-dakshina-kannada-begins-930180.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Peaceful polling takes place in Karnataka districts||The voting for the first phase of elections for the Gram Panchayats was overall peaceful in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Tuesday.  Thermal scanning was done for the voters at almost all the polling booths as a precautionary measure. Police security was deployed to prevent any untoward incidents.  Till 12 noon, Hassan recorded 27%, Mandya 30% and Chamarajanagar 25% polling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/peaceful-polling-takes-place-in-karnataka-districts-930243.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid vaccination: Survey key to identifying vulnerable||The door-to-door survey done by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) that the Karnataka government began months into the pandemic, can offer a crucial database required for Covid vaccination of senior citizens and those with co-morbidities -  the second and third group of people the government wants to immunise after healthcare workers and Covid frontline workers. The non-communicable diseases (NCD) wing of the state health department has only data of those people who come to its NCD clinics or those who get diagnosed in population-based screening. A total of 3,56,316 people have been diagnosed with diabetes from 2017 to October this year at the NCD clinics in the state. Another 25,967 diabetics were identified in its population-based screening from 2017 to October this year. But the data is not exhaustive. Granular door-to-door data will come in handy for identifying priority groups for mass inoculation. For example, according to data submitted to the chief secretary for review, as on December 4, out of the 2,11,096 households surveyed in Bengaluru Rural, 92,902 households has senior citizens. Out of these, 26,476 households have an elderly person with high BP, diabetes and cardiac problems. According to the containment zone survey, as many as 7,413 households’ survey has been completed out of which 1,602 households have senior citizens. Out of these, 597 have an elderly person with high BP, diabetes and cardiac problems. Virologist Dr Shahid Jameel told DH, “It will be challenging to identify these priority groups, but not impossible. If I think I have a comorbidity that puts me at increased risk, I could register myself for getting the vaccine. But the onus of providing the proof that I have that comorbidity lies on me. It would have been really beneficial if the country had an electronic medical record system. Unfortunately, we don’t have that, at least not fully.” Vaccine scientist and microbiologist Dr Gagandeep Kang told DH getting straightforward age records for the elderly might be a challenge while identifying priority groups. “People in the country don’t have a birth certificate or accurate age information. Fraud and forgery are all concerns there.” “A black market of medical certificates can emerge that this person has diabetes or hypertension. The government needs to clearly spell out that this will be the approach and strong measures need to be put in place demonstrating how the logistics of giving the vaccine to different priority groups is going to be arranged.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-vaccination-survey-key-to-identifying-vulnerable-930296.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||56 passengers who arrived from UK to Mangaluru to be tested for Covid-19||With the new strain of coronavirus being reported in UK, the swabs of all 56 passengers from UK who arrived in Dakshina Kannada recently will be collected on Wednesday morning. All the 56 passengers are in contact with the district health and family welfare department. Though there are no direct flights from Britain to Mangaluru. All the 56 had arrived at Bengaluru and had travelled from Bengaluru to reach Mangaluru. On December 21, 15 had arrived in Mangaluru, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Ramachandra Bayari. All those who had arrived from Britain had conducted RT-PCR test at Britain and come with Covid negative report. They were asked to remain in quarantine for 14 days while boarding the flight at the airport in the UK. All are quarantined at home, DHO added. Three teams were assigned with the task of collecting the swabs of 56 passengers. "The report will reach by evening. In case if they test positive, they will be admitted to hospital for treatment. If they test positive, their samples will be sent to NIMHANS for further test," the DHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/56-passengers-who-arrived-from-uk-to-mangaluru-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-930389.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Seven people return to Kalabruagi from Britain||A total of seven people have returned to Kalaburagi from Britain in four batches from December 6. District Health Officer Dr Rajashekhar Maali told DH that of seven, two went to Bidar and five including a student and a job-holder are staying in Kalaburagi. "We have informed Bidar officials about the duo. All are asymptomatic and are in quarantine," he said. "The returnees had undergone Covid-19 test at Britain before departure. They arrived in four batches on December 6, 10, 16 and 18. We will subject them to Covid testing in the district on Wednesday. The district administration has kept a strict vigilance on them," he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-people-return-to-kalabruagi-from-britain-930417.html
22-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka farmers in distress due to draconian anti-cattle slaughter law: Gundu Rao||"Karnataka's new anti-cattle slaughter law is so draconian, that farmers do not even want to possess cattle anymore and they are too bankrupt to feed them once they age and cannot be put to plough," former Karnataka Congress president and AICC official in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters in Panaji, Rao also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of being hypocritical over the issue of beef, pointing out to contrasting positions taken by the party in Karnataka and Goa, two neighbouring states. "So what will the farmer do with that? If you keep it, then you have to take care of it. To take care of it, the farmer needs money, he needs fodder. So the government should have given some money to the farmers in Karnataka, they have not done," the All India Congress Committee official also said. Rao also said that if the BJP really believes in preventing cattle slaughter, it should enact one law across the country and ban the export of beef.   "Why ban beef in Karnataka, why ban it in Uttar Pradesh, why ban it in Madhya Pradesh and allow it in other state. Why should Goa CM say I want to get more beef (for his people)? Isn't he a BJP Chief Minister,"(sic) Rao said. "Modi should have one policy then. Let them ban export of beef. UP, where Yogi Adityanath is CM, is the biggest exporter of beef in the country. How is that happening? It is all hypocrisy, it is very unfortunate," Rao also said. Beef is a regularly consumed in Goa and is served in restaurants in the coastal fringes of the state, which are frequented by nearly eight million tourists every year. More than 25 tons of beef is consumed in Goa every day, most of which has been imported from Karnataka's Belagavi district. The state's only legal facility for animal slaughter, the Goa Meat Complex has been virtually non-functional for the last several months. The non-availability of beef, especially ahead of Christmas and the festive season when demand for the red meat peaks, has created anxiety among Goa's Christians who account for around 26 per cent of the state's population. Along with Muslims, the minority communities account for more than 30 per cent of Goa's population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-farmers-in-distress-due-to-draconian-anti-cattle-slaughter-law-gundu-rao-930373.html
22-12-2020||Main Article||On Delhi's doorstep: A spirited protest||The farmers’ agitation is in full swing over the issue of the three farm laws enacted by the central government. Farmers, coming in on their tractor-trolleys from all over Punjab, have taken the fight to Delhi and have lodged themselves at Kundli-Singhu and Tikri borders. The dharna (sit-in protest) has been on for over three weeks now. People from different walks of life are visiting the protest site to show solidarity with the farmers. Many groups of lawyers from Punjab and Haryana are also visiting the site. A good number of lawyers belong to the farming community. I also got a chance to visit the Kundli border last week with one such group of lawyers. As you walk down the site, you see unending rows of tractor-trolleys. Many of these trolleys have been modified and covered with plastic tarpaulins. Crop stubble (paraali), which has attained much notoriety in recent times, is spread in layers on the floor of the trolleys and covered with a bedsheet, and a comfortable bed is ready for the farmer; you see milk being boiled in huge karaahs, there’s langar service going on somewhere, tea being prepared in large quantities elsewhere, and kinnow and sugarcane are being juiced on trolleys in another corner.  Everything is available to everybody to partake of, be they protesting farmers, visitors, residents of surrounding areas or even beggars and ragpickers.  You see people coming in with their contributions of truckloads of vegetables, rice, flour, water bottles, blankets, etc. Punjabi songs expressing resentment against the Centre and the farm laws rent the air; books on Sikhism and Sikhs’ valiant past are being distributed free; then you see the rows and rows of washing machines; and the free medical camps with volunteer doctors and free medicine stalls. No sir, you are not at a meticulously planned Kumbh Mela, but at a protest site. There are men of all age groups here, and a large contingent of women have accompanied them. Farmers from Haryana are also making their presence felt. The atmosphere is not tense or sombre, but full of enthusiasm and positivity. The air is charged with the anti-farm law sentiment. The farmers feel that these laws will sound the death knell for the relatively well-off farmers of Punjab and Haryana in particular. As you talk to them, they express their concerns and explain to you that no farmers’ body ever demanded these legislations. You move on to another group, and they ask: Have you noticed how Reliance Jio killed the competition in telecom? The same thing will happen in agriculture, too, within the next few years, they say. A few large corporates will start to call the shots. But these are the issues that are being discussed in the media, too.  Let’s take a different view and approach the protest site with an open mind and without entering into the question as to who is right and who is wrong about the farm laws. Let us only see it from the point of view that the government has enacted some laws with which a segment of citizens are dissatisfied and they decided to lodge a protest. The farmers are sitting at the doorstep of Delhi and pressing for their demands in a peaceful manner. Peaceful and unarmed protest is the right of all who live in a democracy and our Constitution enshrines this as a fundamental right under Article 19. The protesters are confident that they can bring the government around to their point of view, and say they will sit stay put there until then.    The protest has taken its toll already. Though no exact count is available, at least 25 of them have died since November 26, either at the protest site or on the way to it or while coming back from Delhi. But that has not dampened the spirit of the protesting farmers. They are standing their ground. To counter the biased narrative that is especially emanating from the television news channels, the protesting farmers have started publishing ‘Trolley Times’, their own bi-weekly newsletter which has photographs, poems, news reports and opinion pieces written by leaders of farmers’ unions. To take on the smear campaigns being run against them on social media by vested interests, Punjabi youth have volunteered and have created social media pages and handles -- Kisan Ekta Morcha -- across Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat and YouTube, reaching out to millions within days. The protesting farmers have refused to take anything lying down. This is a protest the likes of which we have not seen before. The manner and scale of the protest, to which we all are witness, is unprecedented in many ways and yet still strictly in line with democratic values even as the protesters and the government test each other’s nerves. If there was anything undemocratic about the protests, it came from the government’s side: the national highway was dug up to prevent the protesters from marching into Delhi. The protesters are alive to the uphill task they face. Nobody knows what the final outcome of it will be. But the takeaway from the site is that when citizens unite around a cause, they have the power to shake the throne. They may win or lose, but what is important is the hope and faith in democracy. That hope and faith must sustain democracy. We returned from the site full of respect for the indomitable spirit of farmers in general, and of the Sikhs in particular, who have been there since the last three weeks -- away from their homes, braving the freezing winter nights, cold waves and the occasional showers. In the peaceful protest by the gritty farmers, one actually sees many abstract ideas of democracy in action. This protest will be remembered for a long time. (The writer is an advocate practicing in the Punjab & Haryana High Court)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/on-delhis-doorstep-a-spirited-protest-930446.html
22-12-2020||National||Hyderabad man 'shot at' in US, his family claims||A 43-year-old man from Hyderabad was fired upon and injured in Chicago in the United States, his family members said here on Monday. Mohammed Mujeebuddin suffered bullet injuries in the early hours of Monday and has been admitted to a hospital in a very critical condition, his wife said in a letter to Telangana IT Minister K T Rama Rao. Mujeebuddin's wife, children and his mother reside here. She said Mujeebuddin's roommate in the US informed her about the incident. "My entire family is in a state of shock and there is no one to look after my husband. It is requested to ask the Indian Embassy and the Indian Consulate in the US to reach out to him and provide medical aid," Mujeebuddin's wife said in the letter. She also requested the minister to ask the US Consulate in Hyderabad to grant the family members emergency visa to travel to the US. City-based Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) leader Amjed Ullah Khan, in a tweet, requested External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to ask the Indian Embassy in the US to reach out to Mujeebuddin. Based on information he received from Mujeebuddin's roommates from the US, the MBT leader said, two people waylaid Mujeebuddin when he was driving and forced him to get out of the vehicle at gunpoint. Later the duo robbed Mujeebuddin of his money and fired upon him and fled in the car, Khan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-man-shot-at-in-us-his-family-claims-930121.html
22-12-2020||National||DH Toon | CAA: 'It's mutating and going out of control'||Slamming West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the recent attack on BJP chief J P Nadda's convoy, Union Home Minister Shah on Sunday asserted the Centre has the right to summon state IPS officers responsible for providing him security for central deputation, and asked the TMC to go through the rules before pointing fingers at the union government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-caa-its-mutating-and-going-out-of-control-930124.html
22-12-2020||National||The Lead: A note on sanitation||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Programme Director-Water Programme Centre for Science and Environment Dr Suresh Kumar Rohilla shares insights about the sewage treatment of water.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. Ever wondered what happens to the waste that you generate and how it affects the environment? It's a question to ponder over. In today's episode, we are joined by Programme Director-Water Programme Centre for Science and Environment Dr Suresh Kumar Rohilla, who will tell u all about sewage treatment and more. listen in. Hi, Dr Rohilla and welcome to DH Radio. Dr Suresh Kumar Rohilla: Hello. Ahmed: It's our great pleasure to have you on our show.My first question to you is: For a layman, can you explain how human waste contaminates and what are the harmful constituents? The diseases they cause and how it affects the environment, given the fact about our diet and mixing of human waste with industrial. Can you give us an overview of that? Dr Rohilla: Human waste contains pathogens and microbes which are not good for good health. And some of these are reflected in the indicators which the pollution monitoring agencies measure in the form of Biological Oxygen Demand in the rivers... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-a-note-on-sanitation-930125.html
22-12-2020||National||Donald Trump confers Legion of Merit on PM Modi for stepping up India-US partnership to meet 'shared challenges'||Less than a month before his imminent exit from the White House, President Donald Trump has conferred an award to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recognising his role in enhancing defence partnership between India and the United States to meet “shared challenges”. The “Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander”, which Trump conferred on Modi, is a “rarely-awarded prestigious decoration” the United States Presidents bestow upon foreign heads of states or heads of governments. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, New Delhi’s envoy to Washington DC, accepted the award on behalf of the Prime Minister from US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien early on Tuesday. Modi stated in a tweet that he was “deeply honoured” to be awarded the Legion of Merit by Trump. With Joe Biden set to take over the Oval Office on January 20 next year, the Prime Minister referred to the support from both Republicans and Democrats in the US for the strategic partnership with India. He also noted the cross-party support in India for strong ties with the US. “The 21st century presents both unprecedented challenges as well as opportunities. The India-US relationship can leverage the vast potential of our people's unique strengths to provide global leadership for the benefit of entire humanity,” Modi posted in Twitter, reiterating his government’s “firm conviction and commitment to continue working with the US government, and all other stakeholders in both countries, for further strengthening India-US ties”. The citation that the Trump Administration presented to the Prime Minister along with the award referred to India as “a key partner” for the US in the Indo-Pacific. It did not directly refer to growing strategic convergence between India and the US in the Indo-Pacific region to counter hegemonic moves by China. It, however, mentioned about “increasing collaboration” between the two nations “to ensure freedom of the seas, open and transparent investment and infrastructure development, secure and reliable digital networks, and good governance” – the euphemism used to oppose China’s aggression in the South China Sea and the East China Sea as well as the predatory lending policies it was accused of using in its controversial Belt and Road Initiative to put smaller nations in its debt trap and its alleged use of state-owned telecom companies for espionage in other countries. The US Legion of Merit award has four variants – Degree of Chief Commander, Degree of Commander, Degree of Officer and Degree of Legionnaire. The Degree of Chief Commander is generally reserved for the foreign Heads of States and Heads of Governments. The US had conferred the award on the then Turkish President Kenan Evren in 1988. After a three-decade-long hiatus, Trump revived the tradition of honouring foreign leaders with the award by conferring it on Emir of Kuwait Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah on September 18 this year. Along with Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe also received the US award on Tuesday. India, Japan, Australia and the US in November 2017 re-launched the ‘Quad’ – an informal coalition of the four democracies to counter China’s expansionist aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. 2020 saw renewed push by the four nations to step up mutual cooperation, amid growing belligerence of China, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. The navies of the four nations had a naval exercise – Malabar 2020 – in the Indian Ocean. India also inked military logistics sharing pacts with Japan and Australia, following up on a similar agreement it had inked with the US in 2016. Though the Trump Administration was keen to formally turn the Quad into a NATO-like entity for the Indo-Pacific region, New Delhi was in favour of moving cautiously as it was hesitant to join a security architecture that would appear to be overtly adversarial to China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donald-trump-confers-legion-of-merit-on-pm-modi-for-stepping-up-india-us-partnership-to-meet-shared-challenges-930138.html
22-12-2020||National||Security agencies can now utilise government's database to check employees' past||Private security agencies can check the character and antecedents of guards it intends to employ using the government's electronic databases through police, according to new rules by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Similarly, the authorities could also check the antecedents of those applying to start private security agencies through the databases -- Criminal Tracking Networks and Systems (CCTNS) and Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) -- to find out whether they faced criminal cases or had court cases. The MHA last Friday notified the Private Security Agencies Central Model Rules, 2020 that supersedes those made in 2006 for enacting the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005, which also stipulate that the security agencies should provide details of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in their companies while applying for a licence or its renewal. Officials said that there was not much change from the previous rules but the latest edition has brought in more clarity on certain aspects as well as allowing the authorities to utilise the official electronic databases among other things. The new rules also have made it clear that guards, as well as applicants along with all partners intending to start security agencies, will have to provide their Aadhaar numbers. While renewing the licence also, all the partners will have to provide their Aadhaar numbers. According to the new rules, the validity of a renewed licence will be five years. Earlier, it was three years. Those applying for a licence for starting a security agency will have to undergo training for a minimum of six days on a variety of aspects like VIP security, internal security, institutional Security, fire-fighting, checking of various documents and access control among others. A security guard should undergo 100 hours of classroom instruction and 60 hours of field training, spread over at least 20 working days, on various aspects, including conduct in public, the correct wearing of uniform, examining identification papers, first-aid and use of security equipment and a rudimentary knowledge of Indian Penal Code. The guards should be able to read and understand English alphabets and Arabic numerals as normally encountered in the identification documents, arms licence, travel documents and security inspection sheet, the rules said. The rules have reiterated that the security agencies will ensure that every guard undergoes a medical examination after every 12 months from his last such examination so as to ensure his continued maintenance of physical standard as prescribed for the entry-level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-agencies-can-now-utilise-governments-database-to-check-employees-past-930167.html
22-12-2020||National||Politician fakes UP CM's signature for poll ticket, handwriting lands him in trouble||Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi received a letter from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath recommending that Shivaji Yadav be chosen as one of the BJP candidates in the bypolls to the state Assembly. The only problem was that Adityanath never wrote such a letter and an investigation has now claimed that the aspirant himself wrote it after his "close friend", whose cover he used for the suspected forgery, identified Yadav's handwriting on the envelope. The CBI has last week registered a case against Yadav on charges of impersonation, cheating and forgery following an investigation of more than one year. Eleven seats had fallen vacant in UP Assembly after MLAs won Lok Sabha elections. Bypolls were scheduled for October last year while jockeying for seats had started much before the bypoll schedule was announced. It all started with the Prime Minister's Office cross-checking with Adityanath whether he wrote a letter dated June 10, 2019, to recommend the name of Yadav for a ticket in the bypoll. The letter had reached the PMO almost a fortnight after the Lok Sabha results were announced. As soon as the PMO found out that the letter was fake, Assistant Director (PMO) PK Issar wrote to the CBI on August 8 last year seeking an enquiry. A preliminary enquiry was ordered on September 26, 2019. During the preliminary enquiry, investigators found out that the letter was sent by speed post from Badalpur sub-post office in Jaunpur district on June 13, 2019. The records showed that one Sandeep Singh of Marajganj was the sender and a mobile number was given. The investigators traced Singh, who vehemently denied that he was the sender of the letter. The twist in the tale came as Singh identified the handwriting on the envelope as that of Yadav. Singh and Yadav are "close friends and neighbours" and their wives were batch-mates at Singhania University where they were pursuing BEd. Investigators also claimed that they found out that the mobile number mentioned for booking the speed-post belonged to Yadav. Singh also told the CBI that the number belonged to Yadav. The CBI then analysed the call data records (CDR) of another mobile number, which was being used by the accused, and found out that it was in the vicinity of the sub-post office on June 13 last year, the date on which the forged letter was sent. "Prima facie, (this) shows that the said forged letter was sent through speed post by him only," the CBI FIR said quoting the preliminary enquiry report submitted by Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Sharma. The analysis of Yadav's mobile also showed that he was in constant touch with one Vishal Yadav. Vishal told the CBI that Yadav was working as an agent for preparing caste certificates, domicile certificates, income certificates, etc and he had a laptop and colour printer. He also told the investigators that Yadav was "fond of politics and was trying for a BJP ticket for the bye-election for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly in 2019", the FIR claimed. Vishal also identified Yadav's handwriting on the envelope. The CBI, Delhi registered a case on the basis of the report submitted by its Lucknow office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politician-fakes-up-cms-signature-for-poll-ticket-handwriting-lands-him-in-trouble-930173.html
22-12-2020||National||With 19,556 new infections, India's Covid-19 spike dips below 20,000 after 5 months||The number of daily new coronavirus infections reported in the country was recorded below 20,000 after nearly six months while the Covid-19 active caseload fell below 3 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,75,116 with 19,556 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,46,111 with 301 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,36,487 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.65 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below 3 lakh. There are 2,92,518 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,31,70,557 samples have been tested up to December 21 with 10,72,228  samples being tested on Monday. The 301 new fatalities include 55 from Maharashtra, 41 from West Bengal, 27 each from Kerala and Delhi. A total of 1,46,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,801 from Maharashtra followed by 12,016 from Karnataka, 11,995 from Tamil Nadu, 10,304 from Delhi, 9,401 from West Bengal, 8,212 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,078 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,212 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-19556-new-infections-indias-covid-19-spike-dips-below-20000-after-5-months-930178.html
22-12-2020||National||Have to ensure animals live in safe habitats: PM Modi on rise in leopard population||Lauding the increase in leopard population in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that these efforts have to be kept up to ensure our animals live in safe habitats. He was reacting to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar's tweet about the report, Status of Leopards in India 2018, which said that India now has 12,852 leopards, a more than 60 per cent increase in their population in four years since the previous estimate was conducted in 2014. The prime minister said in a tweet, "Great news! After lions and tigers, the leopard population increases. Congratulations to all those who are working towards animal conservation. We have to keep up these efforts and ensure our animals live in safe habitats." Releasing the report on Monday, Javadekar said the rise in leopard population following similar reports on tigers and lions shows that the country is protecting its ecology and biodiversity well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-to-ensure-animals-live-in-safe-habitats-pm-modi-on-rise-in-leopard-population-930185.html
22-12-2020||National||WHO chief scientist says new UK coronavirus strain may be present in many nations: Report||She added that a conclusion about the new strain cannot be deduced in such an early stage. She informed that the United Kingdom is doing a lot of whole genome sequencing and is thus able to track it very closely in real-time. She suspects that as more countries look at their data, they might find the presence of this variant. Experts have deemed this new virus at least 70 per cent more infectious than the other strains of the virus. Most of the new positive cases that have surfaced in the UK, especially in London, have been because of the new strain. Since the coronavirus was detected in China, it has seen alterations in its structure, but the UK variant has seen an abnormally large number of mutations. Moreover, this is the only variant which has seen infections growing at a rapid rate. It is believed that this new, more contagious virus is fast replacing other versions, which would enable the virus to multiply. The new variant is currently heavily concentrated in the UK, except Northern Island. There have been nine cases of the new strain in Turkey. There are also cases found in the Netherlands, Denmark, Australia, Italy and South Africa. Swaminathan explained that other viruses had mutated in the past that eventually become the dominant variant, and added that it is unlikely that a couple of mutations in the spike protein could change the response of the immune system to the vaccine. She also said that experiments to understand the new UK strain in a better way are taking place, but it will take a couple of weeks to get results. The scientist advised that countries should do more sequencing. "India has a huge capacity to do whole genome sequencing (one of the keys to developing an effective vaccine). In fact, India is already contributing quite a lot to a global database that has close to 300,000 sequences," she said. She cautioned that it is important for all countries to put in place measures of testing, and contact-tracing and isolation of positive cases to control the virus and bring down transmission. WHO officials have put a positive light on the discovery of the new strains that prompted a slew of countries to impose travel restrictions on Britain and South Africa, saying new tools to track the virus were working. "We have to find a balance. It's very important to have transparency, it's very important to tell the public the way it is, but it's also important to get across that this is a normal part of virus evolution," WHO emergencies chief Mike Ryan told an online briefing. The officials said that coronavirus mutations had so far been much slower than with influenza and that even the new UK variant remained much less transmissible than other diseases like mumps. They said vaccines developed to combat Covid-19 should handle the new variants as well, although checks are underway to ensure this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-scientist-says-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-may-be-present-in-many-nations-report-930188.html
22-12-2020||National||Faridkot farmer cycles 400 km to Tikri border to protest||Armed with hope and a revolutionary poem by noted Punjabi poet 'Pash', a farmer cycled nearly 400 km from Fardikot to the Tikri border here to join the massive protest by peasants against the new farm laws. Wearing a kurta-pyjama with a sleeveless warm jacket and sporting a bright green turban, Pal Sandhu, a resident of Rameana village in Faridkot district of Punjab, on Monday listened intently to the speeches made by farmer leaders at the protest site near the Delhi-Haryana border. His cycle, a new model decked up with cardboards displaying the poem 'Sab Ton Khatarnak' (the most dangerous ) in Punjabi by Avtar Singh Sandhu or 'Pash' as the revolutionary was famously known, attracted the attention of protesters and passers-by, many of whom took pictures with him. "I felt restless back home," the 45-year-old said. "I could not control myself after knowing about the condition of my fellow farmers who are braving the chilling winter and so many difficulties for a common goal. My brother had come a few days ago in a tractor-trolley, which is parked at the Tikri border protest site. I decided to leave too and rode till here on a bicycle," Sandhu told PTI. The Faridkot farmer said he had started from his home on December 19 at 8 AM and rode till 6:30 PM that day before resting. "The next day, I started early at 6 AM from mid-way, and then reached Tikri Border protest site at around 6:30 PM yesterday. When one is pumped up with a spirit of shared struggle, tiredness doesn't come. We are farmers, hardship is our life," he said. Asked how he managed to get food for two days to sustain his long journey, Sandhu, who has a wife and son back home, said, "sab Guru ki kripa se ho gaya (it was managed with the blessings of the Guru)". "On the way, people saw the Bharat Kisan Union flag planted on my cycle and they gave me food and hot water. Many more people are travelling every day to join the protests at Tikri and Singhu borders. There is a feeling of solidarity among people right now," he said. Reading aloud the revolutionary poem by 'Pash' to those gathered around him, he explained why he chose to carry placards with its verses written on them. "Pash was a visionary and raised his voice against oppression and injustice. Today, if we sit at home and not become part of this movement, then we are 'living dead'... as the poet had said, 'murda shanti se bhar jana'. We are all here, because we farmers don't want our dreams to become nightmares". 'Sab Ton Khatarnak', one of the most iconic works of contemporary poetry with trenchant words, has become a slogan of resistance at many protests. Poems by 'Pash' are often carried on placards and banners in protest rallies across the country. At the Tikri border area, Monday was yet another day of protest since the agitation began on November 26. Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel kept a strict vigil as farmer leaders vociferously reiterated their demand of repealing all three new farm laws, alleging that they were enacted to benefit big corporate companies. Amid the milling crowd, many youths carried posters bearing images of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and chanted the Sikhism slogan 'Jo Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal' to enthuse protesters in the biting Delhi cold. Mangat Singh, 72, another farmer from Punjab who has been camping at the Delhi border since the beginning of the agitation, said, "Farmers are not mute crops who can be cut at will. We know the struggles of out forefathers and leaders in the past, and we are ready for the long haul". On Monday, a group of old women from Haryana, wearing saffron cloth over their dresses and sporting badges bearing the image of Bhagat Singh, walked around the protest site at the Tikri border to show solidarity with the farmers. "They are all wearing 'kesari' (saffron) because they treat their children as revolutionaries, and themselves as mothers of Bhagat Singh. Women joining the protest has taken this agitation to another level," Sandhu said. Baldev Kaur, Sarabjit Kaur and Sadbir Kaur, all in their 60s, who have come from Sirsa district in Haryana, interacted with the other protesters and raised pro-farmer and anti-government slogans. "We are about 40-50 women who came together from Sirsa yesterday... 'Hum haq leke jawangi yehan se' (we will go only after claiming our rights), and the new farm laws have to go," said Sarabjit Kaur. Sandhu rued that a section of people were trying to "delegitimise our movement", and had branded the protesting farmers as "terrorists". He then held the hands of a fellow farmer and said, "See these hands, dry and rough, are these the hands of a terrorist? These are the hands of a hard-working farmer".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faridkot-farmer-cycles-400-km-to-tikri-border-to-protest-930190.html
22-12-2020||National||Two LeT militants surrender after brief gunfight in Kashmir: Police||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants, who according to police were involved in the recent killing of a personal security officer (PSO) of a PDP leader, surrendered on Tuesday after a brief gunfight in south Kashmir's Kulgam district. Reports said that the gunfight erupted after a joint team of army’s 34-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Tongdounu area of Kulgam during wee hours of Tuesday. As the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, triggering off a gunfight, reports added. Sources said that as the encounter was going on, the family members, including parents, of the trapped militants, were brought to the site by the police to persuade them to surrender. “The militants surrendered after persuasion by all including their families,” they said. Confirming the development, Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that after an initial exchange of fire, two militants belonging to LeT surrendered after they were offered to lay down their arms. Kumar claimed that both the surrendered militants were involved in the recent killing of a PSO of PDP leader in Natipora area of Srinagar. Arms and ammunition, including two pistols and some incriminating documents, were recovered from the possession of surrendered militants. In recent months, security forces have been offering local militants to surrender during encounters. Nearly a dozen militants have laid down their arms in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-let-militants-surrender-after-brief-gunfight-in-kashmir-police-930193.html
22-12-2020||National||Farmer union leaders to meet, decide on fresh talks with Centre||Farmer leaders are expected to meet on Tuesday to discuss a plan of action as thousands gathered at protest sites on Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to press for the repeal of the new farm laws brace the cold wave sweeping through the national capital. Efforts are underway by the unions to draw support from farmers in other states like Bihar for their demand to enact a law assuring Minimum Support Price as the protest at the border points have been going on for almost four weeks now. On Monday, the farmers held a relay hunger strike at various protest sites in batches of 11. In the letter to 40 union leaders, the Joint Secretary in the Union Agriculture Ministry, Vivek Aggarwal, on Sunday asked them to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks so that the ongoing agitation could end at the earliest. The sixth round of talks on December 9 was cancelled following a deadlock with the farmer unions refusing to budge from their demand for repealing the three laws. Owing to ongoing agitation, the Delhi Traffic Police said the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders are closed. It advised commuters to take alternative routes through the Lampur, Safiabad Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders. Police said that as traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and the GTK road, people are suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, the GTK road and National Highway (NH) 44. Those travelling to Haryana can go through the Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan-Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. According to the traffic police, Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic but the Jhatikara border was open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians. At the Chilla border, the Delhi to Noida carriageway is open for traffic. The Noida to Delhi carriageway is, however, closed. The Ghazipur border was also closed for traffic movement. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-union-leaders-to-meet-decide-on-fresh-talks-with-centre-930196.html
22-12-2020||National||Experts say new UK coronavirus strain not yet found in India: Report||India on December 22 suspended all flights to and from the United Kingdom over the new rapid-spreading strain of coronavirus detected in parts of England. Senior government health officials reportedly termed the curbs as "only a precautionary measure" with experts noting that India has only seen "minor mutations in the virus which is not of much consequence." British Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week said a fast-moving new variant of the virus that is 70 per cent more transmissible than existing strains appeared to be driving the rapid spread of new infections in London and southern England in recent weeks. But he stressed "there's no evidence to suggest it is more lethal or causes more severe illness," or that vaccines will be less effective against it.  “We are constantly vigilant, and it is not like the strain has mutated in the UK and suddenly we will start looking for this mutation. If there is a mutation it will show up in the surveillance but so far there is nothing of consequence,” Dr Panda added. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research Director General Shekhar Mande said that the coronavirus vaccines will be equally effective against the new mutant of the virus and there is no reason to panic. "We have not found this (particular mutation) in Indian isolates yet... Scientists are looking at the mutations very closely. It is too early to draw any conclusions," Mande told PTI. The mutation has been independently observed in the UK, Brazil and South Africa, he said. He said the new variant can be diagnosed with the RT-PCR but it needs to be assessed if it can be equally effective for the Rapid Antigen tests. "But there is nothing to suggest it (RAT) does not work right now," he said. Several European countries — France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy — have banned flights from the UK with the British government warning that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposing a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-say-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-not-yet-found-in-india-report-930207.html
22-12-2020||National||PM Modi releases postal stamp to mark centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday released a special postal stamp to mark the centenary celebrations of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). This is the first time in five decades that a prime minister has attended an AMU event as the chief guest. Prime Minister Modi attended the event via video conferencing. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank recalled the achievements of the AMU over the century and contributions of its alumni in various walks of life. The last time a prime minister attended an event at AMU was Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. Before him, prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had visited the AMU four times.  Nehru had visited the campus for first time in 1948, when an honorary doctorate was conferred on him at the annual convocation, followed by visits in 1955, 1960 and 1963.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-releases-postal-stamp-to-mark-centenary-celebrations-of-aligarh-muslim-university-930217.html
22-12-2020||National||Govt invites preliminary bids to sell 63.75% stake in Shipping Corp of India||The government on Tuesday invited expressions of interest for strategic disinvestment of its 63.75 per cent stake in Shipping Corp of India along with the transfer of management control. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) has issued Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM) inviting Expressions of Interest (EoI) from potential buyers by February 13, 2021. Shares of Shipping Corp were trading at Rs 86.30, up 4.54 per cent over its previous close on the BSE. At the current market price, the government's stake sale in Shipping Corp is valued at about Rs 2,500 crore. The government has appointed RBSA Capital Advisors LLP as its transaction advisor to manage the disinvestment process. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs in November last year gave in-principle approval for the strategic divestment of Shipping Corp. However, the plans were delayed due to the pandemic. The 2020-21 Budget has set a record divestment target of Rs 2.1 lakh crore. The government has so far raised Rs 12,380 crore through minority stake sale in Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and share buybacks this fiscal year. Strategic sale process of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) and Air India is ongoing and both the companies have received "multiple" EoI from potential buyers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-invites-preliminary-bids-to-sell-6375-stake-in-shipping-corp-of-india-930218.html
22-12-2020||National||Suresh Raina among 34 booked at Mumbai club for flouting Covid-19 norms||Cricketer Suresh Raina and some other celebrities were booked for violating Covid-19 norms at a club in Mumbai.  Police book 34 people including cricketer Suresh Raina & some other celebrities under Section 188, 269, 34 of IPC & provisions of NMDA after a raid at Dragonfly pub for keeping establishment open beyond permissible time limit & not following COVID norms: Mumbai Police Police conducted a raid on a club near Mumbai airport in the early hours of Tuesday and arrested 34 people for allegedly violating the Covid-19 prevention norms, an official said. The police action came after the Maharashtra government on Monday declared a night curfew in municipal corporation areas as a precautionary step amid growing concerns over a new coronavirus variant spreading in Britain. Acting on information, the police raided the club located in Sahar area near the airport around 2 am. They arrested 27 customers present in the club and seven staff members, the police official said. Those arrested were booked under relevant Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections, including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), he added. Ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations, the state government has declared a night curfew in municipal corporation areas from December 22 to January 5 as a precautionary step amid growing concerns over a new coronavirus variant spreading in Britain. According to an official statement, it has also been decided to compulsorily put in institutional quarantine for 14 days those who arrive at the state's airports from European and West Asian countries. As per the state government's directive, a curfew between 11 pm and 6 am will be enforced in the financial capital till January 5, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner I S Chahal said on Monday. Essential services like vegetable and milk supply will remain unaffected during the night curfew, but more than five people cannot assemble at a place during the seven-hour-long period, he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suresh-raina-among-34-booked-at-mumbai-club-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-930225.html
22-12-2020||National||Development should not be seen through political prism: PM Modi at AMU event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said politics can wait but development cannot, and asserted that development should not be seen through the political prism. Attending an Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) event via video conferencing, Modi also released a special postal stamp to mark the centenary celebrations of the university. This is the first time in five decades that a Prime Minister has attended an AMU event as the chief guest. In his address, the Prime Minister said, "Politics can wait, but development cannot". Without naming anyone, he said development should not be seen through the political prism.         "People spreading negativity can be seen everywhere," he said without elaborating.         His remarks assume significance in the background of the nearly month-long farmers' protest against three farm laws enacted by the Centre. "There is need to have a common ground to build a new India, that (ground) is Atmanirbhar Bharat, he said.           Modi noted with satisfaction that the dropout rate of Muslim girl students has reduced in the past few years. He also said that the malpractice of triple talaq has ended.       Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank recalled the achievements of the AMU over the century and contributions of its alumni in various walks of life.           The last time a prime minister attended an event at AMU was Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. Before him, then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had visited the AMU four times.           Nehru had visited the campus for first time in 1948, when an honorary doctorate was conferred on him at the annual convocation, followed by visits in 1955, 1960 and 1963.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/development-should-not-be-seen-through-political-prism-pm-modi-at-amu-event-930233.html
22-12-2020||National||Bharat Biotech says recruitment for Covid-19 vaccine's Phase 3 trial reaches halfway mark||Bharat Biotech has announced the recruitment of 13,000 volunteers, the halfway mark of its Phase-3 clinical trial of Covaxin which began in mid November across multiple centres in India The total targeted participation of 26,000 volunteers is the largest Phase-3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India. This is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, Bharat Biotech said. "These 13,000 volunteers were given a shot of the vaccine and there has been no adverse event till date,” a company representative told DH. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform. It is India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. This vaccine is manufactured in Bharat Biotech's Bio-Safety Level 3 biocontainment facility, “one of its kind in the world”, in the Genome Valley on Hyderabad outskirts. “This is an unprecedented vaccine trial ever to take place in India, and we are overwhelmed with the steady rise in participation. We sincerely thank all the 13000 volunteers across the country for their support in enabling us to bring out a safe and efficacious Indian vaccine for Covid-19,” Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech said. “This pro-vaccine public health volunteerism is a morale booster for us to achieve our milestone target of 26,000 soon.” Covaxin was evaluated in about 1,000 subjects in the Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results and their acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals, BBIL said. On 28 November, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bharat Biotech, as part of his three city visit to take stock of the Covid-19 vaccine development and manufacturing process. Earlier this month, a delegation of 64 envoys visited Bharat Biotech and Biological E facilities at the Genome Valley and were apprised of the progress. The two Hyderabad based companies are involved separately in the development of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-says-recruitment-for-covid-19-vaccines-phase-3-trial-reaches-halfway-mark-930234.html
22-12-2020||National||Former MLA Rambeer Shokeen arrested after two years on the run||Former MLA Rambeer Shokeen, who escaped from UP Police custody in 2018 while being brought to Safdarjung hospital for treatment, was arrested on Tuesday, officials said. He is a close associate of gangster Neeraj Bawana, the police said, adding that he was sent to judicial custody till January 4. Shokeen, who was elected to the Delhi Legislative Assembly in 2013, was found using the clout of criminals of this syndicate for contesting MLA elections in furtherance of his political ambitions and for gaining pecuniary benefits, they said. In August 2015, he was declared a proclaimed offender in a MCOCA case. On November 27, 2016, he was arrested with an illegal 9 mm pistol and two live cartridges, the police said. On December 1, 2016, he was arrested in the MCOCA case and on March 8, 2017, a charge sheet against him was filed. On September 26, 2018, he escaped from the custody of Uttar Pradesh Police from Safdarjung Hospital, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-mla-rambeer-shokeen-arrested-after-two-years-on-the-run-930237.html
22-12-2020||National||Government ready for talks with protesting farmers: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||The government is ready to hold further talks with farmers protesting for the repeal of agricultural reform laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been urging the farmers to engage in talks to end the deadlock over the three reform laws introduced in September but the farmers will not relent on their demands, saying the laws would hit them economically while benefiting big retailers. "We assure our farmers that we'll listen to them with an open mind," Tomar told foreign journalists. The protestors have blocked roads connecting New Delhi with the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, obstructing public transport and the supply of fruit and vegetables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-ready-for-talks-with-protesting-farmers-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-930238.html
22-12-2020||National||Passengers protest at Amritsar airport over delay in coronavirus testing||Passengers who arrived at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport from the UK protested against the authorities over the alleged delay in carrying out their coronavirus tests. Their family members on Tuesday claimed that they have been made to wait for hours. The authorities, however, said the clearance may take some more time as every passenger and crew member will have to be tested for coronavirus. The Air India flight from the UK with 250 passengers and 18 crew members had landed at 12.30 am last night. India has suspended all passenger flights from the UK till December 31 in the wake of the emergence of a mutated variant of coronavirus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. Moreover, passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday midnight will be tested for Covid-19 on arrival at airports. Relatives of passengers told the media that several passengers protested at the airport due to the delay in testing for the infection. Ankush, a resident of Faridkot in Punjab, said his brother Ankur has arrived from the UK on the flight. “All our family members have been waiting for him for the past several hours,” he said, accusing the authorities of not informing them about the time to be taken for his clearance. Amrik Singh, whose son Sukhwinder arrived from the UK, said he could not meet him yet. “I have enquired from the airport authorities about the test report of my son for a number of times but they keep saying that it will take two hours more,” he said. “I got a message from inside that several passengers have protested for the delay in the sampling and testing process. I failed to understand why all passengers have been detained there for more than 12 hours on the pretext of testing,” he said. A team of health authorities deputed at the airport took samples of all passengers and crew members. Amritsar Assistant Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said the sampling process started as soon as the flight landed last night. Each passenger and crew member will have to undergo a RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, he said, adding that passengers were provided with food. He said the airport authorities had already informed their relatives about testing. To a question on the protest by some passengers, Aggarwal said, “Usually, it takes five to six hours for clearance of all international passengers. But today it will take a few hours more and everybody should bear with us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passengers-protest-at-amritsar-airport-over-delay-in-coronavirus-testing-930256.html
22-12-2020||National||Delay in filing plea: SC says irony that no action ever taken against officers who sit on file||The Supreme Court has said that it is an “irony” that despite its repeated observations deprecating the practice of government authorities filing appeals before it belatedly to complete a “mere formality”, no action has ever been taken against officers who sit on file and do nothing. The apex court, which dismissed the plea filed by Deputy Conservator of Forests against the Bombay High Court’s February last year order on grounds of delay and imposed a cost of Rs 15,000 on the petitioner for “wastage of judicial time”, observed that it has repeatedly deprecated such a practice. “The irony is that despite observations, no action was ever taken against officers who sit on the file and do nothing,” a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. “The matter is further aggravated in the present case and even the present petition is filed with a delay of 462 days and once again the excuse is of change of counsel. We have repeatedly deprecated such attempts of the state governments to approach this court only to complete a mere formality,” said the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. The top court noted in its order that it has dealt with the issue of government authorities approaching courts belatedly as if the statute of limitation “does not exist for them”. “The special leave petition has been filed after a delay of 462 days. This is one more case which we have categorized as a ‘certificate cases’ filed before this court to complete a mere formality and save the skin of officers who have been throughout negligent in defending litigation!” the apex court said. The top court, while referring to a judgement passed by the apex court in October this year, said it had defined “certificate cases” the objective of which is only to put a quietus to the issue by recording that nothing could be done because the highest court had dismissed the appeal. “We have repeatedly deprecated such practice and process,” it said. When the counsel appearing for the petitioner contended that a valuable land is involved in the matter, the bench said, “In our view, if it was so, then the officers responsible for the manner in defending this petition must be made to pay for it.” “We are thus constrained to dismiss the petition as barred by time and impose a cost of Rs 15,000 on the petitioner for wastage of judicial time. We put it to the counsel that the cost would have been much greater but for the fact that a young counsel is appearing before us and we have given considerable concession in the costs on that factor alone,” the bench said. It directed that cost be recovered from the officers responsible for delay in filing of plea in the apex court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delay-in-filing-plea-sc-says-irony-that-no-action-ever-taken-against-officers-who-sit-on-file-930258.html
22-12-2020||National||'VHP to enlist 5 lakh volunteers in Karnataka for Ram Mandir fundraising'||The VHP will rope in over five lakh volunteers to start a door-to-door fundraising drive in Karnataka from January 15 to February 27 next year to build a grand Sri Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the outfit's international working president Alok Kumar said on Tuesday. Addressing reporters here, he said, "We are going to form a lakh groups comprising volunteers who will go to 27,500 villages in the state and will be able to contact 90 lakh 'devotees' for obtaining the 'Nidhi Samarpan' (fund for temple)." Laying out plans for fundraising, Kumar said a committee called Sri Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan Samiti has been formed in the state to oversee the fund collection drive. According to Kumar, RSS functionary N Thippeswamy will be the secretary of the Karnataka Samiti. There will be a committee of saints to guide the Samiti. Kumar further said the fund would be collected through tokens of Rs 10, Rs 100, Rs 1,000. For those who donate more than Rs 2,000, there will be a receipt. These donations will be exempted under 80G of the Income Tax Act. The VHP president said every group will consist of five persons who will hand over money to the depositor, who will deposit the entire money within 48 hours in designated bank accounts. "Every depositor will have a registered code number at the nearest branch of one of the three banks namely State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and Punjab National Bank. Full transparency would be maintained in the collection," he added. On the temple project, Kumar said Larsen and Toubro is building the temple on a turn-key basis whereas Tata Consultancy would be the engineers for the construction. He noted that there was a challenge facing the engineers as the temple was coming up adjacent to the perennial Sarayu river and there is sand to the depth of 60 to 70 ft. The three-storey stone structure with an estimated life of 1,000 years will be built without using cement and iron rods. "For the stability of the structure, engineers from IIT Mumbai, IIT Delhi, IIT Chennai, IIT Guwahati, CBRI Roorkee, Larsen & Toubro are working on the foundation drawing," he explained. According to him, the temple made of stone blocks would have a total area of 2.7 acres. The construction area is 57,400 sq. ft. The length of the shrine would be 360 feet with 235 feet. It would be a three-storied structure with 5 mandaps. It is expected that by 2024 Shri Ram Lala, the idol of Lord Rama, shall be established in the sanctum sanctorum of the main temple. Along with the temple, there will be several other projects spread over 108 acres, Kumar said adding that all of them will be of world standard and marvellous in all aspects. He underlined that the VHP does not consider it as yet another temple but a medium of social, religious, and spiritual rejuvenation. "We want to abolish all the differences related to caste, region, and linguistics with this temple to build a harmonious society...," Kumar said. He added that the VHP will not be collecting money from any government, municipal corporation or any public body. Observing that funds will be collected from the Hindu community, he appealed to the people to donate generously. "We will heartily accept a charity of even Rs 10 and Rs 100," the VHP president said. On August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had performed the 'bhoomi pujan' of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's 'mandir' movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. On November 9, 2019, the SC settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-to-enlist-5-lakh-volunteers-in-karnataka-for-ram-mandir-fundraising-930272.html
22-12-2020||National||Parliamentary panel suggests Franchise Protection Act for auto dealers: FADA||A parliamentary panel headed by Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao has recommended that the government should enact the Franchise Protection Act for automobile dealers in the country, industry body FADA said on Friday. It said that a "fair competition Franchise Act" will not only be a win-win for both the auto original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and dealers, but will also be beneficial to customers in the long run, it said. First introduced by the US in the 1980s, many developed countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Russia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan,  Italy and Sweden have such rules in place to protect the franchisees, it said. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA), which represents around 15,000 auto dealers across the country, in September advocated for the enactment of such a law in the country, after American cult bike manufacturer Harley Davidson announced its exit from India. "Parliamentary standing committee (PSC) headed by K Keshava Rao has recommended that the government should come out with Franchise Protection Act for auto dealers. "This recommendation was part of suggestions made by the standing committee in its Report Number 303 titled 'Downturn in Automobile Sector-Its Impact and Measures for Revival'," FADA said in a statement. In its report submitted to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu last week, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce said that in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns, the automotive industry suffered a loss of Rs 2,300 crore per day, and an estimated job loss in the sector was about 3.45 lakh. It has also suggested a slew of measures for attracting investment in the automotive sector in the country, including overhauling of prevalent land and labour laws. "I am grateful to the standing committee and specially the chairman, K Keshava Rao, for strongly recommending the Franchise Protection Act for auto dealers," said FADA President Vinkesh Gulati. He added that the absence of such a law leads to a tussle in managing dealership operations in various ways, short-terms agreements and non-existence of a clearly defined exit policy. There are various examples where auto manufacturers suddenly announced their exit from India, leaving auto dealers high and dry with their investments going down the drain, he said. Citing the examples of General Motors India, Man Trucks (a VW Group Company), UM Lohia and Harley Davidson India, the FADA president said franchise laws will actually level the playing field for both large automakers and local dealers. Currently, almost all auto dealerships are privately owned proprietorship or family-owned businesses, he added. Large automobile manufacturers are some of the biggest corporations in India and overseas, the automobile dealers' body said. Because of the disparity in size and power between individual dealers and manufacturers, the government needs to accept the standing committee's recommendations and bring in the Franchise Protection Act to level the playing field between auto OEMs and dealers, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-suggests-franchise-protection-act-for-auto-dealers-fada-930273.html
22-12-2020||National||Health condition of passengers arriving from UK recently to be checked: Delhi govt||Amid mounting concern over a new strain of Covid-19 detected in the UK, the Delhi government on Tuesday said it will check the health condition of passengers, who have arrived here recently from the UK, by visiting their houses. All passengers arriving from the UK are now being tested for Covid-19 at Delhi airport, Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters. "The Delhi government is on alert in the wake of a mutated coronavirus strain detected in the UK. The situation is being closely monitored and mandatory tests are being conducted at the Delhi airport for all passengers arriving from that country," he said. Jain said Delhi has fought difficult battles with Covid-19 and all efforts will be made to ensure that the improvement made in the management of the pandemic is "not reversed". The Civil Aviation Ministry on Monday said all flights from the UK to India and vice versa will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31, in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. In the last two weeks, about 6000-7000 people have landed at Delhi airport, many of whom would have travelled to other places like Punjab from thereon, Jain said. "We will go house-to-house and do check-up of passengers to assess their condition, and also advice them to isolate themselves for some time," he said. Sources said passengers coming from the UK are being administered RT-PCR tests at the airport. Anyone testing negative but with symptoms will be kept in institutional isolation and those testing negative will also be asked to go into self-isolation for seven days, they said. Jain has also appealed to those who have recently come from the UK to monitor their health and go for tests at the slightest of Covid-like symptoms, and inform the government. Asked about the threat of the new virus strain entering Delhi, he said, "CM Kejriwal had appealed to the Centre to close flights from the UK, and it had been done. So, we are doing everything possible to contain the spread". A new vaccine is being prepared to treat Covid-19, he said. Asked if the new strain could negate its efficacy, he said, "Only scientists and ICMR can comment on it". Delhi recorded 803 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the lowest since August 17, taking tally to over 6.17 lakh, even as the death toll increased to 10,304 with 27 new fatalities. "We recorded such a low number of cases and a positivity rate of 1.29 per cent," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-condition-of-passengers-arriving-from-uk-recently-to-be-checked-delhi-govt-930274.html
22-12-2020||National||Automated system flagged Kisan Ekta Morcha page as spam: Facebook||Social media giant Facebook said Kisan Ekta Morcha's page had been taken down after its automated systems found increased activity and flagged it as spam, and that the page was restored in less than three hours. Facebook had faced criticism from various quarters after the page - which is run by a farmers' collective - was taken down on Sunday evening. "As per our review, our automated systems found an increased activity on the (Kisan Ekta Morcha) Facebook page and flagged it as spam, which violates our Community Standards. We restored the page in less than three hours when we became aware of the context," a Facebook spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that the review showed that only the Facebook page was affected by the automated systems while the Instagram account remained unaffected. While a vast majority of work fighting spam is done automatically using recognisable patterns of problematic behaviour, the company also relies on human review team to work on cases where human expertise is needed to understand the context of a particular situation, the spokesperson said. "In Q3 2020, out of the 1.9 billion pieces of content removed globally for violating our policies on spam, we restored 74.9 million pieces of content globally, when we identified issues ourselves," the spokesperson added. Protestors at the ongoing farmers agitation had said social media is crucial for their movement as it allowed them to share their views. Many had seen the shutting down of the Facebook page as an attempt to silence them. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/automated-system-flagged-kisan-ekta-morcha-page-as-spam-facebook-930275.html
22-12-2020||National||Legion of Merit honour for Modi testimony to his acceptance as world leader: BJP leaders||Senior BJP leaders asserted on Tuesday that the US' decision to confer the 'Legion of Merit' on Prime Minister Narendra Modi reflects his "acceptance" as a world leader and is a testimony to his vision, steadfast leadership and diplomacy. President Donald Trump has conferred the Legion of Merit, one of the highest military honours of the US, on Modi for his leadership in elevating bilateral strategic partnership and accelerating emergence of India as a global power. Hailing the recognition, BJP president J P Nadda said, "Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji being conferred with the prestigious 'Legion of Merit' by the US President @realDonaldTrump reflects PM Modi Ji's vision, steadfast leadership & diplomacy. As India emerges as a rising power globally, Indo-US ties are strongest ever than before."   Congratulating Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted that this award is yet another testimony of his acceptance as a world leader, working relentlessly towards global peace.    India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, accepted the award on behalf of the prime minister from the US National Security Advisor, Robert O'Brien, at the White House on Monday.    Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said this is a recognition of Modi's leadership and statesmanship by the global community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legion-of-merit-honour-for-modi-testimony-to-his-acceptance-as-world-leader-bjp-leaders-930287.html
22-12-2020||National||Delhi riots: Ishrat Jahan alleges in court beating, harassment by jail inmates||Former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a north-east Delhi riots case, alleged before a court here on Tuesday that she was beaten badly by inmates at Mandoli jail and was continuously facing harassment in prison. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat directed the jail authorities to take immediate steps to ensure Jahan's security and ensure that she was not harassed further for bringing her complaints before the court. The court sought a detailed report from the prison authorities on Wednesday on the steps that have been taken to address the issue and to also state if shifting to her to another jail was required. When the judge asked the Assistant Superintendent of Mandoli jail whether such an incident has occurred, she confirmed it and said necessary steps have been taken. To this the judge told the jail official, “She (Jahan) seems to be in a state of utter fear. Please talk to her immediately and understand the situation. File a detailed report about the steps taken to allay her apprehension and her fear. "Take all the necessary steps. Take immediate steps. I don't want to hear that the accused was further harassed by her inmates or anybody else because she complained. I do not want to hear that the present accused is harmed in any way.” It also directed the prison authorities to produce her before the court on Wednesday through video conferencing. While making the submissions directly to the court, Jahan said it was the second incident within one month and was under immense stress due to the continuous harassment, physically and verbally. “This is the second incident in a month. In the morning today at 6:30 Am, they (inmates) beat me badly and abused me verbally. One of the inmates even slit her hand so that I am punished on a false complaint. Fortunately, the jail officials did not listen to them. I have given a written complaint also. They keep calling me a terrorist. They also demanded money from me in the canteen,” Jahan alleged. She further alleged that she has been facing harassment in jail for the past four months and had requested to be shifted to Tihar prison but it was refused due to the current Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Jahan, further alleged that previously also she was beaten up by her inmates, following which one of the inmates was shifted to another jail. “One of the inmates beat her up badly previously. A complaint was filed before the Deputy Superintendent and that inmate was shifted to another jail. There are two ladies in her prison cell who beat her up today. While she was offering her morning prayers, they objected to it and started abusing her and beating her,” Teotia alleged. Advocate Misbah Bin Tariq, who was also present at the hearing, requested the court to take immediate action and view her situation with urgency as Jahan was a member of the advocates' Bar. Jahan further said she was suffering from some medical condition for which she has not been taken to a hospital nor any tests conducted. Advocate Rizwan, appearing for co-accused and suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, claimed that most of the accused in the north-east Delhi riots cases were facing discrimination in prison, either by the inmates or jail authorities. He further alleged that the accused have been declared as “terrorists” before conclusion of the trial. “Almost all the accused are facing discrimination in jail. They have been declared as terrorists before conclusion of the trial. Jail authorities behave adversely with them. Proper monitoring by the court is important in the cases, specially the conspiracy case in which the accused have been booked under the UAP Act,” he said. To this, the Judge said, “An accused is an accused, not a convict.” Another accused in the case, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, claimed that his family members have been trying to meet him through video conferencing but their requests have not been approved. Tanha also alleged that he has been repeatedly called “terrorists” in prison. Tanha's counsel, advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, said previously when several of the accused had said they have been given basic things in prison, the court had sought a report from the jail authorities but the report has not come yet. The judge had on November 3 said he would go and inspect the situation physically if things did not improve. But since all the grievances were taken care of by the jail authorities, the judge did not go for a physical inspection. Co-accused Umar Khalid told the court that even after a month, a soft copy of the charge sheet had not been supplied to him. The judge asked his counsel to move an application before the Tihar prison authorities, where Khalid is lodged, to allow access to the soft copy. The court has put up the matter for further hearing on January 5. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-ishrat-jahan-alleges-in-court-beating-harassment-by-jail-inmates-930290.html
22-12-2020||National||Mutated SARS-CoV-2 strain detected in UK has no impact on potential of emerging vaccines: Centre||There is no cause of concern or panic over the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, the government said on Tuesday, noting that no similar or significant mutation has been seen yet in the coronavirus strain in India. Addressing a press briefing, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said that the mutated SARS-CoV-2 strain detected in the UK has no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines. "As of now, based on our discussions, deep understanding of data available and our deep assessment, there is no need to panic but it is a cause to be more vigilant. This new challenge we have to counter with our comprehensive efforts. We will be safe if we suppress the genomic sequence," Paul said. There is no change in treatment guidelines due to this mutation and the vaccines that are being developed, particularly those in the country, will not be impacted, he said. Paul said that mutation might result in the virus becoming more infectious and spreading more easily between people. "It is also being said that in these viruses, the transmissibility has increased by 70 per cent, you can also call them super spreader in a way but it does not increase the propencity of death, hospitalisation and severity of the disease. What is affected is tendency to affect more people that by itself is a cause of concern. It is an adverse development," he said. Paul said that there is no need to "panic" and added that "we are yet to spot such a virus in our country". Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there has been a sustained decline in Covid-19 cases in India since mid-September. "India has reported 124 Covid-19 cases per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 588. India has reported two Covid-19 deaths per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 10 deaths," he said. Bhushan said that 26 states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases of Covid-19. The government has issued standard operating procedures listing the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled to or through the UK in the past four weeks, from November 25 to December 23, he said. The Union health ministry said that 61 per cent of Covid-19 deaths reported in a span of 24 hours were from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh. While, 57 per cent of Covid-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours were from Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mutated-sars-cov-2-strain-detected-in-uk-has-no-impact-on-potential-of-emerging-vaccines-centre-930295.html
22-12-2020||National||Mumbai airport says passengers from Middle East, Europe will be subject to institutional quarantine||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has said all passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries will be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine from Tuesday. The new rules for the passengers travelling via the Mumbai airport, including those having connected flights, are in line with the directives issued by the state and central governments on Monday, the airport operator said in a release. The central government on Monday said all the UK-India flights will be suspended from December 23 to December 31 in view of the emergence of a new coronavirus strain in that country. It also said all passengers coming from the UK on Monday and Tuesday would be compulsorily tested for coronavirus on arrival at airports. Separately, the Maharashtra government in a circular on Monday said it has decided to conduct institutional quarantine for all passengers from all over Europe and the Middle East for 14 days after landing at the airport, as well as home quarantine for passengers from other countries. "Effective December 22, passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries, irrespective of their further travel plans, will be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine. "Any passenger identified as being symptomatic on arrival will be transferred to designated Covid-19 facility for further evaluation," CSMIA said in a statement. Passengers arriving from these regions will be transported by state officials to nearby hotels of their preference to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days at their own cost, it added. According to the airport operator, on Monday, CSMIA had four flights — one from Amsterdam and three from London — carrying over 690 passengers; while on Tuesday, there was no flight either arriving or departing from and to London, it said. However, there are five flights arriving and eight departing to Dubai and one departing for Doha, it added. In the absence of regular flight service on overseas routes, which are suspended since late March, special international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. CSMIA said that according to the guidelines, instead of undergoing a test at the airport, passengers will have to undergo the RT-PCR test during the 5th-7th day of the institutional quarantine at the hotel at their own cost. Passengers with a negative test report will be discharged to observe home quarantine for seven days. Meanwhile, passengers with a positive report will be directed to continue to quarantine at the same hotel or in a state-designated Covid-19 facility for 14 days, it said. The airport operator also said the government's decision to impose a night curfew between 11 pm and 6 am from December 22 till January next year will not have any impact on its operations, which will "continue as scheduled". Passengers travelling to and from the airport during the specified hours will be allowed to proceed onwards as cab services and public transportation will remain operational at all times, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-airport-says-passengers-from-middle-east-europe-will-be-subject-to-institutional-quarantine-930299.html
22-12-2020||National||SYL water issue: Abhay Chautala says Haryana should block borders with Punjab||INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday said Haryana should block its borders with Punjab, stopping the movement of people and goods, till the neighbouring state gives its share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water. The Indian National Lok Dal leader said they will support the ML Khattar government if it decides to force Punjab over the demand. "Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our rightful share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana's borders with Punjab," Chautala told reporters here. "We will stop the movement of goods going into that state from here till we get our share of water. Let them make a decision," the Ellenabad MLA said. He said that over the years, the INLD has been constantly making efforts so that Haryana gets its "rightful share of water". He recalled that three years ago, his party workers had blocked all entry points to Punjab “to make them realise that if they stop our share of water we will not allow them to enter Haryana”. Chautala, the younger son of INLD president and former chief minister O P Chautala, said the BJP has been in power for six years in Haryana but it never showed any seriousness on the SYL issue. He said that amid the protests of farmers against the Centre's new farm laws, the state BJP leadership was raising the SYL issue “to divide the peasants but that is not going to happen. Farmers will make the Centre repeal the agri laws”. Chautala claimed that some BJP leaders from the state were now enacting a “drama” of staging “upwas” (fast) demonstrations in support of SYL. "Why did they not think of sitting on 'upwas' all these years even though the Supreme Court had ruled in Haryana's favour on SYL. Now they only want to divert the attention of people. BJP's mindset has always been to create a divide among people and keep the issues to linger on," he said. "Had the chief minister been so concerned on the water issue, why would he allow his government to scrap Dadupur Nalvi canal project, on which Rs 340 crore had already been spent and which would have been particularly beneficial to help irrigate lands in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar,” the INLD leader said. He questioned why Haryana BJP president O P Dhankar, who was Agriculture minister in the previous term of the Khattar government, did not show concern on SYL then. "Earlier, when we used to raise the SYL issue, they would say that the matter was pending before the Supreme Court. But now when the apex court has ruled in our favour, why is this government doing drama of 'upwas'. Governments don't sit on 'upwas', they take decisions,” he said. Opposing the SYL canal project, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had recently warned that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana. SYL has been a contentious issue between the two states, with the Punjab portion of the canal still incomplete. The construction began in 1982. Punjab has been demanding a reassessment of the Ravi-Beas river waters' volume, while Haryana has been seeking completion of the SYL canal to get its share of 3.5 million acre-feet (MAF).  Chautala asserted that the party is "solidly behind farmers" fighting against the three laws.  Responding to a question, Chautala said he will not take another minute to resign as a legislative assembly member if farmers make such a demand. "Chaudhary Devi Lal's blood runs in my veins, I will not take a minute to resign..,” he said. Asked that couple of Independent MLAs had withdrawn support to the Khattar government while many JJP legislators too had openly come out in support of the farmers, he claimed the coalition government will not last long. "This 'jugad' (arrangement with MLAs from JJP, Independents supporting it) will not work. Even some of the BJP MLAs are upset with the government…This government will fall like Bansi Lal-led dispensation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/syl-water-issue-abhay-chautala-says-haryana-should-block-borders-with-punjab-930300.html
22-12-2020||National||Suresh Raina regrets 'unintentional', 'unfortunate' incident at Mumbai club||Former India cricketer Suresh Raina, who was among 34 people arrested and released on bail by Mumbai Police for violating Covid-19 social distancing norms at a club here, has regretted the "unintentional and unfortunate" incident. A statement issued by the former batsman's management team said the 34-year old was not aware of the local timings and protocols at the time of the incident. "Suresh was in Mumbai for a shoot which extended to late hours and was invited by a friend for a quick dinner post the same prior to him taking his flight back to Delhi. He was not aware of the local timings and protocols," said the statement. "Once pointed out, he (Raina) immediately complied with the procedures laid out by the authorities and regrets the unfortunate and unintentional incident. "He (Raina) always holds rules and laws laid down by governing bodies with the highest regard and will continue to do so in the future as well," it added. Thirty-four people including Raina and Bollywood celebrity Sussanne Khan were arrested after a raid at a posh club near the Mumbai airport on Tuesday for violating social distancing norms. According to the police, those arrested in the raid at the Dragonfly Experience included seven staffers of the club. The 13 women, who were arrested, were allowed to leave after being served notices. The men were shown as arrested and granted bail later. Police said the raid was conducted after the club remained open beyond the permissible time limit and violated Covid-19 norms. Raina, who has played 18 Tests, 226 ODIs and 78 T20s, announced retirement from international cricket in August earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suresh-raina-regrets-unintentional-unfortunate-incident-at-mumbai-club-930309.html
22-12-2020||National||RT-PCR test on arrival, separate isolation for Covid-19 positive cases: Centre's SOPs for UK flyers||Passengers coming from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive, stated the Health Ministry's standard operating procedure issued on Tuesday in view of the new variant of coronavirus detected there. India has suspended all passenger flights connecting the United Kingdom from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of a mutated strain of the virus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. The SOP by the Health Ministry for epidemiological surveillance describes the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all flyers who have travelled from or transited through the UK from November 25 to December 23. It stated that all travellers from the UK will be required to declare, according to existing procedure, their travel history of past 14 days and fill up the self-declaration form to be screened for Covid-19. All passengers coming from the UK from December 21 to 23 would be subjected to the RT-PCR test on arrival and this has to be ensured by respective state governments, the SOP stated. Those found negative in RT-PCR test at the airport would be advised quarantine at home and followed up. The passengers who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate unit coordinated by the respective state health authorities. They would earmark specific facilities for such isolation and treatment, it said. A spike gene-based RT-PCR test should also be performed by an appropriate laboratory in case of a positive sample, the health ministry recommended. Also, contacts of such travellers who were found COVID-19 positive at airport testing would be subjected to institutional quarantine and tested according to ICMR guidelines. "Necessary action to send the samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, or any other appropriate lab for genomic sequencing will be initiated at the facility level." In case the report of the sequencing is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol including home isolation and treatment at facility level as per case severity may be followed, the SOP stated. "If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2, then the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. While necessary treatment as per the existing protocol will be given, the patient shall be tested on 14th day, after having tested positive in the initial test. "In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, further sample may be taken until his two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative," the guidelines stated. It stated that state-wise passenger manifest of the flights from the UK landing at various airports in India for the past four weeks from November 25 to December 23 shall be conveyed by the Bureau of Immigration to the state government and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) so that the data would be provided to the surveillance teams. The list of passengers travelling between December 21 and 23, who are found RT-PCR negative at airport testing, shall be shared with the states by the Central unit of IDSP. They shall be advised quarantine at home and tested as per ICMR guidelines. Their monitoring would be ensured by the state governments and IDSP. Those travellers from the UK who arrived in India from November 25 to December 8 will be contacted by district surveillance officers advising them to self-monitor their health and in case of development of symptoms would undergo RT-PCR test. The list of travellers who arrived in India between December 9 and 23 will be shared with respective states and district surveillance officers for daily follow up till 14 days after their arrival in India. "The district surveillance officer has to ensure daily follow up of passengers under observation for 28 days starting from date of arrival," the SOP stated. The new variant of the SARS-CoV 2 virus has been reported by the Government of United Kingdom to the World Health Organization. This variant is estimated by European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) to be more transmissible and affecting younger population. The new variant is said to be 70 per cent more transmissible, though health experts say there is no evidence that it is more deadly or would react differently to vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rt-pcr-test-on-arrival-separate-isolation-for-covid-19-positive-cases-centres-sops-for-uk-flyers-930312.html
22-12-2020||National||CBSE board exams will not be conducted till February next year, says Union Education Minister||CBSE examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be held after February next year, Education Minister Ramesh Pohkriyal Nishank said on Tuesday. “Practical examinations for the board exams begin in January and the written tests take place in February and March. But, based on the present conditions, holding the examination in January or February is not possible. That has been decided. We will hold consultations after this and take a decision,” the minister said responding to questions from teachers. In a virtual interaction with teachers from across the country, Nishank also made it clear that there would be no further reduction of the syllabus for the examinations as a 30% cut had already been effected. “The exact dates will be announced soon,” the minister said adding that the government would always stand like a rock behind the students. He noted that the practical examinations for Class 10 and 12 are conducted by the respective schools and colleges. The minister said conducting online examinations continued to be a challenge due to insufficient access to computers and laptops to a large section of students. He disagreed with a suggestion to do away with the examination altogether as it could raise doubts over the competence of a large group of students. “We cannot allow Covid-19 to impact students and have them labelled as Covid-era students who passed without clearing any exams,” the minister said. Nishank said the government was in the process of consulting students, teachers, parents and other stakeholders on the conduct of board examinations. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools partially reopened in some states from October 15, but few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-board-exams-will-not-be-conducted-till-february-next-year-says-union-education-minister-930314.html
22-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Six passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19 on arrival in India||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Six passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19 on arrival in India; The co-founder of BioNTech says that it was "highly likely" that its vaccine against the coronavirus works against the mutated strain; Bharat Biotech says recruitment of volunteers for a late-stage trial of the shot was on track; Cricketer Suresh Raina and some other celebrities were booked for violating Covid-19 norms; and Prashant Kishor challenges BJP leaders to say on record that they would quit their positions if the party failed to get 200 seats in West Bengal.  Here is the top news of December 22, 2020:   The co-founder of BioNTech said on Tuesday that it was "highly likely" that its vaccine against the coronavirus works against the mutated strain detected in Britain, but it could also adapt the vaccine if necessary in six weeks. "Scientifically, it is highly likely that the immune response by this vaccine also can deal with the new virus variant," said Ugur Sahin. But if needed, "in principle the beauty of the messenger technology is that we can directly start to engineer a vaccine which completely mimics this new mutation -- we could be able to provide a new vaccine technically within six weeks.”   Bharat Biotech said on Tuesday its recruitment of volunteers for a late-stage trial of the shot was on track, following reports of a shortage of participants. Bharat Biotech has signed up 13,000 volunteers for the Phase 3 trial, backed by government medical research body, and is progressing towards its goal of 26,000, the company said. The trial began in mid-November at multiple sites across the country. Local news reports last week suggested that some of those trial sites were well short of reaching intended recruitment targets.   Six passengers travelling on Air India's London-Delhi flight tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, a senior government official said on Tuesday.  The flight landed around 11.30 pm on Monday. "Five passengers were found Covid-positive at the Delhi airport. One passenger who took a connecting flight to Chennai was tested there and found positive," the official said.   Cricketer Suresh Raina and some other celebrities were booked for violating Covid-19 norms at a club in Mumbai.  Police conducted a raid on a club near Mumbai airport in the early hours of Tuesday and arrested 34 people for allegedly violating the Covid-19 prevention norms, an official said. The police action came after the Maharashtra government on Monday declared a night curfew in municipal corporation areas as a precautionary step amid growing concerns over a new coronavirus variant spreading in Britain.   A day after claiming that the BJP will not cross double digits in the West Bengal Assembly polls, election strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday challenged its leaders to say on record that they would quit their positions if the party failed to get 200 seats. "BJP will struggle to cross double digits and will get less than 100 seats in West Bengal. Will quit my work if they do," Kishor told PTI, reiterating his assessment.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-six-passengers-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-on-arrival-in-india-930321.html
22-12-2020||National||Vizag gas leak due to operational negligence, says NGT; directs safety audit of pharma units||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday said that the gas leak at a pharma company unit in Andhra Pradesh was due to operational negligence and asked the state's Director of Industries to conduct a safety audit of the pharma city at Vishakhapatnam and other such locations. The reason for benzimidazole gas leakage at Sainor Life Sciences factory at the Parawada industrial area was operational negligence of the management and its employees, the NGT Principal Bench headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said. "There were serious lapses in not following standard safety norms under the said rules requiring onsite and offsite emergency plans, conducting mock drills every six months and undertaking manufacture of Benzimidazole without consent," the bench said. Two workers were killed and four hospitalised in June this year after Benzimidazole gas leaked at the Sainor Life Sciences factory in the Parawada area in Visakhapatnam. The tribunal accepted the report filed by the Expert Committee and disposed of the proceedings with a direction to comply with the recommendations, including payment of environmental compensation, to be overseen by the statutory regulators. The committee told the NGT that operational negligence, lack of standard operating procedure for transfer of material from one reactor to another and on the cleaning of reactors, lack of awareness of personnel, non-compliance of safety practices by employees were the causes of the incident. The plea that benzimidazole was not the final product but for use in the manufacture of omeprazole did not justify doing so without consent, the bench observed. The green panel agreed with the state pollution control board (SPCB) and the expert committee that separate consent is required for manufacturing Benzimidazole, being an independent compound.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-due-to-operational-negligence-says-ngt-directs-safety-audit-of-pharma-units-930330.html
22-12-2020||National||Farmer unions defer decision on Centre's letter for fresh talks||Protesting farmer unions on Tuesday said that a decision on the central government's offer for fresh talks has been deferred to Wednesday, even as they remained adamant on the demand to repeal the three farm laws. Addressing a press conference at Delhi's Singhu Border, farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said that 32 farmer unions from Punjab held a meeting and discussed the next course of action. He said that a meeting of farmer leaders from across India would be held on Wednesday where a decision on the government's talks offer will be taken. Sandhu said that they would also write to Britain MPs, urging them to press their Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to attend India's Republic Day celebrations on January 26. Johnson will be the chief guest at the event next month. In a letter to 40 union leaders, the Joint Secretary in the Union Agriculture Ministry, Vivek Aggarwal, had on Sunday asked protesting farmer leaders to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks so that the ongoing agitation could end at the earliest. The sixth round of talks on December 9 was cancelled following a deadlock with the farmer unions refusing to budge from their demand for repealing the three laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-defer-decision-on-centres-letter-for-fresh-talks-930331.html
22-12-2020||National||Biggest long term challenge for science is to attract and retain quality youngsters: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that the biggest long term challenge for science is to attract and retain quality youngsters and the government's efforts are aimed at making India the most trustworthy centre for scientific learning. Speaking at the inauguration of the India International Science Festival (IISF) 2020, he said India has a rich legacy in science, technology and innovation. He also invited the global community to innovate in India, invest in the country and its talent. He said the government is ready to accept any challenge and improve research environment in the country. "The biggest long term challenge for science is to attract and retain quality youngsters. "Our efforts are aimed at making India the most trustworthy centre for scientific learning and want scientists to grow with best of world talent," Modi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-long-term-challenge-for-science-is-to-attract-and-retain-quality-youngsters-pm-modi-930334.html
22-12-2020||National||Govt removes export curbs on medical goggles, gloves||The government on Tuesday removed export curbs on medical goggles and gloves, which were in demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic, to boost outbound shipments of these products. The export restrictions were imposed on account of the spread of Covid-19. "The export policy of medical goggles and Nitrile/NBR gloves is amended from restricted to free category making all types of medical goggles and Nitrile/NBR gloves freely exportable," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification. In a separate notification, DGFT said import of copra is allowed through government-run trading firm MMTC, while import of coconut oil is permitted through STEs (state trading enterprises) except STC (State Trading Corporation).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-removes-export-curbs-on-medical-goggles-gloves-930335.html
22-12-2020||National||Bengaluru airport sets up Covid-19 testing facility for passengers||The Bengaluru airport on Tuesday announced the setting up of a Covid-19 testing facility for passengers. Located near the arrivals area of the terminal, the RT-PCR testing centre is managed and operated by the Auriga Research Pvt Ltd, Bangalore International Airport Ltd (BIAL) said in a statement. Under the express test method, the RT-PCR test result would be available in less than 15 minutes, while the regular RT-PCR test result would take up to six hours, BIAL said in the release. Until the test results are received, those tested would be required to wait in a specially demarcated area. Reports would be shared directly with those tested through digital platforms, it said. The charges for these tests start from Rs 800 and to Rs 5,000, according to BIAL. The testing facility is equipped with a sample collection kiosk inside the terminal and a state-of-the-art laboratory outside it as well as a waiting lounge. It added that international arrival passengers unable to get a test prior to boarding their flight can make use of this facility on their arrival at the airport. The service will be available to departing passengers, who need to undergo an RT-PCR test before travelling, it added. The private airport operator said it has established a detailed standard operating procedure, in accordance with guidelines stipulated by the relevant authorities, to manage people who test Covid-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-airport-sets-up-covid-19-testing-facility-for-passengers-930337.html
22-12-2020||National||Farmers' stir: Tomar says hopeful of protesting unions resuming talks with Govt soon||As farmers' agitation against three farm laws entered its 27th day, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. He met two more peasants' bodies from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh that extended support to the legislations. "Representatives of different farmers' bodies had come to tell that the laws are good and are in the interest of farmers. They had come to urge the government not make any amendments to the laws," Tomar said after meeting the two groups. "I am hopeful they (protesting farmers' unions) will soon complete their internal discussions and come forward for talks. We will be able to find a solution successfully," the minister said. Agriculture Ministry had written to the protesting groups on Sunday, urging them to specify their concerns on the government's proposal and finalise a date for the next round of talks to end the protests. At least five rounds of formal talks have failed to break the deadlock as the agitating unions have not agreed to anything less than repeal of the laws. UP-based Kisan Sangarsh Samithi (KSS) and Delhi-based Indian Kisan Union (IKU) are among those farmer groups that have extended support to the laws in the last three weeks. The previous groups were from Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. However, nearly 40 groups are agitating against the laws on various Delhi borders. The protesting groups have maintained that the new laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has been saying that these apprehensions are misplaced. Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar as well as former Uttarakhand Minister and IKU National President Ramkumar Walia were also present in Tuesday's meeting. "The three laws enacted by the Centre are good and are in the interest of the farming community," KSS President Ajay Pal Pradhan told PTI after the meeting. While supporting the laws, KSS also urged the minister to ensure that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) continues. Pradhan claimed that thousands of farmers who have come in tractors in support of the laws have been stopped at the border and therefore a select group has come for the meeting. In its representation made to Tomar, KSS also requested the Centre to implement the 2011-12 agreement signed between farmers of Gautam Buddha Nagar with Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Development Authorities. "Even after the High Court order, the development authorities are not implementing the agreement under which the UP government had decided to give 10 per cent of the developed land to farmers whose land was acquired for the development and housing project," Pradhan said. KSS further demanded that the government should notify only that much land which is required for the development. In the Secunderabad industrial area, industries have developed 45 per cent of the land acquired and the rest is not used yet. "The land was acquired in 1972, but only on paper, the industries are made functional. No infrastructure has been developed. There is no proper road and water facility. Villagers are finding it difficult," Secunderabad Block Pramuk Pushpendra Bhati said. KSS also demanded steps towards modernisation of mandis, use of mandi tax for development of mandis, a scheme to reduce tubewell charges and farm loan at a lesser interest rate, among others. "We have read the farm laws in detail and are in favour of farmers. We urge farmers not to get misled on this issue," Walia said. The new agri laws will end middlemen and give options for farmers to sell their produce, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-tomar-says-hopeful-of-protesting-unions-resuming-talks-with-govt-soon-930338.html
22-12-2020||National||India stopping flights from UK upsets plans of many||India stopping flights to and from Britain after a new strain of Covid-19 with high transmissibility was reported in the UK has upset plans of many who were to come back home before the New Year or return to universities there for pending research work. The flight suspension till the end of this year was announced on Monday in view of detection of a new rapid-spreading strain of the coronavirus in parts of England. Besides India, other countries like Canada have also stopped flights from the UK. "My family is visiting me and they were supposed to return post-Christmas. But now their plans seem to be doomed," said Abhijeet Dang, an IT professional in the UK. He said the whole year people were not travelling fearing they would get stuck due to sudden lockdowns. "We kept delaying our travel, thinking either of us might get stuck, but recently my family took the chance and came to the UK," Abhijeet said. His mother Taruna Dang, who is a professor at a private university in India, said, "I can continue taking online classes from the UK but we have seen in the past that once stranded, the struggle begins. We hope flights resume soon." To add to his worries, the UK, following the detection of the new coronavirus strain, has been ordering localised lockdowns. Deepak Tripathi came on a week-long business trip to Belfast in Northern Ireland to finish work before his wife's delivery in January. "We suffered huge losses last year and I knew it will be a while before I can come again (to Belfast) because we are expecting our first child. But now, I am stranded here. I hope I am able to make it home in time before her delivery, though my parents are there with her," he said. After waiting for over eight months, Natasha Sharma, had plans to travel back to the UK in the last week of December to continue her pending research from January onwards, but the same has been put on hold once again. "I came in March for two weeks and got stuck here. I kept doing my work online and kept exploring options about how and when to go back," she told PTI. Sharma said that after letting go off the initial apprehensions, exploring quarantine rules and the Vande Bharat schedule, and making several other arrangements, "I had plans to travel in the last week of December but again it has to be put on hold". Various European nations and Canada have also barred UK flights. India’s ban is currently until the end of the year. "Considering the prevailing situation in UK, Govt. of India has decided that all flights originating from UK to India to be suspended till 31st December 2020 (23.59 hours). This suspension to start w.e.f. 23.59 hours, 22nd December 2020," the aviation ministry said in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stopping-flights-from-uk-upsets-plans-of-many-930340.html
22-12-2020||National||Kashmiri resident arrested for targeting minors in US||A Kashmiri resident has been arrested by the CBI for allegedly circulating child abuse material on the internet and targeting minors in the United States through his wife staying in Washington. The accused allegedly uploaded pornographic videos and images over the dark web for financial gains and also involved in direct communication with many minors in the US, the CBI said on Tuesday. The arrest came following an investigation into allegations of running online child sexual abuse racket from India, targeting minors living in the US. The accused's wife is living in Washington and he was operating the racket through her. The woman had "agreed to be involved in the master-slave relationship with the accused and on his direction, allegedly exploited multiple minors, recorded abuses and electronically sent the same to him," the CBI claimed. When the victims refused to follow his dictate, the CBI claimed, he shared these videos and images with their family members. Searches were conducted at the premises of the accused in Srinagar from where digital evidence including three laptops, five mobiles, pen drives and handwritten notes among others were recovered. The CBI is regularly coordinating with international law enforcement agencies to detect and investigate sexual abuse of minors, especially over the cyberspace and also reaffirms its commitment towards promoting cooperation with US Law Enforcement Agencies in combating child sexual abuse in cyberspace, the CBI said. CBI had recently traced and arrested an accused, a resident of Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh on November 16 on the allegations of sexually abusing over 50 children. During searches, huge material including mobile phones, laptops, web-camera, electronic storage devices, pendrives/memory cards, several sex toys, emails etc. were recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmiri-resident-arrested-for-targeting-minors-in-us-930346.html
22-12-2020||National||44% rural Indians willing to pay for Covid-19 vaccine; 51% consider coronavirus 'Chinese conspiracy': Survey||Nearly 44 per cent of rural Indians are willing to pay for the Covid-19 vaccine, while more than half of the population in India's villages believe the coronavirus crisis is a "conspiracy by China', a survey showed on Tuesday. The survey, conducted by Gaon Connection among 6,040 rural respondents across 60 districts in 16 states and one union territory, found that 36 per cent said they would not want to pay for it. The remaining 20 per cent said they are yet to decide on paying for the vaccine. Of those who were willing to pay, two-third said they can pay up to Rs 500 for two doses of the vaccine, whenever it is available. Meanwhile, at least 51 per cent of rural respondents called the coronavirus crisis a 'conspiracy by China' and about 18 per cent saw it as the government's failure. Nearly 20 per cent said they consider it an 'act of God', 22 per cent blamed the negligence of the people for the pandemic and 18 per cent did not share any view. The face-to-face survey was conducted by the rural media platform's surveyors between December 1 and December 10. It said The selection of states, covering all regions of the country, was based on the prevalence of Covid-19 as per the data of the Union ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Gaon Connection said the survey has a margin of error of 5 per cent and a 95 per cent confidence level. The states covered under the north zone included Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana. States in the south zone included Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka. The west zone included Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh; whereas the east-northeast zone included Odisha, Assam, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh. Around one-fourth of all respondents said that samples from at least one member of their household was taken for testing of Covid-19. The proportion of such households was the highest in the east-and-northeast zone, whereas it was the lowest in the north zone. Of the 25.9 per cent respondent households who reported at least one family member getting tested for Covid-19, more than half (59 per cent), said at least one person in their household had tested positive. Overall, 15 per cent of the total 6,040 respondent households reported at least one person in their household/friend circle testing positive for Covid-19. When asked if they had to pay for the Covid-19 vaccine, who in their household/family would they vaccinate first, the three most selected options were: old parents (33.3 per cent), children (26.5 per cent) and the main earner of the family (16 per cent). The majority of the rural respondent households suggested prioritising doctors and nurses for administering the Covid-19 vaccine, followed by by frontline health workers such as ASHAs and ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing and Midwifery), sanitation workers, and police personnel. The survey also found that Covid-19 has also changed the food habits of rural citizens with almost 70 per cent of respondents (of the 54 per cent total respondents who said they consumed non-veg food items) saying they had stopped eating outside food. Over 33 per cent said they had started eating more vegetables, whereas 30 per cent said they were eating more fruits. However, every fourth BPL respondent household said its family members were not getting enough food to eat, it said. At least three vaccine candidates are being examined by the Indian authorities for emergency use authorisation, while a few more are currently in different stages of development and trials. The number of daily new coronavirus infections reported in the country was recorded below 20,000 after nearly six months on Tuesday while the Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below 3 lakh. India's overall Covid-19 caseload stands at over 1 crore, while 1.46 lakh have died so far. More than 96 lakh have recuperated from the disease, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.65 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate now stands at 1.45 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/44-rural-indians-willing-to-pay-for-covid-19-vaccine-51-consider-coronavirus-chinese-conspiracy-survey-930356.html
22-12-2020||National||U'khand assembly passes supplementary budget of over Rs 4,000 crore||The Uttarakhand Assembly on Tuesday passed the state's supplementary budget of Rs 4,063.79 crore on the second day of its ongoing winter session. It was tabled in the House on Monday. The supplementary budget earmarks Rs 2,071.42 crore for revenue expenditure and Rs 1,992.37 crore for capital expenditure, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Madan Kaushik said. It makes the highest allocation of Rs 2,293.30 crore for centrally-assisted schemes, followed by Rs 641 crore for disaster management, Rs 500 crore for Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and Rs 200 crore for the forthcoming Kumbh Mela at Haridwar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ukhand-assembly-passes-supplementary-budget-of-over-rs-4000-crore-930368.html
22-12-2020||National||Bharat Biotech readies for ‘uphill’ rollout of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin||By Chris Kay, The developer of India’s main homegrown coronavirus vaccine is already producing millions of doses of its yet-to-be-authorised candidate, but says the thought of supplying enough shots for half the country’s nearly 1.4 billion people is daunting. “It’s nightmarish,” said Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech International Ltd. “Sometimes I get goosebumps, sometimes I wake up early in the morning wondering where are we. What are we doing? How do we get there?” Bharat Biotech has already produced about 10 million doses of its still-in-trials Covaxin shot, ahead of an anticipated roll out by the middle of next year. It has a current annual capacity of 300 million vaccines and expects the first 100 million to be deployed by India, which has partly financed the development. “We have started producing at risk because we know that it will be an uphill task -- in the Indian context it’s small,” Ella said in an interview from Hyderabad on Monday. “That’s a huge challenge in front of us when we think of the hundreds of millions of doses even if half the country needs to be vaccinated.” As many as two other countries have also signed preliminary supply agreements with the company, she said, declining to give details. In its bid to halt the spread of the world’s second-largest coronavirus outbreak, India will likely initially lean on the two-dose vaccines manufactured by Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India Ltd. The latter has partnered with AstraZeneca Plc. to make at least one billion doses of their shot, half of which have been earmarked for India. Bharat has spent about $60 million to $70 million so far developing Covid vaccines, and Ella said Monday that early trial data suggested Covaxin, an inactivated candidate that uses a dead version of the virus, has efficacy rates of at least 60%, which was a “conservative” projection. That may improve in the final human study, she said. The trial has recruited half of its 26,000 volunteers, and going into 2021 Ella expects licensing to allow inoculations for public use by May or June. The lack of Phase III trial data didn’t stop Bharat from applying for emergency use authorisation this month, though the company and Serum Institute -- which has submitted final-stage trial numbers -- have been asked by Indian regulators to provide additional figures on safety, efficacy, and immunogenicity. Pfizer Inc. has also applied for urgent approvals of its own vaccine, though its requirements for ultra-cold storage make it an unlikely candidate for widespread use across India, particularly in the impoverished countryside. Both Bharat and Serum’s vaccines can be stored at refrigerator temperature, making them more suited to India’s infrastructure. Bharat Biotech and Ocugen Inc. have agreed to co-develop Covaxin for the US market, the companies said in an emailed statement Tuesday. The development of Covaxin has been dogged by overambitious pronouncements, including one from the Indian Council of Medical Research that envisaged the vaccine’s distribution on Aug. 15 this year, when the country celebrated its independence from British colonial rule. Ella said there had been a communication “slip,” which was later clarified. Reports also emerged last month that a volunteer in the first stage of human testing suffered a potentially adverse reaction in August that wasn’t publicly announced at the time. Ella said the illness wasn’t related to the shot, regulators were informed within 24 hours as required under trial guidelines, and that “everything has happened within the law of the land.” The shot from Bharat Biotech -- which has churned out billions of vaccines for diseases from rabies to typhoid since Ella co-founded the firm in 1996 with her husband Krishna -- could be crucial in making up any shortfall given the fierce competition for the limited supply of global front-runners. Although India has secured access to over 2 billion vaccine doses, only 85% of its people can count on those shots. There are 30 other countries in Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking that have a higher vaccination coverage rate for their populations. With India’s total Covid infections crossing the 10-million mark on Saturday, Ella said she hoped that within one to two years the country would be able to vaccinate at least a third of its population. She voiced confidence in the scale and ability of India’s public immunisation system, which inoculates about 27 million babies and 29 million pregnant women every year, to deploy any Covid shot. Ella also pointed to India’s polio program, which uses a vaccine requiring -20 degrees Celsius storage. “That has been handled very effectively in India,” she said. “It goes to show how strong and robust this mechanism is.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-readies-for-uphill-rollout-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-930378.html
22-12-2020||National||Medical fraternity at forefront of Covid crisis, not less than 'superman': Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday equated the medical fraternity's commitment during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic to that of a "superman" saving the world. He also mentioned that the Russian-made vaccine Sputnik V will be coming soon to India. "During this crisis, the entire world understood that the real superman is our doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. I am the Defence Minister. And, I urge you to come forward and render your services to the armed forces," Singh said while addressing the foundation day programme of King George's Medical University (KGMU) through video-conferencing. The way in which the medical faculty served during the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire humanity will remain indebted to them, he pointed out. KGMU has established a distinct place for itself in the field of medicine in the country, and for more than 100 years treated crores of patients, Singh added. "When we talk about a war, then the image of our armed forces and weapons emerges before us. But, the war against corona is a war in which doctors and paramedical staff are fighting like warriors." "I cannot express the hardwork of doctors in words, as they are continuously and tirelessly doing their work. They have fought under circumstances, which have not been by seen by four previous generations," he further said. "The war is not over yet, as a new strain of virus has emerged in Britain. The war will continue till a vaccine is made available to the entire world. Our government has made a broad consensus that whenever the vaccination will start, the doctors, paramedical staff and other health workers will get the vaccine," the Defence Minister added. Preparations have been made for the distribution of the vaccine and the scientists will test it soon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-fraternity-at-forefront-of-covid-crisis-not-less-than-superman-rajnath-singh-930381.html
22-12-2020||National||India, Japan send clear message to China: Will oppose bid to change status quo in South China Sea||India and Japan on Tuesday sent out a strong message to China, stating that they would oppose any attempt to change the status quo in the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to his new counterpart in the Japanese Government, Kishi Nobuo, and exchanged views on regional situations, including the East China Sea and the South China Sea. The ministers “concurred in sending a clear message”, strongly opposing “any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by coercion or any activities that escalate tension”, according to a statement released by the Ministry of Defence of the Japanese Government in Tokyo. Singh and Nobuo also agreed on the need for “a free and open maritime order based on the rule of law”. The two ministers exchanged views on the security situation in the region and the need for a free and open maritime order based on the rule of law, the Ministry of Defence of the Government of India stated in New Delhi. It added that Singh congratulated Kishi on his appointment as Minister of Defence of Japan and expressed satisfaction at the ongoing defence cooperation between the two countries despite limitations imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. India and China are currently engaged in a military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off started when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s unilateral and aggressive move to change the status quo to push the LAC westward was thwarted by the Indian Army in late April and early May. Japan is also concerned over China’s growing aggression in the South China Sea and the East China Sea. The tension between the two nations further escalated recently when China sent vessels to Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea claimed by Japan. Singh and Nobuo noted that India and Japan recently signed the military logistics sharing agreement and held the Malabar 2020 naval exercise along with Australia and the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-send-clear-message-to-china-will-oppose-bid-to-change-status-quo-in-south-china-sea-930383.html
22-12-2020||National||Food-drug adulteration: Madhya Pradesh to bring in life sentence provision||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to introduce a provision for a life sentence for those found guilty of food and drug adulteration, state home minister Narottam Mishra said. The current punishment includes imprisonment for a period of upto three years and the nod for an amendment to bring in a provision of life sentence was given in a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during the day, Mishra informed. The Penal Laws (Madhya Pradesh Amendment) Bill 2020, which provides for those indulging in food and drug adulteration to be sent to jail for life, will be introduced in the state Assembly soon, he added. Mishra said international agencies have been warning about fake Covid-19 vaccines and there have also been a couple of cases in Gwalior where adulterated plasma was detected. "Those selling food and drugs past their expiry dates will be sentenced to five years in jail," he said. Mishra added that a bill to prevent marriages with the intention of religious conversion will be discussed in the next cabinet meeting on December 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/food-drug-adulteration-madhya-pradesh-to-bring-in-life-sentence-provision-930385.html
22-12-2020||National||Farmers want UK PM Boris Johnson to cancel visit till farm laws are scrapped||Stepping up pressure on the government, agitating farmers on Tuesday decided to write to British MPs to stall Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to India next month till the farm sector laws are scrapped. The farmers also did not appear to be in a hurry to respond to the Modi government’s letter asking them to specify a date for the next round of talks, saying they would decide on it at a meeting on Wednesday. Farmers blocked traffic at the Ghazipur and Noida borders, accusing the Uttar Pradesh Police of stopping their supporters at various places in the state from marching towards the national capital. The British Prime Minister will be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebration next month. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar continued to receive delegations of farmers expressing support to the farm sector reforms, a move seen as an attempt by the government to portray that its initiative has run into Opposition from a particular group. “Representatives of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Noida and Indian Kisan Union, New Delhi met me and submitted a memorandum supporting the farm reform laws,” Tomar said. The Centre had sent a letter to the agitating farmers on Sunday seeking clarity on their demands and asking them to convey a date for the next round of talks. The farmers said the government was disinterested in addressing their demands and cherry-picking on various issues flagged by them during the six rounds of talks. The 32 farmer unions from Punjab held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the future course of action. “A meeting of farmer leaders from across India would be held on Wednesday where a decision on the government's offer will be taken,” Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a farmer leader told reporters at the Singhu border, the epicentre of the agitation. Sandhu said that the farmers have decided to intensify the agitation against new farm laws and make toll plazas in Haryana's highways free from December 25 to December 27. Unions affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress have announced that they would skip lunch on Wednesday to express solidarity with the relay hunger strike of farmers against the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-want-uk-pm-boris-johnson-to-cancel-visit-till-farm-laws-are-scrapped-930397.html
22-12-2020||National||Emergency no 112 to be available for disaster relief in 2 years;alert protocol in 4 years: NDMA official||People will be able to use the emergency number 112 to seek help during any natural disaster in the next two years, a National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) official said on Tuesday. The NDMA is also working to roll out a common alert protocol that will use all communication mediums like SMS, mobile apps, radio and television in an automated manner to send out early warning messages to people in the danger zone. "The MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) is working on public safety... it is 112 single number emergency response system. It is being implemented for police, fire emergency, women and child protection and the next evolution is for disaster on which we are working. This will be rolled in two year or so," NDMA Advisor, Operations and Communications, Brig Ajay Gangwar said. Speaking at a COAI-Nokia virtual event, he said the government is also working on priority call routing which will give precedence to officials and agencies that will be first point of response for relief and rescue operations during any disaster like earthquake, cyclone or floods. Gangwar said NDMA has done a pilot project for common alert protocol which sends out automated alerts to people and it will implemented across country in four years. "We have already carried out a pilot in one of the state. We are in process of rolling it out pan-India. In four years we will be doing it. "We would be working very closely with telecom operators on this particular project. There would be need for upgrading existing technology and embracing new solutions by the telecom service providers," Gangwar pointed out. He said the existing telecom infrastructure in the country is not disaster-resilient, specially mobile towers. Telecom regulator Trai had in 2018 recommended setting up of a dedicated next generation public protection and disaster relief (PPDR) communication network to handle communications at the time of natural disasters. "Keeping in mind the developments in wireless broadband technologies such as LTE, it is time we exploit these to enhance the efficiencies of the current communications infrastructure of PPDR agencies to enable them to use digital tools to meet the evolving needs of public safety and emergency communication," COAI Director General S P Kochhar said. Nokia's Chief Technology Officer Randeep Raina said the country's National Digital Communications Policy 2018 stresses on enhancing PPDR and establishing a pan-India network for the same. "To overcome current challenges, LTE for public safety network brings many advantages and provides host of services like IoT, video streaming and is also scalable. "We understand India wants to adopt LTE but spectrum availability is an issue, so we hope all stakeholders work in this direction to adopt new technologies," Raina said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emergency-no-112-to-be-available-for-disaster-relief-in-2-yearsalert-protocol-in-4-years-ndma-official-930398.html
22-12-2020||National||DDC poll verdict befitting reply against abrogation of Article 370: Omar, Mehbooba||As People’s Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) headed for victory in DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir, former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti termed the result as a verdict on the BJP government’s decision to abrogate specials status of the erstwhile state under Article 370. “People from Jammu as well as Kashmir have extended complete support to the Gupkar Alliance and endorsed its plan seeking restoration of J&K’s special status by giving a befitting reply to the BJP in the DDC polls,” Omar, who is vice president of National Conference (NC) told reporters. Commenting on the PAGD’s victory, Mehbooba Mufti, who is president of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), tweeted: “Today’s DDC results have made it clear that people of J&K voted en masse for JKPAGD thus rejecting the unconstitutional decision to abrogate Article 370. They have overwhelmingly supported JKPAGD which stands for restoration of J&Ks special status (sic).” In another tweet she said, “GOI left no stone unturned to create hurdles for us. Beginning with Waheed Ur Rehman’s arrest a day after he filed his DDC nominations, restricting our movement & not allowing us to campaign… I was illegally detained thrice over the course of a fortnight. PAGD candidates were locked up in a government building while others barred from canvassing. Despite all these obstacles, PAGD emerged as winners.” The PAGD is an alliance of arch rivals, NC and PDP, besides five other parties which was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ddc-poll-verdict-befitting-reply-against-abrogation-of-article-370-omar-mehbooba-930407.html
22-12-2020||National||Ayodhya struggle a bid to make Hindus mentally strong, says BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis||The campaign held over years for the construction of Lord Ram's temple in Ayodhya was aimed at helping Hindus rid their "defeatist mentality", senior Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said here on Tuesday. Fadnavis, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, made these remarks while speaking at a function to launch a book written by state BJP vice president Madhav Bhandari on the Ayodhya movement. "Protests held over years for the construction of a temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya were aimed at making Hindus shed their 'parabhut mansikta' (defeatist mentality)," the former chief minister said. Titled "Ayodhya", the book covers the early period (of history). He said the book will serve as a key reference document summarising the protests held for the cause of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. "The book brings together various references that are related to Ayodhya town in Uttar Pradesh. The invaders had destroyed the Ram temple there...and a defeatist mentality was thrust upon Hindus for years to come. The (temple) campaign was undertaken to counter this mentality and awaken the community," Fadnavis said. Speaking about the motivation to write the book, Bhandari said, "Several misconceptions and lies were spread about this (temple) campaign, which needs to be countered. I tried to bring out the truth about the campaign in my book". In November, 2019, the Supreme Court delivered a historic verdict backing the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Later, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was set up for the construction of the temple, whose 'bhoomi pujan' was performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August this year, bringing to fruition the BJP's 'mandir' movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-struggle-a-bid-to-make-hindus-mentally-strong-says-bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-930413.html
22-12-2020||National||Why can't Centre suspend farm laws till winter ends, asks Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi president Prakash Ambedkar on Tuesday asked why the Union government doesn't suspend the new farm laws till winter gets over as protests on Delhi borders are continuing in chilly weather. The Union government has a dictatorial attitude and no inclination to listen to farmers who are opposing the laws, he alleged at a press conference here. At least 26 days have passed and protesting farmers are braving 2 degrees Celsius temperature, he said. "The Modi government should answer why it can't suspend these laws till winter is over," Ambedkar said. The VBA chief congratulated farmers for bringing to the fore the `fact' that the new laws would lead to the government stopping the purchase of farm produce. It will affect food security, Ambedkar claimed. The three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers apprehend that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-cant-centre-suspend-farm-laws-till-winter-ends-asks-vanchit-bahujan-aghadi-leader-prakash-ambedkar-930416.html
22-12-2020||National||Farmer unions to address queries on farm laws via webinar on Thursday||The newly-formed social media cell of the farmers' collective announced on Tuesday that a web conference would be conducted to address all queries regarding the three new farm laws and the protest against it. The webinar, to be hosted on video conference platform Zoom on Thursday noon, will be open for the first "10,000 people" registering on the link, which they would disclose. Those who cannot make it to the first 10,000 can watch the webinar on social media platforms, it said. "Senior farmer union leaders who are key members of the movement will be answering all sorts of queries during the webinar -- be it on the farm laws or the ongoing agitation," Baljeet Singh Sandhu, social media cell head and Majha Kisan committee vice president, said at a press conference at the Singhu border. Sandhu also invited the likes of actors Kanagana Ranaut, Mukesh Khanna and Payal Rohatgi, who have been actively voicing their opinion against the farmers' protest, to participate in the webinar and debate the matter. Kisan Ekta Morcha, which is the official social media account, publishes updates on the farmer protests, videos of speeches given by union leaders and also counters what they call is "propaganda" pushed by the Centre. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three contentious laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that would remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislations would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price and end the traditional wholesale market system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-to-address-queries-on-farm-laws-via-webinar-on-thursday-930418.html
22-12-2020||National||Maharashtra government to provide financial aid to startups||The Maharashtra government has decided to provide financial assistance to innovative startups which wish to file for patents, state Minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference here, the Skill Development, Employment and Entrepreneurship Minister said in the first phase of the scheme, 125 to 150 startups will be supported with financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. "In order to survive in a competitive world, it is important for startups and early-stage entrepreneurs to protect their Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)," an official statement said. With the objective of spreading awareness and providing assistance for filing IPR application, this scheme aims to offer financial assistance of up to Rs 2 lakh for a domestic patent application. "And up to Rs 10 lakh for an international patent application, subject to maximum 80 per cent contribution by Maharashtra State Innovation Society set up by the department of skill development, employment and entrepreneurship, on a reimbursement basis, the statement said. The scheme will cater across utility patents, industry design patents, copyrights (limited to computer code) and trademark applications, the statement said. To be eligible for aid, the applicant should be a startup recognised by the Department of Industry and Internal Trade, Government of India, and incorporated in Maharashtra, it said. For domestic patent applications, since incorporation, the startup should have a revenue of less than Rs 1 crore. "For international patent applications, since incorporation, the startup should have a revenue of less than Rs 5 crore, the statement said. Malik also said the Maharashtra government has decided to support startups with expenses incurred for quality testing and certification. He contended that quality testing and certification is an important expense for early stage startups and often they find it difficult to bear the cost. As per this scheme, startups will be supported up to Rs 2 lakh, subject to 80 per cent of the total cost incurred for quality testing and certification, on a reimbursement basis, the minister said. To be eligible under this scheme, it is mandatory to undertake these tests at a NABL/BIS recognised lab Malik said and added that the state government aims to support approximately 250 startups under the initiative. Also, the startups annual revenue should not have crossed Rs 1 crore in any financial year and it should not have raised funds exceeding Rs 3 crore. Malik said these schemes will be launched very soon by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and financial assistance shall be provided for patent filing and quality testing and certification. Post their launch, applications for financial aid will be accepted on www.msins.in, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-to-provide-financial-aid-to-startups-930420.html
22-12-2020||National||UP's anti-conversion law cannot be sustained, contains many defects, says ex-SC judge Madan B Lokur||Former Supreme Court Judge Justice Madan B Lokur on Tuesday criticised the Uttar Pradesh's new anti-conversion law, saying it cannot be sustained as it contained many defects from legal and Constitutional point of view. He said there was no immediacy that called for passing the law -- Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance when the state assembly was not in session. “If one looks at the ordinance from a purely legal and Constitutional point of view, there are so many defects in it. The judge doesn't have to get into politics. Just have to look at the Constitution and see if it is valid or not. "The Constitution says Ordinance can be passed if there is a need for immediate action. What is the need for immediate action to pass it when the Vidhan Sabha is not in session? Absolutely nothing... There is no way that this Ordinance can be sustained,” said Justice (Retd) Lokur. He was speaking at the launch of the book launch “In Pursuit of Justice- An autobiography”, on former Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court late Justice Rajinder Sachar. Justice Lokur further said that judges should be people oriented and the Constitution is above everything. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, mainly envisages that no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion. Recently the Allahabad High Court has sought the response of the Uttar Pradesh government on a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Ordinance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ups-anti-conversion-law-cannot-be-sustained-contains-many-defects-says-ex-sc-judge-madan-b-lokur-930422.html
22-12-2020||National||Youth arrested for 5-year-old girl's murder had sex with dead body: SIT chief||The youth arrested in the Nayagarh minor girl murder case, had raped the 5-year-old victim after strangulating her to death, the Special Investigating Team (SIT) chief Arun Bothra said Tuesday. Addressing a press conference here, Bothra said: "The accused youth was addicted to child pornography and strangulated the girl to death as she protested him. However, he had sex with her body." However, the accused youth's mother and sister and also the victim's parents rejected the Special Investigation Team's claim. While the accused's mother said that her son was "innocent", the victim's mother said that he (accused) was a "good person". Meanwhile, the youth's mother in a written complaint at the Nayagarh Sadar Police station said: "The SIT arrested my innocent son. I have complained about this to the Sadar Police. Bothra told my son to admit to the crime and take Rs 5 lakh cash. My son has been subjected to physical and mental torture. He is being forced to admit charges." While describing the minor girl's murder as most "brutal and gruesome" in his 22-years of service in the police, Bothra, said, the accused was very clever and therefore deleted the Google history from his mobile phone. "However, while opening his handset, the murder and rape of a 3-year-old girl popped up. He was watching minor girl's rape and murder cases on the internet in order to find ways to escape it," he said. "I had heard of cases where accused tried to have intercourse with dead corpses. But this is for the first time in my career as a policeman I came face to face with such an instance of pervert sexual assault," he said. The SIT chief said that the accused youth's younger sister happened to be a close friend of the victim who used to visit his home to eat berries (Jamun) from their backyard. On July 14 the victim had visited his house when others were not at home, Bothra said. "The accused had watched porn videos on his mobile phone throughout the night of July 13. Next day he was all alone at home as his sister and mother were out on work. He had lost his father some years ago. The accused has confessed to having committed the crime instantly and had no prior plan," Bothra said. The SIT chief said as evidence, the team has detected the youth's semen in the dress of the victim which was put in the sack before being dumped near a pond in the backyard of the girl's house. He later took the girl's leggings and threw it in the same pond. The girl was killed on July 14 and her skeletal remains were found from the backyard of her house on July 23. However, the incident came to the limelight when the deceased girl's parents attempted self-immolation before the Odisha Assembly. The state government subsequently ordered an SIT probe after Opposition BJP and Congress raised the matter in the Assembly. The youth, who was arrested on Monday, was taken into police custody till December 24 for further interrogation, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-arrested-for-5-year-old-girls-murder-had-sex-with-dead-body-sit-chief-930434.html
22-12-2020||National||When Prince of Wales came to Patna, first medical college was named after him||Ninety-nine years ago on this day, the then Prince of Wales had arrived in Patna as part of his royal tour of India, and the first medical college of Bihar and Orissa was named after him to commemorate his visit to what was then a young provincial capital. Edward, Prince of Wales and son of British monarch King George V, had travelled across the Indian subcontinent from October 1921 to March 1922. And, the historic city of Patna was on his busy royal itinerary. On the morning of December 22, 1921, he reached Patna via train and steamer from Nepal. According to archival records, Edward, after landing at the 'Commissioner's Ghat in Patna', drove in semi-state to a grand reception durbar that was hosted in his honour at the Bankipore Maidan -- now Gandhi Maidan. In the afternoon, he played polo and after dinner at the Government House (now Raj Bhawan), attended an informal reception there, to which a few guests were invited from the young province of Bihar and Orissa, officially born in 1912 with capital at Patna after the historic Delhi Durbar of King George V in 1911. Among the invited guests was Rai Bahadur Radha Krishna Jalan of the legendary Quila House in Patna City. He was a businessman and a noted personality of his time. Aditya Jalan, 43, the current scion of the Jalan family and his great grandson, said R K Jalan was also a great collector of arts and meticulously preserved all the invitation cards and pamphlets related to the events that he attended in those days. "The invites and other documents related to the royal visit of Prince of Wales to Patna is in my archives now. The invitation cards, include for events like the grand durbar, separate one for him and his wife, and the Government House reception the same evening," Aditya Jalan told PTI. Today is the exact day when 99 years ago, that historic durbar was held, but people have forgotten the history, he rued. "The next day a garden party was given by the Behar Landholders Association to the Prince of Wales at the historic Hardinge Park during his two-day visit to Patna. The invitation card that was sent to my great grandfather has a rather royal look, with a photo of Prince Edward printed on top in an artistic frame, flanked by his royal crest and motto 'Ich Dien' (I serve)," Aditya Jalan said. Among his archives are also correspondences between R K Jalan and government officials when the Prince of Wales fund for the medical college was being raised. "A letter of May 1922 talks about the plan to sell flags left over from the Prince of Wales' visit in 1921, proceeds of which would go to the college fund. Another one mentions about some money from the leftover of the Prince of Wales Reception Fund being given to start a leper dispensary in Patna," Aditya Jalan said. The prince, who later became King Edward VIII, wrapped up his Patna visit and left on the night of December 23 for Calcutta, where he also spent Christmas and inaugurated the iconic Victoria Memorial Hall -- whose foundation stone was laid by his father in 1906 during his royal tour as the then Prince of Wales. Four years after Prince Edward's visit, Bihar and Orissa's first medical college -- The Prince of Wales Medical College -- was established in 1925 in Bankipore, not very far from the Maidan where the durbar was held. The historic medical college, one of the oldest in the Indian subcontinent, traces its origin to the Temple Medical School set up in 1874 in Patna. The new institution, officially inaugurated two years later after it was set up to commemorate the royal visit of 1921, stands on the banks of Ganga as a "priceless heritage of the city". However, a few decades after the Independence, it, too, was renamed to Patna Medical College and Hospital or PMCH, as it is popularly known today. A huge marble plaque, bearing the old name of the college and the Prince of Wales royal crest, installed right outside the principal's office, however, tells the story of its inception and the prestige it enjoyed earlier, all but faded now. The plaque reads that the college was established in 1925 and formally inaugurated by the then Sir Henry Wheeler, the then lieutenant governor of Bihar and Orissa, on February 25, 1927. "An official opening ceremony was held and in my archives. I have also found an invitation card for the event sent to my great grandfather," Aditya said. The sprawling college campus is dotted with historical buildings, including the Bankipore General Hospital and Women Hospital, which were equipped with special lifts in that era, the main administrative building, and physiology and anatomy departments, among other structures. However, this heritage is threatened as its iconic, old buildings are proposed to be dismantled in multiple phases as part of a redevlopment plan of the Bihar government that was drawn up few years ago and faced opposition from its alumni spread across the world. Prateek Nishant, a PMCH alumnus whose great grandfather, Tarini Prasad Sinha, was among the first-graduating batch in 1927, said: "It's sad, this pioneering institution has been shorn of its glory first and now we might lose the old heritage, too, which should be preserved for posterity."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-prince-of-wales-came-to-patna-first-medical-college-was-named-after-him-930454.html
22-12-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena takes a dig at PM Modi's gurudwara visit amid farmers' stir||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday wondered what will be the outcome of the ongoing farmers' protest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a gurdwara and sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose followers are among those protesters. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' was referring to Modi's visit on Sunday to Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi where he paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice. Guru Teg Bahadur, whose death anniversary was observed on Saturday, was cremated at the Gurdwara Rakabganj. Thousands of farmers, including Sikhs, have been protesting near the Delhi borders since November 26 against the Modi government's three new farm laws. The editorial in the Marathi daily said farmers from Punjab did not flinch even when Modi reached the gurdwara, "turning his back towards the Sikh peasants protest", and continued with their demonstration. "Prime Minister Modi sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur. Happy about it. Thousands of Sikh fighters are also fighting (protesting) from the same inspiration near Delhi border. Hence, it is a question of what will be the outcome of the battle," the editorial said. It said 'gurbani' was being played when the prime minister reached the gurdwara. The gurbani says services and devotion towards God will be of no use if one does not change his/her thoughts, the editorial noted. The gurbani says reading the holy religious book several times will be of no use if one does not understand its teachings, and also asks what will one do when his/her time comes and an account of his/her deeds is checked, it said. The gurbani mentions that none could defend himself from time, it added. It is "not right" that Modi's political opponents criticise him for anything he does, the editorial said in a cryptic remark and asked what is there to be restless if he visited the gurdwara. Modi's opponents are alleging "politics" behind the prime minister's visit to the gurdwara and asking why are the farmers from Punjab protesting in the cold if he loves Sikhs so much, it said. "...but none should question Modi's faith. Guru Tegh Bahadur was a great saint. The Guru accepted martyrdom for humanity, principles and ideals...he was the protector of religion. Hence, not only Sikhs, everyone on this land should bow before Guru Tegh Bahadur," the editorial said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-takes-a-dig-at-pm-modis-gurudwara-visit-amid-farmers-stir-930246.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Cold wave conditions likely in Delhi over next four days: IMD||Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of Delhi over the next four days as the minimum temperature is expected to drop to three to four degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said on Tuesday. Moderate to dense fog is also predicted during the period, it said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 5.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the IMD said.  The observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest this season so far. The minimum temperature had increased slightly to 5.5 degrees Celsius on Monday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas. The maximum temperature settled at 23.5 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal.   “After the WD withdraws on Tuesday, the temperatures are expected to drop again,” Mahesh Palawat, an expert at Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said.   The WD led to light to moderate snowfall in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, he said.   Another Western Disturbance is likely to affect the upper Himalayan region from December 26, Palawat said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, officials said. The air quality was recorded in the "very poor" category.  The city's air quality index (AQI) was 365 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 332 on Monday and 321 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-conditions-likely-in-delhi-over-next-four-days-imd-930181.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||6-year-old girl raped in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 50-year-old man in a village in Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday evening in the Lalauli area here, SHO Sandeep Tiwari said. The accused, Ramu Tiwari, had fled the spot after villagers were alerted by the girl's cries for help but was later arrested, he said. The girl was admitted to a hospital, and her condition was stated to be stable, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-year-old-girl-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-fatehpur-930192.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Climate change ravages Kashmir's 'red gold' saffron crop||On sweeping fields once blanketed in lush purple, a thin and bedraggled crop of flowers is all farmers in Indian-administered Kashmir's saffron-growing region Pampore have to show for this year's harvest. Dry conditions blamed on climate change have seen yields of the world's most expensive spice halved in the past two decades, threatening the future of a cash crop that has brought wealth to the region for 2,500 years. "These fields used to be like goldmines," said Abdul Ahad Mir in Pampore, just south of Indian-administered Kashmir's main city Srinagar. Saffron has long thrived there, and Mir's family was reared in the delicate work of plucking the lucrative but tiny crimson threads from purple crocus flowers. "In my childhood, we needed 80 men over a week to pick the flowers," Mir told AFP. "Today our family of six finish it in a day." Warming temperatures caused by climate change have made rainfall erratic, depleting the thirsty saffron fields of water. Shrinking glaciers across the Himalayan region have also cut water flows to the foothills downstream. It takes around 160,000 flowers to yield one kilogram of the precious spice, which will sell for around $1,350 in local markets. But official figures show that harvests of the so-called "red gold" were just 1.4 kilograms per hectare in 2018 -- half the figure recorded in 1998. Mohammad Ramzan Rather says his acreage in Pampore only produced around 30 grams of the crop this year, down from two kilograms 12 years ago. The harvest season -- which lasts for just two weeks at the end of autumn -- has also been devastated by the coronavirus pandemic, as well as recent security lockdowns in response to a long-running insurgency in the disputed territory, claimed by both India and arch-rival Pakistan. Historians say saffron has been cultivated in Kashmir since at least 500 BC. Locally the spice is added to traditional dishes and used as an ingredient in Kehwa, a sweet drink served during special occasions such as marriages. Elsewhere in the world, it is prized for its use in cooking and cosmetics and can fetch prices of more than $10,000 per kilogram on the international market. Nearly 90 per cent of the world's saffron is grown in Iran, but experts consider Kashmir's crop to be superior for its deep red colour and distinct aroma. In 2010, Indian authorities sought to halt the impact of climate change by launching a $54 million fund to introduce modern agricultural technology to farmers. Authorities have touted it as a success, claiming it has rejuvenated Kashmir's 3,700 acres of saffron fields. But farmers disagree. They have ripped up plastic irrigation pipes that are now strewn across fields, saying they bring little water and make it harder to till the land. Others say high-yield seed varieties introduced under the scheme have ruined their crops. Jalal-ud-Din Wani said some farmers were turning their land into orchards because apples need less water. Though he said the government's intervention had failed, Wani believes that the luck of some farmers may improve. If they stick to traditional methods of farming the crop, he said, "there is still a sliver of chance to revive it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/climate-change-ravages-kashmirs-red-gold-saffron-crop-930194.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Six passengers on London-Delhi flight test positive for Covid-19||Six passengers travelling on Air India's London-Delhi flight tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, a senior government official said on Tuesday.  The flight landed around 11.30 pm on Monday.  "Five passengers were found Covid-positive at the Delhi airport. One passenger who took a connecting flight to Chennai was tested there and found positive," the official said.  "A second flight from London landed at 6 am on Tuesday. Tests on the passengers are underway," said Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder of the Genestrings Diagnostic Center that is handling coronavirus testing at Delhi airport. “Of the approximately 100 tests completed so far, no positive found… We have two more flights scheduled for tonight," Agarwal told PTI. The Central government on Monday said all UK-India flights will be suspended from December 23 to December 31 in view of the emergence of a new coronavirus strain in that country.  It also said all passengers coming from the UK on Monday and Tuesday would be compulsorily tested for coronavirus on arrival at airports.  The positive samples from Monday night’s flight were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control, Agarwal told PTI. "Positive samples have been sent to NCDC for research on the new strain using next-gen sequencing technology which will help us understand the implications on ongoing vaccine efficacy," she said. The Tamil Nadu government is sending the swab samples of the said passenger to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic analysis to find out whether he is infected with old or the new strain that has caused many scares across the globe. The discovery of the new strain, just months before vaccines are expected to be widely available, sowed new panic in a pandemic that has killed about 1.7 million people worldwide and more than 67,000 in Britain. At least two other flights from Britain have landed in India since the announcement of the flight ban, one in Mumbai and the other in the northern city of Amritsar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-passengers-on-london-delhi-flight-test-positive-for-covid-19-930199.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||J&K DDC poll results: PAGD leads in 80, BJP 47, Congress 22||The counting for all 280 DDC constituencies – 14 each in all 20 districts of the Union Territory (UT) - began at 9 am at all district headquarters across J&K. The polling was held from November 28 to December 19 in eight phases with 51% voters exercising their franchise in the elections, which were largely peaceful. The PAGD is an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, Peoples Conference, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference - which was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The Congress was initially a part of the PAGD but distanced itself from the alliance as the BJP targeted the opposition party for being in league with the ‘anti-national Gupkar Gang.’ The DDC polls mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the region, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. In the absence of an elected government in the UT, these Councils are set to become a new unit of governance in Jammu and Kashmir. J&K has been under the central rule since June 2018 when the BJP pulled out of the alliance government with the PDP. The special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 was revoked in August 2019 by the Parliament and it was bifurcated into the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-ddc-poll-results-pagd-leads-in-80-bjp-47-congress-22-930205.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shells mortars along LoC in J&K's Poonch||Pakistani troops opened fire and shelled mortars at forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday, a defence spokesperson said. There was no report of any damage on the Indian side, he said. "At about 0930 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sectors in Poonch district," the spokesperson said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shells-mortars-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-930210.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Potable water misuse, wastage must be monitored and stopped: NGT to Delhi Jal Board||The misuse and wastage of potable water has to be prevented and authorities should continuously monitor it, the National Green Tribunal has said. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made the observation while asking a petitioner, who sought to stop water wastage, to take up the matter with the statutory authorities concerned as per law. "There cannot be two views that misuse of water has to be prevented but the Issue is of continuously monitoring which has to be done by the authorities concerned," the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by city resident Mahesh Chandra Saxena seeking a direction to stop misuse and wastage of the potable water forthwith and to install CCTV cameras at the water filling points of Delhi Jal Board. According to the applicant, DJB officers should supervise the water filling process, an operator cabin should be set up and a CCTV camera should also be installed to enable the monitoring by the executive engineer concerned. The applicant noted that there is indiscriminate misuse and wastage of potable water by government agencies. The NGT had earlier expressed concern over the wastage of water during the filling of the tankers for supply in different areas and had directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to look into the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/potable-water-misuse-wastage-must-be-monitored-and-stopped-ngt-to-delhi-jal-board-930245.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Snowfall predicted in some parts of Kashmir valley over weekend||Cold conditions prevailed in Kashmir as the minimum temperature remained below the freezing point across the valley on Tuesday, even as the MET Office said the weather is likely to remain dry and cold till the weekend when a spell of light to moderate snowfall is possible at widespread places. The weather remained dry across Kashmir on the second day of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum, officials said. They said while the valley continued to reel under sub-zero night temperature, there was a slight improvement in the mercury at a few places. Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius – down from the previous night's minus 4 degrees Celsius, they said. The mercury in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir also went down from the previous night's low of minus 4.6 degrees Celsius to settle at a low of minus 5.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said. They said Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 5.8 degrees Celsius – up from Monday's minus 6.4 degrees Celsius. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded the minimum of minus 4.6 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 2.4 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 3.6 degrees Celsius, the officials said. 'Chillai-Kalan' is considered the harshest winter period in Kashmir as a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold). The MET Office has said except for light to moderate snowfall in some areas in the higher reaches of Kashmir, the weather is likely to remain dry and cold till December 26 forenoon. “A spell of light to moderate snowfall at widespread places in the valley is likely from the evening of December 26 to the night of 27,” the MET Office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-predicted-in-some-parts-of-kashmir-valley-over-weekend-930248.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Air Quality Commission directs switching over of all industries in Delhi to PNG||The industrial sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region, the Commission for Air Quality Management observed on Tuesday as it directed switching over of all industries in the capital to Piped Natural Gas (PNG). The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG during a meeting, which was attended by representatives of the city government, the GAIL and the Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL). The commission, headed by former chief secretary of Delhi M M Kutty, directed IGL to ensure supply of piped natural gas to all identified industries in Delhi by January 31, 2021. It also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to inspect and identify the industries using unapproved fuels and to take stringent penal action in case of non-compliances. "GAIL and DPCC have been asked to provide all the required assistance," the commission said. Around 1,644 industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi have been identified to switch over to PNG. "Though a sizeable number of industries are using PNG, the commission stressed the need to switch over to PNG by all identified industries in Delhi considering the fact that industrial sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region. "IGL and GAIL were impressed upon to complete the pipeline network, metering and associated infrastructure," the commission said. The IGL, Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the Delhi government were also asked to work in close coordination with the industrial units so as to target the completion of infrastructure work and switch over to PNG by January 31, 2021. The 20-member commission on air quality management in Delhi and the NCR was formed by the Ministry of Environment on November 5, within a week of issuing an ordinance to set it up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-quality-commission-directs-switching-over-of-all-industries-in-delhi-to-png-930252.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Citizens will get their constitutional rights: PM Narendra Modi on Citizenship Act||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appeared to allay the fears over the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) assuring the citizens of the country that they would get all the rights given to them by the constitution. Speaking at the centenary celebrations of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) through video conferencing, Modi also said diversity was India's 'strength' and called for keeping aside ideological differences on the issue of nation's development. The Prime Minister said that every citizen of the country should get the benefits of development without any discrimination. "There should be no discrimination on the basis of religion," he said. Recalling the rich history of the AMU, the prime minister said that the varsity was like a 'mini India' and that the alumni of the varsity were spread across the globe. "Urdu, Persian, Hindi, Sanskrit are taught here.....it has both Gita and Koran...this is our strength and we must not allow it to weaken," Modi said. The prime minister exhorted the youths of the country to work for the development of the country. "Politics can wait...development can not," he added. Modi also attacked his political opponents in a veiled manner for using different tactics to serve their own vested interests. He said that every citizen should be benefitted by the development of the country. "Jo desh ka hai wo har deshvasi ka hai aur iska laabh har deshvasi ko milna chaihiye" (whatever the country has belongs to every citizen and every one should get its benefits) he said. Modi also lauded the role played by the AMU during the coronavirus pandemic. The Prime Minister said that there was a decline in the dropout rate of Muslim girls. "It has declined from 70 per cent to 30 per cent," he added. The last time a Prime Minister had attended an AMU event was Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru had, however, visited the AMU campus several times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/citizens-will-get-their-constitutional-rights-pm-narendra-modi-on-citizenship-act-930255.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Arrested by NIA for alleged terror links, PDP youth president wins DDC polls||Regional youth president of People Democratic Party (PDP) Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the NIA last month for alleged links with militant outfit Hizbul Mujahideen, on Tuesday, emerged victorious from south Kashmir’s Pulwama-A District Development Council (DDC) seat. Parra, who was the joint candidate of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), polled 1322 votes while his nearest rival Sajad Raina of the BJP got 314 votes. Parra was arrested by the NIA on November 25 and is currently under judicial custody. Parra is considered to be among the close associates of the PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and is among the leaders who remained loyal to her in the last two years during which most of the high-profile leaders left the regional party. Hailing from the restive Pulwama district, he is considered as one of the leaders, who had contacts with separatists when the PDP was in power from 2015 to 2018.  The PAGD is an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, People's Conference, People's Movement, and Awami National Conference - which was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrested-by-nia-for-alleged-terror-links-pdp-youth-president-wins-ddc-polls-930264.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Jailed PDP youth leader Waheed Para wins DDC election||PDP youth president Waheed Para, who is in custody of the National Investigation Agency for alleged links with militants, on Tuesday won the District Development Council (DDC) elections from Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir. Para defeated BJP candidate Sajad Ahmad Raina. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said she was proud of her party's youth leader to register a win. "Couldn't be prouder of PDP's @parawahid who won his maiden election by a huge margin of votes. Despite being arrested on baseless charges right after filing his nomination people have shown their love & trust for Waheed. Hope justice prevails," Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. Para was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on November 25, a few days after filing nomination papers as a People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidate. The NIA had said Para was arrested in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in conspiracy with the other accused persons. Para was considered to be a key motivator for youth to join mainstream politics in Pulwama and adjoining Shopian districts of south Kashmir when militancy was raising its head there again. As secretary of Jammu and Kashmir Sports Council from 2016 to 2018, Para played a major role in organising sporting events in nook and corner of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state which included the Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jailed-pdp-youth-leader-waheed-para-wins-ddc-election-930291.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||DDC polls: BJP wins seat in Kashmir for first time||The BJP on Tuesday won an election for the first time from a seat in Kashmir while facing regional heavyweights like the National Conference and the PDP. Aijaz Hussain won the Khonmoh-II District Development Council seat in Srinagar, while Aijaz Ahmad Khan gave the party more reason to cheer by winning the Tulail seat in the Bandipora district. Crediting the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the hard work of party workers for his success, Hussain said the DDC election was a fight between the BJP and rest of the parties. "This is a win for the BJP. The propaganda has been bust as people have shown their faith in the prime minister and his policies. This is a message that nationalists are prospering in Kashmir," he told reporters outside the counting centre at SKICC here. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had campaigned for the BJP candidate in the predominantly Shia area of Balahama in the Srinagar district periphery. Hussain said the BJP has put up a good fight against the regional parties in the valley who had come together on a single platform -- Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. "They all came together against the BJP as they were afraid of it. But, still the BJP won seats from the valley. Now, they should introspect. People want development and this is a vote for development," he said. The BJP candidate said the alliance was "spreading communal propaganda", but this win "shows there is no place for that now". "People want development and this win inspires us to work harder for securing seats in the assembly whenever the elections are held in the future," Hussain said. The counting for the DDC polls has been completed in Srinagar with the independent candidates winning half of the seats. "The returning officers in Srinagar district have declared the results of District Development Council elections in all the 14 constituencies and handed over election certificates to winning candidates," District Election Officer (Deputy Commissioner) Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary said. He said as per the final results, independent candidates have been declared winners in seven constituencies -- Srinagar-I, Qamarwari-I, Qamarwari-II, Harwan-I, Harwan-II, Harwan-IV and Harwan-VI. Former finance minister Altaf Bukhari-led Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) candidates were declared winners in three constituencies -- Harwan-V, Khanmoh-I and Srinagar-III. Four political parties-- BJP in Khanmoh-II, PDP in Khanmoh-III, NC in Harwan-III and JKPM in Srinagar –II have won one seat each, Choudhary said. He said the results of the four seats of Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) ward constituencies were also declared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddc-polls-bjp-wins-seat-in-kashmir-for-first-time-930292.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Will contest panchayat polls in UP: Bhim Army chief||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad on Tuesday said his party will field candidates in the upcoming panchyat polls in Uttar Pradesh. He also accused the government of “settling scores” with the opposition and expressed concern over the law and order situation. Before the 2022 assembly polls, the Azad Samaj Party will field candidates in the panchyat elections, said the Bhim Army chief, who was here to meet the district magistrate over the alleged delay in providing help to a Dalit village head killed recently. The Bhim Army chief said he apprised the DM of the “poor” law and order situation and discussed the case involving the killing of a village head, Satyamev, here. The Bhim Army chief allegedly had a heated argument with policemen before meeting the DM. "People should be given due respect in a democracy. The treatment meted out to me here proves that officials are threatening people," he alleged. Attacking the BJP, Chandrashekhar Azad said while Home Minister Amit Shah is taking part in road shows and poll rallies in West Bengal, the winter session of Parliament has been cancelled on the pretext of coronavirus. The government is doing this to avoid questions from the opposition as it does not have answers, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-contest-panchayat-polls-in-up-bhim-army-chief-930307.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM in Ambala||A group of farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws on Tuesday showed black flags to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City, sources said. Some of the farmers allegedly tried to block Khattar's motorcade but police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister, sources said. Khattar had come to Ambala to address public meetings in support of party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said that they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are not repealed. A large number of police personnel was deployed near the Chowk. The farmers had gathered at the grain market and also tried to block the Ambala-Hisar highway. On December 1, a group of farmers had shown black flags to Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria in Jandli village adjoining Ambala city. Kataria is BJP MP from Ambala. Almost two weeks later, BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini faced the ire of farmers in Yamunanagar as they raised slogans against the Centre for not repealing the three agri laws. Saini, an MP from Kurukshetra, was visiting Khurdi village to lay the foundation stones of some projects and inaugurate a community centre. The protesters had thrown black paint on the foundation stones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-show-black-flags-to-haryana-cm-in-ambala-930313.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah-led PAGD heading for victory in J&K DDC polls||The Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) took a big lead over the BJP as votes were still being counted in the maiden district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir. In the latest leads, the PAGD was ahead in 96 seats, followed by the BJP in 56 and Congress in 22. Others, mostly independents, were leading in 55 seats. In Jammu division, the BJP is ahead in 44 seats while the PAGD in 20 while the alliance was leading in 61 seats in Kashmir with the Saffron party ahead in three seats. The counting for all 280 DDC constituencies – 14 each in all 20 districts of the Union Territory (UT) - began at 9 am at all district headquarters across J&K and and the process may take longer than usual because ballot papers were used instead of electronic voting machines or EVMs. The polling was held from November 28 to December 19 in eight phases with 51% voters exercising their franchise in the elections, which were largely peaceful. The PAGD is an alliance of arch rivals, National Conference (NC) and PDP and five other parties which was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The Congress was initially a part of the PAGD but distanced itself from the alliance as the BJP targeted the opposition party for being in league with the ‘anti-national Gupkar Gang.’ The DDC polls mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the region, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. In the absence of an elected government in the UT, these Councils are set to become a new unit of governance in Jammu and Kashmir. J&K has been under the central rule since June 2018 when the BJP pulled out of the alliance government with the PDP. The special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 was revoked in August 2019 by the Parliament and it was bifurcated into the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The results of the election may be used as a sort of referendum by both political ideologies - for and against the major constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-led-pagd-heading-for-victory-in-jk-ddc-polls-930319.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Punjab arhtiyas go on four-day strike against income tax raids||Arhtiyas in Punjab on Tuesday started their four-day strike against income tax raids, allegedly conducted to intimidate them for supporting the farmers’ stir against the Centre’s agriculture laws. According to Federation of Arhtiyas president Vijay Kalra, crop was neither sold nor purchased at grain markets in the state. “All arhtiyas went on a four-day strike. They kept their shops shut,” said Ravinder Singh Cheema, president of the Punjab Arhtiya Association. Cheema accused the Centre of taking “revengeful” action against commission agents for supporting the farmers’ agitation. Premises of six commission agents were raided by the Income Tax Department recently. A total of 14 commission agents had received notices from the IT Department before the raids. “We are not going to be scared with this action of the Income Tax Department. We will continue to support farmers,” said a commission agent in Bathinda. Commission agents said they had told farmers not to bring their crop to grain markets during the four-day strike. Commission agents said farmers have also extended their support to them. If any raid is conducted, then farmer leaders and commission agents will gherao income tax officials, they said. There are around 24,000 licensed commission agents in the state. On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too had accused the Centre of indulging in “intimidatory tactics” against commission agents by conducting income tax raids on their premises. The CM had termed the I-T raids as “motivated” and a “pressure tactic” to curb their democratic right and freedom. Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi against the farm laws. Farmers say the laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-arhtiyas-go-on-four-day-strike-against-income-tax-raids-930322.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||JKPCC president's son loses DDC polls from Anantnag||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) president Ghulam Ahmad Mir's son Naseer Ahmad Mir on Tuesday lost the District Development Council (DDC) polls from Anantnag district of the union territory. Naseer Ahmad Mir, who contested from the Verinag constituency of south Kashmir district, lost to independent candidate Peer Shahbaz Ahmad. Son of the JKPCC president, Naseer Ahmad Mir had plunged into electoral politics for the first time. His father, a former minister, has been the JKPCC president for two consecutive terms since 2015. Ghulam Ahmad Mir had also lost his last election when he contested the Parliamentary polls from the Anantnag Lok Sabha constituency. He was defeated by National Conference's Hasnain Masoodi in the 2019 polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jkpcc-presidents-son-loses-ddc-polls-from-anantnag-930333.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||BJP wins 3 DDC seats in first-ever victory in the Kashmir valley||Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) opened its account in any election held in the Kashmir valley for the first time on Tuesday as three of its candidates emerged victorious in district development council (DDC) polls. The saffron party’s Minha Lateef won a seat from Kakpora of restive Pulwama district while Engineer Aijaz Hussain won from the Khonmoh-II constituency in Balhama area of Srinagar. Aijaz Ahmed won the third seat for the BJP in Tulail area of northern Bandipore district. Since the 2014 Assembly elections, the BJP has been trying hard to make inroads in the Muslim majority Kashmir valley. However, it could not open an account in the valley in any elections till now. This is for the first time that the saffron party made its presence felt in the electoral politics of Kashmir valley. The BJP had sent former union minister and the party’s Muslim face, Shahnawaz Hussain to Kashmir for campaigning during the DDC polls. Hussain travelled extensively to almost all the DDC constituencies in Kashmir in the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-wins-3-ddc-seats-in-first-ever-victory-in-the-kashmir-valley-930350.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Punjab Police recovers AK-47 rifle, live cartridges dropped by Pakistan drone||The Punjab Police on Tuesday said it has recovered an AK-47 rifle and 30 live cartridges dropped by a Pakistan drone from wheat fields near the International Border in Gurdaspur district. The seizure of an assault rifle and cartridges came barely 48 hours after the recovery of 11 hand grenades from a field in Salach village, about one km from the border. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said an extensive search operation had been launched by the Gurdaspur police in the area where the drone was sighted on Saturday. He said the package containing the assault rifle appeared to have been dropped in wheat fields in Wazir Chak village village, 1.5 km away from Salach village under the Dorangla police station in Gurdaspur. The seizure comes amid concerns raised by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of fresh spurt of efforts by Pakistan-based militants to disturb the border state's peace, said a government statement. The chief minister had recently met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard, it further said. Gupta said the recovered assault rifle and the magazine with 30 live cartridges had also been attached with a wooden frame and lowered from the drone with a nylon rope like the hand grenades which were recovered from Salach village on Sunday. He said the package seemed to be a part of the same consignment, which was dropped by the drone on Saturday night. The search operation continues, said Gupta, adding a case under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act has been registered at the Dorangla police station. The BSF personnel deployed at the Chakri border post in the Gurdaspur sector had noticed a Pakistani drone entering the Indian territory and they had fired multiple shots in an attempt to bring it down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-recovers-ak-47-rifle-live-cartridges-dropped-by-pakistan-drone-930360.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Two killed, 14 injured as bus collides with truck in Uttar Pradesh||Two persons died and 14 others were injured when a Delhi-bound bus collided with a truck due to dense fog in Uttar Pradesh's Kushinagar district, police said. The accident took place in the morning on NH-28 near Premvalia village located under Kasya police station, they said. "A bus carrying 80 passengers from Bihar's Begusarai to Delhi collided with a stationary truck while another truck hit it from behind. Two persons, including the bus driver, died while 14 others were injured, " Superintendent of Police, Kushinagar, Vinod Kumar Singh said. One of the deceased has been identified as Upendra Das (40), a passenger of the bus and resident of Begusarai, he said. Driver of the bus Ved Prakash Singh (36), a resident of Amroha district, got stuck in the cabin. Some passengers with the help of local people dragged him out but his both legs were seriously damaged. Police rushed him to Kasya community health centre where he died during treatment, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-14-injured-as-bus-collides-with-truck-in-uttar-pradesh-930371.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Congress MLAs walk out of Uttarakhand assembly over farm laws||The Opposition Congress on Tuesday staged a walkout from the Uttarakhand Assembly in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, saying they were meant to destroy farmers. The Congress MLAs walked out when state Agriculture Minister Subodh Uniyal accused the party of being hand in glove with middlemen and fomenting the agitation to retrieve its lost political ground. The Congress members led by Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh rose from their seats in protest when Uniyal said they did not seem to have read the new farm laws thoroughly and their party was misleading farmers to suit its own political ends. Asking why farmers are out in the streets in severe cold if the new farm laws are in their favour as being claimed by the Centre, Hridayesh said the ongoing agitation by farmers has drawn international attention with even Canada supporting the stir. Accusing the government of being insensitive to the plight of farmers, she said it sits unperturbed while farmers are dying. The heated exchange between the treasury and opposition benches was witnessed in the Assembly during a debate on the admissibility of an adjournment motion on the new farm laws. She warned that the Centre will have to pay a big price for its insensitivity to an issue like this. The Congress MLAs also accused the state government of not keeping its pre-poll promise of a loan waiver to farmers despite being in office for more than three years. The Congress MLAs walked out of the House when Uniyal was still speaking on steps taken both by the Centre and the state government for the benefit of farmers. Uniyal said the state government has introduced over 100 reforms aimed at improving the lot of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlas-walk-out-of-uttarakhand-assembly-over-farm-laws-930372.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||BSP leader Bheem Rajbhar recommends 'toddy' to prevent coronavirus||After a BJP leader's 'cow shelter' prescription to ward off coronavirus, a BSP leader on Tuesday recommended 'toddy' to prevent Covid-19. BSP state president Bheem Rajbhar said while addressing a meeting in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district, about 400 kilometres from here, that those who drank 'toddy', were not likely to get infected by novel coronavirus. ''Toddy is more sacred and pure than Ganga waters...it has great immunity-boosting quality...you (people) will not be infected from the virus if you drink it,'' Rajbhar said. He said that the members of the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community consumed 'toddy' and also gave it to their children to drink. ''This is why members of our community are not infected from the virus,'' he added. Rajbhar, who had recently been appointed the state BSP president, however, did not reveal the basis of his claims. Toddy is palm wine made from the sap after its fermentation and is an intoxicant. Earlier a BJP lawmaker had asked the people to rear cows if they wanted to keep novel coronavirus away. ''Coronavirus does not infect the cows...in fact one can ward off any disease if he has goshala (cow shelter),'' the lawmaker had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-leader-bheem-rajbhar-recommends-toddy-to-prevent-coronavirus-930380.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Abdullah-led PAGD heads for victory in Jammu and Kashmir DDC polls||The Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) took a big lead over the BJP as votes were being counted till late in the night in the maiden district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir. Out of total 280 DDC seats, the PAGD had either won or were leading on 112 seats while the BJP had emerged victorious or were leading on 73 seats. Congress party had won or were leading on 27 seats while the newly floated J&K Apni Party, believed to be the proxy of the BJP, had won 10 seats. Others, mostly independents, were declared winners on 56 seats. Counting on two seats had been deferred. As expected, the BJP won substantial (70) out of 140 seats in Jammu division while the PAGD bagged 92 out of 140 seats in Kashmir valley. However, the state election commission had not released the final figures till 11:25 pm when this report was filed. The counting for all 280 DDC constituencies – 14 each in all 20 districts of the Union Territory (UT) - began at 9 am at all district headquarters across J&K and the process took longer than usual because ballot papers were used instead of electronic voting machines or EVMs. The polling was held from November 28 to December 19 in eight phases with 51% voters exercising their franchise in the elections, which were largely peaceful. The PAGD is an alliance of arch-rivals and regional heavyweights - National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The Congress was initially a part of the PAGD but distanced itself from the alliance as the BJP targeted the opposition party for being in league with the ‘anti-national Gupkar Gang.’ Three former chief ministers - Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti did not campaign even once for their candidates. Reasons for them not campaigning is unknown. The DDC polls mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the region, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. In the absence of an elected government in the UT, these Councils are set to become a new unit of governance in Jammu and Kashmir. J&K has been under the central rule since June 2018 when the BJP pulled out of the alliance government with the PDP. The special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 was revoked in August 2019 by the Parliament and it was bifurcated into the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The results of the election may be used as a sort of referendum by both political ideologies - for and against the major constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abdullah-led-pagd-heads-for-victory-in-jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-polls-930414.html
22-12-2020||North and Central||Congress to gherao BJP offices on December 23 across UP in support of farmers' stir||The Congress will hold a statewide protest across Uttar Pradesh in support of the farmers' agitation on Wednesday marking the birth anniversary of Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the UP Congress said its party workers will 'gherao' offices and residences of BJP MPs, MLAs and public representatives in the state in support of protesting farmers, and also hold demonstrations by clapping and beating steel plates. The party said that despite the unfortunate deaths of some farmers at the protest sites in the national capital, the BJP-led central government has turned a blind eye towards the farming community. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said the party will continue with its agitation until the three newly-enacted farm laws are withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-to-gherao-bjp-offices-on-december-23-across-up-in-support-of-farmers-stir-930438.html
22-12-2020||Oasis||Communicating with god in the lockdown||Going to my favourite Ganesha temple, a couple or more times a week has always been part of my routine for years. Apart from the aarti or archana, I would also spend time circumambulating the temple 108 times. It gave me time to commune with the elephant-headed Lord, still my mind and proved a very meditative experience. There were times when the shrine would get crowded or when noisy devotees disturbed my calm.  Then after the lockdown was imposed and the temple was closed this outing was stopped. I haven’t ventured out since, for fear of unnecessary exposure to the virus, until a vaccine hits the market. I wake up to a framed and laminated picture of that Ganesha that is under my pillow, every morning as always. Then I began to look at my home altar with a new pair of eyes. I swept and mopped the floor of the pooja room, tried to clear any clutter that was on the floor and began the practice of quietly sitting down and meditating upon the Gods therein after lighting a lamp. It was as if all the energies were flowing down on me. A sense of peace envelops me. While a temple has the collective energies of the devotees, not to forget the prana that we absorb as we walk around bare feet, the same energies are also present in our prayer altars. The more we seek God’s guidance in front of it and we find blessings granted and prayers answered (if denied what we wanted it is probably with good reason and for something better in its place), the more we strengthen the space with chants and floral and other offerings, reading of the scriptures, the deeper our meditation and focus,  the greater are the chances of this energy field growing manifold. My Reiki teacher once told me that homes where agnihotra is performed everyday are enveloped in a protective field. Even temples have a kumbabishekam once in twelve years to energise the idol. So, fret not that going to places of worship is not possible as before. Your home and heart are a temple. Come together as a family whenever you can. As the Bible says Matthew 18:20 “For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there among them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/communicating-with-god-in-the-lockdown-930452.html
22-12-2020||Opinion||Covid-19: Has Global South been left to die, yet again?||As a result, developing countries, led by India and South Africa, have proposed the WTO TRIPS Council to relax certain IP rights related to Covid-19. This, they claim, will help start mass-scale manufacturing globally, and ensure that access is cheaper and quicker. However, the western countries have yet again blocked this request, citing the fact that IPRs are necessary to incentivise speedier R&D. However, a minor reduction in profits is neither justified when millions are dying nor will it create a disincentive for those investing in R&D. Issues with the TRIPS waiver on compulsory licensing During situations like Covid-19, when each day is taking away thousands of lives, any delay in access to vaccines is extremely costly. The question then is does the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement enable quicker access?  Article 31 of TRIPS provides countries with the right to invoke compulsory licensing. Thus, countries, with whom patent-holders are not willing to share their knowledge, can invoke compulsory licensing for use by government and authorised third-parties. While this appears to be a major relaxation which would ensure that every country can manufacture the vaccines, there is a problem. Manufacturing of vaccines is a complex process which few countries have the infrastructure to undertake. Apart from developed countries, only a few major developing countries like India and China have the necessary know-how and infrastructure to manufacture vaccines. According to a representative of the pharma company,  Regeneron, “Manufacturing antibody medicines is incredibly complex and transferring the technology takes many months, as well as significant resources and skill.”  In an ideal scenario, manufacturing countries could export generic versions to other nations in need. However, TRIPS does not allow this. Article 31(f) specifies that a compulsory licence can be invoked “predominantly for the supply of the domestic market of the member state.”  Thus, TRIPS hedges efficient usage of compulsory licensing, forcing countries to rely on supplies which come through voluntary licensing. However, voluntary licensing is influenced solely through profit-motive, which is best served when supplies are limited. The voluntary Covid-19 Technology Access Pool created by WHO has not received commitment from a single company. This raises the alarm for developing countries, who have been battered many times in the last few decades. A flawed response from developed countries Rejecting the proposal, Britain stated, “intellectual property rights provide incentives to create new inventions, such as life-changing vaccines, treatments, and technologies.'' While having an instant appeal, this argument needs to be investigated further. First, one must note that the demand being made by developing countries is a very limited one: To ease the restrictions for a limited set of Covid-19 related essentials for a limited period.  Second, we must contemplate whether this demand can cause a disincentive for R&D. It is pertinent to note that a majority of the funding for the development of vaccines came from the public sector, which neither seeks to benefit from the patents nor will be disincentivised due to its absence. The limited disincentive which will be caused would be for private patent-holders, whose profitability may reduce. Such reduction, if any, may come from an inability to create artificial shortages by restricting manufacturing and since the pandemic will be resolved faster, hence, limiting the need for such drugs and vaccines. The argument of ‘incentive’ is a euphemism for ‘incentive through prolongation of the deadly pandemic’. The world must then deliberate if such pathological profiteering out of deaths is justified. (Binit Agarwal is a final year student at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-has-global-south-been-left-to-die-yet-again-930320.html
22-12-2020||Panorama||Consumer Day: Need a new movement to promote 'masters, not servants'||Every year, December 24 is celebrated as ‘National Consumer Day’ in India in a ritualistic manner. This year, we should take a different approach. It was the day when parliament adopted the Consumer Protection Act (COPRA) in 1986. The law has since been amended and improved over the years.  In 2019, it was amended comprehensively to bring about several consumer-friendly reforms like the concept of product liability, filing complaints electronically, alternate resolution mechanism, action against unfair trade practices and misleading advertisements, and providing consumer protection while purchasing online.  The overarching goal of COPRA is to provide effective safeguards to consumers from exploitation against defective goods, unfair trade practices and deficiency in services. While there is much interest to achieve the first two goals, there is hardly any attention paid either by the government while amending COPRA or by NGOs to promote consumer rights when they seek government services.  In a democracy, we, the people, are supposed to be the ‘masters’ and the government employees are supposed to be the ‘servants’. Unfortunately, even after 73 years of Independence, the public is exploited far more by the government employees than by private shop-owners or service providers or companies. Despite knowing this sad truth, only lip service is given to solving public grievances. Rampant and shameful deficiency in services in all the government offices is the norm.  While most civil servants of the IAS/KAS type are arrogant, there are some who do want to solve public grievances and conduct public interactions to that end. Unfortunately, again, such events were opposed by MLAs in Mysuru recently. Worse, the Revenue Minister forced the Deputy Commissioner to suspend such citizen-friendly events.  How often are you treated with respect and dignity in police stations, unless you are some VIP? For many, filing FIRs or seeking police help is not easy. Even when some people violate laws, police are expected handle the guilty bearing in mind their human dignity and not treat them in an inhuman way. Police should be strict but gentle even with the guilty. Rude behaviour is deficiency in service and guilty officials have been fined by the consumer courts.  It is difficult to believe that doctors in government hospitals demand bribes to release dead bodies. As an activist in Mysuru, I had received several such complaints from grieving family members of the deceased. Government hospitals and clinics are expected to give the best possible treatment to patients and treat them with dignity, in life and in death. In reality, it is an exceptional government hospital/clinic where patients are treated with kindness and concern.  Road Transport Offices (RTOs) are well-known as cesspools of corruption. The situation is worsened by the need to use middlemen, despite several attempts to stop such practices. Even when all papers are in order, or one can drive without committing any error, it will be short of a miracle if one succeeds on the first attempt to get the registration or driver’s licence. However, if one is prepared to pay a bribe, driver’s licence can be obtained even without going to the RTO.  A former president of a leading consumer protection NGO had to approach Mysuru City Corporation more than a hundred times to secure a building permit even when he could meet all the conditions. His only fault was that he refused to pay a bribe. This is in a city where 90% of the buildings are not in compliance with building by-laws as per several commissioners. The Public Distribution System was developed to assist the poor to get essential food items like rice, sugar, kerosene, etc., at highly subsidised prices. While those who do not need ration cards can easily get them, for the really deserving, it is a nightmare trying to get one. Here again, either connections/influence or paying bribe can facilitate the process. Getting a ration card is only the beginning. Getting actual rations on a timely basis is another huge problem. As for the quality of the rations, the less said the better. Anyone who can get a sales deed registered in the sub-registrar’s office without paying a bribe should be honoured. Most of the time, it is also the fault of the public since most want to cheat. However, even those who are honest are treated the same way.  Since the above corrupt practices and harassment of the public has become the norm, the media has also lost interest in exposing them. Even progressive political leaders, instead of trying to find ways to fight these deficiencies, argue that nothing can be done. At best, they try to help individuals who approach them, but make no effort towards institutional or systemic change.  In this digital age, it is relatively easy to bring about the needed reform if there is political will. Residential LPG has been streamlined to reduce corruption, thanks to the use of the aadhaar platform. Earlier, there was a lot of leakage and it was often a tedious task to secure replenishment. Similarly, a digital platform can be developed for each government office where the service seeker is given a number that is entered into the system. There should be systematic follow up to find out if the promised service was provided and when. When there is an unexplained delay, officials responsible should be taken to task and penalised.   ‘Sakala’ was a well thought out programme. So also, the RTI. Neither of these have come up to expectations because the punishments provided by the laws are not implemented. Also, either the people themselves do not take it seriously (often they are ready and willing to bribe) or do not support NGOs who fight such deficiencies.  In the case of the private sector’s deficiencies, it is not COPRA which has helped consumers but competition that makes “consumer the king”. However, in the case of government services, where we face a monopoly, we need a different strategy.  Only when people start strongly demanding their rights, hold elected leaders and bureaucrats accountable, and take active part in democracy will we, the people, become the “masters”. Until then, we will continue to be treated as “servants”.  (The writer has been a consumer rights activist for over three decades)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/consumer-day-need-a-new-movement-to-promote-masters-not-servants-930450.html
22-12-2020||Panorama||JD(S) is no chameleon, writes H D Kumaraswamy||Janata Dal (S) is not a “chameleon” party that changes its political colours through opportunistic alliances without ideological basis just for the hunger of power. The party has been fighting to come to power on its own for the last several decades, and this political struggle will continue in the future, too. The national parties have tapped on the doors of the JD(S) whenever they were short of numbers to capture power. This is an indication that the people of Karnataka have blessed the JD(S) with political strength to play a decisive role in state politics. Despite this, criticism and blame have often been hurled at the JD(S). The media is also no exception to this. The above editorial in your daily is a fresh instance of such a trend. The media is consciously forgetting to state that the national political parties are using a regional party like the JD(S) as a dice to hold on to the thread of power. It is very much true that the JD(S) had earlier strongly opposed the Karnataka Land Reforms Act/Bill. There were valid reasons for such opposition. However, we finally gave our consent as our suggestions for preventing the sale of land sanctioned by the government to Dalits and of irrigated lands, besides reducing the ceiling for land purchase from 216 acres to 108 acres, were accepted by the government in the form of an amendment. There is no question of compromise or sacrificing the party ideology for the sake of political inducements. How right is it to criticise us by saying that we have changed our stance on the issue in opposing the Bill earlier and supporting it later, without understanding that the support was given only after the Bill was modified? The JD(S) would not have changed its stance if the Bill was not modified. With respect to the anti-cow slaughter Bill, I would like to make it clear that there is no change in our stance of opposing it. In fact, the Bill was not tabled in the Legislative Council because of our opposition. Which of the national and regional parties have remained committed to a single ideology? In Bihar, Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad Yadav had entered into a pre-poll alliance which got backing from the people. But Nitish Kumar broke from the alliance and fell into the BJP’s arms. Congress, which blamed the DMK for the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi and brought pressure on the then prime minister I K Gujral to drop the DMK members from his ministry, later ruled for 10 years at the Centre by taking the support of DMK members and reciprocating by accommodating the DMK members in the Union ministry. Such contrasting stands and opportune behaviour of the Congress is known to the entire country. Such instances involving national parties are aplenty in the country’s politics. JD(S) is the only party with a regional voice that has the strength to publicly adopt a stand or enter into an issue-based political understanding in the interest of the state without resorting to any tacit agreements. I want to bring it to your kind notice that I don’t see it as correct to ridicule the JD(S) as a party that lacks ideological commitment and principles and a party that practises backdoor politics for the sake of power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/jds-is-no-chameleon-writes-h-d-kumaraswamy-930451.html
22-12-2020||Right in the Middle||One viewpoint, two points of view||It was a hot day. The sun would be setting shortly. Tourists were making a beeline for the “Sunset Viewpoint” at Agumbe, in the Western Ghats. On a clear evening, a breathtaking view of the sun setting into the Arabian Sea awaits you there. Agumbe is a nature lover’s delight. It is one of the rainiest places in India. It is the habitat of the king cobra. Leopards, macaques, langurs, wild dogs, jackals, porcupines, deer and flying squirrels inhabit the Someshwara Wildlife Sanctuary down below. The great Indian hornbill and the Malabar whistling thrush add colour to the skies here. Seethanadi, flowing nearby is home to mahseer and otters. It is the view of the setting sun which attracts tourists. The viewpoint is full of tourists now. A group of youngsters is boisterously singing a popular number, the end of which brings raucous laughter. Now it is selfie time. The group becomes as compact as possible. Someone’s missing? A quick look all around and they spot the missing person. “Chachoo”, yells one, “Where are you? Come quickly, before the sun sets.” Chachoo, clearly not interested, looks away disdainfully. The youngsters assume an indifferent attitude and get busy clicking selfies. An observant bystander walks up to the clearly disgusted gentleman, “What happened?”It is like touching a raw nerve, “I brought my nephews and nieces settled abroad here hoping they would see nature in its pristine glory and learn to love it. All they care for is selfies. Look at that sun, how beautiful it looks! Even those two macaques seem to be admiring it. Look at those beautiful birds chirping there, before nesting for the night. Have we come all the way from Udupi for selfies here? When will they learn about nature and its charms?” One niece comes over and counters, “We have gathered from different places after many years. We may not get a chance to meet like this again. The Agumbe sunset and nature here will remain for eternity. We can see it later. But Chachoo…” The sun has exited the grand stage. Some birds are still chirping. The macaques are foraging the discarded plastic.Finally, the Sunset Viewpoint is enveloped in darkness and silence. Still, you can hear the buzzing of insects and the rustling of the tree leaves in the cool, gentle breeze which is now blowing. But the diametrically opposite views of the two generations represented by an uncle and his young niece will haunt the observant bystander for a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/one-viewpoint-two-points-of-view-930449.html
22-12-2020||Second Edit||Oli’s gambit could result in instability||The dissolution of Nepal’s parliament by President Bidya Devi Bhandari on the recommendation of Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli will plunge the country’s already unstable politics into an extended period of turmoil. The decision is unconstitutional. Nepal’s Constitution provides for dissolution of parliament before the end of its five-year term only if no party is able to form a government. That is not the case in Nepal today. Oli has been facing a challenge to his leadership not from the opposition parties but from within his own party, the Nepal Communist Party (NCP). While the immediate trigger for the decision was an ordinance to amend the Constitutional Council Act, the crisis was building up for over a year. Oli’s authoritarian style of governance and refusal to share power with or consult other leaders in his party had resulted in a rift in the NCP with other leaders, including Pushpa Kamal Dahal and Madhav Nepal, who has now replaced Oli as party chief. Parliament has been dissolved and Oli will remain at the helm of an interim government till elections, which will be held in April-May. Meanwhile, Nepal’s Supreme Court will decide on the constitutionality of Oli’s decision to dissolve parliament. The NCP, which was formed after Nepal’s two main communist parties came together only a couple of years ago, is expected to split now. Most NCP leaders and the rank and file are likely to back the Dahal faction of the party. In addition to the intra-NCP turmoil, unrest has erupted on the streets of Kathmandu and other cities. Oli’s political rivals in the NCP, leaders and activists of the opposition Nepali Congress and members of civil society are protesting Oli’s unilateral and unconstitutional decision and its endorsement by the President. The unrest and political upheaval will worsen Nepal’s current economic woes and its struggle to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to it being unconstitutional, Oli’s decision is worrying as it is not going to improve the situation in Nepal or pave the way for better governance under a new dispensation. The scheduled elections are unlikely to throw up a clear verdict, which means that Nepal could once again be faced with a flurry of unstable coalition governments in the coming years. Domestic instability will provide China with ample opportunity to meddle in government formation in Kathmandu. Such meddling by Beijing was in the first place how Nepal ended up here. China’s mounting influence in an unstable Nepal has huge implications for India. New Delhi must think how it can remain one step ahead in preserving its interests in Kathmandu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/oli-s-gambit-could-result-in-instability-930448.html
22-12-2020||South||UN Women ties up with Kerala Gender Park||UN Women, the United Nations entity working for the empowerment of women, entered into an agreement with the Kerala government's Gender Park that has been initiating gender equality activities. UN Women will be offering project development and capacity building for the Gender Park for the empowerment of women in South Asia. Gender Park will be developed into a South Asia hub for gender-related activities. A Gender Data Centre at Kozhikode campus is one of the highlights of the tie-up with UN Women. UN Women Deputy Country Representative Nishtha Satyam and Gender Park Chief Executive Officer P T M Sunish signed the MoU in the presence of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health and Social Justice Minister K K Shailaja. Satyam lauded various women empowerment initiatives of Kerala like She Taxi, jobs for transgender persons and stress management amid the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/un-women-ties-up-with-kerala-gender-park-930092.html
22-12-2020||South||Amid new virus strain scare, passenger from UK tests Covid-19 positive in Chennai||A passenger, who returned here from Britain via New Delhi, tested positive for the novel coronavirus, amid concerns that a new strain of the Covid-19 virus is spreading more quickly in that country.  The passenger, who was under institutional quarantine, was shifted to hospital care on Tuesday morning after his swab samples returned positive. The passenger, whose details are withheld, landed in Chennai from New Delhi last night and was tested for Covid-19. He reached New Delhi from Britain.  “One person who returned from the UK to Chennai via New Delhi has tested positive for coronavirus. The passenger was already under institutional quarantine as per rules. But once he tested positive, he was shifted to King's Institute for further treatment. All passengers who came from the UK are being monitored,” J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary (Health), told reporters. Seven more persons who returned from Britain have also been tested, officials said.   The government is also sending the swab samples of the passenger who tested positive to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic analysis to find out whether he is infected with old or the new strain that has caused many scares across the globe.  Radhakrishnan also asked people not to panic as the government has taken enough steps to ensure that there is no second wave of Coronavirus in the state. “Whether it is the old strain or new strain will be known only after the genomic analysis. We appeal to the people not to panic and believe rumours being circulated on WhatsApp,” Radhakrishnan said.  He also added that a direct flight from the UK was to land in Chennai on December 24, but with the latest restrictions imposed by India, the service will be cancelled. Radhakrishnan and other Health Department officials visited the Chennai Airport and saw for themselves the arrangements made to conduct tests||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-new-virus-strain-scare-passenger-from-uk-tests-covid-19-positive-in-chennai-930186.html
22-12-2020||South||Kerala: Priest and nun found guilty in 28-year-old Abhaya murder case||A priest and nun in Kerala have been found guilty of murdering a nun at a convent in Kottayam district in Kerala 28 years back. Sister Abhaya, aged 21, was found dead in the well of the St. Pius X convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. Knanaya Catholic priest Thomas M Kottoor, who was the first accused, and Sister Sephy, who was the third accused, were found guilty by the CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Special judge K Sanil Kumar would be pronouncing sentence on Wednesday. CBI's finding was that Abhaya was murdered after she witnessed the illicit affairs of the accused. While Thomas Kottoor was found guilty of murder, destruction of evidence and tress passing, Sephy was found guilty of murder. Second accused father Jose Poothrikkayil was discharged earlier and the CBI would be filing an appeal against it. The case witnessed the investigation teams of the Kerala Police initially concluding it as a suicide. Though the CBI that took over the probe in 1994 found that it was a murder, the initial investigation teams could not trace the accused and tried to close the investigation at least three times. But the court insisted on further probe. The present CBI team took over the probe about 15 years back. The Catholic priests and nun were even subjected to narco analysis test to unearth the facts. They were arrested in November of 2008. The CBI filed charge sheet in 2009 July 17. CBI's finding was that Abhaya, who was a second year pre-degree student of Kottayam BCM College, happened to witness the accused in compromising position when she came to kitchen to drink water. Subsequently she was murdered by hitting using an axe and her body was dumped in the well of the convent. Both the priests were former teachers at the college where Abhaya studied and Sephy was in-charge of the convent hostel. While many key accused in the case died, a small-time robber Raju alias 'Adayka' Raju stated before the court that he witnessed two priests in the convent in the early hours of the day Abhaya was found dead. Raju entered the convent premises with the purpose of robbery. Sephy even allegedly underwent hymenorrhaphy as part of her efforts to scuttle the probe. The accused even alleged that Abhaya and her family were having mental illness history and hence she ended life by suicide. Though there were 133 prosecution witnesses in the case initially, only 49 could be examined before court as many died and many were too aged as the case prolonged. Human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal who has been fighting for justice in the case over the last 28 years said that this verdict could be considered as God's verdict and the aim of his life accomplished. Apart from attempts to scuttle the probe, Jomon also faced several threats from many quarters for pursuing the case. Abhaya's parents Thomas and Leelamma of Kottayam died a few years back. Her brother Biju said that God heard their prayers. If there was no intervention by influential people, the case could have been proved within months, he told a section of media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-priest-and-nun-found-guilty-in-28-year-old-abhaya-murder-case-930228.html
22-12-2020||South||From suicide to murder: Timeline of Sister Abhaya case||A priest and nun in Kerala have been found guilty of murdering a nun at a convent in Kottayam district In the state 28 years back.  Sister Abhaya, aged 21, was found dead in the well of the St Pius X convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. Knanaya Catholic priest Thomas M Kottoor, who was the first accused, and Sister Sephy, who was the third accused, were found guilty by the CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. The sentence would be pronounced on Wednesday. Here is the timeline of the incidents in the case 1992 March 27: Sister Abhaya aged 21, daughter of Thomas and Lellamma of Kottayam, was found dead at Kottayam Pius X convent  She was a second-year pre-degree student of Kottayam BCM College. 31 March 1992: Action council led by human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal formed alleging of an attempt to scuttle the probe 15 May 1992: Action council demands CBI probe and then Chief Minister K Karunakaran recommend CBI probe 30 January 1993: Kerala police crime branch concludes probe stating that it was a case of suicide 1993 March: CBI files another FIR, Dy SP Varghese P Thomas leads the probe 31 December 1993: Dy SP Varghese P Thomas seeks VRS citing pressure from CBI SP to conclude that it was a case of suicide. MPs from Kerala raise the issue in Parliament. 1994 June: New CBI team constituted 1996 December: CBI stated before the court that though it was murder, accused could not be found out. But court orders further probe 1999 July. CBI again seeks closure of the case 2000 June Court again orders further probe 2005 August: CBI again seeks closure of the case 2006 August: Court again orders further probe 2007 May: CBI constitutes a new team 2008 November: Team led by CBI DySP Nandakumar Nair takes over probe 2008 November: Three accused arrested - Thomas Kottoor, Jose Poothrikkayil and Sephy 2018 March: Jose Poothrikkayil discharged 22 December 2020 : Thomas Kottoor and Sephy found guilty||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-suicide-to-murder-timeline-of-sister-abhaya-case-930236.html
22-12-2020||South||Ban export of beef if you think for cows: Congress MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao to Centre||A Congress leader from Karnataka on Tuesday appealed to the Narendra Modi government to ban the export of beef, saying such move would ensure that cow are not slaughtered. These remarks of MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao, who is the Goa desk incharge of the Congress, came against the backdrop of shortage of beef in the coastal state due to supply crunch from neighbouring Karnataka. "Let Prime Minister Narendra Modi ban the export of beef. If that happens, cows will not be slaughtered," he told reporters here. Rao is on a two-day visit to Goa to take stock of the Congress affairs, days after the party fared badly in Zilla Panchayat elections. "Farmers in Karnataka are suffering. On the one hand, the state government doesn't offer any help to farmers to look after their bulls, cows, buffaloes, while on the other hand, the government says farmers can't sell their cattle. In such situation, who is going to take care of the cattle?" he asked. Rao said the BJP government in Karnataka should come out with a policy assuring care of every buffalo, bull, and cow in the state. "...Give a pension so that the cattle are taken care of. At present, the number of cattle is reducing wherever these (anti-cow slaughter) laws have become strict because nobody can look after them," Rao said. Without taking the BJP's name, Rao said, "they talk differently (on beef) in the North Eastern states, Goa and Kerala, whereas they speak in different voices when it comes to states like Karnataka, Maharashtra etc," Rao said. "What I am saying is if they (Central government) are so particular about it (against slaughter of cows), let them ban the export of beef from India. We are the second highest exporters of beef," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ban-export-of-beef-if-you-think-for-cows-congress-mla-dinesh-gundu-rao-to-centre-930305.html
22-12-2020||South||NIA conducts searches in Kerala in terrorist group Jund Al Aqsa case||The NIA on Tuesday conducted searches at seven locations in Kerala in connection with its probe against alleged members of proscribed terrorist outfit Jund Al Aqsa who are suspected to be in war-torn Syria, an official said. The houses searched in the Thrissur and Kozhikode districts of the state belong to Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohamed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer, an NIA spokesperson said. The case was registered suo-motu by the NIA in January 2019 under sections of the IPC and the UAPA against six accused -- Hashir Mohammed of Ernakulam; Sidhikul Akbar of Malappuram; Muhammed Irfan of Kannur; Thaha Mohammed of Shimoga district, Karnataka; Sultan Abdulla, of Kozhikode and Fayez Farooq of Thrissur, the official said. These people, while being in Qatar, had conspired from 2013 onwards, conducted preparations or travelled to Syria and joined the proscribed terrorist organizations Jund AL Aqsa or Jabhat AL Nusrah, the NIA official said. Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohammed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer, while being in Qatar till early-2019, were in contact with the accused Sidhikul Akbar and had provided funds to the fugitives based in Syria, the official said. During searches, nine mobile phones, fifteen SIM cards, one iPad, six laptops, three memory cards and various documents have been seized, he said. Further investigation in the case is continuing, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-conducts-searches-in-kerala-in-terrorist-group-jund-al-aqsa-case-930336.html
22-12-2020||South||DMK levels corruption charges against Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami, Deputy CM and six ministers||Tamil Nadu's principal Opposition party, DMK, on Tuesday, petitioned Governor Banwarilal Purohit, listing a slew of corruption charges against Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, and six of their cabinet colleagues, and sought action against them under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In a voluminous petition that runs into 98 pages, DMK President M K Stalin levelled allegations of “large-scale” corruption and irregularities in awarding tenders for various road projects against Palaniswami, and charged Panneerselvam and his family of amassing wealth. Besides the duo, the representation levelled allegations of corruption against Local Administration Minister S P Velumani, Electricity Minister P Thangamani, Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, Food Minister R Kamaraj, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar, and Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar. While Palaniswami has been accused of favouring his relatives by awarding highways contracts to them and amassing wealth in the name of his family members, including his son, several allegations have also been made against six ministers. Stalin said, “a bare reading of these allegations would reveal and establish prima facie cases of acts of corruption, accumulation of assets disproportionate to known sources of income and other offences punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act 2018.” He also claimed that complaints filed by DMK MLAs against ministers to the law enforcement agencies have not yielded any results. “As such, we have reasons to believe that the Council of Ministers is preventing the law from taking its course and that this is a further and more serious criminal act being coordinated under the leadership of Edappadi K Palaniswami. “Therefore, we submit a compilation of these complaints in the hope that you, as the Head of the Executive, will initiate enquiry, insulate the law enforcement agencies from external influence and establish the rule of law in the State of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said in the petition. Responding to Stalin's petition, Palaniswami told reporters in Thoothukudi that the allegations were “politically motivated” and being raised by the DMK to “hide corruption by its own MLAs and former ministers.” “The corrupt activities by DMK men will come out very soon. Since they know this, they are trying to pre-empt by branding us corrupt,” Palaniswami said, reading out a list of DMK leaders against whom cases are pending in various courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-levels-corruption-charges-against-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-deputy-cm-and-six-ministers-930344.html
22-12-2020||South||Kerala polls: CM Pinarayi Vijayan begins Kerala Yatra||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday began a week-long Kerala Yatra (Kerala tour) in the run-up to the upcoming Assembly election. Vijayan held deliberations with representatives of various sectors in Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts. The yatra, which will cover all the districts in the state, is aimed at seeking people's opinion on the development and welfare initiatives of government over the last four and a half years and gathering suggestions on fresh initiatives for the coming years. Vijayan seems to have set the ball rolling for the Assembly polls at the right time as the present political scenario in Kerala is in favour of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) owing to the upper hand they received in the local body polls despite several adverse factors like serious allegations against the government. The senior CPM leader had already triggered a row by stating that the Congress, which is the main Opposition party in Kerala, was under the control of coalition partner Indian Union Muslim League. The Opposition parties were trying to resist it by alleging that the chief minister was trying to trigger a communal divide for electoral advantage. With the BJP also backing Vijayan's stand, the Congress is trying to frame the Left Front and the  BJP as two sides of the same coin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-begins-kerala-yatra-930351.html
22-12-2020||South||TN CM announces raise in assistance under housing scheme, allocates Rs 1,805 crore||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday increased the state government's assistance under a housing scheme of the Centre by Rs 70,000 and said it would help complete halted constructions and aid 2,50,000 beneficiaries. Announcing that an additional allocation of Rs 1,805.48 crore would be made, Palaniswami said that with the raise, the assistance per housing unit shall now be Rs 2,75,040 from the present Rs 2,05,040 under the 'Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana.' The Chief Minister said under the scheme, the share of union and state governments stood at Rs 72,000 and Rs 48,000 respectively. The Tamil Nadu government provided an additional assistance of Rs 50,000 towards concrete roof for every house. Also, components including Rs 12,000 assistance under the Individual Household Latrine plan worked out to Rs 35,040. When taken together, currently the overall financial aid per unit was Rs 2,05,040. On scrutiny of the scheme's working, Palaniswami said he found that eligible, poor beneficiaries could not build, or complete construction of houses due to increase in material cost and the coronavirus pandemic,which has adversely affected the livelihood options of the common man. Hence, to ensure that ordinary and poor people realised their dream to have a house of their own, "I have ordered increase in assistance from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1,20,000 for providing concrete roofing," he said. The increase would help completion of unfinished houses and about 2,50,000 people would be benefited, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-announces-raise-in-assistance-under-housing-scheme-allocates-rs-1805-crore-930352.html
22-12-2020||South||Will make Tamil Nadu Assembly elections inducement-free: Election Commission||The number of polling stations for the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due in the first half of 2021 will increase significantly with the Election Commission of India (ECI) planning to restrict the number of voters in each booth to 1,000, due to Covid-19. At the end of the two-day consultative meeting with political parties, state government officials, and other stakeholders, Umesh Sinha, Secretary-General of ECI, told reporters on Tuesday that the agency will take every step to ensure that the 2021 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu remains “inducement-free” and “influence-free”. Sinha admitted that Tamil Nadu is an “expenditure-sensitive” state and said the ECI would use technology to the hilt to prevent any sort of inducement of the voters. Tamil Nadu is notorious for distributing cash for votes and the state has witnessed cancellation of elections in a few constituencies in 2016 Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls after “money flow” could not be controlled. The by-elections to Dr R K Nagar constituency in Chennai was also rescinded in 2017 due to rampant bribing of voters. In 2019 polls too, there were complaints of large-scale distribution of money to voters across the state. “Tamil Nadu is an expenditure sensitive state and we really need to make this election inducement-free and influence-free. Strict measures will be taken to ensure (voters are not bribed),” Sinha said, adding that most political parties in Tamil Nadu have sought single-phase polling. However, he said, the ECI will take a final call on the election process. Sinha also said nothing can be said about whether elections in Tamil Nadu will be advanced. He said the number of polling stations will increase as enough steps are being taken to ensure social distancing at booths. Sinha said a polling station will not have more than 1,000 voters. “All (pandemic) measures taken during Bihar polls will be implemented here too,” he added. In 2016 Assembly elections, the state had over 65,000 polling booths.  The tenure of the current Assembly ends on May 24, but the ruling AIADMK has suggested holding of elections in the third or fourth week of April to avoid peak summer. Asked about concerns being expressed by several political parties on allowing citizens older than 80 years of age to vote via postal ballots, Sinha said the ECI will come up with a Standard Operating Procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-make-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-inducement-free-election-commission-930353.html
22-12-2020||South||Political stalemate in Kerala as Governor denies permission for special Assembly session against farm laws||In an unprecedented move, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has denied permission for convening a special session of the state Assembly on Wednesday to discuss farm laws. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government was even planning to pass a resolution against the farm laws at the special session with the support of Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front. While the Governor's stand led to a political stalemate in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to the Governor maintaining that it was against the Constitution as the power to summon a session of the Assembly clearly falls outside the discretionary powers of the Governor. In the detailed letter, Vijayan also pointed out the relevant portions of the Constitution as well as various court judgments in this regard. He said that it was regrettable that a recommendation coming from an elected government, enjoying a clear majority in the Legislative Assembly, for discussing an emergent issue of national importance, has not been acceded to by the Governor, he said. The Governor initially sought more clarifications on state Cabinet's recommendation for convening the special session and later denied permission citing that there was no urgent situation to convene a special session. The Cabinet on Monday recommended to the Governor to convene the special session. It is learnt that the Governor took the decision to deny permission citing that he already gave nod to Cabinet's recommendation for convening a regular session of Assembly in January. The government also failed to give a satisfactory reply to explanation sought on the urgency involved in convening the special session to discuss farm laws as well as the steps taken by Kerala government so far to address the concerns of farmers. Kerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar told reporters that Governor created an unprecedented political situation and there was politics involved in it. The Chief Minister, who was on Kerala Yatra (Kerala Tour), would reach Thiruvananthapuram by night and further steps would be decided, he said. Congress, which is the key opposition party in Kerala, also flayed the Governor's decision as unconstitutional and alleged that he was protecting BJP's political interests. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala even suggested that the MLAs may meet at the member's lounge of the Assembly complex and pass a resolution against the farm laws. Former Kerala legislature secretary Babu Prakash told DH that as per the Constitution the Governor was bound to accept Cabinet's recommendation to convene Assembly session as it did not come under Governor's discretionary powers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-stalemate-in-kerala-as-governor-denies-permission-for-special-assembly-session-against-farm-laws-930386.html
22-12-2020||South||App-based money lending atrocities: Hyderabad police probe Chinese role||The Hyderabad police suspect that Chinese nationals are steering unauthorised, app-based money lending activities in India. The constant harassment by the agents of these online loan sharks to repay at exorbitant interest rates, has resulted in the death by suicide of at least three people in Telangana, including a techie in Hyderabad last week. Following the deaths and numerous such complaints from other victims, the Telangana police swung into action and raided two locations in Udyog Vihar, Gurgram and three spots in Hyderabad where organised telecaller centres are operating to persuade, harass and intimidate loan defaulters. Raids at the corporate-style centres resulted in the seizure of about 700 laptops, servers, computer systems etc. The centres at Hyderabad employed nearly 600 telecallers and while at Gurgram, there are about 500 employees.  “Going by the evidence till now, this racket is not confined to Hyderabad or the National Capital Region. There are connections to Jakarta, Indonesia and even links to some Chinese. A Chinese national visited Hyderabad 2-3 months back to set up the activities and went back. In our NCR raids, we have seized a copy of a Chinese passport,” Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad city police commissioner told reporters on Tuesday. The call centres raided are functioning on behalf of four companies – Liufang Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Hotful Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Pinprint Technologies and Nabloom Technologies Pvt. Ltd., with suspected registered offices at Bangalore. The Hyderabad police arrested important executives of the call centres. “Instructions are received from their heads in Indonesia. The entire operation of these loan apps appears to be run with Chinese nationals at the helm. This was also indicated during the investigation into the multi-crore colour prediction gaming app scam where crores of rupees were transferred to shell companies registered as NBFCs,” the commissioner said.   “Further investigation is on to uncover the web of financial transactions, funding, technology base etc,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar announced the arrest of six people in connection with operations of instant loan apps named Cash Mama, Loan zone and Dhana Dhan which are linked to Onion Credit Pvt. Ltd and Credfox Technologies Pvt. Ltd., based in Hyderabad. Sharath Chandra, CEO & Director of Onion Credit & Cred Fox is among the arrested persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/app-based-money-lending-atrocities-hyderabad-police-probe-chinese-role-930402.html
22-12-2020||State||Karnataka launches tech-based pilot for crop loans||The state government on Tuesday launched a pilot project under which two Canara Bank branches will use a new technology-based system to lend agricultural loans to farmers. The initiative involves integrating the government’s Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) database with banks to disburse loans. This will make the loan process simple for farmers, while at the same time making sure they do not borrow multiple times by pledging the same piece of land. The Nelamangala and Tavarekere branches of Canara Bank will pilot this new system. DH had reported that the government was planning this system in its July 17, 2020 edition. The FRUITS database contains information on 72.48 lakh farmers, including their land details that banks can access. The bank will enter a farmer’s FRUITS ID to gain access to details based on which it can sanction the loan. Once that is done, the information is pushed to the Kaveri property registration and Bhoomi land records databases to create encumbrances. “None of the farmers will have to physically go to a sub-registrar’s office to have their loans recorded,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said. Using the FRUITS database for agricultural lending will help authorities find out for which crop the loan was taken and whether the farmer is actually growing that crop. This will also ensure easy coverage of borrowing farmers under crop insurance and bring more farmers under institutional finance. This initiative, authorities said, will fill the gap that was created with the absence of a common database or unified IT system for agricultural lending. Each commercial bank and cooperative bank uses its own IT system, with some primary agricultural credit societies not having any technology at all. This prevented the detection of farmers availing multiple loans by mortgaging the same land with different banks or branches. “By the end of January, we hope that all banks will be onboarded,” Canara Bank executive director A Manimekhalai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-launches-tech-based-pilot-for-crop-loans-930365.html
22-12-2020||State||Minister may delegate powers to Dept secretaries, says fresh Rules||Karnataka Government (Transaction of Business) Rules will grant more powers to bureaucrats, with the fresh changes allowing ministers to delegate any of their responsibilities to the secretary of the department. It has also put an end to the supplementary agendas at Cabinet meetings. Any new subject, which is not on the agenda, will now have to be cleared by the chief minister in writing to be included as a subject during Cabinet. The Karnataka Government (Transaction of Business) (Amendment) Rules, 2020, notified December 21, inserted a fresh section under sub-rule (2) of Rule 6. “A minister may by order delegate any of his powers to the secretary of the department,” the new Rules said. According to sources, the delegation of powers was only for routine matters related to the day-to-day administration of the department. “All policy matters will be dealt with by the Cabinet minister. The amendment will help ministers delegate subjects, such as remuneration for lawyers and payment of bills. Till now, all payments that exceeded a certain amount - ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 25 lakh, based on the department size - was cleared by the ministers.” The new rules also restrict additional agendas taken up by the Cabinet during its meetings. The chief minister will have to approve any additional agenda in writing before it is included fordiscussion. “Once an agenda paper, containing the cases to be discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet, is issued by the secretary to Cabinet with the approval of the chief minister and sent to the members of Council of Ministers, no subject shall be included in additional agenda...” the rules said, “...unless the concerned secretary submits a note explaining the urgency for placing it before the meeting and the chief minister approves the same in writing for inclusion in the additional agenda”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-may-delegate-powers-to-dept-secretaries-says-fresh-rules-930430.html
22-12-2020||State||Karnataka reports 1,141 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 1,141 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,11,382 and the death toll to 12,029. The day also saw 1,136 patients getting discharged after recovery. A total of over 1,32,17,127 samples have been tested so far, out of which 95,708 were tested on Tuesday alone, and 13,427 among them were rapid antigen tests. Out of 1,141 fresh cases reported, 585 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of December 22 evening, cumulatively 9,11,382 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,029 deaths and 8,85,341 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 13,993 active cases,13,777 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 216 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 8 out of the 14 deaths reported on Tuesday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Bengaluru Rural (2), and Ballari, Hassan, Kalaburagi and Kodagu (1). Most among those dead are with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 585, Mysuru 67, Chikkaballapura 58, Tumakuru 47, Dakshina Kannada 46, Ballari 41, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,83,816 infections, followed by Mysuru 51,914 and Ballari 38,729. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 3,70,387 discharges, followed by Mysuru 50,464 and Ballari 37,882.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-1141-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-930436.html
22-12-2020||State||KSPCB tightens rules for incineration of hazardous waste||The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has tightened rules for disposal of hazardous waste by issuing to industries new directions, including GPS tracking of the transportation of such waste. In a circular issued on Tuesday, Member Secretary of the Board, Srinivasulu, said industries have to dispose their waste in the nearest standalone incinerator and provide reasons if they opt for any other incinerator. Such an arrangement needs to be approved by the Board, he said. "The vehicles used for collecting the waste shall be in good condition, obtained all regulatory permissions, GPS monitoring system and specifications notified by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time," the circular stated, adding that the vehicle should also have the name of the operator of the incinerator. The circular also directed standalone incinerator plants to ensure that the online monitoring system and vehicle tracking system is functional 24X7 and "connected to the Board website".Further, the operation of the incinerator itself will be synchronised to the KSPCB command centre, allowing continuous oversight, the circular said, adding that any violation of the directions will attract action as per the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kspcb-tightens-rules-for-incineration-of-hazardous-waste-930442.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Board exams won't be held in March: Karnataka Minister Suresh Kumar||Ending confusion over the conduct of board exams this year, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday clarified that the exams for classes 10 and 12 won’t be held in March. In a phone-in programme with a Kannada news channel, the minister said that a detailed calendar of events for this academic year will be out in a few days. The minister responded to queries from public over uncertainty in opening of schools, effectiveness of online teaching and lack of time for students to consult teachers. He tried to allay the fears and said the students preparing for board exams need not worry. “The examinations will not be held in March,” he said.  The minister assured the parents that the time table for both the exams will be finalised in a week after consulting department officials, school and teachers’ associations. Asked about the reduction in syllabus for the ongoing academic year, Suresh Kumar said, “The syllabus will be cut according to the number of academic days available. This will also be finalised along with the exam time table.” 'Sorry, tried our best to help pvt teachers' Minister Suresh Kumar expressed his helplessness to private unaided school teachers for not releasing a financial package. "We tried our best. But the finance minister did not agree to it as we needed at least Rs 300 crore. I feel sorry for lakhs of teachers across Karnataka who are going through the crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/board-exams-wont-be-held-in-march-karnataka-minister-suresh-kumar-930087.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cattle Bill may give leather sector a hiding||The contentious anti-cow slaughter law will not only hit those working in abattoirs, but will also affect the livelihoods of thousands of artisans employed in the leather industry. The B S Yediyurappa administration is all set to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, which was passed in the Legislative Assembly, but not in the Legislative Council.  The Bill proposes to prohibit slaughter of cows and other cattle, virtually ending beef consumption. A cascading effect of this is the likely impact on the state’s leather industry, which includes the state-run Dr Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industry Development Corporation Ltd (Lidkar).  The number of industries involved in tanning and dressing of leather has gone up from 60 in 2014-15 to 161 at the end of 2019-20, according to the latest Economic Survey of Karnataka. Exports in the sector also grew steadily in the past few years -- the state exported Rs 562 crore worth leather products in 2018-19 and Rs 283 crore till November 2019-20, according to data. Lidkar chairperson N Linganna acknowledged the threat, saying that the law “has a connection” with supply of raw materials. He said that aged cattle that die of natural causes will be used for its products. The new law defines ‘cattle’ as cow, calf of a cow and bull, bullock and he or she buffalo below 13 years of age, whose slaughter is prohibited. The only exemptions are cattle suffering from contagious diseases or buffalo above the age of 13 years, requiring certification from a ‘competent authority’. A proprietor of a leather processing firm, under condition of anonymity, told DH that most of them were small-scale industries and will be affected. “We send raw material for processing in Ranipet (Tamil Nadu), from which gloves and other products are manufactured in the city. Now, we have to find an alternative as the machinery we have only works for leather products,” he said. Former social welfare minister Priyank Kharge said the Bill came with ramifications for various communities dependent on thisprofession. “A similar legislation in Maharashtra hit the Rs 20,000-crore industry there,” he said, adding that Lidkar was revived a few years ago considering that leather is a $5.5 billion industry. “Thousands of artisans who were trained by the state government to make leather products will be left in the doldrums,” he said and pointed out that the Bill was more an economic issue than a food one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cattle-bill-may-give-leather-sector-a-hiding-930091.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka to trace 138 UK arrivals||The Karnataka government has decided to trace 138 passengers who arrived in the state from the United Kingdom with no negative Covid-19 certificate. They will be subjected to an RT-PCR test and if their samples test positive, genetic sequencing of the sample will be done at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) lab, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters here on Monday. The state government has mandated 14-day home quarantine for travellers from the UK, Denmark and Netherlands, according to a circular from Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. However, Dr Sudhakar said it will be a seven -day quarantine. Those who have arrived from these countries since December 7 will be traced within the next 24 hours and subjected to an RT-PCR test. “In the UK, Denmark and Netherlands, a new strain of coronavirus belonging to a new family has been identified. It has more transmissibility than the existing strain of the virus. “However, among those passengers who arrived in Karnataka from the UK on Sunday, 246 passengers arrived by Air India and 291 arrived via British Airways. They were all asymptomatic but 89 by Air India and 49 by British Airways came without being tested,” Sudhakar said. “In all, 138 passengers without a negative Covid-19 report have arrived in Bengaluru. We have been trying to trace them. By the end of the day or latest by Tuesday, we will trace them via contacts obtained from the Ministry of Civil Aviation. They will be subjected to an RT-PCR test. They will be monitored via Apthamitra,” he added. From Tuesday, special kiosks will be set up at the airport for passengers arriving from other countries. “Transit passengers arriving from the UK via Dubai, via flight carriers like Etihad Airways and Emirates from the United Arab Emirates, and via Qatar Airways, will be monitored and tested. They will be institutionally quarantined if symptomatic and test positive,” he said. In a circular issued on Monday, Akhtar, said, “In view of the new variant of Covid-19 virus reported from the United Kingdom, the international airports at Bengaluru and Mangaluru are instructed to provide the list of passengers who arrived from the UK from December 7 onwards till date.” “It is hereby instructed that for all flights arriving from today, RT-PCR testing must be done for all passengers originating from the UK, including those transiting in other airports outside the UK. Those who are RT-PCR positive shall be under hospital isolation and positive samples should be sent to Nimhans, Bengaluru, for molecular testing. Contact details of all such passengers should be informed to District Surveillance Officers for quarantine follow-up,” the circularsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-to-trace-138-uk-arrivals-930094.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram Panchayat polls underway in Karnataka||Voting is underway for 3,019 panchayats in 117 taluks of Karnataka in the first phase of gram panchayat elections on Tuesday with Covid-19 protocols in place. A total of 1.17 lakh candidates are in the fray for 43,238 seats, half of which are reserved for women, poll officials said. Voting began at 7 am and will go on till 5 pm in over 23,000 booths. A total of 4,377 candidates have been elected unopposed already, the officials said. People who are Covid-19 positive or come under primary/secondary contacts of infected people can vote in the last hour of polling, officials said. Elaborate security and Covid related precautionary measures have been taken for the voting, they said, adding that wearing masks and maintaining social distance is mandatory, also hand sanitisers will be available in polling booths. The number of voters in each booth has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, also Anganwadi, ASHA workers and Health Department officials have been roped in for poll duty. Though these polls don't take place on party symbols, all political parties have put in efforts to ensure that the candidate supported by them wins, so as to have their hold on grassroot level politics, which may prove advantageous for them in taluk or zilla panchayat and even assembly polls whenever they take place. The second phase of polls is scheduled on December 27, and the counting for both phases will take place on December 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayat-polls-underway-in-karnataka-930172.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka begins testing passengers from UK for new coronavirus strain||The state government has started testing international airline arrivals from the United Kingdom in a bid to stop the possible transmission of a new mutated strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. The Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar told DH that the government was collecting the passenger manifests of all flights from the UK to Karnataka over the last 14 days, to track down the individuals.  “We have started testing 138 out of the 587 individuals who arrived on two flights on Monday. These are people who did not have an RT-PCR test done 72 hours prior to boarding the flights,” Akhtar explained. The Additional Chief Secretary added that the samples of those who test positive for Covid-19 will be sent to a special genotyping lab set up at Nimhans to verify if any of the new arrivals are carrying the new mutated strain of the virus. The challenge of verifying that the mutated strain, classified by the UK government as the Sars-CoV-2 202012/01 has been exacerbated by the fact that the virus could have landed in the state earlier in the month or in November.  While the noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said that containment measures are fraught with uncertainty, the fact that there has not been a spike in cases in Karnataka, suggests either that the new version of the virus has not set down in Karnataka or that the state testing mechanism has missed a cluster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-begins-testing-passengers-from-uk-for-new-coronavirus-strain-930241.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Night curfew not required in Karnataka, says CM Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, on Tuesday, said that the government had no immediate plans to impose a night curfew, following alerts over a new strain of coronavirus. Responding to queries on whether Karnataka government would emulate Maharastra in declaring night curfew, Yediyurappa stated that it was not required under the current circumstances. Meanwhile, Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said that he would meet the CM later in the day to discuss whether night curfew was required. Sudhakar further said that officials from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had communicated with him yesterday saying that there was no need to worry about the new strain, but precautionary measures were essential.  "The Ministry has asked us to review the situation in the wake of night curfew announced by few states and take a final call in consultation with the CM," he said. Yediyurappa assured that the government will implement strict protocols for passengers arriving from international destinations. "We will allow them only after testing," he said. "The central government has issued an alert already and people should follow precautionary measures to contain the virus spread", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-curfew-not-required-in-karnataka-says-cm-yediyurappa-930244.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka GP polls: 80% turnout likely, says SEC||The first phase of the gram panchayat polls held on Tuesday saw an encouraging voter turnout in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the State Election Commission estimating the figure to touch 80%. Bengaluru Urban district saw an encouraging 76.46% voter turnout in the first phase of the polls wherein a total of 3,019 gram panchayats across the state went to polls. According to an official release, the panchayat polls were held in 265 polling centres in Bengaluru Urban district, in which 1.43 lakh voters were registered. Final numbers were still being tallied, according to officials. Voters in other districts, too, came out to vote in good numbers. In Madikeri, a beeline was seen in front of the polling booths in Kedakal, Madapura, Kumburu, Seventh Hosakote, Guddehosuru and Harangi. People working outside the district had come to their native to exercise their franchise. Most of the voters turned up at the polling booths along with their family. The district saw about 62.21% turnout by 3 pm. Octogenarian Bhagirathi Patil (84), who cast her vote at Cherkadi gram panchayat in Udupi district, said she came to vote with her grandchildren as she knew the candidate. Casting a vote is also an attempt to prove their right besides making the government realise that they are still alive, according to her.  In some places, technical glitches posed a hurdle for the smooth conduct of polls. For instance, in Mangaluru taluk, owing to a power outage at a government higher primary school in Kuthar and in Amblamogaru, polling officials were forced to depend on torchlight and candles in wee hours in order to verify the voters' list. Finally, the polling process resumed after power was restored. According to State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju, there was an encouraging response overall. "We are estimating an 80% voter turnout. We have information from 13 districts as of now and the number are still being compiled. Previously, in 2015, the turnout was similar," he said.  Barring two incidents, one in Ballari and another in Kalaburagi where there was a problem with the symbol on the ballot paper, the polls were peacefully conducted, the official said. "The returning officer in a gram panchayat in Ballari made a mistake and the symbol was wrongly printed on the ballot paper. A show cause notice was issued. A similar incident took place in Kalaburagi. There will be repolling in these two panchayats," Basavaraju said, adding that more information was awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gp-polls-80-turnout-likely-says-sec-930390.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC seeks details of Covid-19 tests conducted on flyers from UK||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the state government to place on record the details of passengers who arrived in Karnataka from the United Kingdom from December 7 onwards. The court has also asked the state government to submit the number of RTPCR tests conducted on the said passengers in view of the new variant of virus. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar was hearing PILs filed on issues related Covid-19. The bench passed the direction after one of the counsels G R Mohan expressed concern about people arriving in the state from the UK through two International airports. He said that in his original petition he had expressed concern that the authorities will have to be cautious while dealing with such viruses. “The government has closed most of the Covid-19 centres now. The government should not deal with the variant virus the way it did with the Covid-19,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government submitted that both the international airports, Bengaluru and Mangaluru had been directed to provide the details of the flyers. Additional Government Advocate Vikram Huilgol informed the court about a government order in this regard issued on December 21, 2021. The order directed the airports to submit all the details of the passengers who arrived from the UK from December 7, 2020. He said all measures will be taken to trace the flyers and to subject them to quarantine and RT PCR tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-seeks-details-of-covid-19-tests-conducted-on-flyers-from-uk-930405.html
22-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru||Two returnees from the United Kingdom tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Tuesday. Their samples are undergoing genomic testing to determine if they have contracted a new variant of the virus. According to official data, the state has collected test samples from 223 international fliers as of Tuesday, most of them from Bengaluru. The two positive cases are a 35-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter, who are residents of ward 197 (Vasanthapura). They were discovered after the government reintroduced a crash testing programme to screen arrivals from the United Kingdom, to curb a potential spread by a new and potentially more infectious variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. BBMP joint commissioner for Bommanahalli, Ramakrishna, told DH that the family of three had flown from London to Bengaluru on December 19, but had already sought out an RT-PCR test at Apollo Hospital as a precautionary measure. “When we visited the family, the husband informed us that his wife and daughter have tested positive for Covid-19,” Ramakrishna said, adding that both cases were immediately moved into a special isolation facility set up at Victoria Hospital to handle suspected UK infections. The husband, who had tested negative, was placed in home isolation. Samples were collected from the two patients and sent to a special lab set up at Nimhans to conduct a genomic analysis to determine if they are carriers of the new virus. With the central government having stated that all UK fliers must be tested going back to November 25, the state faces the task of tracking down all passengers. Additional chief secretary (health), Jawaid Akhtar, told DH that the government was collecting the passenger manifests of all flights from the UK to Karnataka. The ACS explained that the plan is to test people who have not undergone RT-PCR testing up to 72 hours prior to boarding the flights. “Nearly 70 to 80% of airline fliers have an RT-PCR test done beforehand, necessitating the state to test the balance of 20 to 30%,” he said. 2,217 int'l fliers assessed Of the 2,127 international fliers assessed by health officials so far, samples were collected from 223 individuals. Out of these, 179 are from Bengaluru (including rural, urban and BBMP limits).  BBMP limits show a slightly higher number of 211 samples collected, out of which the largest numbers are from East Zone (48), Mahadevapura (40), Bommanahalli (38), South Zone (29), West Zone (27), Yelahanka (14), RR Nagar Zone (13) and Dasarahalli (2).  Mysuru had the next highest number of international fliers from the UK with 119, out of which three samples were collected for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bengaluru-930428.html
22-12-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Voting in first phase of Gram Panchayat polls begins in Karnataka||Voting for the first phase of Gram Panchayat elections began on a slow note in seven taluks wherein elections are being held on Tuesday. The first hour of voting saw sparse polling owing to cold weather. But, polling is expected to increase as the day progresses. Gram Panchayat's from Belagavi, Khanapur, Bailhongal, Kittur, Gokak, Mudalagi and Hukkeri are going for polls in the first phase. Police dispersed people assembled in a group at a polling station at Kangrali KH village in Belagavi taluk where one political activist was campaigning and making an attempt to influence voters in favour of particular candidates. In Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk mobs of supporters of candidates were caned by police as they refused to leave the place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/voting-in-first-phase-of-gram-panchayat-polls-begins-in-karnataka-930157.html
22-12-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||UK returned woman tests negative for Covid-19||A woman who returned to the city from the United Kingdom has tested negative on Tuesday. The 40-year-old woman had come to Bengaluru from the United Kingdom on December 14. She had later travelled to Jamkhandi in Bagalkot by road and reached the city on Tuesday. As per the guidelines of the state war room after a new strain of Covid-19 was found in the United Kingdom, she was contacted and asked to undergo a Covid-19 test and remain in isolation. Deputy commissioner M G Hiremath informed late on Tuesday that Covid-19 test report of the woman has been received and that she has tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/uk-returned-woman-tests-negative-for-covid-19-930453.html
22-12-2020||West||Mumbai hospital performs rare surgery to save one-year-old||A hospital in Mumbai has successfully performed liver resection by laparoscopic surgery on a 32-year-old live donor for liver transplantation and gave a new lease of life to his one-year-old son. This is the first such surgery in Western India. A liver resection surgery is the surgical removal of all or a portion of the liver. The procedure is largely performed through a traditional open procedure. In a total laparoscopic donor hepatectomy, the surgery is done through keyhole incisions with the graft being taken out of the body through a small incision under the navel. Living donor liver transplant (LDLT) has distinctly reduced waiting list mortality and expanded access to life-saving treatment for many patients. Wazir Khan from South Africa donated a part of his liver (left lateral lobe) to his one-year-old ailing son Nayum Khan, suffering from a congenital condition called Biliary Atresia, a rare disease of the liver and bile ducts that occurs in infants (1 out of every 10,000 live births) which requires transplantation. Biliary atresia is a disorder in which the biliary system (link of tiny tubular structures and ducts that drain bile from the liver to the small intestine, where it helps the digestive process) is either absent or closed. Early diagnosis of this disease is important for successful treatment. The baby underwent surgery in South Africa but failed to get any relief. Hence, the doctor suggested taking further treatment at Global Hospital, Mumbai. Dr. Ravi Mohanka, Chief Surgeon and Head of Department, Liver Transplant and HPB Surgery, Global Hospital, Mumbai said, “The patient came to us after a failed Kasai surgery for Biliary atresia. After clinical tests, the father was found to be a suitable donor and he agreed to donate a part of his liver to save his child. It was decided to perform hepatectomy (surgical removal of part or entire liver) using minimally invasive laparoscopic surgery technique.” According to him, a total laparoscopic donor hepatectomy is a safe and feasible option as it has benefits that include less pain, less blood loss, less morbidity, and complications, quicker recovery, and cosmetically good for a young donor. “We are pleased with the treatment and care given by the doctor's team at Global Hospital. Earlier our baby used to cry always and now the smile on his face makes us happy. Previously the baby used to always be with his mom but after surgery the first time he slept beside me. This feeling will always be special to me. The surgery gave me very less pain and a speedy recovery. We are glad we came to India for treatment,” said Khan. This technique would encourage more people to participate in living donor liver transplantation” concluded Dr Vivek Talaulikar, CEO of Global Hospitals Mumbai. The team included Dr. Prashantha Rao, Senior Consultant, Lead – Cadaveric Liver Transplant and Dr. Anurag Shrimal, Senior Consultant, Lead – Pancreas and Pediatric Liver Transplant Surgeon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hospital-performs-rare-surgery-to-save-one-year-old-930144.html
22-12-2020||West||Covid-19 norms go for a toss at BJP MLA's wedding in Maharashtra||Social distancing norms were flouted at a BJP MLA's wedding here, with hundreds of people attending it and many of them, including senior party leaders, not bothering to wear masks. Viral videos of the wedding showed state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis interacting with people at close quarters without wearing masks. Ram Satpute, a first-term MLA from Malshiras assembly constituency in Solapur district got married in Erandwane area of Pune on Sunday. The videos show that no social distancing was followed at the wedding. Maharashtra government's unlock guidelines stipulate that up to 50 people can attend a marriage ceremony, but hundreds were seen at the ceremony, many of them without masks. Police inspector Sanjivan Jagdale of Alankar police station, under whose jurisdiction the marriage venue falls, said there was "no big crowd at a time as the attendees kept coming and going after blessing the couple." No police complaint has been filed in this matter so far, the police inspector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-bjp-mlas-wedding-in-maharashtra-930175.html
22-12-2020||West||Man held for creating fake Facebook account of Maharashtra minister||Thane police have arrested a man for allegedly creating a fake Facebook account in the name of a Maharashtra minister and posting objectionable content on it, an official said on Tuesday. The police registered an offence here on April 8 this year and its cyber cell conducted a probe into the case. Following the probe, the police last week arrested the 28-year-old accused, who worked as a contract supervisor at Waluj in the state's Aurangabad district, cyber cell inspector Balkrishna Wagh said. A mobile phone used by the accused for creating the fake social media account was also seized, he said. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-creating-fake-facebook-account-of-maharashtra-minister-930182.html
22-12-2020||West||Mumbai records lowest winter temperature of 16 degrees Celsius||Mumbai on Tuesday recorded the season's lowest temperature so far at 16 degrees Celsius, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Apart from the metropolis, several other parts of Maharashtra also reported a drop in night temperatures, resulting in chill and cool breeze in those areas, he said. On Tuesday, the Santacruz observatory in the western suburbs here recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, IMD Mumbai's deputy director-general K S Hosalikar said. Thane, adjoining Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature 18 degrees Celsius, he said. Besides Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, the chill was also felt in parts of central Maharashtra and Vidarbha. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature in Pune was 8.1 degrees Celsius, while it was 8.4 degrees Celsius in Nashik and 9 degrees Celsius in Jalgaon. Nagpur recorded a minimum temperature of 8.6 degrees Celsius, Akola-9.6 degrees Celsius and Gondia-7.8 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Aurangabad recorded a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius, Parbhani 7.6 degrees Celsius, Beed-10.1 degrees Celsius and Osmanabad-11.4 degrees Celsius, it said. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur had a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, Sangli- 12.6 degrees Celsius, and Satara-9 degrees Celsius, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-records-lowest-winter-temperature-of-16-degrees-celsius-930213.html
22-12-2020||West||3 injured as two houses collapse after blast in Gujarat||At least three persons were injured after two houses collapsed following a powerful explosion in Kalol town of Gujarat's Gandhinagar district on Tuesday morning, police said. Two gas pipelines pass through the area, but it is not yet clear what caused the blast, Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police Mayur Chavda said. The incident took place at Panchvati society in Kalol town, he said. "Two houses collapsed following a powerful blast in the Panchvati society in the morning. Three injured persons were rescued from the debris admitted to a hospital," he said. "Pipelines of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and the Gujarat Gas pass through the area. However, an investigation is underway to determine what exactly caused the blast," the official said. Forensic experts were called to the spot to find out the exact cause of the explosion, he said. According to locals, the blast, which occurred around 7.30 am, was so powerful that the two double-storey houses were completely destroyed. "The blast also caused damage to some adjoining houses and vehicles. Glass windows of many houses were shattered," a resident told reporters at the spot. He said one of the houses which collapsed was locked since a long time, while some people were staying in the other one. "We learnt that three people were pulled out of the debris," the resident said. Local Congress MLA Baldevji Thakor rushed to the spot after getting information about the incident. "It is still not clear what exactly triggered the blast. I have learnt that a gas pipeline runs underneath the society. Two houses were destroyed in the explosion," Thakor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-injured-as-two-houses-collapse-after-blast-in-gujarat-930226.html
22-12-2020||West||Goa sees shortage in beef supply, can 'procure animals from other states', says CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said live animals can be procured from other states to tide over the shortage of beef in the coastal state. Goa is witnessing a shortage of beef due to reduced supply from neighbouring Karnataka. "It all depends upon registered agents...If these agents cannot get beef from a neighbouring state, then they can procure live animals which can be slaughtered at the Goa Meat Complex Limited (GMCL)," the CM told reporters. The GMCL is a state-run abattoir situated at Usgao village in North Goa, 45 km away from Panaji. "Live animals are slaughtered at the GMCL. If more animals are brought, they can be slaughtered at the GMCL," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-sees-shortage-in-beef-supply-can-procure-animals-from-other-states-says-cm-930259.html
22-12-2020||West||Gujarat Health Department issues advisory on mucormycosis, says infection has 50% mortality rate||The Gujarat health department has issued an advisory to doctors and health officials after some Covid-19 patients were recently found infected with mucormycosis, saying it is a serious but rare fungal infection and has an overall "mortality rate of 50 per cent". As per the advisory issued on Monday, mucormycosis infects people with weak immune system and having other existing illnesses. The health department said the advisory is being issued after some coronavirus patients in Ahmedabad and Rajkot were found infected with mucormycosis, which is "serious but rare infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes". It most commonly affects the sinuses or lungs after inhaling fungal spores from the air, or the skin after the fungus enters through a cut, burn or other type of skin injury. "However, it can occur in any part of the body," said the advisory. It said though the "overall mortality rate is around 50 per cent", early identification and treatment can lead to better outcome. The advisory said people having diabetes or cancer, or those who underwent organ transplant, stem cell transplant or people having too much iron in the body are at a greater risk of contracting this infection. The health department made it clear that mucormycosis "cannot spread between people or between people and animals". "People get mucormycosis through contact with fungal spores in the environment," it said. Enlisting some preventive measures, like wearing N95 masks, the advisory said these are recommendations and they "have not been proven to prevent mucormycosis". Apart from wearing the N95 mask, people should avoid direct contact with lot of dust, wear shoes, long pants and gloves while handling soil or moss, and clean skin injuries well with soap and water, said the advisory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-health-department-issues-advisory-on-mucormycosis-says-infection-has-50-mortality-rate-930261.html
22-12-2020||West||Maharashtra govt sign MoUs of over Rs 61,000 crore||Days after the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi completed one year in office amid difficult circumstances in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday signed MoUs to the tune of Rs 61,000 crore with potential to employ 2.7 lakh people. The MoUs were signed as part of the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 initiative to bring in investments to the state. June 2020 saw investment commitments of about Rs 17,000 crore. This was complemented in November 2020 where there was additional investment commitment of approximately Rs 35,000 crore. In addition, the state attracted investments of about Rs 14,000 crore through organic investments via their advanced single window system in the year 2020. “The MoUs includes a diverse range of sectors that have been very significant in recent times – pharmaceuticals, healthcare, biotechnology, food processing and FMCG as well as steel & automobiles, engineering and oil & gas among others. This also underlines the state’s positive domestic business sentiment which is in line with vision of a self-reliant India and thereby Maharashtra,” Thackeray said. According to him, coupled with the state’s robust FDI pipeline of an additional Rs 79,000 crore the state is positioned to surpass its previous targets and cross Rs 2,00,000 crore in formal industrial investment intentions signed by the state. The total potential employment generation from this effort is conservatively estimated at 2.5 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-sign-mous-of-over-rs-61000-crore-930342.html
22-12-2020||West||Pune issues guidelines for passengers arriving from UK||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday issued quarantine guidelines for passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries. The guidelines were issued in view of the detection of a new strain of coronavirus in the United Kingdom, a civic official said. India has decided to suspend flights from the UK till December 31. All the passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries would be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost in hotels for seven days, the guidelines said. "The passengers who have traveled to the UK in last 15 days must report to PMC helpdesk," the PMC said in a circular. If a passenger is found symptomatic on arrival, he or she will be shifted to Naidu Hospital for treatment, the PMC said. RT-PCR test will not be conducted immediately but will be conducted between fifth and seventh days at the hotel. If the report of the test is negative, the passenger will be discharged with advice to remain in home quarantine for another seven days. If test result is positive but the patient is asymptomatic, he or she will continue to stay in the same hotel or at a Covid-19 hospital for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-issues-guidelines-for-passengers-arriving-from-uk-930362.html
22-12-2020||West||Four UK passengers test Covid-19 positive at Ahmedabad Airport||Four passengers who flew from London to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport in Ahmedabad tested positive for Covid-19. They were part of 275 passengers who arrived from London late on Tuesday morning. Health officials said that the four positive passengers have been admitted to government-run SVP hospital while the rest of the passengers have been asked to isolate themselves at home for two weeks. Officials said that it is too early to find out if any of these four passengers were infected by the mutated coronavirus strain, said to be more infectious, discovered recently in the United Kingdom leading to over 40 countries banning flights to and from the UK. The central government has suspended all flights originating from the UK in view of the new coronavirus strain. The suspension will come into effect from December 23 till December 31. Meanwhile, 988 new positive cases were recorded in the state in the past 24 hours while seven more patients passed away. The health bulletin states that over 5 lakh people in the state are under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-uk-passengers-test-covid-19-positive-at-ahmedabad-airport-930388.html
22-12-2020||West||Indrani Mukerjea refuses to wear convict's uniform, moves court||Indrani Mukerjea, a prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, on Tuesday moved a special CBI court here seeking exemption from wearing convict's uniform in prison. Mukerjea is lodged at the Byculla women's jail here. The prison authorities were asking her to wear the convict's uniform of green sari even though she was only an under-trial accused, she said in her petition. The court asked the prison authorities to submit a reply on January 5. Sheena Bora (24), Indrani's daughter from an earlier relationship, was allegedly strangled in a car and her body was disposed of in neighbouring Raigad district in April 2012. The murder came to light in 2015 and the Mumbai police arrested Indrani Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai and former husband Sanjeev Khanna. The CBI took over the case later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indrani-mukerjea-refuses-to-wear-convicts-uniform-moves-court-930392.html
22-12-2020||West||2 DJs attacked at Maharashtra wedding event over last song, 2 held||Two men allegedly attempted to kill a disc jockey and his assistant at a wedding in Nagpur after they stopped playing music, police said on Tuesday. DJs Mayur Bedau and Vikas Borikar were performing at a wedding reception on Monday and announced at 10:45 pm that the track was the last one for the evening, which enraged accused Rahul and Rishabh Mendhe, who wanted them to take more requests, said the official. "The two attacked Bedau and Borikar with knives and injured them in the chest and abdomen. We have registered an attempt to murder case," the Nandanvan police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-djs-attacked-at-maharashtra-wedding-event-over-last-song-2-held-930441.html
