23-12-2020||First Edit||Power to the highest bidder||The State Election Commission (SEC) has taken a bold step in countermanding elections to 13 constituencies in Sindigeri gram panchayat of Ballari district where seats were auctioned to the highest bidders in an attempt to scuttle the poll process. The first phase of elections to gram panchayats in Karnataka were held on December 22, while the second phase is scheduled for December 27. While the pernicious practice of auctioning seats is not new, it has become rampant this time around. The first such case came to light in Kalaburagi after a video went viral on social media, following which an FIR was registered against the auctioneers. Then on, many such instances were reported. In Sindigeri, the seats were auctioned at a temple in Byluru village, with the candidates together agreeing to pay Rs 51 lakh in the name of the deity in return for being elected unopposed. Once the seat is auctioned, no other candidate is allowed to contest. An unusually high number of over 4,300 candidates were elected unopposed in the first phase. The Constitution provides for universal suffrage, which entitles every citizen who has attained the age of 18 the right to exercise his or her franchise irrespective of caste, colour, creed, sex, religion or social status, and thus ensure representation for themselves. Auctioning of seats to skirt elections amounts to a denial of this right. Both the Representation of People Act and the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act provide for disqualification of elected members who have indulged in corrupt practices. The SEC should go into each case where candidates have been elected unopposed and initiate steps to disqualify them if any anomaly is found. The Panchayat Raj system was introduced in the country to promote local self-governance. It is unfortunate that democracy is being throttled through unconstitutional means right at the grassroots level. Illegal auctions ensure that the wealthy win the election without even a contest while the poor and marginalised sections, whose hands the Panchayat Raj system aims to strengthen, continue to remain on the sidelines, with no say in the affairs of their village. Panchayat seats are in great demand as they enhance the prestige of the candidates locally, besides being stepping-stones to higher electoral offices. How the winning candidate recovers the amount invested in the auction is anybody’s guess. The government should come down on this practice with a heavy hand. Unless local bodies are freed from the stranglehold of the rich and the entitled class, the dream of true ‘Gram Swaraj’ can never be realised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/power-to-the-highest-bidder-930778.html
23-12-2020||In Perspective||Atmanirbhar in shipbuilding? Long way to go||Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat recently inaugurated the new-generation Project 17A ships with advanced stealth features at the defence PSU Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) Kolkata. While this is a laudable step, a deeper look at the country’s shipbuilding industry indicates that it is in a dismal state. Today, only 20 of the country’s 25 shipyards -- big and small, private or state-owned -- are functional. They are currently engaged in building most of the Indian Navy (IN)’s warships and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) vessels, besides a few commercial ships to meet the government’s requirements. Globally, India has proved to be a failure in shipbuilding, while China, Japan and South Korea, besides some Southeast Asian nations, have taken the lead in this industry. Unlike India, these industrial nations thrive on export orders that foster shipbuilding expertise. India’s contribution to commercial shipbuilding globally is less than 1% today, which is far lower than the 3.5% achieved in 2007-12. Today, Indian private shipyards are not competitive to win global orders for those classes of ships that match in size to their infrastructure, despite the government's financial subsidy of nearly 16%. Further, the PSUs are content to execute available defence orders, even though they have spare capacity to produce more. Therefore, Indian ship-owners prefer to buy foreign-built commercial ships.  Moreover, there are technical reasons that hamper the scale of production, like high import content of material/machinery, lack of design talent which requires expensive tie-ups with foreign OEMs, and lastly, stiff competition from other Asian and western shipbuilders. These industrial nations adopt more efficient automated processes in shipbuilding. The PSUs -- Hindustan Shipyard Ltd, Visakhapatnam; Mazagaon Docks Ltd, Mumbai; GRSE; Cochin Shipyard Ltd, Cochin; and Goa Shipyard Ltd, Goa -- have enjoyed a ‘monopoly’ over building warships for the Navy and Coast Guard since the 1960s. Such projects have been fraught with time and cost overruns. In 2000, the government permitted participation by private yards, following which ABG, Bharati, Pipavav, L&T, Shoft Shipyard, etc., entered the fray. They competed and won initial orders, despite the non-level playing field. It took almost two decades for the Ministry of Defence to finalise a level playing field in Defence Procurement Policy (DPP) 2020; but in the interim, many private shipyards could not sustain business, mainly due to PSUs cornering new shipbuilding projects. Today, only a few private shipyards, such as L&T and Shoft survive. Between 2000 and 2020, the Navy added 59 vessels to its fleet; only four of them were built in private shipyards. The ICG got 163 vessels, 101 of them from private shipyards. A pattern emerged in this period that private shipyards could compete for only auxiliary/small vessels while the PSUs would get to build all bigger ships. Today, of the 50 defence ships being built -- 40 for the Navy, 10 for the ICG -- 47 are with PSUs, costing Rs 1.07 lakh crore; only three ships, costing Rs 500 crore, are in private shipyards. Hopefully, this glaring disparity will go with DPP 2020. Of defence projects being finalised for Rs 97,000 cr over the next five years, PSUs have already been given projects worth Rs 55,000 crore as per earlier policies. The remaining Rs 42,000 crore would, however, be open for competition under the PPP model, which should enable the IN and ICG to get their vessels on time and budget. The government needs to adopt a multi-pronged strategy to enable our yards to win global orders by initially introducing “first right of refusal” by our shipyards against any import by Indian owners and by progressively increasing indigenous content through the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission. An opportunity has now arisen for it to introduce new policies for the emerging need of nearly 1,000 vessels for the Sagarmala programme‘s inland water transportation and coastal shipping. In addition, a policy needs to be evolved to task selected shipyards for a combination of both defence and commercial projects to enhance capacity utilization and efficiency of yards. As a next step to streamline the PPP model, government now needs to explore the export market in the Indian Ocean Region for both design and construction of defence vessels. Also, the design expertise in the Navy and MoD ‘Nirdesh’ can also be put to effective use. India can become a vibrant hub for shipbuilding/ship repair in the next decade if the government provides the policy environment. This would truly make the country a maritime nation and establish meaningful ties with our maritime neighbours, which will further enhance the country’s supremacy in the Indian Ocean Region. (The writer, a former naval technocrat, was CEO of L&T Shipbuilding, Chennai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/atmanirbhar-in-shipbuilding-long-way-to-go-930780.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Polling in 106 Gram Panchayats peaceful in Dakshina Kannada||Polling in 106 gram panchayats in Mangaluru, Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks in Dakshina Kannada district was peaceful on Tuesday. Amid the Covid-19 scare, the voters exercised their franchise enthusiastically. The polling began at a slow pace from 7 am and gained pace by noon. DK district had registered an average of 14.48 % polling by 9 am. Mangaluru registered 14.6% polling, Moodbidri-15.64% polling, and Bantwal 13.7% polling. By 11 am, the average polling was 33.93 % with Mangaluru - 31.87%, Moodbidri - 32.80%, and Bantwal - 34.58%. DK had registered 50.26% polling by 1 pm. Bantwal had registered 51.72%, followed by Moodbidri - 48.88% and Mangaluru - 48.82%. The overall percentage in the district was 62.43 at 3 pm. Finally, the DK district registered 75.05% polling. Mangaluru registered 72.23%, Moodbidri-77.77%, and Bantwal-72.82% polling. Asha workers were seen checking the temperature of voters with the help of thermal scanners at polling booths. Use of sanitiser was mandatory before exercising the franchise. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik exercised his franchise at the Thenka Edapadavu Government Primary School in Mangaluru taluk. Former minister B Ramanath Rai cast his vote at Thodambila School in Kallige Gram Panchayat after offering special puja at the Venkatramana Temple in Bantwal. MLA U T Khader, along with his wife, exercised their franchise at the ZP Higher Primary School at Boliyar. Khader said that the voters are dejected over the anti-poor governance of the Centre and the State governments. The Congress-supported candidates will have an upper hand in the GP elections across Karnataka, he said. Mistakes aplenty Mistakes were plenty in voters list. A wife and husband were directed to different polling booths at Perne in Bantwal. While Dombaiah’s name is in Perne part 1 with sequence number 1,136, his wife Girija was included in part 2 with sequence number 49. Similarly, Rohini S Gowda was included in part 1, sequence number 889, while her husband was in ward two part 1 and serial number 232. Polling officials on duty were forced to buy food. As some polling booths like Sajipanadu, Bolla were located in remote places, polling officials were left starving. 3,854 candidates in fray There were 3,854 candidates contesting for 1,631 seats in 106 gram panchayats in Mangaluru, Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks. There were 817 polling booths with 322 in Mangaluru taluk, 99 in Moodbidri and 396 in Bantwal taluks. Out of 322 polling booths in Mangaluru, 119 were sensitive, 47 hyper-sensitive and 156 are general booths. In Moodbidri, there were 42 sensitive, 21 hyper-sensitive and 36 general polling booths, while Bantwal had 86 sensitive, 46 hyper-sensitive and 264 general polling booths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/polling-in-106-gram-panchayats-peaceful-in-dakshina-kannada-930550.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gram Panchayat polls: 4 Covid-infected patients cast votes||With the State Election Commission allowing the Covid-19 infected to exercise their franchise, four infected in Bantwal had cast their vote by wearing a PPE kit, informed District Health Officer Dr Ramachandra Bayari. People with Coronavirus infection were allowed to exercise their franchise during the final hour of the polling. All precautionary measures were taken by the officials to allow as many as 20 Covid-19 patients to exercise their franchise. However, no infected patient in Mangaluru and Moodbidri taluks exercised their franchise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-polls-4-covid-infected-patients-cast-votes-930551.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||MRPL to adopt animals at Pilikula||The MRPL, under its Corporate Environment Responsibility (CSR) funds, extended support for the cause of Conservation of Biodiversity by adopting Pilikula Nisargadhama on the City’s outskirts. MRPL and Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama signed an MoU on adopting all wild animals at the Pilikula Biological Park for a period of 12 months, on Tuesday. MRPL executive director (Refinery) Elango M and Pilikula Nisargadhama executive director Gokuldas Nayak were the signatories on the MoU. Financial assistance to the tune of Rs 4,16,45,145 will be spent on the adoption initiative. MRPL’s funds will be mainly utilised for providing fodder to 1,200 wild animals, veterinary facilities, and medicines to the animals. A need was felt to protect and feed more than 1,200 captive wild animals during the Covid-19 outbreak and in the nationwide lockdown which resulted in the loss of revenue generation in Pilikula. Therefore, MRPL took up the project under its CSR, following a recommendation from the DK Deputy Commissioner. MRPL has been associated with Pilikula Biological Park since 2016 when it signed an agreement for the creation of the Green Belt by planting 2,000 plants on 20 acres of land in Pilikula. A second agreement on planting another 2,000 plants on 30 acres of land was signed in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mrpl-to-adopt-animals-at-pilikula-930559.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||New Covid-19 strain: Seven return from UK to Mysuru||The health department officials have identified a total of seven people who have returned to Mysuru from Britain. The authorities have contacted all of them, who reached Mysuru in different batches since November 23. The authorities claim that the people need not be panic as all the visitors had undergone the Covid-19 test before boarding flight in the UK. "We have asked all the seven to undergo covid test immediately. All of them will be kept under quarantine," said Covid-19 testing nodal officer Dr Mohammed Shiraz Ahmed, also District Tuberculosis Officer (DTO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-covid-19-strain-seven-return-from-uk-to-mysuru-930585.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two passengers from London return to Hassan district||The Health department personnel have sent the samples of two persons, who returned from London to Hassan, for testing, on Tuesday. A 29-year-old scientist returned to Hassan taluk and a 48-year-old employee returned to Arkalgud taluk, from London. Both were asymptomatic during their return to the country. As per the guidelines, both have been kept under isolation and the results are awaited, said Health and Family Welfare officer Dr Sathish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-passengers-from-london-return-to-hassan-district-930593.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru: Giant Christmas star to create awareness on Covid-19||A giant Christmas star, installed at Shirthadi in Moodbidri taluk, is not just heralding the arrival of Christmas but is also spreading a message on precautions to be taken to check the spread of Covid-19. This star, highlighting the need to wear a mask and maintain social distance in order to check the spread of Covid-19, was creatively designed by three friends -- Prasanna Joyel Sequeira, Yathish Kulal Shirthadi and Naveen Shetty Shirthadi. The three friends have been engaged in creating the Christmas star with a social message for the past eight years. Naturally available materials were used in the making of the star, the friends revealed. Bamboo sticks, cloth masks and maida dough have been used for the purpose. Sanitisers and artwork on coronavirus too have been included in the Christmas star. The trio had worked tirelessly for eight days to make the 13-foot tall and 12-foot wide star. The star, hung from a Badam tree on the premises of the Mount Carmel Church, weighs over 30 kg. It is prepared from 20 kg bamboo, 160 feet white cloth, 40 masks, five-hand sanitisers and 1,200 pins. The star had been illuminated. In the centre of the star, a replica of coronavirus has been attracting onlookers. "It is an effort to create awareness on health and Covid-19 among people," says Sequeira. "Covid-19 has not been eradicated from the world. When festivals are nearing, there is a need to create awareness among people. The Christmas star has been prepared involving members of all communities.'' Yathish Kulal Shirthadi said: "The need of the hour is communal harmony in society. Hailing from different communities, we have come together to create this star to spread a message." Naveen Shetty Shirthadi said: "We need to change our thoughts. All festivals Deepavali, Christmas and Ramzan should be celebrated with unity. Through Christmas star, we have sent a strong message to the society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-giant-christmas-star-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19-930639.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Huge butterfish weighing 250 kg draws attention||A giant butterfish, caught from the Arabian Sea, was the centre of attraction at Sea Fish World, a fish stall, near Devaraja mutton market, in Mysuru, on Wednesday. The fish was brought from Calicut, in Kerala, to Mysuru, as part of Christmas celebrations. People thronged to see the huge fish and took pictures with it. The fish weighs around 250 kg and its estimated worth is Rs 1 lakh. Ibrahim of the stall said the fish was caught in the Arabian Sea on Monday, December 21 and was brought to Mysuru, via Kozhikode. As soon as the people learned about the huge fish, there was a great demand for it from hoteliers. The fish was sold at Rs 400 per kg, he said. Last year, a huge fish weighing 125 kg was brought from Kerala, to the same shop, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-huge-butterfish-weighing-250-kg-draws-attention-930815.html
23-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||DH Toon | JD(S) is no chameleon: H D Kumaraswamy on 'siding with BJP'||Known for running with the hare and hunting with the hounds, the party’s political bankruptcy could not have been more pronounced than at the recently concluded legislature session. During the previous session in September, JD(S) had joined hands with Congress in the Legislative Council to block introduction of the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill which allows non-agriculturists to buy farmland. However, in the current session, it took a diametrically opposite stand and voted with the government to pass the Bill. While what promoted this sudden change of heart is debatable, protesting farmers have accused JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy of having struck a deal with the ruling BJP. However, opposing the criticism of his party, former Karnataka CM and party leader H D Kumaraswamy said that the media is consciously forgetting hat national political parties are using a regional party like the JD(S) as a dice to hold on to the thread of power. "Janata Dal (S) is not a “chameleon” party that changes its political colours through opportunistic alliances without ideological basis just for the hunger of power. The party has been fighting to come to power on its own for the last several decades, and this political struggle will continue in the future, too," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dh-toon-jds-is-no-chameleon-h-d-kumaraswamy-on-siding-with-bjp-930522.html
23-12-2020||Main Article||Too much democracy: What Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant’s remarks reveal||The BJP quickly distanced itself from Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant’s remark that India has been “too much of a democracy” to allow reforms that the bureaucrat categorised as “bold”. Officers trying to keep the ruling party in good humour, particularly when they have been given plum roles, is nothing new. But Kant was a little too much to digest even for the BJP, which has tried to end the furore over those remarks with Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saying, “We are proud of our democracy.” Kant himself has explained that the way his remarks were reported is not the way he meant to say it. We must accept his explanations yet note that his choice of words and the timing were ironic, even if nothing else need be said about the thinking in such senior echelons of our bureaucracy. Kant’s other remarks in the same meeting that have not caught as much attention reveal more about how actually this difficult thing called democracy is being set aside as the government marches ahead with its plans like no other government has before. Kant plays to the political tune by painting a rosy future of a path he talks of as if he knows it so well; it is precisely this idea of certitude, blind in its beliefs, unmindful of what the nation feels and suffers, that has brought us unprecedented strife, of which the farmers’ protests are the latest example. The question is not about “reforms”, which many might reasonably argue are required (though the popular mood appears to have distinctly turned anti-“reform”). The point is the way these policy actions are being pushed down the throat of an unwilling nation when trust in the promises and actions of the government isn’t at its best and gets lower by the way it works and stands in the face of unprecedented opposition. There are simple ways to understand what the nation is going through. Sharad Pawar explained it in a few lines when he said: “When these Bills were tabled before Parliament, it was conveyed to the government that though it was possible for them at that moment to clear these important Bills without any discussion, there was bound to be a reaction from the farmers at a later stage. But the government did not pay heed to this and cleared these Bills with a nominal discussion of 15-20 minutes.” The Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee understood it equally simply and explained: “It is not so much that you could not make a case for getting rid of many of these very old-fashioned institutions in the agriculture sector…but the lack of trust is massive. The sudden cancelling of the Centre’s liabilities under the GST Act does not help. You…have power delivered from top down and (you say) we are just going to take decisions.” But this is precisely the way, the approach and the method of choice for this government. We have it on authority from Kant, who explains in remarks that have not been cited enough: “The (Covid-19) crisis has been used by this government as an opportunity to unleash reforms that will modernise India’s agriculture…” He goes on to cite a host of reforms that can only be contentious and even more so when they are pushed without discussion. These are changes to labour laws, mining, coal, tariffs in the power sector so that industry users are no longer subsidising home users. There is no doubt that these are “hard” reforms. Kant says they were held up for years, but he cares not to pause to think or ask why. These remarks are bound to be contested; they will generate political heat and social strife. The anger may not find its way out on the streets in every single case, but people are seething, and this will come out somewhere and with not very good outcomes. Consider how must labourers respond when working hours have been stretched, when basic protections, already rendered weak by a contractual system, are withdrawn and the unorganised are left to the vagaries of an owner class that has been known (with some exceptions) to care a damn. Should a government use the suffering wrought by a pandemic to push through such deep changes that will carry longstanding ramifications for ordinary citizens without listening, debating, arguing and settling down for a bit of give and take? What is this, if not the working of a system that has decided that we have too much democracy, and it’s time to cut it down and push ahead on a path that the people at the top have decided is best for all of us – with people at the bottom having little say in the matter? The pandemic has thus been used not so much to bring immediate relief to the people, or to help migrants who were forced to flee amid the ill-advised order of an almost sudden shutdown, but to push an agenda while the people are suffering. And in the process, more strife and more suffering follow and we see it on the roads and highways where farmers brave the wintry weather to take on a haughty government. Is it any surprise then that the names of crony capitalists are today becoming synonymous with the leading lights of the government? This is not even getting into the arguments over MSP and how and why it has been left out of the farm laws. Let us therefore not confuse the protests with reforms. People see them as only they can. This is a government on an agenda that has nothing to do with the ordinary, everyday citizens of India. It is taking us on a ride to a mythical, vainglorious future, trampling aspirations, dignity and rights today to build airports, exports and fancy factories for tomorrow. To achieve this, “too much democracy” has to be tamed. And thus, all the nation’s energy, vibrancy and diversity is being sucked out. It is the ultimate plunder of Mother India. (The writer is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/too-much-democracy-what-niti-aayog-chief-amitabh-kant-s-remarks-reveal-930779.html
23-12-2020||National||New coronavirus strain: Centre launches mega exercise to track arrivals from UK||With the mutated Covid-19 strain triggering panic across the globe, the Centre on Tuesday set in motion a massive exercise to track down every individual arriving in India between November 25 and December 23 directly from the UK or on flights that transited through the UK to screen them for the new mutant. Once these persons are traced, health officials would reach out to the travellers and their contacts who would be subjected to RT-PCR tests. Passengers testing positive will be isolated in an institutional facility while their samples would be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, or an appropriate laboratory for genetic sequencing. If the sequencing reveals the presence of the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2, then the patient will remain in a separate isolation unit, while necessary treatment as per the protocol will be given, according to the Union Health Ministry’s latest standard operating procedure for the mutated strain, which is 70% more transmissible than the strains currently circulating in the world. The patient shall be tested again on the 14th day. In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, further samples may be taken and he would stay in isolation until his two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart test negative. “The SOP has been issued to the Bureau of Immigration, which will share the data on passengers with the state governments to track them down and trace their contacts,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said here on Tuesday. In case the sequencing report is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol may be followed, the SOP stated. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said the mutant strain was yet to be spotted in India and there was no reason to panic. Also, there is no evidence that vaccines would not work against such variants. “We need to be more vigilant. We can’t lose the game that we are winning,” said Paul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coronavirus-strain-centre-launches-mega-exercise-to-track-arrivals-from-uk-930501.html
23-12-2020||National||US Congressman asks India to provide security to agitating farmers||A Democratic American lawmaker on Tuesday urged the Indian government to provide safety to the protesting farmers as he hailed the recent offers of dialogue and a proposal from India's Supreme Court to set up mediation. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. "We have seen some ill-informed comments…relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said early this month. "I call on India’s government to demonstrate its commitment to democratic norms by guaranteeing protesters’ safety and by treating them with respect. Democracy demands this much," Congressman David Trone said. Trone, who represents the sixth Congressional District of Maryland, also expressed concern over reports of violence used against the protesters. He was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2018. "I further welcome the government’s engagement with the protestors, including recent offers of dialogue and a proposal from India's Supreme Court to set up mediation," he said in a statement. "As we continue to watch the democratic process unfold in India, where stakeholders from all sides are included, I’m hopeful to see a path forward that respects the rights of all Indians," said Trone, who previously was owner of a major American wine retailer. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the Indian government but the logjam continues. "The partnership between the United States and India has grown exponentially over the course of the past several years based on shared interest in a variety of areas: from security and trade to climate change and human rights," he said. "Our relationship with India not only helps anchor US policy in the Indo-Pacific, but it serves to set an example for cooperation that extends far beyond our two countries. As President-elect (Joe) Biden takes office in January, I look forward to working with the new Administration to strengthen this partnership based on the democratic values President-elect Biden has espoused throughout his career," he said. Trone said India’s citizens, like those of the US, have a longstanding tradition of engaging in a civic debate that aims to hold the government accountable to its people.  "We are reminded of this as thousands of Indians have taken to the streets in recent weeks to peacefully protest implementation of new laws. Their demonstration is an exercise of the democratic process, one that grants civic rights and freedom of expression,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-congressman-asks-india-to-provide-security-to-agitating-farmers-930517.html
23-12-2020||National||India likely to approve AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine by next week||India is likely to approve Oxford/AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine for emergency use by next week after its local manufacturer submitted additional data sought by authorities, two sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. This could be the first country to give the regulatory green light for the British drugmaker's vaccine as the British medicine regulator continues to examine data from the trials. India, the world's biggest vaccine-making country, wants to start inoculating its citizens next month and is also considering emergency use authorisation applications for vaccines made by Pfizer Inc and local company Bharat Biotech. Getting vaccines to the world's second-most populous country with one of the highest infection rates will also be a big step in the battle against the pandemic. The AstraZeneca-Oxford shot is considered vital for lower-income countries and those in hot climates because it is cheaper, easier to transport, and can be stored for long periods at normal fridge temperatures. Both sources said Indian health officials were in direct contact with their British counterparts over the AstraZeneca shot and that there were "strong indications" an approval would come by next week. The expected approval comes after data from AstraZeneca's late-stage trials in the UK and Brazil released earlier this month showed the vaccine had efficacy of 62% for trial participants given two full doses, but 90% for a smaller sub-group given a half, then a full dose. The Indian regulator is only considering the two full-dose regimen of the shot despite it showing a lower success rate, the sources said. "Serum is ready," said one of the sources. "Initially, we may get around 50 million to 60 million doses." The sources declined to be named as deliberations were ongoing and the timeline could change. CDSCO chief V.G. Somani did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Bharat Biotech and Pfizer declined to comment, while SII did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. India has not yet signed a vaccine supply deal with any company, but SII has already stockpiled more than 50 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot and plans to make a total of 400 million doses by July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-approve-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-by-next-week-930547.html
23-12-2020||National||India may approve SII-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine before UK: Report||Amid an increasing rush to find a coronavirus vaccine after a new strain of virus has experts and public worried, Drug Controller General of India may give Serum Institute of India' Covishield vaccine for emergency use authorisation even before the UK, as the British medicine regulator continues to examine data from the trials. “The review here is happening in parallel with the one in the UK. The same data that the UK regulator is reviewing we are also reviewing (along with Serum’s bridging study data)," an official told Mint. The world's largest vaccine producer, Serum Institute, will manufacture AstraZeneca Plc's Covishield, developed by Oxford University and British drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc. An expert panel had asked Serum Institute in December to present the outcome of the assessment of the UK regulator for grant of emergency use licence. This could be an important event in India's vaccination effort, globally, as the UK’s regulatory approval was deemed important. SII made the request for emergency use based on clinical trials data from the UK and Brazil, but the firm is also conducting trials in India, the final results of which are expected to take some more time. "Serum Institute submitted its revised data on the vaccine on Monday, and the expert panel will be considering the proposal, along with that from Pfizer, by the end of the month," Mint quoted another official as saying. Earlier, Dr V K Paul, a member of the NITI Aayog, during the weekly briefing on Tuesday said that the examination of additional data has begun. He explained that there are three applications before the DCGI- Pfizer, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech. Pfizer is yet to submit data while the other two applicants had presented the data, for which the regulator sought additional data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-approve-sii-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-before-uk-report-930577.html
23-12-2020||National||Covid-19: India records 23,950 new cases||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,99,066 with 23,950 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96.63 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,46,444 with 333 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,63,382 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.69 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 2,89,240 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,42,68,721 samples have been tested up to December 22 with 10,98,164 samples being tested on Tuesday.The 333 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra,  38 from West Bengal, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Delhi. A total of 1,46,444 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,876 from Maharashtra followed by 12,029 from Karnataka, 12,012 from Tamil Nadu, 10,329 from Delhi, 9,439 from West Bengal, 8,224 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,082 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,230 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-23950-new-cases-930581.html
23-12-2020||National||Scientists say vaccines effective against new coronavirus strain; more mutations likely to follow||The faster-spreading coronavirus strain first detected in the UK is unlikely to make vaccines less effective as of now but the preventives may need to be appropriately altered if more mutations occur over time, say scientists. More than 40 countries, including India, have banned travel to and from the UK, a move several scientists said was necessary in view of the rapid spread of the new viral strain, VUI-202012/0, that was detected on September 21. According to Jeremy Farrar, director of the London-based research charity Wellcome Trust UK, there is no indication at the moment that the new strain would evade treatments and vaccines.   “However, the mutation is a reminder of the power of the virus to adapt, and that cannot be ruled out in the future. Acting urgently to reduce transmission is critical,” Farrar said in a statement.    The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) announced on Sunday that the rapid increase of a SARS-CoV-2 variant with multiple spike protein mutations have been observed in the UK. “Preliminary modelling results communicated by the UK on December 19 suggest that the variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated increase in reproductive number (R) by 0.4 or greater with an estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70 per cent,” EDC said in a statement.   R number denotes the expected cases directly generated by one case in a population while transmissibility is the ability of a virus to be passed on from one person to another.   The ECDC, however, said there is no indication of increased infection severity observed related to the variant. The assessment is challenged by the fact that the majority of cases were reported in people under 60 years who are less likely to develop severe symptoms, it said.   “The new strain of the virus is known to have 13 mutations in the spike protein of which the N501Y mutation is responsible for it spreading 70 per cent faster than earlier versions of the virus,” said Deepak Sehgal, professor and head of Department of Life Sciences, Shiv Nadar University.   N501Y is the mutation. The 501st position in the spike protein's amino acid chain has altered from asparagine, denoted by the letter N, to tyrosine, represented by the letter Y, therefore N501Y, scientists explained. Spike protein is a crown protein on the virus which comes in contact with human cells to enter and infect.   Sehgal noted that the new variant has mutations to the spike protein that the three leading vaccines are targeting. The three leading vaccines are Moderna, Pfizer and Oxford-AstraZeneca. “However, vaccines produce antibodies against many regions in the spike protein, so it’s unlikely that a single change would make the vaccine less effective,” Sehgal told PTI.   Over time, as more mutations occur, the vaccine may need to be altered. “This happens with seasonal flu, which mutates every year, and the vaccine is adjusted accordingly,” Sehgal explained. The SARS-CoV-2 virus, however, doesn’t mutate as quickly as the flu virus, he added.   Virologist Upasana Ray agreed with Sehgal, noting that there is not enough evidence to suggest that these mutations may affect the efficacy of current vaccine candidates.    “It is important to remember that we don’t know whether this variant is a ‘serotype’ (variant)," Ray, a senior scientist at CSIR-IICB Kolkata, told PTI.    She explained that it is still unknown if the new strain interacts with the host immune system differently compared to other existing variants.   There is no evidence yet that this variant alters disease severity, either in terms of mortality or the seriousness of the cases of Covid-19 for those infected.   She said the structural proteins of a virus are responsible for the attachment of the virus receptor and co-receptor in cells, ultimately leading to the entry of the virus inside the host cells. “Thus changes in the structural protein might influence strength of virus-receptor interactions and thus infectivity,” she added.   The researchers said experimental data suggested the mutation N501Y of the coronavirus was seen to enhance infection in mice and lead to increased infectivity and virulence.   “Mutation threat in spike virus may lead to the faster entry of the virus into human cells increasing the infectivity. Only one change of amino acid from asparagine to tyrosine has made the difference in the strain enhancing its transmissibility,” Sehgal added.   One of the most significant changes is an N501Y mutation in the spike protein that the virus uses to bind to the human ACE2 receptor through which the virus enters the body.   “Changes in this part of spike protein may, in theory, result in the virus becoming more infectious and spreading more easily between people,” said Sehgal.   The researchers supported the temporary travel bans to and from the UK to stall the spread of the new viral strain.   The ECDC said there were indications of a more widespread occurrence of cases across the UK, adding a few cases were detected in other countries as well.   Italy reported that a citizen who had recently travelled to the UK tested positive for the new strain of the virus.   “The strain has also been found in Australia, South Africa, Brazil and Italy. It is absolutely essential to stop the travel to spread this new strain in the world,” Sehgal said.  “The countries where this virus strain has not been reported may be due to non-testing and hence not known. So to ascertain the existence or spread of the strain, all countries require thorough testing of the circulating viral strains,” he added. The new strain was first detected in the UK in September. In November, around a quarter of cases in London were the new variant. This reached nearly two-thirds of the cases in mid-December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-say-vaccines-effective-against-new-coronavirus-strain-more-mutations-likely-to-follow-930590.html
23-12-2020||National||Farmers urge people to skip one meal on Kisan Diwas, pay homage to Charan Singh||A decision on the government's offer for fresh talks to resolve the deadlock over contentious farm laws is likely to be taken later in the day by protesting farmer unions who urged people on Wednesday to skip one meal on 'Kisan Diwas', the birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, in support of their stir. Several farmers visited 'Kisan Ghat' here on Wednesday morning to pay tributes to Chaudhary Charan Singh, who was known for his farmer-friendly policies. "Several farmers arrived here at Kisan Ghat to pay their tribute on the occasion of Kisan Diwas. They are paying tributes and leaving soon after," a police officer said. To mark Kisan Diwas, protesting farmers at the Ghazipur border held a 'havan'. Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu had said that 32 farmer unions from Punjab held a meeting on Tuesday and discussed the next course of action. A meeting of farmer leaders from across India would be held on Wednesday where a decision on the government's talks offer will be taken. In a letter to 40 union leaders, the Joint Secretary in the Union Agriculture Ministry, Vivek Aggarwal, had on Sunday asked protesting farmer leaders to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks so that the ongoing agitation could end at the earliest. Agriculture Minister Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. The farmer leaders will also observe "Shaheedi diwas" from December 23-26. Traffic remained disrupted in bordering areas of the national capital due to the stir. The Delhi Traffic Police said the Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi. It has advised people to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders are also closed and commuters have been advised to take routes through the Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli toll tax borders. Police said that as traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and the GTK road, people are suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, the GTK road and National Highway (NH) 44. Those travelling to Haryana can go through the Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan-Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. According to the traffic police, Tikri, Dhansa and Ghazipur borders are also closed for traffic but the Jhatikara border was open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-urge-people-to-skip-one-meal-on-kisan-diwas-pay-homage-to-charan-singh-930591.html
23-12-2020||National||Modi govt committed to farmers' welfare, hope protesting farmers will soon withdraw stir: Rajnath Singh||On the birth anniversary of former prime minister Charan Singh, known for espousing the cause of farmers, the government on Wednesday reiterated its commitment to their welfare and expressed hope that the farmers protesting against farm laws will soon withdraw their agitation.  In a series of tweets, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken numerous measures in farmers' interest while taking inspiration from Charan Singh and that he will not allow any harm to them under any circumstances.  Rajnath Singh has been one of the key government ministers to have engaged in talks with farmers to end the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. "Some farmers have been agitating due to the farm laws. The government has been talking to them with utmost sensitivity. I hope they will soon withdraw their agitation," he said.  Charan Singh's birthday is also observed as 'Kisan Diwas' (farmer's day).  The senior BJP leader noted that Charan Singh voiced the concerns of farmers all his life and worked for their welfare.  He always wanted that farmers get good price for their produce so that their income increased and that their honour always remained secure, Rajnath Singh added.  Taking inspiration from the former prime minister, Modi has been taking measures for farmers' welfare, he asserted, while paying tributes to Charan Singh.  Lauding farmers, he said they have provide the country the shield of grain security. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. Born in 1902 in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Charan Singh championed the farmers' cause and is credited with shaping several policies that helped cultivators. He died in 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-hope-protesting-farmers-will-soon-withdraw-stir-rajnath-singh-930594.html
23-12-2020||National||Emami gets Good Manufacturing Practice tag from WHO||Two plants of home-grown FMCG company Emami Limited have got WHO-GMP certification for its units at Vapi and Masat at Gujarat which manufactures ayurveda healthcare products under the 'Zandu' brand for a period of three years. The two units have also obtained Certificate of Pharmaceutical Products (CoPP), the company said in a statement. The company said the issuance of World Health Organisation - Good Manufacturing Practice (WHO-GMP) to the Emami units and CoPP for more than 40 such products under their Zandu brand umbrella, is a recognition and global testimony of the superior quality, safety and efficacy of the brand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emami-gets-good-manufacturing-practice-tag-from-who-930595.html
23-12-2020||National||India-Pakistan relations sink to new lows in 2020||The relations between Pakistan and India plumbed new depths in 2020, a year marred by periodic verbal duels, summoning of diplomats and rhetorics by Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is facing mounting pressure from the Opposition to step down in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic that has battered the country's fragile economy. Bilateral ties suffered a series of blows in 2019 after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror group killed 44 CRPF soldiers in Pulwama, prompting India to carry out air strikes on terror training camps in Balakot. The relations nose-dived further following the abrogation of Article 370 of India's Constitution in August, 2019 that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The move angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services. With no thaw in the frosty bilateral relations, the year 2020 saw periodic war of words over the issue of Pakistan-sponsored cross-border terrorism. In June, India asked Pakistan to reduce the staff in its mission in New Delhi by half and announced a reciprocal trimming of staff strength in its high commission in Islamabad. India said its decision to downgrade the diplomatic ties was based on instances of involvement of Pakistani officials in "acts of espionage" and "dealings with terrorist organisations". Over the past 12 months, Pakistan made several futile attempts to raise the Kashmir issue at the international forums and drum up support against India. New Delhi has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda. Pakistan, however, adopted escalatory measures by intensifying ceasefire violations along the Line of Control, where the armies of the two sides regularly targeted each other, resulting in casualties. Pakistan’s Foreign Office tried to keep up pressure on India by regularly summoning its diplomats in Islamabad and issuing press statements about the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian Army. Islamabad also accused New Delhi of "politicising" the deliberations at the meetings of the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force, a global money-laundering watchdog. The FATF decided to retain Pakistan on its 'grey list' till February 2021 as it failed to fulfill six key obligations, including failure to take action against two of India's most wanted terrorists – Jamaat ud-Dawah chief Hafiz Saeed and JeM head Masood Azhar. In 2020, Saeed was sentenced for a collective imprisonment of 21 years on terror financing charges in four cases, a move experts described as an attempt by Pakistan to improve its global standing and to wriggle out of the FATF’s grey list. During the year, both sides also failed to agree how Kulbhushan Jadhav, on death row in Pakistan, should be represented in his review appeal in the Islamabad High Court against his conviction by a Pakistani military court for alleged spying. India says that Pakistan has failed to respond on core issues pertaining to the case. The only window of hope for bilateral cooperation was provided by the outbreak of the Covid-19 and joint efforts by members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) to contain the deadly virus. But Islamabad mostly used the high-level meetings to raise the Kashmir issue and other bilateral matters. India slammed Pakistan for raising the Kashmir issue during SAARC video-conference meeting, saying Islamabad "misused" the occasion as it was not a political platform, but a humanitarian one. Due to the deep mistrust between Islamabad and New Delhi there was no forward movement in bilateral ties in 2020, according to Dr Ashfaq Ahmad, Assistant Professor in International Relations Department of Sargodha University in Punjab province. The chances for any change for broader cooperation between the two sides were slim in 2021, he said. On the domestic front, Prime Minister Khan faces a serious challenge as the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) - an alliance of 11 Opposition parties - set a January 31 deadline for him to step down or face a "Long March" to Islamabad. The PDM held massive rallies in major cities to seek Khan's ouster and press the powerful military to stop interfering in politics. The Pakistan Army has denied meddling in politics. Khan also denies that the Army helped him win the election in 2018. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz supremo Nawaz Sharif has repeatedly blamed Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed for Pakistan's current situation. The government is trying to get Sharif, who has refused to return to Pakistan, deported from the UK after the three-time premier was allowed to go to London for treatment. For the first time in 68 years, Pakistan’s economy contracted in the outgoing fiscal year with a negative 0.38 per cent due to the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic coupled with the already weak financial situation before the deadly infection hit the country. Islamabad has approached its all-weather ally China to once again bail out the country from the economic woes while bolstering its bilateral defence ties. Advisor on Finance Abdul Hafeez Sheikh, releasing the Pakistan Economic Survey 2019-20, said the economy suffered massively due to the pandemic, which forced the government to impose lockdown for several weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-relations-sink-to-new-lows-in-2020-930613.html
23-12-2020||National||SC keeps judicial wheels turning during Covid-19, paves way for hanging in Nirbhaya case||Wide-ranging directions passed in the “world war” against Covid-19 to alleviate the plight of citizens and keeping the wheels of judiciary turning by delivering several key verdicts, including the one which led to the hanging of four convicts in the sensational Nirbhaya gang rape and murder case, were the key imprints left by the Supreme Court in 2020. All the odds notwithstanding, the apex court kept delivering verdicts having far-reaching impact, including the orders passed in matters related to anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest at Shaheen Bagh, to the latest order on farmers’ agitation against new farm laws at Delhi’s borders. Besides, it took a giant leap towards gender justice by granting permanent commission for women officers in the armed forces. The year also saw the top court face strong criticism on various counts even as it upheld free speech and expression for the citizens. As the country came to a standstill amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the apex court not only swiftly evolved a system and switched to video conferencing and e-filing instead of physical hearings but also showed the way to other courts across India to ensure that citizens continue to have uninterrupted access to justice. While it held in the Shaheen Bagh case that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations have to be in designated places alone, it said that farmers’ agitation should be allowed to continue “without impediment” as protest is a fundamental right. The top court stood firmly with the cherished freedom of speech and expressions for citizens, especially the media, by granting protection to scribes like Vinod Dua, Arnab Goswami and Amish Devgan and famously observed: “India’a freedom will rest safe as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal.” The apex court, which refused to stay the operation of CAA without hearing the Centre, said that a five-judge Constitution bench would decide its validity. Similarly, it has sought response of the Centre on a batch of pleas against the new farm laws. The year also witnessed unprecedented controversy when Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy made allegations against Justice N V Ramana, who is in line to become the next Chief Justice of India, in a letter to incumbent CJI S A Bobde. Later, while speaking at a condolence meet for former top court judge AR Lakshmanan, Justice Ramana said greatest strength of judiciary is the faith of people in it and judges must be “steadfast in holding on to their principles” and “fearless in their decisions” to withstand all pressures and odds. In 2020, the top court faced a barrage of criticism over allegations of not acting swiftly towards the plight of lakhs of migrant workers, who started returning to their native places from big cities with their families trudging hundreds of miles due to the sudden nationwide lockdown. It took cognisance of several Covid-19 related issues, including on migrant workers in which it passed a slew of directions to ensure that they reach home safely and are provided with food and shelter, and also on providing treatment as well as dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals. “Due to unprecedented pandemic, everybody in the world is suffering, one way or the other. It is a world war against Covid-19. Therefore, there shall be government public partnership to avoid world war against Covid-19,” the apex court said. The country’s wait for justice in the 2012 Nirbhaya case was over when the four convicts were hanged on March 20 after the apex court, during an unprecedented pre-dawn hearing at 2.30 AM, dismissed the plea filed by one of the convicts challenging rejection of his second mercy petition by the President. Contempt cases in the apex court hogged the limelight during the year but the matter which caught the attention was the conviction of activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt for his two tweets against the judiciary. The apex court, which imposed a “nominal fine” of Re 1 on Bhushan saying he had attempted to “denigrate the reputation of the institution of administration of justice”, later in the year issued show-cause notices to stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja for their alleged scandalous tweets against the top court. One of the high-profile matters in the apex court was the alleged suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. It led to a political storm from Maharashtra to Bihar, and the court accorded its approval for a CBI probe into the FIR against actress Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the "unnatural death". The high-drama over encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his alleged associates, days after eight cops of Uttar Pradesh Police were gunned down by the dreaded criminal, also reached the top court which approved the state’s draft notification for appointing former apex court judge Justice (retd) B S Chauhan as chairman of 3-member inquiry commission. Similarly, the furore over Hathras gang rape case and late night cremation of the victim also reached the apex court which said CBI probe into the matter will be monitored by Allahabad High Court and CRPF would provide security to victim’s kin and witnesses. The high-stake corporate battle involving Tata Sons and Cyrus Investments continued through the year in the top court. In January it stayed the NCLAT order restoring Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons and this month, reserved verdict on cross-appeals filed by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-keeps-judicial-wheels-turning-during-covid-19-paves-way-for-hanging-in-nirbhaya-case-930619.html
23-12-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee interacts with protesting farmers in Delhi, assures TMC's support||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke to farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre's new agriculture laws and assured them that her party stands by them, a TMC leader said. The ruling party in West Bengal had recently sent a five-member delegation to interact with the farmers who were on a day-long 'relay' hunger strike on Monday at all sites of protest on Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. "Our party supremo spoke to protesting farmers over the phone. Some of them requested her to visit the 'dharna' sites. She assured them that the party supports their demand," a TMC leader said. Thousands of agriculturists, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the Centre's reform measures for the last over four weeks at various border points of Delhi and demanding that the laws be repealed. Earlier this month, Banerjee had interacted with the agitating farmers over the phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-interacts-with-protesting-farmers-in-delhi-assures-tmcs-support-930624.html
23-12-2020||National||National Herald case: Swamy delaying proceedings, Gandhis tells court||Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi Wednesday accused BJP MP Subramanian Swamy of delaying proceedings in the National Herald case, filed by him against them and others, by moving “totally vague" application. The Gandhis made the submission before the court while opposing an application filed by Swamy, seeking summoning of various documents and witnesses in the case. The accused sought dismissal of the application saying it was not filed under relevant provisions. “The present application is liable to be dismissed being totally vague; tainted by inordinate delay and dilatory in nature,” the counsel appearing for the accused said. It was incumbent upon Swamy to file an application under the appropriate provision setting out the list of witnesses, along with other specific details, whom he intended to examine, the counsel said. “The present application is also liable to be dismissed as the present application does not conform to the relevant provision,” the counsel told Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta. In reply to the application, the accused said that while it was the legal right of Swamy to submit a list of witnesses sought to be summoned by him, the court was not conducting a "roving inquiry".  “The complainant has not submitted any list of witnesses even though the recording of pre-charge evidence had commenced on July 21, 2018 when the complainant himself stepped into the witness box.  “Needless to say that the application has to satisfy the procedure prescribed by law,” the reply said. It further said: “It is not clear as to whether the complainant is summoning documents to be proved in accordance with law or summoning witnesses to prove his case. This court is not conducting a roving inquiry and evidence can only be summoned to substantiate the allegation in the summoning order.” The court will further hear the matter on January 12. The application moved by Swamy had sought summoning of Secretary General Sanjeev S Kalgaonar (Registry officer) Supreme Court of India, Rajnish Kumar Jha (Dy Land & Development officer), Saket Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax Circle-1 and a Congress official who issued a press statement on November 2, 2012.  The case was scheduled for the cross-examination of the complainant, Swamy, as a part of pre-charge evidence.  Earlier, the court had asked both the parties to explore the solution for proceeding with the matter further in view of the COVID-19 situation. Swamy, in a private criminal complaint, has accused the Gandhis and others of conspiring to cheat and misappropriate funds by paying just Rs 50 lakh, through which the Young Indian (YI) Private Limited obtained the right to recover the Rs 90.25 crore the Associated Journals Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, owed to the Congress. All the seven accused in the case -- Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, senior Congress leaders Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and Motilal Vora, who recently passed away, and the YI -- had denied the allegations levelled against them. The Gandhis, Vora, Fernandes, Dubey and Pitroda were accused of misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-herald-case-swamy-delaying-proceedings-gandhis-tells-court-930632.html
23-12-2020||National||Rules to stop coronavirus variant stoke chaos at Indian airports||Passengers flying into India's biggest airports on Wednesday complained of long waits and confusion as authorities sought to impose rules to try to stop the spread of a new more transmissible variant of the coronavirus. Like many countries, India has suspended flights from Britain, where cases have soared because of the variant. People arriving from Britain before the ban came into force on Wednesday were being tested, including Kamini Saraswat whose plane landed in New Delhi just before midnight. Despite pre-booking a test, her turn came nine hours after arrival and she told Reuters she was still stuck at the airport waiting for the result. "There is no clear communication," said Saraswat, 28. "There is no social distancing." Cellphone footage taken by Saraswat, shared with Reuters, showed long lines of passengers and crowds packed together around desks to get themselves tested. India's hardest-hit state of Maharashtra, home to financial capital Mumbai, has taken additional measures, quarantining most passengers arriving from Europe and the Middle East for a week. Many European and Middle Eastern countries have also suspended flights from Britain, but act as transit hubs for the big airlines flying into India. Ishwari Gaurav Naik, who arrived in Mumbai from Dubai at around 2 a.m. on Wednesday, said she had to wait more than six hours before authorities sent her and three family members to a quarantine facility. "There was huge chaos there," Naik said from her temporary accommodation at a school. "Nobody knows anything. There is no coordination between staff." Delhi and Mumbai airport officials declined to comment, and local officials in both cities and India's federal health ministry did not respond to questions from Reuters. Federal authorities have said that all required measures will be undertaken but have given few details of how the extra checks will be staffed. India's plan to track down and screen all arrivals from Britain since November 25 is also getting stretched. Immigration officials are tasked to provide the details of all travellers from Britain since then. They will be then contacted by state and district health officials. A 54-year-old British citizen who flew into Mumbai on Monday morning said he was yet to receive either the result of his airport coronavirus test or any follow-up calls. "The intention may be very good, but it is all down to the execution," he said, declining to be named.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rules-to-stop-coronavirus-variant-stoke-chaos-at-indian-airports-930648.html
23-12-2020||National||Congress leader Madan Lal Sharma passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former minister Madan Lal Sharma passed away at a private hospital in Katra on Wednesday morning. The 68-year-old is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters. He was first elected as MLA in 1983 and again in 1987 from Chhamb constituency on Congress mandate, a party spokesman said. He became minister in the NC-Congress coalition government in 1988.He was again elected from Akhnoor in 2002 and became a minister in the PDP-Congress government.  Sharma was twice elected to the Lok Sabha from Jammu- Poonch seat in 2004 and 2009. However, he lost the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. "His death is being widely mourned in political and social circles.The entire rank and file of the party has deeply mourned his death and prayed for peace to the departed soul", chief spokesperson, JKPCC, Ravinder Sharma said. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress committee chief G A Mir expressed sorrow over the death of the veteran leader, saying his death has created a great void in the party.  Apni Party President Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also expressed grief over the demise of Sharma. “I am grieved over the passing away of Madan Lal Ji--a leader who had dedicated his whole life for the service of public welfare. As a minister also, he was accessible to the people especially to his electorate,” Bukhari observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-madan-lal-sharma-passes-away-930649.html
23-12-2020||National||Ayodhya mosque against Waqf Act, illegal under Shariat law: AIMPLB's Zafaryab Jilani||All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Zafaryab Jilani said on Wednesday the mosque which is planned to come up in Ayodhya following last year's Supreme Court verdict is against the Waqf Act and "illegal" under the Shariat laws. Athar Hussain, the secretary of a trust formed to build the mosque in Ayodhya, however, said everyone interprets the Shariat in their own way and when the land has been allotted under the directive of the Supreme Court, it cannot be illegal. The blueprint of the mosque and a hospital to be built on a five-acre land in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village was unveiled on Saturday at the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) office in Lucknow. The IICF has been formed by the Uttar Pradesh State Sunni Central Waqf Board to construct the mosque and other utilities on the plot. "According to the Waqf Act, mosques or land of mosques cannot be bartered. The proposed mosque in Ayodhya violates the Act. It violates the Shariat law as the Waqf Act is based on the Shariat," said Jilani, who was also the convenor of the Babri Masjid Action Committee. Another executive member of AIMPLB SQR Ilyas said, "We have rejected the proposal to accept land for the mosque at any other place. We lost the title suit and so we don't need a land for a mosque." He alleged that the Sunni Central Waqf Board was working under the pressure of the government. "The Muslims have, however, rejected this land at Dhannipur given in compensation. The mosque being built by the trust constituted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board is just a symbolic one." The issue was raised by MP MP Asaduddin Owaisi at a meeting of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board's executive committee held on October 13. All the members were of the view that the exchange of land for the mosque was not permissible under the Waqf Act and in turn "illegal" under the Shariat law. "The power for interpretation of Shariya does not lie in the hands of some limited people. The mosque is the place for offering namaz. So what is wrong if we are building a mosque?" posed Hussain. The Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid disputed structure was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built by demolishing an ancient Ram temple. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. On the directive of the apex court, the Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya's Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-mosque-against-waqf-act-illegal-under-shariat-law-aimplbs-zafaryab-jilani-930654.html
23-12-2020||National||Indian Army chief visits forward areas along LAC in Leh||Amid continued stand-off between the Indian and Chinese army in Eastern Ladakh, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane Wednesday visited the forward areas in Leh where he interacted with the commanders and soldiers of 14 Corps, which is popularly known as Fire and Fury Corps. Defence sources said the Army chief reached Leh early this morning on a day-long visit with an aim to review the ground situation in the region that is experiencing harsh winter. Later, he visited the forward areas, including Rechin La, where he undertook the first-hand assessment of the situation, they said and added that the GOC of Fire and Fury Corps, Lieutenant General PGK Menon, briefed the Army chief on the operational preparedness of forces in the area. At Rechin La, sources said, the army chief undertook the spot inspection of the state habitat of troops on the forward line where he appreciated the forces for the formation for the comfort of troops deployed along the LAC. From there, they said, General Naravane visited the forward base of Tara and interacted with the local command and troops. The army chief had also visited Leh in June and September, besides accompanying the Prime Minister, Defence Minister and Chief of Defence staff during their visits to the region post June clashes between two armies. The situation in eastern Ladakh worsened after the armies of India and China entered into a confrontation in May and June that left 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of PLA troops dead. Reportedly, around 50,000 Indian army troops are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-chief-visits-forward-areas-along-lac-in-leh-930657.html
23-12-2020||National||ISRO to open Regional Academic Centre for Space at IIT Varanasi||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will establish a Regional Academic Centre for Space at IIT-Varanasi to facilitate short and long term projects at the institute. ISRO and the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Wednesday and the move can help propel the culture of research and development among students, the statement said. "Under this agreement, ISRO-IIT (BHU) will open the Regional Academic Center for Space (RAC-S) in the institute,” it said. Short-term projects for B-Tech and M-Tech students from the institute and associate institutes will also be included in this sequence. "Long term R&D projects leading to the PhD programme will also be offered. Capacity building programmes like conferences, exhibitions and short courses will be organised to strengthen the knowledge base in the field,” the statement added. The MoU was signed by IIT(BHU) director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain on behalf of the institute and P V Venkatakrishnan, the director of Capacity Building Programme Office (CBPO), ISRO headquarter. ISRO scientific secretary R Umamaheswaran gave the inaugural address. Jain said the Regional Academic Centre for Space (RAC-S) of ISRO will act as a major facilitator for promoting space technology activities in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. He said IIT(BHU) will act as a catalyst for capacity building, awareness creation and R&D activities of ISRO. The activities of RAC-S will be directed to maximise the utilisation of research potential, infrastructure and expertise available at ISRO and IIT(BHU), he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-open-regional-academic-centre-for-space-at-iit-varanasi-930661.html
23-12-2020||National||J&K DDC polls: Margin of victory less than 100 on 19 seats||Nineteen candidates saw an extremely close contest in the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir where the margin of victory was less than 100. Of these candidates, eight are Independents, followed by three from the BJP, two each from the National Conference and the Congress and one each from the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), People Democratic Front (PDF) and the Peoples Conference (PC), as per data of the state election authority. Avtar Singh, a Sikh who contested as Independent candidate in the Dadsara constituency of Pulwama district, won the DDC polls by just three votes. Singh polled 246 votes while rival NC candidate Ali Mohmmad Bhat polled 243 votes. Khalid Bibi won Larnoo segment of Anantnag district on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ticket with a thin margin of seven votes as she polled 4,580 votes against his rival Independent candidate Sajida Begam, who polled 4,573 votes. Two candidates lost by just 11 votes in Shopian district. Former BJP minister Sham Lal Choudhary lost in the Suchetgarh constituency of Jammu district by 11 votes. As per figures of the state election authority, Sham Lal Choudhary polled 12,958 votes against Independent candidate Taranjit Singh, who polled 12,969 votes and lost by a very thin margin of 11 votes in Suchetgarh segment of Jammu district. Choudhary was a cabinet minister in the BJP-PDP coalition government in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Similarly, Independent candidate Bilqees Jan won Zainapora-I seat in Shopian district by defeating her rival candidate Gul Iqbal by 11 votes. She polled 9,342 votes while Gul polled 135 votes. Two candidates won by just 14 votes in Udhampur and Pulwama districts. Ashu Sharma of the BJP defeated Panthers party candidate Rishma Sambyal in the Tikri seat of Udhampur district by 14 votes. In the Qamarwari constituency of Srinagar district, Independent candidate Yaseen Rather won by just 21 votes defeating rival candidate of JKAP, Parvaiz Mir. The PAGD swept the maiden DDC polls by winning 110 seats, while the BJP emerged as the single largest party by getting 74 seats after securing the largest vote share in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday. The results of four constituencies - one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir and Poonch and Rajouri districts in Jammu region - were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-ddc-polls-margin-of-victory-less-than-100-on-19-seats-930662.html
23-12-2020||National||Right to protest should be exercised to resolve issues, not to perpetuate deadlock: Ficci chief||Newly-elected chairman of industry chamber Ficci has said that the right to protest must be exercised to resolve a problem and not to perpetuate a deadlock disturbing normal lives of other persons, as the farmers' agitation against the three new farm laws entered the 28th day on Wednesday. Protesting farmer unions deferred a decision on the central government's offer for fresh talks to Wednesday, even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday expressed hope that they will soon resume dialogue to resolve the impasse over the new agri laws. Responding to a question on the ongoing agitation of farmers in support of their demand for repeal of the three farm laws, Ficci Chairman Uday Shankar said most importantly, there is a need to have a dialogue in a constructive framework. "I do fail to understand that on the one hand everybody believes that the farm sector is one of the least reformed sectors, we need to raise the agricultural output, the yields, we need to increase the income of the people who depend on the farm sector including the landowners as well as those who work in the farm sector, we need to unlock the flow of capital," he said. He said India is a very heterogenous democracy and people have the right to express their dissent and raise their point of view. "I have two views on that. First of all, somebody's protest should not paralyse other people's normal life. While we must respect the right of the people to protest, we must also respect the right of the people to conduct their normal lives and business. Protests do not mean holding something to ransom and that is very important," Shankar said. He observed that protests and expression of all points of view should be done "with the spirit of resolving the problem rather than just perpetuating a deadlock. That is not good and does not help anyone. Farmers don't benefit from it and while they must raise all their concerns, those should be done with a mindset that we want to resolve the issues, address the concerns and move on". Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for more than three weeks to demand repeal of three recent farm laws. Responding to questions on the economy, Shankar said given the shock that the country has gone through on the supply and demand side, the larger social shock, the health destabilisation and disruption on account of the pandemic is enormous and considering that "we faced the brunt of it for so many months, the economy seems to be making a very robust recovery". "But these are still early days, we are seeing the green shoots and those green shoots are very promising. There are sectors of the economy where we are seeing expansion. We are seeing a recovery of demand but there are still a large number of areas where we need to make sure that the revival is better. "So whether it is sub sectors of the service industry, sectors like tourism, travel, aviation, etc. and many of those, they still need stimulus and support and policy reform to make sure that we come back," he said. To a question related to the forthcoming Union Budget, Shankar said the government must look at ways to raise resources and FICCI has suggested that probably there could be an opportunity to pledge some of the PSU shares with the likes of the RBI, as with such a measure it can raise as much as Rs 5 lakh crore of extra resources that could be very useful to support investment. "I am one of those who believe that fixing or management of the economy is not a silver bullet exercise and that silver bullet cannot be the Budget. Budget is a strong device and strong indicator of how government is looking at the larger economy but it is an ongoing process," he said. When asked about violence at Wistron's iPhone manufacturing plant at Narsapura in Kolar district of Karnataka, the FICCI president such incidents are really unfortunate. "As we all know these things sometimes tend to get out of hand and you really have to examine deeply how much of it was avoidable accident and how much of it was deliberate mischief and there is often more than one reason behind all this. "But all I would say is that at a time when the country is trying to rebuild itself, this kind of message is not really great and it is strictly avoidable," he said. Shankar further said he has a larger point to make on all this. "We have to have a national consensus around some issues and one of the foremost issues is, what is the vision for the country. Are we going to continue to pull each other down just because it is in our short term selfish interest or there are some areas like the growth of this country and creating opportunities and resources for the larger population of this country," he said. "Is that going to be an issue of bipartisan consensus because countries that have grown rapidly have created a consensus around growth and I worry that in this country we are making everything into a matter of selfish debate," Shankar added. Workers at Wistron's iPhone manufacturing plant at Narsapura in Kolar district had gone on a rampage on December 12 over the alleged delay in payment of salary and overtime wages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-protest-should-be-exercised-to-resolve-issues-not-to-perpetuate-deadlock-ficci-chief-930670.html
23-12-2020||National||Modi to release PM-KISAN instalment to 9 crore farmers on Dec 25||Stepping in to a counter anti-farmer narrative built by the Opposition in the backdrop of unabated farmer protests for nearly a month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a conversation with farmers from six agriculture dominated states on December 25 and release a sum of over Rs 18,000 crores to more than nine crore beneficiary farmer families under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). Modi will release the next instalment of the financial benefits under the scheme via video-conferencing. The farmers will share their experiences with PM-KISAN. The Prime Minister will also talk to them on various other initiatives taken by the government for the welfare of farmers. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been negotiating with the agitating farmer for the last few weeks, will also be present. Under the PM-KISAN Scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6000 is given to eligible beneficiary farmers annually which is payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2000 every four months. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The Prime Minister, meanwhile, paid tributes to former prime minister and farmer leader Chaudhary Charan Singh, recalling his lifelong commitment to the development of farmers, while Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on this day lauded the farmers for providing the country with grain security and expressed hope that the farmers protesting against farm laws will soon withdraw their agitation while reiterating the Centre's commitment to their welfare. Even as five rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting unions have failed to break the logjam, Agriculture Minister Tomar expressed hope that protesting farmers will soon come forward to resume their dialogue with the Centre to resolve their concerns. He also said that the government will continue with reforms in the farm sector as they are still due in many areas. He said the government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an "open heart". The minister was on Wednesday given six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including from Punjab through the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that has extended their support to the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-release-pm-kisan-instalment-to-9-crore-farmers-on-dec-25-930672.html
23-12-2020||National||Man chooses protest over marriage during job leave from UAE||Satnam Singh got a two-month leave after two years from his employer in the UAE. He was supposed to fly back, find a partner and get married. There was, however, a change of plans. After Singh reached home in Punjab's Jalandhar district on November 29, he got to know that his elder brother and farmers from his village were protesting at the Singhu border against the Centre's contentious farm legislations. The 29-year-old spent just two days with his parents, bought a new motorcycle and set out for the Delhi-Haryana border with a friend. "Marriage can wait. Job can wait," says Singh, who works as a plumber in a company in Abu Dhabi. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states have been camping at several border points into Delhi for over three weeks, demanding that the new farm laws be repealed as they claim it would benefit the corporates, and end the traditional wholesale markets and the minimum support price regime. Singh's parents told him to get married during the leave. "They wanted me to meet some women," he says. "My mother is aged around 70. It's getting difficult for her to manage the house." Her vision has diminished and the father cannot take care of the fields anymore, Singh adds, standing near a bonfire on Wednesday, while his brother is serving tea and distributing water bottles at the border. Satnam Singh's friend, Sookha Singh, a differently-abled farmer who accompanied him, says his parents are alone back home, but they didn't stop him once. Asked about how long he planned to be at the site, Satnam Singh is determined to stay put till they "win this fight". "I was a farmer before I got a job in Abu Dhabi. I need to save my fields first."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-chooses-protest-over-marriage-during-job-leave-from-uae-930675.html
23-12-2020||National||Scrap new farm laws: BKU (Lok Shakti) chief in letter written in blood to PM Modi||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) Chief Sheoraj Singh on Wednesday wrote a letter in blood to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws that have stoked massive protests by farmers' unions in north India. The letter by Singh, who is camping at the Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida along with his faction members since December 2, came as protestors marked the birth anniversary of former prime minister and farmers' leader Chaudhary Charan Singh. "Take back the agriculture bill, make law to ensure guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and form a kisaan aayog (farmers commission)," he wrote in the brief letter addressed to PM Modi. BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said the letter has been handed over to the Noida administration, whose officials have assured that it would be forwarded to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). "I have received the letter from the farmers' union which has been written in blood. The letter will be sent to the Prime Minister's Officer through our district magistrate, as per procedures," Noida City Magistrate Uma Shankar told PTI. Around 200 protestors gathered at the Dalit Prerna Sthal on Wednesday with more 60 to 70 more members of the BKU (Lok Shakti) from Khurja in Bulandshahr joining their counterparts from Noida, Greater Noida, Aligarh, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Firozabad, etc. Separately, scores of protestors, chiefly belonging to BKU (Bhanu), continued their demonstrations against the three new farm laws at the Chilla border between Noida and Delhi. The BKU (Bhanu) protestors, including its national chief Bhanu Pratap Singh and UP unit chief Yogesh Pratap Singh, are at the spot since December 1. Asked about the law and order situation, City Magistrate Uma Shankar said, "There is no law and order problem as such." The farmers' agitation, however, led to the continued closure of the Noida to Delhi carriageway of the Noida-Delhi Link Road via Chilla on Wednesday. The other lane (Delhi to Noida) of the road is open for commuters, according to Noida Traffic Police officials, who suggested the alternative DND and Kalindi Kunj routes for avoiding inconvenience. The protestors who have gathered in Noida belong to various districts of western Uttar Pradesh, and they want to go to Delhi to join the bigger stir called chiefly by the farmer unions of Punjab and Haryana. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scrap-new-farm-laws-bku-lok-shakti-chief-in-letter-written-in-blood-to-pm-modi-930680.html
23-12-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for protection to opposition leaders in West Bengal||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the West Bengal government to ensure protection to opposition leaders to ensure a free and fair Assembly election in 2021, in view of killings of 300 BJP workers and recent attack on party president J P Nadda. The petition by advocate Puneet Kaur Dhanda claimed that the continuous violation of fundamental rights, statutory rights and human rights in West Bengal has reached its zenith with "active involvement" of police machinery in such violations.  The plea sought status report into the killing of activists and BJP leaders after the ruling TMC came to power. The plea alleged that the law and order condition in West Bengal has collapsed beyond repair and the political leaders, other than the ruling party, were being systematically killed for vested interests.  "It is a serious issue in a democracy, wherein a particular community i.e. Hindus are not allowed to vote and the votes are cast on their behalf by bogus voters. The problem of bogus voting needs to be solved in the state of West Bengal as soon as possible by the Election Commission of India," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-protection-to-opposition-leaders-in-west-bengal-930688.html
23-12-2020||National||Ready to talk, but Centre must not repeat rejected amendments to new agri laws: Farmer Unions||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday asked the government to not repeat "meaningless" amendments to the new agri laws that they have already rejected but come up a concrete proposal in writing for another round of talks. Addressing a press conference, a farmer leader said they were ready for talks, but the government should send a concrete proposal for that to happen. "We have already told Home Minister Amit Shah that protesting farmers will not accept amendments," farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said. "Farmer unions are ready to talk to the government and are waiting for the government to come to the table with an open mind," said Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Molla claimed the government wanted to tire the farmers out so that the protest would end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-talk-but-centre-must-not-repeat-rejected-amendments-to-new-agri-laws-farmer-unions-930699.html
23-12-2020||National||CBI files charge sheet against NDA Principal over irregularities in appointment of staff||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against Dr Om Prakash Shukla, the then Principal of Pune-based National Defence Academy (NDA), the premier joint services academy of Indian armed forces. Shukla was accused of alleged irregularities in the appointment of staff at the institute located at Khadakwasla in Pune. A case was registered on May 8, 2018, against him and others on the allegations of fraudulent appointments to various posts of civilian faculties at NDA on the basis of false and exaggerated claims in respect of teaching/research experience and exaggerated API scores. It was further alleged that in 2007-08, the accused fraudulently, secured an appointment as Professor in Economics at NDA and subsequently as Principal, NDA in 2011, on the basis of false claims made in his applications to UPSC regarding teaching/research experience, and thereby cheated the Ministry of Defence. He was booked under sections 120-B, 420, 465, 471 of Indian Penal Code and sections 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-nda-principal-over-irregularities-in-appointment-of-staff-930704.html
23-12-2020||National||People who are infected should also take Covid-19 vaccine: Bharat Biotech Chairman||People who are infected should also take a vaccine, and India is well prepared regarding the logistics for the vaccine distribution, Bharat Biotech Chairman & MD Krishna Ella said on Wednesday. He was speaking in a virtual session on 'Sero surveillance significance in immunogenicity and safety in pre and post vaccination era' organised by industry body CII. For the people who are infected, should they take a vaccine, "the answer is yes", because they may not have a good T cells response..., Ella said. Talking about the company's efficacy trials of its Covid-19 vaccine, he said that for the efficacy trials the company has taken 24 centres all over the country so that it has tier I ,tier II and tier III cities to capture the efficacy in a better way. On the distribution of vaccines in India, he said India is well prepared for that and Indian immunisation system is very robust, Ella said. Speaking at the session, Biocon Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said, "We have to ensure we have a sense of pandemic preparedness moving ahead". "We need to understand the need for a concerted effort and a very important paradigm which is based on both antigen and antibody testing is going to be of an immense importance going forward," she added. About the roadmap, Mazumdar Shaw said: "If we can come up with algorithms and paradigms, which many universities in other parts of the world are looking at as a COVID calculator, we can also come up with very interesting paradigms that will tell us which parts of our society and communities are safe and which parts of our community has actually developed herd immunities and which parts of our country can be opened up with ease".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-who-are-infected-should-also-take-covid-19-vaccine-bharat-biotech-chairman-930707.html
23-12-2020||National||ED attaches Rs 255-crore assets in agri loan fraud case of Maharashtra||Properties worth Rs 255 crore have been attached in connection with a money laundering probe linked to a case of alleged agricultural loan fraud and duping of farmers in Maharashtra, the Enforcement Directorate said on Wednesday. "Assets worth Rs 255 crore of Gangakhed Sugar & Energy Limited (GSEL), Yogeswari Hatcheries and Gangakhed Solar Power Limited have been provisionally attached under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA)," the central agency said in a statement. "The case pertains to fraudulent availing of agricultural loans in the name of innocent and poor farmers," it said. The attached assets include a sugar plant and machinery of GSEL worth Rs 247 crore situated at Gangakhed in Parbhani district of Maharastra, land worth Rs 5 crore of GSEL, Yogeswari Hatcheries, Gangakhed Power Solar Limited in Parbhani, Beed and Dhule, bank balance of Rs 1.58 crore and investment in shares of Rs 1.91 crore held in the name of GSEL, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-255-crore-assets-in-agri-loan-fraud-case-of-maharashtra-930711.html
23-12-2020||National||Consumer panel directs payment of sum for sinking of cargo vessel||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed an insurance firm to award a sum of Rs 1.75 crore with 6% annual interest to the owners of a cargo vessel which got sank en route to Sharjah after being hit by an object in 2009. The Commission headed by presiding member Anup K Thakur also awarded Rs 50,000 as litigation cost to the vessel owners. The panel, after hearing advocate Vipin Nair for Mavji Kanji Jungi and others, concluded in its order on Tuesday that the insured vessel, which was certified to be seaworthy, sank on December 16/17, 2009, after being hit an unidentified object, causing huge ingress of water. It rejected the contention of the insurance company that it was a poorly maintained vessel, propelled by engine as against sails, which caused vibrations over a period, resulting into breach in the hull and thereby sinking of the vessel. The Commission also found as "unreasonable" for the insurance company to disregard a report of the first surveyor, which on detailed enquiry, found that the vessel was lost irretrievably due to the accident. The insurance company, for its part, had repudiated the claim, after an investigator, appointed subsequently, arrived at its opinion that it was not possible that some unidentified object in the deep sea could have been the cause of accident. The panel said the insurance company was "mistaken in accepting the investigator's report in toto and making it the basis for repudiation of the claim".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consumer-panel-directs-payment-of-sum-for-sinking-of-cargo-vessel-930714.html
23-12-2020||National||Centre starts contest for strengthening digital network platform 'CoWIN' for Covid-19 vaccine distribution||The government on Wednesday launched a technology contest to invite solutions from IT companies and start-ups to strengthen the digital platform CoWIN, which will be used for rolling out and scaling up Covid vaccine distribution across the country. The government is enhancing use of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system, which provides real-time information on vaccine stocks and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country to address the needs for distribution and tracking of Covid-19 vaccine. The contest will be jointly run by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Electronics and IT, a statement said. The Health Ministry is looking for technical solutions that can address issues of portability, transportation, queue management, reporting and monitoring mechanism for any adverse event following immunization. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that mobile technology will be used for mass inoculation against the pandemic. "India's innovators have played a crucial role in our fight against Covid-19. I invite innovators and start-ups for a grand challenge to strengthen CoWIN platform for roll out of Covid-19 vaccination program across India," IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in the statement. The top 5 applicants will be provided CoWIN APIs (Application Programming Interface) to prove the efficacy of their solutions for possible integration with the platform. Each shortlisted applicant at this stage stands a chance to win Rs 2 lakh covering their logistical requirements. The top 2 contestants from the challenge will be rewarded with Rs 40 lakh and Rs 20 lakh, respectively, post successful migrations of the developed solutions on the cloud on which CoWIN is hosted, apart from their integration with CoWIN, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-starts-contest-for-strengthening-digital-network-platform-cowin-for-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-930725.html
23-12-2020||National||More farm reforms due; hopeful of protesting unions resuming dialogue with Centre: Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government will continue with reforms in the farm sector as they are still due in many areas, even as he reiterated his hope that protesting farmers will soon come forward to resume their dialogue with the Centre to resolve their concerns over three new laws. The minister said any agitation can be resolved only through dialogue as has been the case always in history and urged the protesting unions to fix a date and time for the next round of talks. Protesting farmer unions, who have stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of all three agri-laws, have not yet conveyed their decision on the central government's offer for fresh talks. Thousands of farmers have been camping on various borders of the national capital for almost four weeks now. The government has already sent a draft proposal to unions offering at least seven amendments to the three legislations that were enacted in September. "I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue," Tomar told reporters. At least five rounds of formal talks with the protesting unions have failed to break the deadlock, but a number of other farm groups have been meeting the government in the meantime to extend their support to the new laws. While the government has presented the three laws as major reforms, protesting farmers fear they would weaken the mandi and MSP systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has accused opposition parties of misleading the farmers. Tomar said the government is hopeful that unions will soon discuss, decide and communicate their decision, after which the government can hold the next round of discussions immediately. The government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an open heart, he said, while wishing the entire farming community on the occasion of the National Farmers Day, celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of India's fifth Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. Stressing that a solution can be reached only through dialogue, Tomar said, "History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only." Farmer unions should discuss the government's draft proposal and inform them if they want to add or delete anything, he said. Separately, addressing a delegation of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that extended their support to the farm laws, the minister said agriculture is an important sector for India. The government "is and will be" committed to strengthening the sector, he said. "In the last six years, efforts have been made to reform the farm sector to a large extent. There are still many areas left where reforms are due," Tomar noted. The Minister said there were recommendations for reforms in the farm sector in the past also by experts, unions and state chief ministers, but the previous government might have faced difficulties in converting the recommendations into laws. But the Modi government brought these reforms in the agriculture sector and most farmers are in favour of these laws, while some are protesting, he added. The minister also received six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including Punjab through NGO CNRI in support of the farm laws. Of these, 12,895 farmers from Punjab have signed in favour of the laws, while 1.27 lakh such farmers are from Haryana.   Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-farm-reforms-due-hopeful-of-protesting-unions-resuming-dialogue-with-centre-tomar-930728.html
23-12-2020||National||Congress may lose 2024 if Rahul is at helm: Sanjay Jha||Sanjay Jha, who is suspended from Congress for his views on leadership, is vocal about the leadership question in the Congress. He has just launched his book ‘The Great Unravelling: India After 2014’ (Westland) in which he tries to analyse what happened in the past six years during which the country saw the rise of the BJP-RSS and a decline of the Congress. In his book, he seeks to find out the reasons for his party's lack of oppositional ability and what it would take for its revival. His book comes at a time a number of senior leaders, known as the G-23, has come out in open against the Congress leadership. He spoke to DH’s Shemin Joy.  Q. Your book deals with the India of the recent times. Is India after 2014 a story of hopelessness and despair? A. I see India as a story of hope. The reason why I have actually painted some of its very dark interiors is because you cannot lay the foundation of change or hope or as Dr Amartya Sen calls in the cover of the book as the curative movement until you recognise how frail the foundations of India have become. The whole structure, the edifice on which the great India story is actually fashioned is today wobbly. India has plenty to be worried about, especially when it comes to its institutions, its governance and the rise of bigotry. India has usually overcome, what many people have said in the past, insurmountable obstacles. I do believe that India will be able to survive through no matter what kind of crisis we face with a great deal of character. Q. How did Modi manage post-2014? What helped him? What were the situations that allowed him to have this kind of massive majority and taking his agenda to a logical conclusion? A. The UPA literally gave up the fight in 2014. During those sensitive times when every day there was breaking news of corruption allegations, ministers resigning left, right and centre, the three principal faces of the Congress did not speak at all. Manmohan Singh as the Prime Minister by his very nature is diffident. Sonia Gandhi was never comfortable in-front of the camera. Rahul Gandhi surprisingly had a lot of cynicism or even disdain towards mainstream media. I don't think that helped our cause. There was nobody who was actually addressing the problems of the UPA. Congress' communication vacuum was perceived by the public as guilt conscience and arrogance. There can be nothing worse in politics than guilt conscience and arrogance. Guilt conscience makes you go on the back-foot. Arrogance makes you believe that you are the umpire and you don't even need to play the game to win it. I do believe that these were the principal reasons why Modi had a cake walk in 2014. I think Modi sensed there was a vacuum. Literally he bulldozed, he was like a bull in a China shop. Congress just collapsed on internal inconsistencies and its inability to realise that an election is an election and you need to fight to win it. In 2019, I think Congress was doing reasonably well. There was some hope after we did well in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh Assembly elections. But remember, India is now voting very differently in states and at the Centre. Modi and the BJP have made it so personality centred. Modi doesn't seem to have any competition at the national level. Rahul, despite trying vehemently, has fallen woefully short. I do believe that it is the reason why Modi raised the muscular nationalism pitch after Pulwama and the entire Opposition collapsed. The party that had fought for the country's freedom struggle and had won many wars against Pakistan, built modern India, the Congress did not know how to communicate. Modi called us pro-Pakistan and the Rahul team had no answers. Q. Speaking about the inconsistencies in the party’s strategy, you have written about a senior Congress leader who told you earlier that it is better to lose the 2014 elections and it could help in reviving the party. Is this a strategy that could help Congress? A. In one word, it is preposterous. It is absurd. I would like to perhaps use a more strong term -- stupid. You fight an election to win. I was hearing from somebody who is very close to Rahul Gandhi that if we lose this election, it is going to be an excellent situation so that the party can purge itself of the carpetbaggers, of the opportunistic power grabbing characters, those who have no ideological commitment. I do believe that if the party wants to lose an election, then it is committing political suicide. The Gandhis may have the luxury of losing an election. But what about the average Congress worker? I can give you one instance during the 2019 Haryana Assembly. Congress was doing much better than what was expected. A Congressman told me that this is very disturbing news. I said why, the Congress is doing more than expectations. Isn't it good for the Congress? He said he would have been happy if Hooda had lost because we don't want people like Hood, who is facing corruption allegations, to win. I believe this is bizarre, this is some intellectual garbage, because you got to know if you want to protect your ideology and your entire lineage and history, first you need to know how to win elections. But here there are people in the party who were very happy that we lost the 2019 elections because they must have foolishly believed that now, the party will do the cleansing act. Q. Do you think Rahul Gandhi also subscribes to this idea that an electoral defeat could lead to Congress’ revival? A. There are many people in the Congress who celebrate a defeat because it is good to see that some potential rival of yours is looking weak. Now, the way the party should operate is first you defeat the BJP and then you decide who will get what position or responsibility. To answer your question, I don't know about that. But I can definitely say that people in close proximity to Rahul Gandhi have this opinion. Then it is reasonable to arrive at a conjecture that this may have been his view in 2014. By 2019, I think, he has changed his mind. Q. With the latest election results in Bihar, there is a chatter that Congress has lost its pole position in the Opposition? What is holding back Congress to be an effective Opposition leader, to be the major anti-BJP force? A. Firstly, Congress failed to win elections and now we are beginning to lose the status of being the principal Opposition party. The most disturbing example is, when the Congress party loses, it loses and doesn't come back for a long time. You can just look at when we last won Bihar, it was 30 years ago. UP 33 years ago. West Bengal over 40 years ago. Tamil Nadu 53 years ago. Odisha 20 years ago. Gujarat 25 years ago. We were out for 15 years in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Congress has surrendered its formidable bastions of the past to either regional parties or the BJP. The reason behind that is very simply that the party does not have a leader with a passion for winning. What Modi and Amit Shah have done is that they have redefined Indian politics. It is very easy to say that saam-dhaan-bhed-dand (trying to win by all means). By the way that is the way we did our politics once upon a time. Let us not try and believe that we are any different. I do agree that the institutions have collapsed under the BJP. But we can't deny that the institutions were weakened by the Congress. The 'caged parrot' happened during the Congress time. One of my friends told me an interesting thing. He said Congress is like a petty thief while the BJP is a hardcore mafia. The BJP took over the entire system while you continued doing your small-time robberies. I thought it was very funny. Congress is still under the delusion that it is the natural party of governance and that the BJP is terrible and it can't do anything, that Modi will get exposed soon and Congress will be back soon. What the Congress party doesn't realise is that after 1984, the Congress has not won an absolute majority. It is not just that we got just 96 seats in the last two Lok Sabha elections. Are we encouraging state leaders? Today all decisions are taken by the High Command. There is no election for the Congress president or the Congress Working Committee or even at the block level. If the G-23 or I say that the leadership has to answer, they become BJP agents. In a democracy, these conversations need to happen all the time. The other day Sonia Gandhi met with some of the G-23 leaders. Why is it breaking news? Shouldn't the Congress be meeting its dissident leaders ten times? When you meet people, it is like you are doing a big favour. After the meeting, what is the big decision? We will hold a ‘chintan shivir’ (brainstorming session). For god-sake, you don't have to meet to decide that you need to meet again. Q. Do you think Rahul Gandhi is the problem? A. I do believe that Rahul Gandhi at this point of time does to his personal credibility and Congress' organisational heft a great favour, if he allows a non-Gandhi to take charge. He himself has given in writing that there should be a non-Gandhi leader. Therefore I have raised this point. Personally, I like Rahul very much. The mistake Rahul is making in terms of political leadership is that he should know that at the moment there is a very anti-Gandhi wave outside the Congress. If Rahul contests for the post of Congress president, he will probably win it hands down. But if he is leading the Congress in 2024, I am not so sure that the Congress party is going to do well. People of India want to see a non-Gandhi leading the Congress. I think that is the writing on the wall. The election verdicts tell you that. Q. Why is the delay? Is it because of the coterie behind him? A. I believe the coterie is singularly responsible for the mess in the party. Forget me. Leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and several others cannot get access to Rahul Gandhi. I believe the coterie has got people who do not have the political maturity and are driven by their personal political aspirations. Once they invest all their money and time around Rahul and if Rahul doesn't become the Congress president, their whole strategy backfires because a new leader will probably have a new team. So they always give the leader a wrong impression that without him or her the Congress cannot survive. But I don't blame them even as much as I blame the leader. The leader should have his sagacity, pragmatic wisdom to be able to see what kind of people should be around. Q. But Rahul Gandhi has a complaint that he is taking a fierce anti-RSS stand but the party isn't supportive. When you talk about elections within the party, as General Secretary in-charge, he attempted elections in Youth Congress and NSU(I) but it was sabotaged. How do you respond to that? A. Despite Rahul Gandhi resigning as party president and saying that a non-Gandhi should lead the party, the Congress is still going and telling him please be the party chief. This is the party's culture for you. For Rahul to say that nobody listens to him, I am sorry, I don't buy that story. If you go about bringing change, there will be resistance. You will have to learn to overcome it. Why do you say that somebody sabotaged the system? Fix the person who has sabotaged it. Punish them. Rahul started primaries in Karnataka for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He gave it up. Are you trying to tell me that if Rahul Gandhi insisted on primaries, it would not happen. Rahul says he is the only one who took on the RSS. I do not agree with that. I took on the RSS on television. P Chidambaram wrote about it in his columns. Manish Tewari spoke about it in press conferences. It is very unfair to say that I did it and no one else. My larger point is that a leader has to work with a team you have. If you decide to go solo, frankly, that is your choice. Look at the talent in Congress. Jyotiraditya (Scindia), Sachin (Pilot), Milind (Deora), Manish (Tewari), Shashi (Tharoor), Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Hooda, Deepender Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, we have all the leaders in the south, including D K Shivakumar in Karnataka. There is no dearth for leaders in the party. Why is Rahul Gandhi flying alone? I think Rahul made a terrible faux pas in saying that. I am putting it on record that Rahul Gandhi is wrong in saying that he fought it alone -- whether it was ‘chowkidar chor hei’ slogan or whether it was taking on the RSS. Taking on RSS is not Rahul Gandhi's personal crusade. It is Congress' core ideology. Q. In the book, you said you prepared a political strategy report in 2017 and you tried to reach out to Rahul Gandhi. You didn’t manage to meet him but one of his close aides found your report interesting. Could you shed some light on what your suggestions were? A. I was having a conversation with former president Pratibha Patil. This was before Priyanka Gandhi stepped into Uttar Pradesh. We were talking about Congress, why it has become so weak, and how we should fight back. She came up with an excellent suggestion. She said there is a lot of talk about Priyanka going to Uttar Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh is a snake pit for the Congress because we are virtually wiped out of the state, it will be very difficult for her to revive it during an election. She told me, why don’t you suggest to Rahul that Priyanka should head the Mahila Congress. She said that don’t restrict Priyanka to UP. If she becomes head of the women’s unit, she will have a pan India footprint, address issues of violence against women, gender equality etc. Her view was that it will also make out her political character. She can participate in protests, she can go all over the country, she can galvanize voters and she can change the narrative. I thought that was brilliant. So, one of the suggestions I gave was this one. Nobody heard it. Later on when I met a very senior leader, I told this was one of the ideas that I had suggested, he said ‘oh my God, what a great idea!’. I said well, nobody heard it. Another one was on electoral bonds. BJP was getting 95% of the electoral bonds. Congress is getting nothing but 5%. Why aren’t you taking on the BJP on this? Say, I will not take any money from electoral bonds. My suggestion to Rahul Gandhi was, do a nation-wide campaign. You go all over the country and say you all want to know who really is the corrupt guy? You see, you need game changer thinking. Today, the Congress gets 5% of the money and it seems to be quite happy with that. The Congress today should have been in the Supreme Court, putting pressure on the Chief Justice of India to say, I want you to please pass your verdict on the electoral bonds issue. These were the things I had put up there. Q. You referred to leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia or Sachin Pilot not getting their due in the party. But there is one criticism that many of the rebels went to the BJP. Is there a problem of ideological conviction? A. Congress itself has compromised with its foundational ideology of secularism. We should have never done this 'jhaneu-dhari politics'. You are trying to catch up with the BJP with ‘Hindutva Lite’ politics. How many leaders in the Congress today, including Rahul, have talked about anti-love jihad laws? No one. It is so disruptive that it will destroy Indian secular fabric. How many times did we do mass protests on lynching murders? We did not, it is a fact. How many people fought for that young girl, a pregnant girl who was arrested during the time of the pandemic. Very few. Did the Congress come up in defence of the Tablighi Jamaat? We did not because we are also playing this game of catching up with the BJP. It is a lost battle. The time has come for Congress to kind of agree that you yourself have allowed political opportunism to create a strange ideological obfuscation within the party. To answer your question, why do leaders leave. The leaders leave only when their private ambition is thwarted, not because they are necessarily ideologically compromised. I do know Jyotiraditya very well and I know he was not very happy to go to the BJP. My friend Priyanka Chaturvedi has joined Shiv Sena. I do know her and at that point of time, she had very very true commitment to secular values. So, I think a lot of the leaders leave because of their private ambitions. I can’t comment on their ideological compromises. But the party needs to understand that if you cannot hold your people together, it is you who have to look into it, just don’t blame an individual alone. Q. Do you still believe that Congress is central to the revival of the idea of India? A. I do believe that the Congress still remains a party with a reach in every household of India. The problem is poor leadership, pathetic communication and an inability to make an outreach. This is the reason why we are not able to make an impact. It doesn't take too much to fix it. I always believe that when you look at India today, it cannot become a left versus right battle. India is always going to be a centrist country. It has to be able to marry all contradictions. That is the beauty of this country. In that sense, Congress is a natural claimant to centrism. Congress under Rahul Gandhi moved too far to the left of centre in economic thinking and almost allowed the BJP to make it more polarised. The Congress should know how to balance it out. Q. Lastly, is Priyanka a better leader than Rahul? A. Let me bite the bullet on that. I am not going to be one of those politicians who plays it safe. I do believe that Rahul has been there for a while. He is hard working, he could do more. But at the end of the day, there is a pushback against him leading the party forward. I did hear a lot of people saying that if you have a different leader, we will vote for Congress. That is very distressing to know. Congress needs a change and preferably, a non-Gandhi. I do feel that Priyanka is more communicative, she has a higher emotional intelligence, she is definitely more charismatic. I don't know how hard working she is. Her instinct is very sharp. I do think that she has potential. But at the moment, I would still go with a non-Gandhi leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-may-lose-2024-if-rahul-is-at-helm-sanjay-jha-930734.html
23-12-2020||National||Blankets containing photo of rape convict Asaram Bapu distributed in UP jail||Blankets containing rape convict self-styled godman Asaram Bapu's photograph was allegedly distributed among the inmates of jail in Uttar Pradesh's Shahajahanpur district, about 175 kilometres from Lucknow, leaving the authorities red-faced. Asaram is currently serving life sentence after being found guilty by a Jodhpur court for rape of a 16-year-old girl in his ashram six years ago. The rape victim hailed from Shahajahanpur. According to the sources, the disciples of Asaram distributed blankets, which contained photograph of the self styled godman, among jail imates a few days ago. Incidentally, the two disciples, who were on the forefront of distribution of the blankets, were accused in the murder of a witness in the rape case against Asaram. Sources said that the district jail officials admitted that blankets were sent for distribution among the prisoners by Asaram's ashram in the state capital. The father of the rape victim had strongly reacted to the incident and demanded punishment for the guilty officials. ''It is very humiliating and shocking....how can the jail officials allow such thing?'' said a relative of the victim's family. Taking a serious view of the incident, the state government ordered a probe into the matter and a DIG level official was handed over the inquiry, sources said. ''It is a serious matter...we will take stern action against the jail officials if their involvement in the incident is proved,'' said a senior government official on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blankets-containing-photo-of-rape-convict-asaram-bapu-distributed-in-up-jail-930745.html
23-12-2020||National||Centre weaponising probe agencies, BJP should fight me politically: Mehbooba Mufti||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday accused the Centre of "weaponising" probe agencies such as the NIA, ED and CBI "for political gains", and said the BJP should stop harassing her friends, family and party colleagues. During a press conference at her Gupkar residence here, the former chief minister said the BJP should should fight her politically and stop using these agencies like its "mistresses". "The witch-hunt which the Central government had started has reached its peak. For the last two years, they have been looking around for my assets, properties or houses in my name. "When they could not get anything from there, they resorted to raids on the houses of my family members, relatives, friends and colleagues. The ED is being misused. The NIA and ED are being weaponised," Mufti alleged. Referring to the arrest of PDP youth leader Waheed Para by the NIA in a terror case, she said, "You (BJP) have the might of the government, so many MPs. If you have to fight me, do so politically and not through the NIA, ED and CBI." The NIA arrested PDP youth wing president Parra in connection with a terror case on November 25. "As they have nothing to stick to me as far as corruption is concerned, they have tried through Para to connect me to terror-funding. This is injustice and cowardice on their part. If they have to fight a lady, fight politically. They fought (in the DDC polls) and lost," the PDP chief said. She alleged that Para was kept under NIA custody for about a month "with the sole purpose that he accepts something so that it ultimately is connected to her". "My colleagues have been taken into custody... I was conveyed a lot of times to think about my future and stop being concerned about Jammu and Kashmir, but I did not accept it," Mufti said. She said if the government wants to arrest her, it should come straight to her and stop harassing her family members, relatives, friends and party colleagues. "You are using these agencies like your mistresses. If they do not have courage to fight a woman politically, then, I think, they should wear bangles and sit at home... I do not think they have any moral authority to rule. Whatever act they bring, people come out on roads (to protest). They have destroyed the constitution," Mufti said. The PDP chief alleged that the government was investigating and auditing the mausoleum of her father and PDP founder Mufti Mohammad Sayeed at Bijbehara in south Kashmir. "They have stooped to such a low level that they are investigating and auditing the mausoleum of Mufti sahab. The information I have is that they are looking into where the money came from to build that. They do not leave even a dead person," she said. The PDP president expressed happiness over the results of the DDC polls, saying she was pleasantly surprised because the BJP had "bulldozed" her party. About the BJP winning three seats in the Valley, she alleged "the party used money, machinery and manipulation to win the seats". The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) swept the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls by winning 110 seats, while the BJP emerged as the single largest party by getting 75 seats after securing the largest vote share in Jammu and Kashmir. "They (BJP) thought people are not with the parties here, but the results have shown that the people are with the NC, PC and PDP," Mufti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-weaponising-probe-agencies-bjp-should-fight-me-politically-mehbooba-mufti-930746.html
23-12-2020||National||Attempt to murder case against 13 farmers for blocking Haryana CM's convoy||The Haryana Police booked 13 farmers on charges of attempt to murder and rioting on Wednesday, a day after a group of people protesting against the Centre’s farm laws allegedly blocked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's convoy and hurled sticks at it. The opposition Congress has criticised the move with its state chief Kumari Selja saying it showed the government’s desperation. On Tuesday, a group of protesting farmers had shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City. Khattar was in the city to address public meetings in support of the party's candidates for the upcoming civic body polls. Farmers had waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some of them hurled sticks at some vehicles. Reacting to it, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said the Haryana government has crossed all the limits by registering the case against the farmers. “Filing a case of attempt to murder and under other sections against the farmers shows the government's desperation. In a democracy, everyone has the right to free speech but when the voice of people is suppressed, they are forced to come to the streets for their rights.” “The voice of farmers is being continuously suppressed by the BJP government. People have lost trust in this government. This is the reason why black flags were shown by the farmers to Chief Minister Manohar Lal,” she said. Kumari Selja said earlier too the state government had taken oppressive action against farmers and asked how showing black flags is a matter of attempt to murder. “The government should immediately withdraw the cases lodged against the farmers,” she added. The Ambala City police booked the farmers under IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attempt-to-murder-case-against-13-farmers-for-blocking-haryana-cms-convoy-930748.html
23-12-2020||National||BTP withdraws support to Rajasthan's Congress govt||The Bharatiya Tribal Party on Wednesday withdrew support to the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan. The BTP, a Congress ally which supported Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during the revolt in his party earlier this year, was upset that the ruling party candidates chose BJP over it zila pramukh elections in tribal Dungarpur district, where the outfit is trying to expand its influence. “The BTP had supported the Ashok Gehlot government at the time of crisis but the Congress betrayed the party in the zila pramukh elections. The Congress joined hands with the BJP to prevent the BTP from forming the board in the Dungarpur zila parishad, therefore, we have decided to withdraw the support,” party state president Velaram Ghoghra told PTI. Ghoghra said the intimation about the withdrawal of support has been forwarded to the Rajasthan governor, chief minister and the assembly speaker. The party has two MLAs in the state and the withdrawal of support will have no impact on the stability of the Congress government, which enjoys the support of 105 MLAs in the assembly of 200. The BJP has 71 MLAs, RLP 3, CPI (M) 2, BTP 2 and RLD 1. The state has 13 independent legislators and three seats are lying vacant. The BTP is trying to expand its influence in tribal-dominated southern Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/btp-withdraws-support-to-rajasthans-congress-govt-930762.html
23-12-2020||National||Centre identifies six laboratories for genetic sequencing of new coronavirus strain||As India looks for the presence of the mutant Covid-19 strain on its soil, the Centre on Wednesday identified half-a-dozen laboratories to carry out genetic sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 carried by people who returned from the UK in the last one month. In Bengaluru, the sequencing will be conducted at the National Centre of Biological Sciences and Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine. The other five laboratories are Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi; Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad; Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar; National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani and National Institute of Virology, Pune. The laboratories may take 1-2 days to do the genome sequencing. The details of these laboratories along with the contacts of the nodal officers were shared with the state governments at a review meeting in which measures to screen the passengers coming from the UK to India and found positive in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Goa, Punjab, Gujarat and Kerala were discussed. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired the meeting. Following the emergence of the mutant strain in the UK, the Centre launched a mega exercise to track down every individual who had landed in India from the UK or after transiting through the UK in order to examine whether they would be carrying the new strain, which is 70% more transmissible. The Standard Operating Procedure issued by the ministry on Tuesday was discussed in detail in the meeting. The states were advised to access the details of passengers and send the samples of those found positive to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-identifies-six-laboratories-for-genetic-sequencing-of-new-coronavirus-strain-930765.html
23-12-2020||National||Breakthrough is elusive as farmers demand 'concrete' offer||A breakthrough in the farmers’ protest remained elusive for another day on Wednesday with the protesting unions asking the Centre to come up with a “new, concrete” proposal for the resumption of talks. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said dialogue was the only way to reach a resolution and the government was committed to reforms in the farm sector while the protesters said they were willing to take two steps if the government took one step with an “open mind”. The protesters’ reluctance to return to the negotiation tables came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with a section of farmers from six states, which is seen as another attempt to reach out to the farmers. The unions had met during the day to decide on the next course of action after the government sent another missive on restarting the negotiations. At a press conference, the farmer leaders said they are ready for dialogue but the government should not come to the table with “meaningless” amendments that they have already rejected. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said the Centre should “abandon its stubbornness” and create a conducive environment for talks while Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said it should come up with a “concrete” offer in writing rather than sending “love letters”. The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 agitating unions, alleged that the government is treating the farmers as its “political opponents”. “Farmer unions are ready to hold talks with the government and that they are waiting for the government to come to the table with an open mind,” said Yadav, who is also a member of Morcha. “We urge you (government) not to repeat those meaningless amendments that we have already rejected but come up with a concrete proposal in writing that can become an agenda for fresh talks,” the Morcha said in its letter to Union Agriculture Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal. Aggarwal had on Sunday asked protesting farmer leaders to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breakthrough-is-elusive-as-farmers-demand-concrete-offer-930775.html
23-12-2020||National||Four govt film media units to be merged with NFDC||Four divisions dealing with movies under the Central government will be merged with the National Film Development Corporation (NFDC) to bring in more synergy and ensure balanced and focussed development of Indian cinema. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With this, the Films Division, Directorate of Film Festivals, National Film Archives of India and Children's Film Society will be merged with the NFDC by expanding the latter's Memorandum of Articles. With over 3,000 movies being made in the country a year, India is the largest film producer in the world with an industry led by the private sector. The merger will lead to convergence of activities and resources and better coordination, thereby ensuring synergy and efficiency in achieving the mandate of each media unit, an official statement said. While undertaking this exercise, it said, the interests of the employees of all the media units concerned will be fully taken care of and no employee will be retrenched. The umbrella organisation NFDC will be uniquely placed with regard to promotion, production and preservation of the content—all under one management. The NFDC is a public sector undertaking, incorporated in 1975, with the primary objective of planning and promoting an organised, efficient and integrated development of the Indian film industry. "The vision of the new entity will be to ensure balanced and focused development of Indian cinema in all its genres-feature films, including films/content for the OTT platforms, children's content, animation, short films and documentaries," it added. The merger will lead to synergy amongst the various activities with better and efficient utilisation of misting infrastructure and manpower. This will lead to a reduction in duplication of activities and direct savings to the exchequer, it added. The Cabinet has also approved the appointment of a transaction advisor and legal advisor to advise on the transfer of assets and employees and to oversee all aspects of operationalisation of the merger. The Films Division was established under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in 1948 primarily to produce documentaries and news magazines for publicity of government programmes and cinematic record of Indian history. Children's Film Society, an autonomous organisation, was founded in 1955 under the Societies Act with the specific objective of providing children and young people value-based entertainment through the medium of films. National Film Archives of India, which is under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, was set up as a media unit in 1964 with the primary objective of acquiring and preserving Indian cinematic heritage. Directorate of Film Festivals, also attached to the Ministry, came into being in 1973 to promote Indian films and cultural exchange.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-govt-film-media-units-to-be-merged-with-nfdc-930783.html
23-12-2020||National||Ensure strict compliance of ban on sale, use of firecrackers during Christmas, New Year: CPCB||Observing that air quality in the capital and the NCR is deteriorating, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Wednesday directed pollution watchdogs of Delhi and three other states to ensure strict compliance of the ban on sale and use of firecrackers during Christmas and New Year. In an order, CPCB Chairman Shiv Das Meena also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the pollution control boards of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to ensure that stone crushers and hot mix plants remain closed till January 2, 2021. "Considering likely increase in activities during Christmas and New Year celebrations, pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh must ensure that hot mix plants and stone crushers remain closed all the time till January 2, 2021. "The agencies must ensure that frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads and water sprinkling is increased particularly on the road stretches with high dust generation potential. Agencies must ensure compliance of orders of courts and the National Green Tribunal regarding banning of sale and use of firecrackers. The orders shall come into force with immediate effect," the CPCB chairman said. The apex pollution watchdog also called for strict adherence to guidelines and standard operating procedure for dust mitigation at construction sites. "In case of violations, strict action should be taken against the violators like imposition of penalty/temporary stoppage of construction activities," it said. The CPCB said that it has been reviewing air quality and meteorological scenario in Delhi-NCR on a continuous basis. It observed that PM 2.5 concentration in Delhi-NCR exceeded 250 ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic metre) on December 22, and it exceeded 300 ug/m3 on December 23 and is persisting in the same category for more than 10 hours. "Currently the AQI is in severe category," it said. The order has been copied to the chairman of DPCC, UPPCB, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board, Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas chairperson M M Kutty and Environment Secretary R P Gupta. The Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas, in its meeting held on November 10, had decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in NCR region, there is a need to invoke the graded response action plan (GRAP). The environment ministry notified the GRAP in December 2016 and enlisted actions as per different AQI categories namely 'moderate', 'poor', 'very poor' and 'severe' according to the National Air Quality Index and a new category named 'severe+' or 'emergency'. As per a direction of the Nation Green Tribunal issued on October 15, 2019, all brick kilns in the National Capital Region are closed. The NGT had earlier this month directed that there would be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during the COVID-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the 'poor' and above category. The NGT had allowed only places where air quality index is 'moderate' or below to use green crackers from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am during Christmas and New Year celebrations. It had also directed all district magistrates to ensure that banned firecrackers are not sold and asked them to recover compensation from violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-strict-compliance-of-ban-on-sale-use-of-firecrackers-during-christmas-new-year-cpcb-930794.html
23-12-2020||National||Union Health Secy reviews status of passengers coming from UK||States and union territories on Wednesday were asked by the Centre to access details of passengers from the UK to India and send samples of those found positive for Covid-19 to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the status of passengers coming from the UK to India and found positive in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Goa, Punjab, Gujarat and Kerala and their response measures in a meeting held through video conferencing. ICMR DG; health secretaries of states and union territories; NHM MD; Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health; Dr Sujeet Singh, Director, NCDC, and other senior health officials were also present in the meeting, a health ministry statement said. The Standard Operating Procedure issued by the Ministry on December 22 for Epidemiological Surveillance and Response in the context of new variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus detected in the UK was discussed in detail in the meeting. "The states and UTs were advised to access the details of passengers from UK to India from the online portal AIR-SUVIDHA and Bureau of Immigration. They were also asked to send the samples of those found positive to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing," the statement stated. The list of six identified Laboratories along with the contact details of their nodal officers was also shared with the states. These laboratories are: CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi; CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad; DBT- Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar; DBT-InStem-NCBS, Bengaluru; DBT-National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani, West Bengal; and ICMR- National Institute of Virology, Pune. The number of such designated labs would increase over time and their details would be shared with the states and UTs, the statement said. The concerns related to logistics etc raised by the states were clarified in the meeting. The states were also advised to coordinate with the respective Airport Health Offices (APHOs) and surveillance officials in their state in order to ensure adherence to the SOPs, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-secy-reviews-status-of-passengers-coming-from-uk-930803.html
23-12-2020||National||Lorry drivers scuffle with UK police as thousands stranded||Angry lorry drivers confronted police Wednesday as thousands waited to take cargo across the Channel at an abandoned airfield in southeast England, complaining of poor facilities and lack of virus tests. More than 5,000 lorries were parked near England's main Channel port of Dover after France on Sunday banned all travel from Britain for 48 hours over the spread of a new strain of the coronavirus. "We are here two days and without shower, without water to drink," said one of the stranded drivers, Patricia Szeweczyk from Poland. Wearing a yellow raincoat, Szeweczyk argued with a policeman as several dozen protesters blocked a roundabout outside Manston Airport in Kent, southeast England. Drivers raised their arms and pushed against police, shouting, during the scuffles. They complained of inadequate facilities and a lack of virus tests. Drivers have nothing to eat and cooking facilities are "dangerous" at the lorry park, complained Szeweczyk. Police bundled one man into a van before convincing the protesters to return to their vehicles and await virus testing to allow them to proceed on their journeys, an AFP journalist saw. Kent police said they responded to "disturbances" at Manston and Dover. "One man has been arrested for obstructing a highway in Dover and remains in custody," police said. The Department of Transport, which runs the facility, said it was providing "access to food and welfare facilities". Thousands of lorries were diverted to the disused airport after France closed its borders for 48 hours to contain the spread of a new, more infectious strain of coronavirus. On Wednesday there were 3,800 vehicles at Manston and 1,242 in other holding areas, according to the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency. The dramatic sight of the thousands of parked lorries dominated newspaper front pages on Wednesday. France late Tuesday agreed to let people cross who have tested negative for coronavirus and the UK authorities promised to provide the vast backlog of drivers with rapid tests that give a result within 40 minutes. The first lorry drivers waiting for tests at the port of Dover were given theirs on Wednesday afternoon, an AFP photographer saw. British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said that "testing has begun as we look to get traffic moving again between the UK and France". At the same time he warned that "severe delays continue. Please AVOID Kent while the backlog is cleared." The defence ministry said it was sending 170 soldiers to help with virus testing. Drivers said they expected to be there for days, including over Christmas Day on Friday. "They say the test of Covid is coming for us. Nothing is there, nothing is coming," said Polish driver, Ezdrasz Szwaja. "We don't have information, nothing..." "We have been here two days already and I worked out it will take another two days to sort all this out. There are a lot of trucks," said Spanish driver Pablo Mora, waiting with his lorry in the nearby town of Folkestone. Sitting in his lorry's cabin, German driver Sergej Merkel said he expected to be tested within a day or so but would then wait for a slot to travel across. "So Christmas time, we will spend here in our truck," Merkel forecast. At Manston Airport, Polish driver Szwaja choked with emotion as he talked about being away from his two "very small" children for Christmas. "I just want to go there," he said. German driver Merkel said it was his "first time here in England, and possibly it's last time, you know." He was parked along a row of lorries in Folkestone, about 7 miles (11 kilometres) southwest of Dover. "We have enough freight in Europe, in Germany, Netherlands, Belgium," he said. "With such terrible days as these, I think lots of drivers will not be interested in coming back to England."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lorry-drivers-scuffle-with-uk-police-as-thousands-stranded-930806.html
23-12-2020||National||Quikr has ended animal sales, taken down pet trading listings: PETA India||Animal rights body PETA India on Wednesday claimed that e-retailer Quikr has ended "animal sale" on its portal and taken down "pet trading" advertisements after the NGO appealed to it and also mounted pressure. The NGO had alleged in 2018 that Quikr was allowing users, including dog breeders, to sell live animals, leading to violation of animal-welfare regulations. Quikr continues to take down advertisements from dog breeders pretending to offer allowed products or services even now, but as of Tuesday, it had managed to remove all of the problematic ads, the NGO said. "Following pressure from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India, e-retailer Quikr has followed the lead of OLX India by ending its animal sales, although there is still work to be done to make the site totally animal-friendly," it said in a statement. "Quikr removed the pet adoption category that allowed dog breeders/pet shops to trade in animals under the guise of adoption on 1st December," it claimed. According to PETA India, the text that appears in the portal's pets section now says, "Quikr has discontinued listings related to sale of any animals on its platform and any listings of this nature would be deleted. If you are in the business of selling pet food, accessories, or providing pet training & grooming or have a pet clinic, you can post your ad in the respective relevant category". The NGO said the move came after PETA India's Person of the Year, and long-time supporter, John Abraham wrote to Quikr. PETA India also appealed to the company as well as state animal welfare boards and animal husbandry departments, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MoEIT), the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) regarding this.  "As a result, the AWBI advised the MoEIT that e-commerce platforms must not trade in live animals without being registered as 'pet shops' with state animal welfare boards, and the Karnataka Animal Welfare Board ordered Quikr to withdraw all live-animal advertisements within the state," the PETA India statement said. It added that Goa's Directorate of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services has issued a letter to OLX India and Quikr, directing them to immediately remove animal trade postings of the state from their websites. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shop) Rules, 2018, and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017, require every pet shop and dog breeding establishments to obtain registration and comply with other requirements prescribed under the rules. "Quikr had never acquired such a registration, and failed to ensure that its users had one either," PETA claimed. A reaction from Quikr was not immediately available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quikr-has-ended-animal-sales-taken-down-pet-trading-listings-peta-india-930810.html
23-12-2020||National||Kisan Sena to march to Delhi in support of farm laws||Farmer union Kisan Sena said thousands of its members from western Uttar Pradesh will march to Delhi on Thursday in support of the Centre’s new agriculture laws. The march will have members joining from the Braj area, which includes districts like Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Hathras and also have supporters joining from Meerut and Muzaffarnagar in western UP, the union said. "We have written to the authorities concerned for permission regarding our march to Delhi but have not got reply. In any case, around 20,000 of Kisan Sena supporters will be en route to Delhi to meet Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday," Kisan Sena convener Thakur Gauri Shankar Singh told PTI. "We want to meet the minister and inform him that the ongoing protests on Delhi's borders by unions from Punjab and Haryana no doubt comprise farmers but they do not represent farmers of all India or other states like UP," Singh said. He added that his faction will apprise the government of the issues that affect farmers in other states and in UP. Asked if his union members are not allowed to move to Delhi, he said the situation will be dealt with as per the conditions on Thursday but affirmed going ahead with the planned march. The Kisan Sena's march is scheduled even as farmers union like the Bharatiya Kisan Union and its splinter groups from UP stay pitched in Ghaziabad and Noida since over three weeks now, demanding that the three new farm laws be repealed. The protesters who have gathered in Ghaziabad and Noida want to go to Delhi to join the bigger stir called chiefly by farmer unions of Punjab and Haryana. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-sena-to-march-to-delhi-in-support-of-farm-laws-930811.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||Big win for us and PM Modi's leadership: BJP on DDC poll results in J&K||With the BJP emerging as the single largest party in the District Development Council polls in Jammu and Kashmir, the party claimed on Tuesday that this is a "big win" for it and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership.  "With win or lead in 75 seats in DDC Elections @BJP4JnK emerges as the single largest party. Gupkar Alliance of 7 parties has 103 seats together. A big win for BJP & the leadership of PM @narendramodi," BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh tweeted. The Gupkar alliance led by Farooq Abdullah was ahead in the seat tally in the maiden DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir by winning or leading in 112 seats out of 280 on Tuesday, followed by the BJP which had won 52 seats, including three in the Kashmir Valley for the first time, and was frontrunner in 18. Santhosh also questioned the alliance's claim that the results are an endorsement of its stand against the abrogation of Article 370, wondering what does its loss in nearly 177 seats mean then.  "Is it not an endorsement of abrogation? Democracy & India have won today," Santhosh said.  Union minister Anurag Thakur, who was the BJP's in-charge for the polls, tweeted, "Democracy wins in Jammu & Kashmir! A New Era of Development and Decisive Leadership Dawns!"  On the other hand, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah, a key leader of the People's Alliance on Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), termed the results as an eye-opener for the BJP and its "proxy political party", and said people have rejected the decision of revoking the erstwhile state's special status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/big-win-for-us-and-pm-modis-leadership-bjp-on-ddc-poll-results-in-jk-930524.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||BJP should stop insulting farmers: Akhilesh Yadav||The BJP should stop "insulting" farmers as they are pride of the country, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said on Wednesday while paying tributes to former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his birth anniversary, which is celebrated as the Farmers' Day. Born on this day in 1902 in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Singh championed the farmers' cause and is credited with shaping several policies that helped cultivators. He died in 1987. "Tributes to Chaudhary Charan Singh ji on his birth anniversary! Today, under the BJP's rule, the country's history is witnessing such a Farmers' Day when the farmers are forced to struggle on the streets, instead of celebrating. The BJP should stop insulting the farmers because the farmer of the country is the pride of India," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. Various farmers' organisations are protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws, terming the legislations as "anti-farmers".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-should-stop-insulting-farmers-akhilesh-yadav-930596.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||Bagging 49 seats out of 280, independent candidates emerge as key players in J&K DDC polls||Independent candidates have emerged as big winners in Jammu and Kashmir's maiden District Development Council polls, with 49 of them having been declared elected so far from 280 seats, putting them ahead of parties like the Congress and the PDP. Among the big Independent wins is Taranjit Singh defeating BJP's two-time MLA and former minister Sham Lal Choudhary in Suchetgarh in Jammu region by a slender margin of 11 votes. Though the BJP maintained its supremacy by emerging as the single largest party with 74 seats and is leading in another seat, the defeat of its stalwarts Choudhary and another former minister Shakti Raj Parihar, who lost from two constituencies in Doda district, has come as a shock for it. Choudhary lost to Singh by a razor-thin margin. Singh polled 12,969 votes against Choudhary's 12958, according to the results declared by the J&K Election Commissioner in the early hours of Wednesday. Choudhary, who originally hailed from Bhimber Tehsil in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir before his family migrated to border village Chakroi in R S Pura sector, had won Suchetgarh assembly seat for the first time in 2008 and repeated the performance for the party in 2014. Singh expressed gratitude to his voters and said the vote for him was "against the farm laws imposed by the BJP government on the farmers of the country against their will". "The BJP went for aggressive campaigning bringing union ministers, chief ministers and national leaders to divert the attention of the voters from the real issues facing the public," Singh, who finally prevailed after a neck-to-neck fight with the BJP leader, said. Incidentally, this was the smallest margin win by any candidate in Jammu region, though an independent candidate won by just three votes against his National Conference rival in the Kashmir Valley, where many winners succeeded by small margins due to the low voter turnout recorded by various constituencies. The independent candidates have won a total of 49 seats and one more is leading in another seat in Poonch district. Another major defeat for the BJP was Parihar losing to his NC rival Asim Hashmi from Gundana segment and Congress opponent from Marmat seat Mushtaq Ahmad, both falling in Doda district, as the day-long counting witnessed a see-saw battle between him and his opponents. Former MLA Shah Mohammad Tantray, who had resigned from the PDP early this year, was defeated by independent candidate Riyaaz Choudhary, who polled 3,829 votes against 2,898 by him in Loran constituency of Poonch district. Independent candidate Avtar Singh was the luckiest among the contestants as he won by just three votes. Avtar Singh polled 246 votes against 243 by his NC rival Ali Mohammad Bhat to become the winner from Dadsara constituency in Pulwama district of south Kashmir. From the same district, BJP's Minha Latief won by 14 votes against her PDP rival Ruqaya Bano. Lateef polled 364 votes, while Bano got 350 votes. The BJP has won three seats from the Kashmir Valley for the first time. Among other low margin wins, independent candidate Bilqees Jan defeated her nearest rival Gull Iqbal (Independent) by 11 votes from Zainapora constituency in Shopian district. Jan polled 146 votes and Iqbal 135. Khalida Bibi (PDP) won by seven votes, defeating her nearest rival Sajida Begum (Independent) from Larnoo constituency in Anantnag district. Bibi polled 4,580 votes against Begum's 4,573. Bial Ahmad Deva (Independent) emerged victorious from Vessu constituency, defeating his nearest rival Mudassir Rashid Mir of Peoples Movement by 35 votes after managing a total of 1,779 votes, while Nisar Ahmad Sheikh (Independent) also registered a win over NC's Rayees Ul Hassan by 35 votes after getting a total of 1,945 votes. The winning margin in Srinagar, from where the highest number of seven independent candidates won the DDC polls, was also very low. J&K Apni Party won three DDC seats from the district followed by one each by the National Conference, BJP and J&K People's Movement. Independent candidate Mohammad Yaseen Rather got 156 votes and won by 21 votes from Qamarwari constituency, J&K Apni Party candidate Shameema Bano polled 213 votes and won by 36 votes from Khonmoh-I, while Ali Mohammad Rather (Independent) won Harwan-II by 96 votes after getting 314 votes. For the rest of the winning candidates, there was three-digit margin as Mohammad Shaban Chopan (Independent) won by the highest margin of 521 votes in the district. He polled 609 against his nearest rival Mohammad Altaf Lali (Independent) who got only 88 votes. In Jammu region which recorded a high turnout during the eight-phase DDC election, BJP's Amit Sharma recorded a win by 47 votes from Majalta segment of Udhampur district against his nearest rival Rajesh Kumar of the National Panthers Party (NPP). Sharma polled 4,215 votes and Kumar 4,168 votes. A majority of the 14 seats in Udhampur district witnessed a neck-to-neck fight mainly between the BJP and the NPP. The BJP finally won 11 seats, the NPP two and Independent one. Hans Raj of the Congress defeated BJP's Sanjay Kumar by 99 votes in Drabshalla-B constituency in Kishtwar district after securing 2,621 votes, while BJP's Sharda Bhau won from the highest margin of 8,880 votes against Congress rival Anuradha Sharma from Akhnoor constituency of Jammu district. Bhau polled 14,619 votes against 5,739 by Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bagging-49-seats-out-of-280-independent-candidates-emerge-as-key-players-in-jk-ddc-polls-930599.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee owes people an apology for allowing BJP’s growth: Adhir Chowdhury||Ahead of the upcoming West Bengal elections, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has said that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is suffering the consequences of her action after “unleashed state machinery” on Opposition parties and “poached MLAs” to debilitate Congress and the Left. He added that the CM had deployed Suvendu Adhikari for months in his constituency to defeat him, and now “BJP is making Suvendu do the same against Mamata”. When asked why Congress, TMC, and the Left cannot come together for the upcoming elections, Chowdhury said that the responsibility was on the CM to reach out to Congress and other parties for an alliance. “Congress and I have repeatedly cautioned her to not become too arrogant after her victory and that one swallow doesn’t make a summer. But she didn’t listen.” Chowdhury blamed Mamata for the growing foothold of BJP in the state, saying that she owes the people an apology for “opening the political doors of West Bengal to BJP by forging TMC-BJP alliance during the 1999 Lok Sabha Polls”. He also said by labelling BJP and the RSS nationalist outfits, she has given space to “communal” politics of BJP in Bengal. Chowdhury believes that Mamata allowed BJP to grow by focusing all her efforts on demolishing her opposition in her 10-year-reign. Upon the possible CPM-Congress alliance, Chowdhury said the high command will take a decision, but the workers of the two parties are already working together as they are victims of TMC’s “reigns of terror”. “Both Trinamool and BJP are unleashing state power, violence, and huge amounts of money to kick up a lot of dust. We may appear a late starter, in reality, people of Bengal are fed with the divisive and violent politics of Trinamool and BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-owes-people-an-apology-for-allowing-bjp-s-growth-adhir-chowdhury-930618.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||When will India's turn come: Rahul to PM on Covid-19 vaccinations||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said 23 lakh people in the world had already received the Covid-19 vaccine and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi when India's turn would come. In a Twitter post, the former Congress president also shared a 'Covid vaccinations' chart showing China ahead followed by the United States, United Kingdom and Russia. He tweeted that 23 lakh people have already received Covid-19 vaccinations and added, "China, US, UK, Russia have started...India ka number kab ayegaa, Modi ji?" India is yet to approve a vaccine for Covid-19. Pfizer, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India have applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for a licence for emergency use authorisation of their vaccines in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-will-indias-turn-come-rahul-to-pm-on-covid-19-vaccinations-930637.html
23-12-2020||National Politics||BJP takes to 'single largest party' narrative after lagging behind PAGD in J&K DDC polls||A day after the DDC poll results in Jammu and Kashmir in which the PAGD looks like it is headed for a clear majority, BJP on Wednesday sought to build the 'single largest party' narrative in its favour and claimed that polls showed a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "larger narrative" for the union territory. The polls, the first big democratic exercise since August 5 last year, when the central government has stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status by revoking Article 370, saw the BJP emerging as the single largest party but lagging behind the united alliance of National Conference, PDP and some other parties. The BJP, which on Wednesday fielded a number of BJP leaders including Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, to present its view on the Jammu and Kashmir DDC polls results, took comfort in what it called the perennial decline of Congress and cited that even independent candidates won more number of seats than Congress. Seeking to reject the theory of victory of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which won the maximum seats, Prasad argued that these parties came together under one alliance because they felt they could not fight the BJP alone, which has even now got more votes than Congress, PDP and NC. "Put together the Independents and BJP have got over 52 per cent votes," argued Anurag Thakur, BJP’s DDC polls in-charge. Prasad and Thakur asserted that the DDC poll results in Jammu and Kashmir are a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "larger narrative" for the union territory, and "resounding slap" by people on the face of extremists, separatists, terrorists and their patrons. Flagging that the BJP has won 74 seats against the NC's 67, PDP's 27 and the Congress' 26, Prasad claimed that many of 39 independent winners had his party's support, seeking to give an impression the support for the BJP is more than what the PAGD can muster, which in total won 110 seats. Both Prasad and Thakur repeatedly talked about the "lotus bloom" in the valley, where the BJP won three seats. In Jammu, BJP won most of the seats while PAGD won in the valley. Congress won a few seats in both. "This is a victory for India, democracy, hope, development and people of Jammu and Kashmir," Prasad and Thakur said linking the 2018 Panchayat elections in Jammu and Kashmir carried out during Modi government's first tenure, which the BJP said led to the flow of funds directly in Panchayats and resultant developments. "Development work was ushered in under the central rule in the region, and people in Kashmir have now distinguished between those who rule and those who serve," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-takes-to-single-largest-party-narrative-after-lagging-behind-pagd-in-jk-ddc-polls-930737.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Moderate fog in parts of Delhi, minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius||Some parts of Delhi were shrouded by fog on Wednesday as the minimum temperature in the city dropped to four degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “Moderate” fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung and to 350 metres at Palam, an IMD official said. According to the weather department, “very dense” fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is “dense”, 201 and 500 “moderate”, and 501 and 1,000 “shallow”.   The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of four degrees Celsius, which was four notches below normal. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded a low of 3.7 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. The Safdarjung observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest this season so far. The minimum temperature had increased slightly on Monday and Tuesday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas.  “The WD has withdrawn. So, the temperatures are going to drop again,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said.   The WD led to light to moderate snowfall in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh.   Another Western Disturbance is likely to affect the upper Himalayan region from December 26. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of Delhi over the next three days. The mercury is expected to drop to three degrees Celsius by Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, it said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "severe" category with slow wind speed and low temperature allowing the accumulation of pollutants, according to weather department officials. No major improvement is predicted till December 26, Srivastava said.  The city's average air quality index (AQI) was 438 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 418on Tuesday. It was 332 on Monday, 321 on Sunday and 290 on Saturday. Air pollution in the neighbouring cities of Faridabad (414), Ghaziabad (486), Greater Noida (485) and Noida (471) also remained the “severe” zone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Srivastava attributed the dip in the air quality to slow wind speed, low temperature, and high humidity due to the recent Western Disturbance||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-fog-in-parts-of-delhi-minimum-temperature-dips-to-4-degrees-celsius-930566.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Former BJP cabinet minister loses narrowly in DDC polls||Former BJP minister Sham Lal Choudhary lost by a razor-thin margin of 11 votes in Suchetgarh constituency of Jammu district in the maiden District Development Council (DDC) election, officials said on Wednesday. The Gupkar alliance led by Farooq Abdullah was leading the tally by winning over 110 out of 280 seats on Wednesday, followed by the BJP, which emerged as the single largest party, bagging 74 seats, including three in the Kashmir Valley for the first time. In Jammu, the BJP won 11 seats, followed by independent candidates who got two seats, while one seat went into the kitty of the National Conference (NC). According to the figures provided by the state election authority (SEA), Sham Lal Choudhary polled 12,958 votes against independent candidate Taranjit Singh, who polled 12,969 votes in Suchetgarh segment of Jammu district. Choudhary was a cabinet minister in the BJP-PDP coalition government in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He won assembly elections from Suchetgarh in 2014 and 2008 and is considered to be a powerful leader in the border belt of R S Pura. Singh, a former NC youth leader, contested the DDC polls as an Independent on the slogan of three new farm laws enacted by the BJP-led central government. It garnered farmers' support in the Suchetgarh-R S Pura border belt, which is called the home of the farming community in the Jammu division as the area is known for its Basmati rice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-bjp-cabinet-minister-loses-narrowly-in-ddc-polls-930572.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Cold weather conditions persist in Haryana, Punjab||Cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, with places like Hisar, Adampur and Ludhiana reeling under intense chill. According to the Meteorological Department officials here, the minimum temperature hovered below normal limits. Hisar in Haryana braved the chill recording a low of 2.7 degrees Celsius while Adampur and Ludhiana in Punjab also reeled under biting cold recording respective minimums of 2.5 degrees Celsius and 2.8 degrees Celsius. Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Patiala, Faridkot, Halwara and Bathinda also experienced a cold night recording respective minimum temperatures of 3.4 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4.3 degrees Celsius and 5.2 degrees Celsius. Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa in Haryana also registered below normal minimums at 3.9 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 5.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius. Fog also reduced visibility in some places including Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-weather-conditions-persist-in-haryana-punjab-930607.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||BJP uses protesting farmer's photo for advertisement||A farmer from Punjab took exception to the alleged use of his photograph by the BJP to put across a point that the minimum support price (MSP) would continue, saying he himself was part of the farmers' protest against the three farm laws. A poster with Harpreet Singh's picture appeared on the Punjab BJP's Facebook page. After an uproar, the poster was removed. “The Punjab BJP used my photo on its Facebook page,” claimed Singh adding that it was an old photograph taken 6-7 years ago. “I am sitting at the Singhu border,” he said, adding that the BJP used his picture without seeking his permission. What they have done is wrong, said Singh on his Facebook page. “Nobody is happy with these Bills (farm Acts). The BJP-led government should come to the Singhu border and see for itself which farmer is in favour of these laws,” he said. He said that the farmers were quite angry over the newly-enacted farm laws. Singh, who is from the Hoshiarpur district in Punjab, said the farmers had been speaking against these farm laws which the government says were in the interest of the farming community. “We (farmers) will return only after getting these laws repealed,” said Singh. Meanwhile, when questioned about the use of the farmer's photograph, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said that he had also learnt about it. “We will check it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-uses-protesting-farmers-photo-for-advertisement-930612.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Gautam Gambhir's 'Jan Rasoi' to serve lunch at Re 1 in East Delhi||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir will launch 'Jan Rasoi' canteens that will serve lunch to the needy at Re 1 in his parliamentary constituency of East Delhi. The cricketer-turned-politician will inaugurate the first such canteen in Gandhi Nagar on Thursday, followed by another in Ashok Nagar on the Republic Day, his office said. "I have always felt that everybody has the right to healthy and hygienic food irrespective of caste, creed, religion or financial condition. It is saddening to see the homeless and destitute not being able to get even two square meals a day," Gambhir said. The MP has planned to open at least one 'Jan Rasoi' canteen in each of the 10 assembly constituencies in East Delhi. "The 'Jan Rasoi' at Gandhi Nagar, one of the biggest wholesale garment markets in the country, will be a full modern canteen which will provide lunch to those in need for just Re 1," according to a statement from his office. It will have a capacity to seat 100 people at a time but due to the Covid-19 pandemic only 50 people will be allowed at present, it said. The lunch will comprise rice, lentils and vegetable curries. The project is being funded by Gautam Gambhir Foundation and the MP's personal resources, and has no government support, the statement said. Some states run canteens which provide subsidised food to the needy but the national capital has no such facility where low priced good food is made available to people, Gambhir said. "During the lockdown too, we witnessed thousands of migrant labourers being forced to leave the city due to lack of food and other basic resources," he said. The BJP MP said it was his vision that every person in Delhi gets healthy food and clean water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gautam-gambhirs-jan-rasoi-to-serve-lunch-at-re-1-in-east-delhi-930617.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Two dead, 16 injured in ammonia leakage at IFFCO plant in UP||Two people died and 16 others were injured in a major ammonia gas leak at IFFCO's Phulpur fertiliser plant in Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad, the firm said on Wednesday. The gas leakage that took place on Tuesday night around 10.30 pm, however, was restricted and stopped in a short time, the fertilizer cooperative major said in a statement. The two persons who died in the accident were identified as IFFCO Deputy Manager Abhay Nandan and Assistant Manager V P Singh. Out of the 16 injured IFFCO employees, including three contract labourers, two have been discharged while 14 others are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, the firm said. IFFCO said the accident took place as tie rods of an ammonia plunger pump suddenly broke and got detached leading to heavy ammonia leakage. Following the leakage, IFFCO ordered a technical investigation into the cause of the gas leakage while Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also ordered an administrative probe into the accident. "We deeply regret the sad and unfortunate accident happened yesterday night around 10.30 pm due to mechanical failure at #IFFCO #Phulpur Ammonia Urea unit in #Prayagraj. Our employees at the site fought bravely to handle the situation," IFFCO CEO and Managing Director U S Awasthi tweeted on Wednesday. "Our emergency response group, fire and safety team and plant operating staff bravely fought with the emergency situation and restricted the leakage to small area within the plant and normalized it in a short time," the IFFCO later said in its statement. Out of the 16 injured, six were shifted to a hospital in Allahabad, while remaining 10 were admitted to IFFCO township hospital, the IFFCO said in its statement. "Two of them have been discharged. The condition of the remaining fourteen is stable," it added. A technical enquiry committee, headed by an executive director rank officer, has been set up to find out the cause of the incident which took place on Tuesday night, the statement said. Taking note of the accident, Chief Minister Adityanath also ordered a probe into the incident while announcing a financial help of Rs 4 lakh each for the family members of those who died in the incident. While condoling the death of two IFFCO officials, CM Adityanath directed to provide financial help to each to their families. He also ordered a probe into the matter to ascertain its cause and directed officials to provide the best treatment to those admitted in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-dead-16-injured-in-ammonia-leakage-at-iffco-plant-in-up-930621.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Case against 13 farmers in Haryana for blocking CM Khattar's convoy||Haryana Police has registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after a group of peasants protesting against the Centre's new farm laws had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Chief Minister M L Khattar's convoy. On Tuesday, a group of protesting farmers had showed black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City. Some of the farmers had allegedly tried to block Khattar's motorcade but police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister after some time. The case against the farmers was registered late Tuesday on the complaint of some security personnel. Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some farmers also allegedly hurled sticks towards some vehicles in the motorcade. Ambala City police registered a case against 13 farmers under various IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder) 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Khattar was in Ambala on Tuesday to address public meetings in support of the party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers had waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are repealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-13-farmers-in-haryana-for-blocking-cm-khattars-convoy-930634.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Won’t bow before anyone except Allah, says Farooq Abdullah after victory in DDC polls||After leading People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to victory in DDC elections, regional National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah Wednesday said that forging an alliance was a tough decision "but was taken for larger interests of people of Jammu and Kashmir". “It was a difficult to forge alliance with the parties that were the rivals of the NC. But a decision was taken in the large interests of people of J&K,” he said while addressing party workers at the NC headquarters, here. The PAGD is an alliance of arch rivals and regional heavyweights – NC and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The PAGD bagged 110 seats in the DDC polls and emerged victorious in 13 out of 20 districts in J&K. Boasting that he was the son of ‘Sher-e-Kashmir’ (Lion of Kashmir, as his father late Sheikh Abdullah is being called) and will not bow before anyone except Allah, octogenarian Abdullah said, “In 1996, they (New Delhi) used to stay that NC had died down in Kashmir and didn’t exist anymore. (Then Prime Minister) Narasimha Rao used to say that NC doesn’t exist in Kashmir anymore.” “But when realised, they (Delhi leaders) came to meet me in London and begged to save them. Let me tell them, NC was there, is there and it will remain there,” Abdullah, who is incumbent Member Parliament (MP) from Srinagar Lok Sabha seat, asserted. In an indirect reference to the BJP, he said, “They want me to bow before them but I won’t.” “There are weaknesses in the party (NC) that needs to be plugged, the sooner the better,” added Abdullah, who is also a former chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/won-t-bow-before-anyone-except-allah-says-farooq-abdullah-after-victory-in-ddc-polls-930635.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||J&K DDC polls: Out of 20 districts, PAGD sweeps six, BJP gets five||The Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) won big in the maiden DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir by winning 110 seats and having a clear majority in six districts and an edge in six others, while the BJP emerged as the single largest party with 75 seats and having a clear majority in five districts. The Congress party won 27 seats, while newly formed J&K Apni Party (JKAP), believed to be proxy of the BJP, emerged winners in 12 seats in the district development council (DDC) polls, which mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the region, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. Independents grabbed major attention during these elections winning 18 per cent of the total seats, registering win on 50 seats. Barring five of 20 districts, Independents won the day in all other districts. Among PAGD constituents, National Conference (NC) won 67 seats, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) 27, Peoples Conference eight, CPI-M five and Peoples Movement three. The PAGD is an alliance of arch rivals and regional heavyweights – NC and PDP - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. When the polls were announced abruptly in early November, the PAGD announced it would field joint candidates and even issued a list of “unanimous” choices for the first five rounds of voting. However, the unity proved short-lived because of the tussle over seat-sharing. Voting was held in all 280 seats - 14 in each of the 20 districts of the Union Territory from November 28 to December 19 in eight phases. Results have been declared for all but two seats. Among the political parties, the BJP got highest 24.82 per cent votes, followed by the NC with 16.46 per cent, Congress 13.82 per cent, PDP 3.96 per cent, Apni Party 5.3 per cent, Peoples Conference 1.98 per cent vote share, while rest of the vote share went to others including independent candidates. Overall 28,55,509 votes were counted in total in the 278 DDC constituencies, the state election commissioner said in a presser. In Kashmir valley, Abdullah-led PAGD won 72 seats, while the BJP candidates emerged winners in three seats. The alliance has a clear majority in six out of 10 district councils in the valley, while it has a clear edge in three other districts. Srinagar district remains undecided as several independents have won and it is unclear which way they will go. In Jammu province, the BJP won 72 seats and has a clear majority to have its chairmen in five districts while it had an edge in one district. Independent candidates hold sway in one of the districts, while in other three districts in Jammu region, the PAGD and the Congress have clear majority to have its council chairmen, if they come together. The PAGD leaders, including Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, have said that the verdict in the polls shows it clearly that the people of Jammu and Kashmir have rejected the Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370 in August last year. The Alliance leaders claimed that they had fought against several odds as its leaders barely campaigned for the polls. They alleged that their candidates were not allowed to campaign and were confined in security enclosures. However, the BJP said its emergence as the single largest party in the polls has proved that the people of J&K have shown their preference for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “larger narrative”. None of the individual parties in the PGD have been able to compete with the BJP, and this was the reason behind the tie-up,” Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a presser in New Delhi. He said the BJP got over 4.5 lakh votes, which is more than the NC, PDP and Congress combined. Total seats = 280/ : Results announced 278 14 seats each in 20 districts of J&K140 seats in 10 districts of Jammu140 seats in 10 districts of Kashmir BJP wins: 75, National Conference: 67, Independents: 50, PDP: 27, Congress: 26, Apni Party: 12, People's Conference: 8, CPM: 5, People's Movement: 3, JKNPP: 2, PDF: 2, BSP: 1 19 candidates saw an extremely close contest where the margin of victory was less than 100 votes. PAGD (NC, PDP, CPM, PC, PM) has a clear majority in 6 districts and edge in six others. BJP clear majority in five districts and edge in one. In two districts independents won majority seats. BJP got highest 24.82% votes, with over 4.5 lakh votes followed by NC at 16.46%, Congress 13.82%, PDP 3.96%, Apni Party 5.3% Over 35% vote share went to others including independent candidates. Overall 28,55,509 votes were counted in total in the 278 DDC constituencies||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-ddc-polls-out-of-20-districts-pagd-sweeps-six-bjp-gets-five-930651.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||216 Naxals killed in encounters in Chhattisgarh in 3 years: State govt||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday said 216 Naxals have been killed in encounters with security forces while 966 ultras have surrendered in the state in last three years. During this period, the highest number of 82 Naxals were killed in Sukma district, the government informed the state Assembly. Besides, the maximum number of 333 rebels also surrendered in Sukma, it said. In a written reply to a question by Congress MLA Dhanendra Sahu, state Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu said, "216 naxals were killed and 966 surrendered from 2018-19 till November 30 this year." During this period, the highest number of Naxal deaths were reported in Sukma district (82), followed by Bijapur (46), Dantewada (30), Rajnandgaon (17), Narayanpur (16), Bastar (7), Dhamtari (7), Kanker (6), Kabirdham (3) and one each in Gariaband and Kondgaon districts, the reply said. Of the 966 cadres who surrendered, 333 laid down their arms in Sukma, 300 in Dantewada, 164 in Narayanpur, 77 in Bijapur, 46 in Kondagaon, 36 in Bastar, 7 in Rajnandgaon and 3 in Kanker, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/216-naxals-killed-in-encounters-in-chhattisgarh-in-3-years-state-govt-930655.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Won’t contest in elections till special status of J&K is restored: Mehbooba Mufti||Despite her party participating in the recently concluded DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir, regional PDP president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, Wednesday said she won’t contest any election till the special status of the erstwhile state was not restored. “When it comes to assembly polls, I will not fight any elections until and unless Jammu and Kashmir's own constitution is brought back, until Article 370 is restored,” she told a New Delhi based news channel. Mehbooba’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP) contested the just concluded district development council (DDC) polls, under the banner of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) – a seven-party alliance formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K under Article 370 which was revoked last August. The PAGD consists of PDP’s arch-rival National Conference. She said they (PDP and NC) have been rivals “but for the larger cause of J&K we can all get together.” “We are Kashmiris at the end of the day. We are not talking only about elections but for the larger cause of restoring what was lost,” she said. Asked whether they would contest Assembly polls, which are long due in J&K, in the alliance, Mehbooba responded: “Whenever assembly polls are held we will sit together and discuss (on Chief Ministership). I am not in the race.” However, she said, would not contest any election until special status was restored under Article 370. The PDP chief is scheduled to address a press conference at her official ‘Fairview residence’ on posh Gupkar road, here, in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/won-t-contest-in-elections-till-special-status-of-jk-is-restored-mehbooba-mufti-930660.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Haryana cabinet approves new enterprises and employment policy||The Haryana cabinet on Wednesday approved the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy 2020. The policy aims to establish the state as a competitive and favoured investment destination. The cabinet, which met here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister M L Khattar, approved the new policy, which will come into effect from January next year, an official statement said. The Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy 2020 aims to achieve regional development and provide livelihood opportunities to its people through resilient economic development, it said. The objective of the policy is to attract investment of over Rs 1 lakh crore and generate 5 lakh jobs in the state. "The policy will focus on building a resilient economy on the back of robust industrial growth. It envisages leveraging opportunities arising out of changes in global economic order and align industrial growth in the state with national initiatives such as 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Mission'," the statement said. "The policy takes cognizance of emerging trends in supply chain, electric mobility, agri-tech, green manufacturing and climate change and healthcare and pharma and other new avenues for growth," it added. The policy emphasises the need for balanced regional growth across the state. The state has been divided into four category blocks based on industrial development. 'A' category blocks comprise of industrially developed areas, 'B' category blocks comprise of areas of intermediate development, 'C' category blocks have industrially backward areas and 'D' category blocks comprise of industrially most backward areas. Graded incentives will be provided in these category blocks (maximum in 'D' category blocks). The policy places a special emphasis on development of micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector and their business growth. "It envisages bringing up a paradigm shift from being a regulator to a facilitator of MSMEs. The state government has undertaken several initiatives to assist the MSME sector in becoming globally competitive," the statement said. "The cluster development, enhancing market linkages and international collaboration, enhancing access to infrastructure and technology, regulatory simplification, infrastructure support and fiscal incentives are envisaged to provide an impetus to the growth of MSME sector in the state and to promote entrepreneurship," it added. To reduce the cost of doing business in the state and enhance industry competitiveness, the policy offers an array of attractive fiscal incentives to MSMEs, large, mega and ultra-mega enterprises, exporting units, thrust sector enterprises, essential sector enterprises, import substitution enterprises and identified service enterprises. The policy will consider auto, auto components and light engineering, agro-based, food processing and allied industry, textiles and apparels, Electronic System Design and Manufacturing (ESGM), defence and aerospace manufacturing, pharmaceutical and medical devices, chemical and petrochemicals and large scale energy as thrust sectors with increase in emphasis and assistance. To further promote the national movement of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', concession on land price may also be provided to eligible enterprises supporting import substitution. In support of micro enterprises for generating employment opportunities for youth at their doorstep in rural areas, the Haryana Gramin Udyogik Vikas Yojna will be introduced under the policy, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cabinet-approves-new-enterprises-and-employment-policy-930677.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Three CRPF men injured in Kashmir grenade attack||Three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were injured in grenade attack in  central Kashmir's Ganderbal district on Wednesday. A police official said that militants hurled a grenade on 118 Battalion CRPF in Daderhama, Ganderbal resulting in injuries to three CRPF personnel. He said that the injured CRPF men were shifted to a hospital while the area was  cordoned off to nab the attackers. There has been a spurt in grenade attack cases in Kashmir in recent months and the latest attack comes just after maiden district development council polls ended in the union territory. On December 9, six civilians were injured when militants lobbed a grenade on security forces in Singhpora area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district. Prior to that, a dozen civilians were injured when militants lobbed a grenade on security forces in Kakapora area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district on November 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-crpf-men-injured-in-kashmir-grenade-attack-930678.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||1,299 inmates in Chhattisgarh jails contracted Covid-19: Govt||As many as 1,299 inmates have tested positive for coronavirus in 28 jails of Chhattisgarh so far and six have died of the infection, the state government informed the legislative Assembly on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question by senior BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal, state home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu informed about COVID-19 cases among jail inmates and funds spent on their treatment. At least 217 inmates had contracted the infection in Durg Central Jail, followed by 202 and 196 in the district jails of Dantewada and Ramanujganj respectively, the reply stated. According to the government, 132 inmates in Katghora sub-jail, 87 in Ambikapur Central Jail, 71 in Raipur Central Jail, 55 in Janjgir district jail, 52 in Balodabazar sub-jail, 49 in Jagdalpur Central Jail, 35 in Raigarh district jail, 32 in Dhamtari district jail, 26 in Bijapur sub-jail and 24 in Bilaspur Central Jail tested positive for coronavirus. The remaining 121 out of 1,299 cases were reported in 15 district jails and sub-jails of the state, it was stated. As many as six inmates died of the infection and no aid has been provided to their families, the government reply stated. The minister also informed about funds spent on medicines and other supplies for the infected inmates in each prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1299-inmates-in-chhattisgarh-jails-contracted-covid-19-govt-930744.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||NIA arrests absconding Khalistani terrorist upon deportation from Cyprus||The NIA has arrested absconding Khalistani terrorist Gurjeet Singh Nijjar at the Delhi airport on his deportation from Cyprus for allegedly hatching a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy in India for a separate state of Khalistan, an official said on Wednesday. The premier investigation agency had registered a case in January last year against accused Harpal Singh under the Arms Act, the Maharashtra Police Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Nijjar, the main conspirator, Harpal and Moin Khan were active on social media platforms and allegedly hatched a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy with the ultimate aim of the formation of a separate state of Khalistan, a National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said. As part of the conspiracy, the three used to post videos and images containing praises of militant Jagtar Singh Hawara (a convict in the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh), the Operation Blue Star of 1984, besides pro-Khalistani posts related to the proscribed organisation, Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), with the sole intention to motivate like-minded Sikh youngsters and others to join the so-called Khalistan movement, the official said. Moin was in Tihar Jail from 2013 to 2016, during which he developed contact with Hawara, showed his willingness to work for him and shared his contact number with him, the NIA spokesperson said. Subsequently, as planned, Moin sent a friend request to the Facebook ID, "Khalistani Jindabad Khalistan", from his account on the social media platform. Through this Facebook ID, he came in contact with Harpal and Nijjar, the official said. Nijjar motivated Moin by discussing about the "atrocities committed against Muslims and Sikhs in India and convinced him to work for a separate Khalistan State", he added. Nijjar directed Moin to purchase a pistol and ammunition in 2018 in order to give effect to their nefarious designs, the official said. In May last year, the NIA filed a chargesheet in a special NIA court against Nijjar, Harpal, Moin and Sundar Lal Parashar. Nijjar, who hails from Punjab's Amritsar, left the country in October 2017 for Cyprus. Accordingly, a Look-Out Circular (LOC) was issued against him. On Tuesday, Nijjar was detained at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here and arrested by the NIA. His transit custody will be obtained to take him to Mumbai for further investigation, the NIA spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-absconding-khalistani-terrorist-upon-deportation-from-cyprus-930768.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Haryana cabinet okays new 'panchayat tax' on electricity, agriculture exempted||The Haryana government on Wednesday decided to levy a two per cent "panchayat tax" on power bills for consumers who fall within the limits of the rural bodies in the state, triggering an opposition demand for its rollback. Officials said electricity consumption for agriculture and some other categories is exempted from the tax, An official statement issued here said the state government has decided to levy the tax on use of electricity in order to augment the financial resources of gram panchayats. But it will not will apply on "consumption of electricity by the government of India or if it is consumed in the construction, maintenance or operation of any railway by the Centre or on consumption by agriculture consumers within the limits of gram panchayats in the state," it added. The statement said the decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet held here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Khattar later said the move would garner an additional Rs 100-125 crore annually for the panchayats which then can be used in their developmental work. The panchayat tax will be collected by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and paid in the same manner as if it was an electricity duty payable to the state government, and same will be remitted to the gram panchayats concerned, the statement said. The opposition, however, slammed the move, with senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala saying "the tax imposed on rural consumers should be immediately rolled back". In another decision, the state government decided to set up a new municipal corporation, the 11th in the state, at Manesar in Gurgaon district by including 29 adjoining villages in it. The cabinet also approved the implementation of the Delhi-Panipat Corridor of Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS), which will have a total length of 103.02 km, and it will have 17 stations, including six in Delhi and 11 in Haryana. The construction and commissioning of the RRTS will be undertaken in two stages – Sarai Kale Khan to Murthal, including Murthal depot (58.28 km), and Murthal to Panipat, including Panipat depot (44.74 km), the statement said. The project will enable efficient and effective movement of a large number of people into vastly congested places and provide important links for residents of urban/sub-urban nodes in Haryana to access services and facilities in towns and cities of the region, while bringing and accelerating economic development of these urban nodes, it added. The cabinet accorded approval to provide state government guarantee for a term loan of Rs 235 crores for setting up new sugar plants and ethanol plants at Karnal, Panipat and Shahbad sugar mills. The Haryana State Cooperative Apex Bank Limited (HARCO Bank) has sanctioned the term loan for the projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cabinet-okays-new-panchayat-tax-on-electricity-agriculture-exempted-930771.html
23-12-2020||North and Central||Apni Party bags 12 seats in its maiden election in J&K||Apni Party, which was formed nine months ago, has bagged 12 seats and over 38,000 votes in the first election it has contested in Jammu and Kashmir. Led by former minister and Kashmir's top businessman Altaf Bukhari, the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party was formed on March 8 with some senior leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Congress to give the people of Kashmir an alternative to the bipolar setup of the NC and the PDP. While the party bagged three seats from Jammu region, the rest were from Kashmir valley. As per data, it got a vote share of over 38,000 votes. The party's Ajaz Ahmed Khan, a former Congress minister and veteran Gujjar leader, won DDC elections from Thuroo segment of Reasi district by 1578 votes, as per the data of election authority. He polled 4,904 votes while Mohammad Ashraf of NC got 3,326 votes. He was a minister in the NC-Congress government and a two-time MLA. Apni Party candidates Yasmeen won from Chasana segment of Reasi district and Nasreen Akhtar from Bhudal-new segment of Rajouri district. The party bagged seats in Bandopra-A (Bandipora), Kunzar, Tangmarg (both in Baramulla), Tanghar (Kupwara), Kellar (Shopian), Harwan-II, Srinagar-III and Khanmoh-I (both in Srinagar). Party leaders said that they are not disheartened by the results as they gave the best during campaigning where they were facing a conglomerate of powerful regional forces of the Gupkar alliance of PDP, NC, CPI-M and others. There are various Independents, whom the party have supported and they have become victorious, the leaders said. "You can well imagine, a baby party fighting old and strong regional parties jointly," Bukhari said. While thanking the people for the win of his party's 12 DDC candidates and independents supported by it, across Jammu and Kashmir, Bukhari assured them that Apni Party will tirelessly work for their socio-economic development through all forums available to it. "The Apni Party is overwhelmed by the support of the people which is reflected in the massive voter turnout in favour of our candidates. I am highly indebted to the people for reposing their trust and confidence in the Apni Party which believes in peoples' welfare," he observed. Bukhari led his party's campaigning in Kashmir by holding over 200 rallies, public meetings and door-to-door campaigns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/apni-party-bags-12-seats-in-its-maiden-election-in-jk-930814.html
23-12-2020||Oasis||A lotus in the mud||Recently I came across not one but two stories that underscored the fact that the notion of squabbling over mundane matters takes away from us the pleasure of being enlivened by some very fine things. In one story a man finds that the house he lived in needed reinforcement. The walls were falling apart. While probing ways to resolve his dilemma he found that the land he owned had well-shaped rocks and stones that could be used to renovate his home. He, however, used the rocks and stones to build a tower next to his house. The neighbours and even his own family members began to criticize him. “Why would you build a tower instead of fixing your home”? they ask. “His mind is probably unstable”, they said. The man listened to all this with equanimity and continued to build the tower.  A sage crossing the village expressed his desire to meet the man who was building a tower. “Why the tower when your house is in such an obvious need for repair”? he asked. The man took the sage to the topmost level of the tower and said, “I’m not going to let petty reasons and words keep me away from the view of the ocean, the rest can wait”. Both the sage and man then quietly looked at the halcyon ocean from the top of the tower.  An eagle is said to obtain its glory from the way it manages the storms in its life. It responds to the pecks of a raven in a befitting manner. A raven is said to be the only bird who dares to sit on the eagle’s back and jab at its neck. The eagle, however, is above this trivial altercation and does not let this instigation disturb its calm. It begins to fly higher and as it gains altitude, the raven finds it harder to breathe the thin air that the eagle can take in its stride. Eventually, the raven falls down asphyxiated. When faced with criticism or petty demands on our time and energy, we can either justify ourselves to others or elevate ourselves such that explanation becomes redundant.A lotus does not need words; the muddy waters are obliterated by its beauty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-lotus-in-the-mud-930785.html
23-12-2020||Opinion||Celebrating the Indian Christmas||Christians make up a little over 2 per cent of India’s population. Many more of us celebrate Christmas. That still doesn’t place it alongside Diwali or Holi in terms of celebrants’ numbers. Celebrant enthusiasm is another matter. Children write to Santa. Stockings are hung. Come the day, gifts are unwrapped and carols play on loop. If we were better informed and less coy people, there would be mistletoe around too.  Businesses reinforce and harvest the season’s mood. Malls deck up. Special food menus reach inboxes. Clothes and shop windows get the red-white-green palette. And in telling evidence of the festival’s spill from expected quarters – diplomatic enclaves, swank, gated communities, and Christian homes and clusters - Christmas trees, lights, and treats appear in neighborhood markets and Santa masks and caps get hawked at traffic lights.  The long and short of it is that Christmas in India, though not quite mass, is popular and has charmed people like us. It wasn’t always this way. I suspect most of India’s Middle Class Gen-X discovered Christmas in the steps I did.  Textbook chapters on Jesus mentioned his birthday, Christmas, Burra Din, and the global occasion for commemorating his teachings it had become. Some of us saw the odd kandil go up in the neighborhood; Irene from ours used to have a large red cellophane one on the jamun tree in her courtyard. Luckier ones would’ve grown in neighborhoods well-knit enough for eats to be delivered and partaken. Missionary school-goers, I have heard it said, nay alleged, have a separate, more coerced-immersed experience. Well, it didn’t happen in our Jesuit-run school, and I have heard no different from any credible source. The first intimation of the big deal Christmas came from Doordarshan. These were via short news clips of midnight masses and Christmas revelries across the world, but they struck and stuck as only tiny clips from those clip-starved times could. They confirmed what the textbooks said about the enduring and global relevance of Jesus’ message, but the chief takeaway from them was something else: that Christmas was fun and cosmopolitan. A trifle shallow, yes, reflecting fandom of the white and foreign, yes, but hey, not off the mark at all considering the season’s joyous, embracing spirit. There were other reasons why the Christian-Christmas association with jollity and openness worked. Christian lads reportedly had permission to sip wine on Christmas. Grass being greener on the other side of the fence, this seemed a higher-order pleasure than our own licensed gulps of bhaang-laced thandais. Bollywood introduced us to jolly, well-meaning Johns and Tonys, seductive, gold-hearted Ritas and Suzys. Hollywood films, as and when they became accessible, would add to the allure, educating us on Christmas tradition and new ideas of cool and celebration. They would go on to tell us the best ways to spend - in all its relevant meanings - the holiday, and we obliged.  Millennials and subsequent arrivals have, predictably, taken a different and quicker route to find their Christmas. Cakes in bakers’ shelves, trees in drawing rooms, and Christmas melas haven’t been rarities for them, just parts of an expanding fixture set. They have laughed off Bollywood stereotypes, become less enamored of old, stylized Hollywood, and take cues about Christmas plans from Christmas releases and television shows about ordinary folk they connect with. Some have travelled and studied abroad, gotten to know things first-hand, and spread the light on return. No matter how we’ve discovered Christmas and how we’ve come to celebrate it, the fun, cosmopolitan tag has stuck. Come to think of it, that makes the Indian Christmas more of a cultural than a religious occasion. This is not too different from the West. Less than half of America considers Christmas a religious festival as opposed to a cultural one, a 2017 Pew Survey revealed. Shorn of its religious side, promising harmless fun and self-affirmations of modernity, Christmas has been easy for us to accept and enjoy. It all threatens to change. Noise about ‘rice bag’ conversions has had its believers for a while now, and charges of cultural subversion, moral corruption, and covert evangelism by Christian forces in the name of Christmas and Valentine’s Day and under the auspices of missionary schools and hospitals have an increasing number of – and rather angry  – takers now. Christian activists claim there has been an increase in attacks on the community in recent years. Christmas’ non-religious flavor, something that ‘protected’ it from bigot’s crosshairs, is no longer an adequate shield.  Anticipation will keep the more excitable ones among us awake on Christmas eve. Others will keep awake in anxiety. They shouldn’t have to. We all deserve a Merry Christmas. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/celebrating-the-indian-christmas-930578.html
23-12-2020||Opinion||How do you solve a problem like Prithvi Shaw?||It’s hard to believe sometimes that Prithvi Shaw, only 21 years old, has been a Test cricketer for just over 26 months. So much has been crammed into his short life and brief career already. A blazing century on debut. An ankle injury that kept him out of the entire series in Australia last time around. An eight-month suspension for a positive drugs test. A spectacular rise from the said ban with bruising runs at the first-class level. A horrible IPL 2020, gaping technical inadequacies exposed even in the 20-over gig. And now, a horror start in Australia, marked by holes in his batting and question marks over his fitness and fielding. Shaw is no stranger to the spotlight. Even during his Under-19 days – he led India to the World Cup title in New Zealand in early 2018 – he was quite the consummate showman, relishing playing to the gallery, compelling the camera to be trained on him. His free-flowing, uninhibited approach raised odious if inevitable comparisons with Virender Sehwag. Like Virat Kohli a decade before him, he was pencilled in for extended glory at the senior level. It’s not as if the Under-19 Shaw has regressed since. Many of the same technical failings that are being mercilessly exposed and unceasingly dissected now were his companions then too, it was just that the quality of the bowling wasn’t consistently threatening enough to capitalise on those openings. International cricket is, as opposed to the Under-19 or first-class grade, a lot less forgiving; back-room teams hunt for a hint of vulnerability, high-class bowlers relentlessly probe away in a pack. As a batsman, you must have plans to thwart those designs, for there is no place to hide. Ricky Ponting was on air during the first over of the Adelaide Test last week, Mitchell Starc to Shaw. One of Australia’s greatest captains, Ponting had had a ringside view of Shaw’s preparations and methods for two and a half months in the UAE. The Delhi Capitals head coach predicted not just Shaw’s dismissal, but also how it would eventuate – left-arm quick Starc would swing the ball in to the right-hander, Shaw would reach out with his hands, leave a huge gap between bat and body, and be bowled through the gate, maybe off the inside edge. Ponting the prophetic, they called him five seconds later. Every man who thinks he knows his cricket – there are millions of them in India alone – and his dog is now an expert on why Shaw is doomed to fail. How’s that going to help a talented if somewhat wasteful young man? Shaw’s abilities are not in question. His hand-eye coordination augments his positivity, his attacking instincts make him particularly dangerous when he gets going. The challenge now is to figure out how to get him going. That means a return to the drawing board to bring game, mind and body to where they should be for him to court success regularly. It’s naive to imagine that Ponting, or India head coach Ravi Shastri and Vikram Rathour, the national batting coach, haven’t worked with him already to address issues that, if not rectified, will have permanent deleterious effects. If their methods haven’t borne fruit, it’s time to take off the kid gloves and read the riot act. Players are often reluctant to change successful methods of the past that, once a strength, have morphed into a weakness. If their insistence on sticking to 'their natural game' is to the detriment of the larger group, it leaves the decision-makers with little choice. Barring the unforeseen, Shaw’s last slice of action in Australia in this series is behind him. It will be a disservice to him to be thrust into the cauldron again in hope rather than conviction. He might make a few because of his calibre, but the probabilities of psyche-scarring damage are infinitely higher. India can’t afford to keep him in cotton wool. However, having invested so much in him already, they must also give themselves every chance to rediscover Shaw, the successful opener. A return to domestic cricket, with a revamped batting methodology, would have been the ideal path to regaining runs and confidence, but that’s a luxury currently unavailable to Indian players. It won’t be the worst idea for Shaw to be despatched to the National Cricket Academy – hitherto used as an injury rehab centre - to work alongside maestro Rahul Dravid, who was Shaw’s Under-19 national coach. Shaw couldn’t ask for a better tutor to get his cricket, and his life, back on track. Dravid can show the way but can’t actually prepare, train and bat for him. It boils down to how badly Shaw wants to succeed internationally and how hard he is willing to push himself towards that end.   (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-do-you-solve-a-problem-like-prithvi-shaw-930615.html
23-12-2020||Panorama||The missing debate: How the Karnataka Land Reforms Act was amended||The 2020 amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, was introduced on July 13, at a time the entire nation was in lockdown. The key change was the removal of the restriction on purchase of agricultural land by non-agriculturists. This has sparked anger and protests across the state, with farmers groups, workers groups and Dalit organisations coming out on the streets. We analyse the debates in the Assembly to identify the narratives that were used to frame consensus. The ordinance was tabled in the Assembly and it came to be passed as a legislative amendment to the 1961 Act on September 25. All the provisions from the ordinance were retained, except for the increase in the ceiling limit. We find three threads in the arguments used in the Assembly -- the impetus for financialisation of land, legalisation of illegal land sales, and a pro-nativist tendency. Curious case of ‘unused’ land Revenue Minister R Ashok said that there was scope for modernisation of agriculture and especially the entry of educated youth into agriculture. He argued that of the 190.50 lakh hectares of land in Karnataka, 22.07 lakh hectares is uncultivable land. Further, land that is not cultivated but has the potential to be cultivated accounts for 11.79 lakh hectares. These lands are supposedly left fallow due to labour problems, greater education of rural population and their migration to cities. By thus framing the issue as one of inefficient use of fallow land, the minister argued for enabling sales of these lands to non-agriculturists. It is well established that so-called fallow land is nothing but commons and grasslands that are used for grazing of cattle and collection of resources by villagers. The arguments of inefficient use are thus misplaced. Further, it is high time that the government addressed the wellbeing and livelihood of farmers and landless villagers instead of reducing the issue to the efficient use of land. Focusing solely on efficiency of land-use treats land as a financial asset rather than what it actually is for villagers: a source of livelihood. Tied up in knots It was repeatedly argued by minister Ashok that sections 79A and 79B of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act had failed in their purpose and were widely misused in practice. The Congress government had constituted a committee to assess the working of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act in 2014, finding that rather than curbing sales of land to non-agriculturists, these sections enabled authorities to indulge in rampant corruption. The minister stated that 1,76,199 acres of land were in dispute under sections 79 A, B, and C. The solution proposed to this conundrum was giving retrospective effect to the 2020 amendment, thus legalising all hitherto illegal land sales in one go.  A pro-Kannadiga opposition The main concern of opposition leader H D Kumaraswamy was with regard to non-residents buying agricultural lands in Karnataka, as had been the case in Ballari following the Tungabhadra project. Leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah argued that the amendment was being introduced as the government had succumbed to pressures from the corporate and housing sectors. Siddaramaiah presented data obtained from the additional secretary of the Revenue department that 13,814 cases were pending before Tahsildars for violation of Sections 79A and 79B. The number of cases around Bengaluru exceed those in any other district in the state, indicating that the purpose of such land sales is likely to be speculative and for non-agricultural purposes rather than the stated goals of reviving agriculture.  Assuming that sales of agricultural land by farmers were inevitable, opposition member H K Patil suggested that the sale value of agricultural land be determined appropriately. This is particularly important in sectors such as mining, wind energy, solar energy and tourism. He argued that it is eventually agricultural land that gets converted for generation of wind and solar energy, particularly in districts such as Gadag. Thus, even the opposition members were in agreement with the government that the amendments were not being made for the encouragement of the agricultural sector and if farmers were to be protected, they should get appropriate value for their land. At no point was it discussed if sales of agricultural land would have differential impacts on small and marginal farmers, Dalits, Adivasis and women in the state.   Only one member, N Mahesh, opposed the amendment entirely on the grounds that it would adversely impact Dalits. He argued that only 10% of SC/ST were landholders, and the government had not taken any action towards distribution of land to them since Independence. The 2020 amendment would only further landlessness among these communities. However, in response, Chief Minister Yediyurappa said there were adequate safeguards regarding transfer of lands granted to SC/ST under the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain lands) Act (PTCL) 1978. He failed to address how successful the PTCL was in lieu of judgments of the Supreme Court that watered down the provisions by setting time limits for reclaiming lands lost by SC/ST households. The entire proceedings seemed as if the government and the opposition were in favour of the amendment to the Land Reforms Act. The Assembly was silent about the extent of lands that were being held by different communities, and the extent of landlessness among Dalits, Adivasis and Muslims in rural Karnataka. Only one member raised the issue of landlessness among Dalits and Adivasis and even his concerns were brushed off. This is not surprising, given that the Assembly is dominated by dominant caste men.  (Kunale is an advocate with the Alternative Law Forum, Bengaluru; Iyer is a researcher at the French Institute of Pondicherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-missing-debate-how-the-karnataka-land-reforms-act-was-amended-930782.html
23-12-2020||Panorama||Why should we explore asteroids?||Why should we explore asteroids? Recently, Japan's Hayabusa 2 spacecraft returned with soil samples from an asteroid called Ryugu. Previously in 2010 its predecessor mission visited another asteroid called Itokawa and scooped up some surface dust. Meanwhile, Nasa's OSIRIS-Rex is targeting another asteroid called Bennu.   Why are space agencies investing millions in exploring asteroids? It turns out there are strong reasons. In the primitive stages, when the solar system was being born, a giant disc swirled around the solar nebula carrying with its gases, dust and rocks. The rocks collided and fused forming planets, yet others became their moons. The remaining rocks crashed and broke into smaller irregularly-shaped bits.  Asteroids are these leftover bits of the rocks.  Over time, the planets underwent several changes. In contrast, the asteroids remained unchanged, indicating that their material is in pristine form from the ancient past. Astronomers believe that many terrestrial elements and life-forming chemicals like water, carbon and oxygen were transported to earth via asteroids. By analysing the soil samples, they can unravel these hidden mysteries.  To cite an example, Itokawa has a metallic composition. However, scientists were surprised to find water-laden minerals in its soil samples. These findings posit that water could have been present in the parent rock from which the asteroid broke away, and the surface water percolated deeper into its soil. Despite harsh radiation exposure, the water remained preserved.  Carbon is a vital life-source element. Scientists are curious to find out if asteroids could have brought the early signatures of life on to earth as well.  Dr John Bridges from Leicester university analysed a few soil grains from Itokawa and now looks forward to testing the Ryugu soil. He writes that: "Were the building blocks for life present in the nebula or did they develop later on earth? If they were present in the nebula, we might be able to see them on Ryugu. Previous research has suggested that reactions with water on asteroids are linked to the production of amino acids, which make up proteins. If we did find that the building blocks of life were present at the time that earth was born, this could mean life may be more common in the universe that you may think. It may also help us work how organic material spread to planets, such as Mars and Earth." There is another facet of asteroids that interest astronomers. Some of them come crashing down and can be potentially dangerous to life on earth (such as one that could have wiped out the dinosaurs). Many of the space rocks whizz by the earth's orbit or vaporise in the earth's atmosphere - most of the time, they are sand grain-sized and hardly noticeable. However, those that are tough and more significant pass through the atmosphere, and come down as blazing fireballs called meteorites. Their impact can be catastrophic for us. Astronomers want to prevent that from happening. NASA's OSIRIS_REx probe is exploring an asteroid called Bennu which can be potentially dangerous to earth in the 22nd century. The spacecraft is following Bennu's path closely, and today, scientists can predict the exact direction Bennu will take in 2135.  However, presently Nasa has a different task at hand: to divert the orbit of another asteroid.  To this end, NASA is building a defence spacecraft called DART (Double Asteroid Redirection Test). The agency states that "This defence-driven spacecraft is a test of technologies for preventing an impact on the earth by a hazardous asteroid. it will demonstrate its prowess on an asteroid duo called Didymos and its moonlet Dimorphos."  DART will intercept this binary in mid-2022 and will deliberately crash into the surface of Dimorphos. This calculated high-speed impact will create a small kinetic momentum that will change the speed of the moonlet by a tiny fraction of one per cent. This push will translate into several minutes of orbital period change for Dimorphos, thereby nudging it on a slightly different course.  Apart from these immediate ventures, the future will witness asteroid mining to extract their mineral wealth for commercial purposes. At the same time, deep space missions will use the asteroids as stopovers and refuelling hubs.  (The writer is a science communicator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-should-we-explore-asteroids-930784.html
23-12-2020||Right in the Middle||Coronavirus lockdown experiences||During the extended lockdown, we in our gated community, could not enjoy even amenities that we paid for, as the residents association was scared that playing tennis could turn one into a positive! So having nothing else to do, I knuckled down and started washing vessels, cleaning the house, drying the clothes and doing all the domestic chores. I proudly gloated to my wife that I put my heart and soul into the clean vessels. Pat came the repartee, “Yeah, try using soap and water first”.  The first few days of the lockdown, I wrote poems and ballads about my situation and shared it in various groups. Then when it filtered to my better half through one such group, my life as I knew it ended and I was forced to look at other options. I am generally a funny guy and see the lighter moments of life but being behind bars (I mean locked down) had taken the light out of me. My daughter retorted that it could be a preamble for prison experience. I smirked and decided to pen down my thoughts for this middle. I have a friend, a loner, and when I asked him how the lockdown had affected him, he said he was in quarantine for last two years and it made no difference to him.  There was a time when you ran out of breath to get into a lift that was closing. Like that one minute, you saved would give you a crore. Now, even if the large lift has just one person inside, you politely say “carry on” and either take the stairs or wait patiently until the empty lift returns.  It wasn’t far back when our metro was crammed with people and they would jostle and try to get inside the compartments come what may. Now that the lockdown is over, the government will issue ads and hoardings pleading with us to use the metro! Before the pandemic, it was so easy getting out of the home. One just pulled the door shut and left. Now, we have to check our pocket for the sanitiser, our face for the mask and basically armour up like we are going out for a battle.  During the lockdown, the spouse had to note the time. If one did not return in a reasonable time, they would be required to call the jurisdictional police station. What if you were actually behind bars for violating the lockdown?  We humans had taken too much for granted. It has taken an invisible virus for us to know just how much!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/coronavirus-lockdown-experiences-930781.html
23-12-2020||Second Edit||Cold comfort for our soldiers||The 20th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was held via video link late last week, ended with senior Indian and Chinese officials agreeing to hold another round of talks between their military commanders. To the extent that it indicates that the talks process has not run aground completely, it is a positive outcome. Eight rounds of talks have already taken place and it has been a month since Indian and Chinese corps commanders had met at the negotiating table. There was understandable concern whether the two sides had given up on talks. The WMCC meeting’s announcement of the ninth round of talks between corps commanders “at an early date” indicates that the talks process is not dead as yet. The immediate objective of the ongoing talks is to achieve “early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity.” However, the process is moving extremely slowly. While officials drag their feet, soldiers are suffering in the extreme cold at the frontlines. With the talks stalemated, the window of opportunity for disengagement of troops from the LAC has closed for now. Our soldiers will have to endure the terrible Himalayan winter for several months.  Although there have been no violent face-offs between the Indian and Chinese armed forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for several weeks, acrimonious exchanges continue between officials. Just a few days ago, the Indian and Chinese foreign ministry spokespersons engaged in a war of words, accusing each other of triggering the current standoff. It is disheartening that after several rounds of negotiations, including talks between their defence and foreign ministers, the two sides remain preoccupied with the blame game that we saw in the early weeks of the face-off. That we are still talking, though it appears that we are stuck where we were in June during the face-off in Galway Valley, is cold comfort, literally, for thousands of Indian soldiers deployed in the icy heights. Certainly, the issues involved are not easy to address. As External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar recently said, India-China relations have been “significantly damaged” this year and India’s relationship with Beijing is in its “most difficult phase” in several decades. A stalemate at the talks table is not in the best interest of either side, especially with thousands of troops on either side facing off each other along the LAC in harsh conditions. China’s strategy is to tire out India. New Delhi must keep pushing Beijing to talk and resolve the conflict quickly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cold-comfort-for-our-soldiers-930777.html
23-12-2020||South||Poet Sugathakumari passes away due to Covid-19||Noted Malayalam poet and environmentalist Sugathakumari passed away on Wednesday due to Covid-19. She was 86. She was under treatment at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital over the last few days. She was suffering from respiratory problems and kidney ailments. Her condition worsened by Tuesday after she suffered a heart attack and was under ventilator support. Though Sugathakumari, who is Padma Shri recipient in 2006, shot to the limelight in 1960s through her award winning Malayalam poems, she was later known for her environmental activities, especially the Save Silent Valley movement initiated to save forest from getting destroyed owing to hydel power project. Her social welfare initiatives included 'Abhaya', also known as 'Athani', a home for destitute women and children, and the mentally ill. She had also served as the chairperson of Kerala Women's Commission. Sugathakumari, who hails from Aranmula in Pathanamthitta district, started her literary works In 1955 after attaining a master's degree in Philosophy. She won over a dozen prestigious awards starting with the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award in 1968 to the Ezhuthachan Award, the highest literary honour of Kerala in 2009 for her works. 'Rathrimazha', 'Ambalamani' and 'Manalezhuthu' were among her popular works. Most of her poems had the message of nature and environmental protection. Sugathakumari's husband Velayudhan Nair died earlier. She leaves behind her daughter Lakshmi. Sugathakumari had earlier expressed her wish that her funeral should be performed without any formal ceremonies. Her funeral was held in Thiruvananthapuram by evening with state honours. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of Sugathakumari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poet-sugathakumari-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-930597.html
23-12-2020||South||Life-term for priest and nun accused in Abhaya murder case||The CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram sentenced priest Thomas M Kottoor for life-term and sister Sephy for life-term in the 28-year old Sister Abhaya murder case of Kerala. CBI special judge K Sanilkumar, who found the two guilty on Tuesday, pronounced the sentence on Wednesday. According to initial reports, Thomas Kottoor was awarded life-terms for murder and house-trespass and Sephy was awarded life-term for murder. Both were also imposed with a fine of Rs. 5 lakh each. While the prosecution sought maximum punishment for the accused, the accused pleaded for lenience. Thomas Kottoor cited his illness and old age and Sephy cited that her family was depending on her. Sister Abhaya, aged 21, was found dead in the well of the St. Pius X convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. CBI's finding was that Abhaya, who was a second-year pre-degree student of Kottayam BCM College, happened to witness the accused in a compromising position when she came to the kitchen to drink water. Subsequently, she was murdered by hitting using an ax and her body was dumped in the well of the convent. Both the priests were former teachers at the college where Abhaya studied and Sephy was in-charge of the convent hostel. Even as much pieces of evidence were destroyed and many key witnesses turned hostile, CBI could prove the case based of scientific pieces of evidence and crucial witness statements, including that of a small-time thief, Raju alias Adayka Raju, who spotted the accused while he entered the convent for robbery. The accused tried to scuttle the case by even alleging that Abhaya had a family history of mental illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/life-term-for-priest-and-nun-accused-in-abhaya-murder-case-930604.html
23-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu allows conduct of jallikattu with Covid-19 restrictions||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday allowed the conduct of jallikattu (bull-taming sport) during Pongal festivities in January next year by imposing several restrictions, including a cap on the number of participants. While jallikattu held in three villages -- Alanganallur, Palamedu and Avaniyapuram near the temple town of Madurai – is world-famous, the sport is held in several other places across the state during and after Pongal, which is celebrated on the first day of Tamil month of Thai. In a statement, the Tamil Nadu government said jallikattu will be allowed to be held with a slew of conditions. Every participant in the sport will have to possess a Covid-19 negative certificate, while spectators and others need to wear face masks. It said only 300 participants will be allowed in jallikattu events, while the number of spectators will have to be capped at 50 per cent of the total capacity of the ground. “The spectators will be allowed inside the ground only after their body temperature is checked. Those who participate in the festival will have to get tested for Covid-19 from a lab authorised by the government. They need to be Covid negative,” the statement said. Hundreds of bulls, specially trained for jallikattu for months together by its owners who consider them as deities, will be let through the vadivasal (entrance) from where trained men try to tame them – the sport will be conducted for a fortnight across the state from January 15 to 31. Jallikattu was banned by the Supreme Court but a public agitation by the people of Tamil Nadu on the Marina Beach in Chennai forced the Centre to bring in a state-specific amendment to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in 2017 from when the sport is being held without any issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-allows-conduct-of-jallikattu-with-covid-19-restrictions-930616.html
23-12-2020||South||Kerala govt unlikely to clash with Governor over special Assembly session||Even as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for denying permission for a special session of the state Assembly to pass a resolution against the centre's farm laws and termed it as unconstitutional, the Governor stuck to his stand that there was no emergency situation to convene a special session of the Assembly. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government is unlikely to get into a confrontation with the Governor as the next Assembly session scheduled from January 8 has to begin with policy address of the Governor. The special session was proposed for Wednesday. It was learnt that the Governor sent a reply to the Chief Minister's letter on Wednesday in which he reiterated his stand that there was no emergency situation to convene the Assembly special session. He was also learnt to have pointed out instances of the government going wrong on matters like the recent amendment in Kerala Police Act by including a provision for up to a three-year sentence and fine of Rs 10,000 for defamation through media. The Governor was also unhappy over the CM's letter to him being leaked out to the media before it reached him. Though legal experts have cited that the Governor might be bound to give his nod for the special session if the council of ministers met again and make further recommendations in this regard, the government decided to not pursue a collision course with the Governor. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister said while addressing a farmers' stir in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday that the new farm laws will lead to food scarcity in the country. Kerala would be the first state to affect as the state was yet to become agriculturally self-sufficient. Hence the state was also concerned of the fresh laws, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-unlikely-to-clash-with-governor-over-special-assembly-session-930701.html
23-12-2020||South||Madras High Court allows Ilaiyaraaja to visit his recording theatre and meditate for a day||The dispute between legendary music composer Ilaiyaraaja and Prasad Studios has finally come to an end. Ilaiyaraaja will now visit the sound recording theatre inside the sprawling Prasad Studios, very soon, and meditate for a few hours at his abode for nearly 35 years before taking all his belongings from there. Ilaiyaraaja has been composing music for hundreds of films from the theatre since the 1980s. However, in 2019, the current management asked Ilaiyaraaja to vacate the premises, but the music director objected to the move and took the matter to court. The Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed Ilaiyaraaja to go to the studio for one day to meditate and take away his belongings. Justice N Sathish Kumar also directed the Commissioner of Police, Chennai to provide police protection. The amicable settlement came after Ilaiyaraaja promised to withdraw all litigation against Prasad Studios. In July, the music composer had filed a complaint with police accusing the management of Prasad Studios of “breaking open his music studio” and selling his “invaluable composition notes” surreptitiously in the black market for a “huge sum.” Ilaiyaraaja, who has scored music for over 1,300 films encompassing all South Indian languages and Hindi, has been functioning out of his office-cum-studio inside the Prasad Studios for the past 35 years. However, the equation between the music composer and Prasad Studios changed rapidly after Sai Prasad, grandson of late film producer L V Prasad, took over the management. Ilaiyaraaja was asked by the late L V Prasad to set up his studio inside the Prasad Studios premises and it served as the music composer’s second home for decades together. Prasad Studios has been very dear to him as he used to spend most of his time a day in his studios composing music. A controversy broke out in late 2019 after Sai Prasad, asked Ilaiyaraaja to vacate the premises, so that he can continue with his renovation plan. The sources said the music composer’s offer to take the premises on lease was also rejected by the Prasad Studios management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-allows-ilaiyaraaja-to-visit-his-recording-theatre-and-meditate-for-a-day-930712.html
23-12-2020||South||Sister Abhaya case: Allegations against priest & nun "unbelievable": Church||The Knanaya Catholic Church on Wednesday termed as 'unbelievable', the allegations against its priest and a nun, convicted of murder by a CBI court in the Sister Abhaya case, as it said they have the right to go for an appeal and prove their 'innocence.' The Kottayam diocese of the church, however, said it accepted the verdict of the court, which on Wednesday sentenced Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy to life imprisonment, 28 years after Abhaya, an inmate of the church convent, was found dead under mysterious circumstances. "The death of sister Abhaya was sad and unfortunate. The special CBI court has found that she was murdered by Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy and awarded them life imprisonment. The allegations against them are unbelievable. However, we accept the court order. The accused persons have the right to go for an appeal against the order and prove their innocence," the archdiocese said in a statement. The archdiocese also said it was "sad and sorry over such developments." The court had on Tuesday found the two guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya, who was found dead in a well in St Pius Convent in Kottayam in 1992. Expressing happiness over the judgement, Sister Abhaya Action Council convenor Jomon Puthenpurackal said he would not rest until the appeals to be filed by the convicts are rejected by the higher courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sister-abhaya-case-allegations-against-priest-nun-unbelievable-church-930736.html
23-12-2020||South||DMK launches 'Reject AIADMK' campaign by holding gram sabha meetings||Tamil Nadu's principal opposition party, DMK, on Wednesday, launched “Let Us Reject AIADMK” campaign by holding gram sabha meetings across the state. Party chief M K Stalin kicked off the campaign, which will be held in around 16,500 village panchayats in the state, from Kunnam village in Sriperumbudur taluk in Kanchipuram district. The campaign is seen as a prelude to Stalin's state-wide tour to meet people ahead of 2021 assembly elections that is expected to take place in April-May. Like Stalin, senior leaders of the DMK held grama sabha meetings in various districts where resolutions were passed against the AIADMK government. The party has also launched a website asking people to register their “opposition to AIADMK” in the coming elections. Speaking at the gram sabha meeting, Stalin accused the AIADMK Government of being interested “only in corruption” and not in the development of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-launches-reject-aiadmk-campaign-by-holding-gram-sabha-meetings-930753.html
23-12-2020||South||Kerala: Indian Union Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty to resign as MP||Indian Union Muslim League national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty will be resigning as Lok Sabha MP to contest in the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala. The IUML leadership on Wednesday took the decision as part of strengthening the party's activities in Kerala. Kunhalikutty was elected to Assembly from Vengara constituency in Malappuram district in the last elections. He later resigned and contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Malappuram constituency and got elected. The present developments come at a time when Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and BJP leaders claimed that IUML was not dictating terms to Congress leadership in Kerala. IUML is a key coalition partner of Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-indian-union-muslim-league-leader-p-k-kunhalikutty-to-resign-as-mp-930755.html
23-12-2020||South||Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Sources close to him said that he had no symptoms. His wife and elder son earlier tested Covid-19 positive. Ramesh is likely to be shifted to a hospital. Owing to the just concluded local body elections, Kerala health authorities were anticipating a further spike in Covid-19 cases in the state in the coming days. On Wednesday 6,169 fresh positive cases were reported in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-leader-ramesh-chennithala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-930776.html
23-12-2020||State||Action on Land Act subject to court order: HC||The High Court on Tuesday ordered that all further action on the amended Land Reforms Act shall be subject to further orders of the court. The court also directed the state government to notify all the parties concerned about the interim order. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka granted the last opportunity to the state government to file a statement of objections by January 5, 2021. The petitioners  contended that the ordinance has been given retrospective effect and hence several cases of violations under the omitted sections will be closed.   The court observed that since the state government has sought time to file a statement of objections, it is proper to notify the parties concerned. "We direct that all further action taken by the government on the basis of the ordinance shall be subject to orders passed by this court," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/action-on-land-act-subject-to-court-order-hc-930504.html
23-12-2020||State||Covid-19: Karnataka government imposes night curfew till January 2||Karnataka will impose a state-wide night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am starting December 24. The curfew will be in effect till 5 am on January 2, 2021, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced. Yediyurappa said that the curfew was being imposed to contain Covid-19, after a new strain was recently discovered. "In view of the new strain of Covid-19 virus and as per advice from Government of India and the Technical Advisory Committee, it was decided to impose night curfew till January 2," he said. The curfew will last for nine days and will be applicable to the entire state, Yediyurappa said. All events between 5 am to 11 pm will be permitted, he added. Highlighting fresh regulations for international passengers, he said that all of them should travel with a RT-PCR test certificate, conducted 72 hours prior to travel. Arrangements are already in place at the Bengaluru International Airport to test all passengers. Staff from Health and Family Welfare Department are also deputed at the facility. "We are making sure that nobody enters the state from abroad without being tested," the CM said. He requested citizens to take precautionary measures "to prevent and contain the new Covid-19 strain". On reopening schools and colleges, he said that the government had decided to reopen them from Jan. 1 and that the plan was on track but would be subject to developments in the next three days. "As of now, schools will reopen on Jan. 1," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-government-imposes-night-curfew-till-january-2-930600.html
23-12-2020||State||Taxi, auto drivers and tourist vehicle operators slam night curfew in Karnataka||Hours after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced night curfew to contain the new strain of the Coronavirus on Wednesday, commercial vehicle operators, including cab drivers, protested the unilateral measure without consulting the stakeholders. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Tourist Vehicle Operators Association, said the government should have considered their situation before announcing strictures that directly affect their business. "The two weeks between Christmas eve to the first few days of the new year is a crucial holiday season for all commercial vehicle operators. We had hoped to get enough bookings to sustain our business which has been hit hard by Covid-19. The government should have consulted all the stakeholders before announcing such a move," Holla said, adding that their entire bookings do not come to even 10% of the pre-pandemic levels. Most of the major operators have surrendered their vehicles, including over 12,000 buses, to avoid paying hefty road taxes ranging from about Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh per quarter depending on the vehicle. "The government should give us exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax for at least one year if we have to survive in the business. We have already lost 80% of our workforce, which is crucial for our economy to run," he added. Ola, Taxi For Sure and Uber Drivers and Owners Association president Tanveer Pasha said night travel during the holiday season had helped lakhs of drivers to earn their bread."The business from corporate companies has stopped completely due to the work from home measures. We had a little earning left in the evenings and night when people came out in the evenings. The government's illogical decision to allow all activities in the morning and ban them only at night will hurt us," he said. Auto drivers shared similar concerns and suggested that all commercial vehicles should be exempted from the night curfew rules. "Our earnings have not touched even half of the pre-pandemic levels as people fear boarding commercial vehicles. The government should see our plight and provide an exemption from such rules," said C Sampath, General Secretary of Adarsha Auto Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/taxi-auto-drivers-and-tourist-vehicle-operators-slam-night-curfew-in-karnataka-930638.html
23-12-2020||State||From the Newsroom: Night curfew in Karnataka to begin from Dec 24; India suspends flights from Britain||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah says forging alliance was tough after leading People’s Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration to victory in DDC elections; Karnataka will impose a state-wide night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am starting Thursday; the curfew will be in effect till 6 am on January 2, 2021, and scientists said that there could be a chance that a new mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus has already made its way into Karnataka.  Here are the top news of December 23, 2020: After leading People’s Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) to victory in DDC elections, regional National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah Wednesday said that forging alliance was a tough decision “but was taken for larger interests of people of Jammu and Kashmir. “It was difficult to forge an alliance with the parties that were the rivals of the NC. But a decision was taken in the large interests of people of J&K,” he said while addressing party workers at the NC headquarters. The PAGD bagged 110 seats in the DDC polls and emerged victorious in 13 out of 20 districts in J&K. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Like many countries, India has suspended flights from Britain, where cases have soared because of the variant of Covid-19 virus. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Karnataka will impose a state-wide night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am starting Wednesday. The curfew will be in effect till 6 am on January 2, 2021, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced. Yediyurappa said that the curfew was being imposed to contain Covid-19, after a new strain was recently discovered. Highlighting fresh regulations for international passengers, he said that all of them should travel with a RT-PCR test certificate, conducted 72 hours prior to travel. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Scientists said that there could be a chance that a new mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which is sweeping through the South of Britain has already made its way into Karnataka through airline passengers. The so-called B1.1.7 mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 was first identified in the United Kingdom on September 20. However, nearly three months elapsed before UK health officials identified the new variant, with the European CDC estimating increased transmissibility of up to 70%. “It is very possible that it is already here. There have been a lot of flights between the countries since September,” said a veteran genomic scientist who did not want to be identified. Karnataka has seen a steady number of UK origin flights in Bengaluru International Airport (BIAL) since September. According to BIAL, before the government moved to suspend flights on December 21, six flights from London were arriving at the airport weekly. Since December 1, the state has identified 3,017 passengers arriving at BIAL from the UK.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-night-curfew-in-karnataka-to-begin-from-dec-24-india-suspends-flights-from-britain-930685.html
23-12-2020||State||Leopard scare hits IISc campus in Chitradurga||A leopard that has been roaming in and around Indian Institute of Science (IISc) campus at Kudapura near Nayakanahatti in Challakere taluk of the district for the past one week has triggered fear among staff and teachers who are undergoing training programme. Training programme for high school teachers has started in the new campus of IISc. However, the big cat had killed a dog on the premises of the campus a week ago and it had triggered fear in the minds of teachers and staff. They are scared to travel in two-wheelers outside the campus. Speaking to DH, IISc Engineer Hemanth said the number of herbivorous animals including deer, peacock has increased around the campus. So, the leopard has been roaming in and around the campus to attack them. Forest department officials must capture it and help staff and teachers to overcome fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/leopard-scare-hits-iisc-campus-in-chitradurga-930751.html
23-12-2020||State||958 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 958 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,12,340 and toll to 12,038, the health department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 1,206 patients getting discharged after recovery, leaving 13,736 active cases. Of the fresh cases, as many as 550 were from Bengaluru Urban district alone. Cumulatively 9,12,340 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,038 deaths and 8,86,547 discharges. Of the active cases, 217 are in Intensive Care Units of various hospitals, the bulletin said. Two of the nine deaths reported on Wednesday were from Bengaluru and most of the deceased had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Twenty four of the total of 30 districts did not report any fatality. Tumakuru reported the second highest number of fresh cases 50, followed by Mysuru 43, Chamarajanagar 27, Hassan 26, Belavagi 22, Ballari 20, 18 each in Chitradurga and Kalaburagi and 17 in Vijayapura. Bengaluru Urban district topped in the list of positive cases with a total of 3,84,366 infections. Among recoveries too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,71,081 discharges. A total of 1.13 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 99,943 were on Wednesday alone, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/958-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-in-karnataka-930774.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka panchayat polls: Voter turnout may touch 80%||The first phase of the gram panchayat polls on Tuesday saw voters turning out in large numbers in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the State Election Commission estimating the figure to touch 80%. Barring technical glitches at some places and issues with the ballot paper at a couple of centres, voting went off peacefully at 3,019 gram panchayats which went to polls, said officials.  Bengaluru Urban district — which has 1.43 lakh registered voters — saw a turnout of 76.46%. Final numbers are still being tallied, according to officials. Other districts, too, saw a good turnout. In Madikere, people queued up in front of the polling booths in Kedakal, Madapura, Kumburu, Seventh Hosakote, Guddehosuru and Harangi. People working outside the district returned to their hometowns to exercise their franchise, with most of the voters turning up along with their families. The district had seen 62.21% turnout by 3 pm. Octogenarian Bhagirathi Patil (84), who cast her vote at Cherkadi gram panchayat in Udupi district, said she came to vote with her grandchildren as she knew the candidate. Voting is also an attempt to exercise our rights besides making the government realise that we are still alive, she said.  Some centres were hit by technical glitches. For instance, in Mangaluru, owing to power outages at a government higher primary school in Kuthar and in Amblamogaru in Mangaluru taluk, polling officials were forced to use torch light and burn candles in the early hours to verify the voters' list. The polling process resumed after power was restored. According to B Basavaraju, State Election Commissioner, the response was encouraging. "We are estimating an 80% voter turnout. We have information from 13 districts as of now and the numbers are still being compiled. In 2015, the turnout was similar," he said.  Barring two incidents, one in Ballari and another in Kalaburagi, where there was a problem with the symbol on the ballot paper, polls were peacefully conducted, he said. "The returning officer in a gram panchayat in Ballari made a mistake and the symbol was wrongly printed on the ballot paper. A show cause notice was issued. A similar incident took place in Kalaburagi. There will be repolling in these two panchayats," Basavaraju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-panchayat-polls-voter-turnout-may-touch-80-930497.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New strain of coronavirus may be present in Karnataka already: Experts||Scientists said that there could be a chance that a new mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which is sweeping through the South of Britain has already made its way into Karnataka through airline passengers. The so-called B1.1.7 mutated variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 was first identified in the United Kingdom on September 20. However, nearly three months elapsed before UK health officials identified the new variant, with the European CDC estimating increased transmissibility of up to 70%. “It is very possible that it is already here. There have been a lot of flights between the countries since September,” said a veteran genomic scientist who did not want to be identified. Karnataka has seen a steady number of UK origin flights in Bengaluru International Airport (BIAL) since September. According to BIAL, before the government moved to suspend flights on December 21, six flights from London were arriving at the airport weekly. Since December 1, the state has identified 3,017 passengers arriving at BIAL from the UK. The new virus is the result of 23 distinct mutations, which according to the noted virologist Dr T Jacob John, former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore, is better able to infect people because it better mimics a molecular pattern of a physiological substance called angiotensin which fits like a key into the “lock” of the receptor of the host human cell.  “It is not a perfect fit. But it is a better fit than the earlier variants. That is the reason why it seems to be spreading faster,” Dr John said. However, another scientist, Adjunct Professor Vinod Scaria of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology CSIR-IGIB) said there is no evidence to suggest it is less or more contagious. “The level of evidence is weak - exclusively computational and not experimental.” Next Two Weeks Important Where the experts agree is the mutations have essentially resulted in a new version of the virus, although epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu pointed out that its level of virulence is likely the same as older variants of the virus. At the same time, Dr Babu added that it was difficult to know if the new virus is already in Karnataka because clear evidence of this fact would have been a surge in cases. “But we have not seen a spike in numbers - there has been no widespread transmission. But if people have travelled to different places or states, the mutated virus might still seep through. The other possibility is that a cluster of new virus infections has been missed,” he said. Another big gray area is whether people who previously had the disease face the danger of reinfection, Dr Babu explained. “The next two weeks are very important and will provide the proof,” he added. Dr Scaria also suggested the possibility that the mutation has developed independently in India as it did in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. “But in India, we do not have too many genomic sequences to rely upon for confirmation. We only have about 4,000 sequences,” Dr Scaria said. “The only sure way to know is when molecular studies are done in India,” Dr John added. Those studies are now being carried out at Nimhans, with the first samples from international fliers collected and processed on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-strain-of-coronavirus-may-be-present-in-karnataka-already-experts-930610.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools across Karnataka to reopen on Jan 1||Allaying the fears of parents and school management about the emergence of new strain of Covid-19, the Primary and Secondary Education department on Wednesday clarified that the classes for 10th and 12th standard across Karnataka will reopen as per the schedule from January 1 without any change. Addressing the media, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar clarified that there be no change in the reopening of schools for these grades. Holding a video conference with the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of Zilla Panchayats, the minister said that the resumption of classes was on track. "We have discussed the preparations with all the CEOs and directed them to adhere to the rules issued by the department and the government," the minister said. Bringing in stringent rules, the minister said, "It will be mandatory for teachers to wear face shields and a mask keeping in mind safety," Suresh Kumar said. However, no mid-day meals will be provided to the students at schools. Instead a grocery kit will be delivered to them at their doorstep. In a reply to a query the minister clarified, "We understand that there are children hailing from economically poor communities. But as per the centre's order and recommendation by the Covid-19 Technical Advisory committee, we are not allowed to serve mid-day meals or carry out the Ksheer Bhagya programme in school premises."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-across-karnataka-to-reopen-on-jan-1-930622.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All 138 UK passengers without negative Covid certificate traced; samples collected, says Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||The Karnataka government has successfully traced 138 passengers who had arrived in the state from the UK without a Covid-19 test report, said Health Minister Dr Sudhakar on Wednesday. As many as 2,500 international passengers had arrived in Karnataka from the UK between November 25 and December 23. However, out of these, 138 who returned on December 19 and 20 from the UK did not have a negative Covid-19 certificate. Sudhakar revealed that all these 138 passengers from the UK had been traced and their samples had been collected. "We are awaiting the test results soon," Dr Sudhakar said. The collected samples will be sent to one of the four labs in Bengaluru that specialise in genetic sequencing -- NIMHANS, National Centre for Biological Sciences, IISc or National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru Field Unit, according to the minister. "The cost of the sequencing will be borne by the state government and passengers need not pay for it. Results will be available in two to three days," he added. Apart from this, the health department is monitoring the health status of those who had returned from the UK earlier. "Those who have arrived in Karnataka in the past two weeks will be monitored by the officials of the health department. Among them, only the symptomatic will be tested. Those who have arrived in the first two weeks since November 25 have to self-monitor at home," Dr Sudhakar explained. Further, all international passengers arriving from any part of the world must land with a Covid-19 Negative certificate which is not older than 72 hours or get the test done on arrival at the airport. The minister clarified that there was no ban on interstate travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-138-uk-passengers-without-negative-covid-certificate-traced-samples-collected-says-karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-930625.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress demands Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa's resignation||The Congress on Wednesday demanded immediate resignation of Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa following adverse remarks against him by the High Court even as it questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership on corruption charges against BSY. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged that the Chief Minister has been delaying the investigation of corruption charges against him and cited a Karnataka High Court order that made remarks against him as it did not allow his petition to dismiss an old corruption case against him. "Karnataka and corruption seem to go hand in hand and are intertwined, and there is a culpable conspiratorial silence of all the powers that be, including our extremely eloquent Prime Minister, BJP president JP Nadda and the party's former chief Amit Shah. All of them maintain silence on this very special arc of immunity accorded by the BJP to Yediyurappa. It is mysterious, inexplicable and shocking," Singhvi told reporters. He said the Congress calls for the "immediate resignation, removal, stepping down" of the chief minister, "but knowing full well that it will not happen. Referring to the High Court judgement, he said he had raised the issue in October while citing tapes and WhatsApp messages of contractors talking about bribes paid in connection with the Rs 662-crore apartment complex project in Bengaluru. "The chief minister should not remain even for a single minute in the chair after this strong indictment by the high court. The bottom line is simple, never let the judgment day come, never let the results to follow, let time take its own course and solve matters on its own," he said. Earlier, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala cited a media report and tweeted, "Does CM Yediyurappa have any right to continue in office even for whiff of a second after such stinging indictment?" "For a fair investigation and logical conclusion, CM must quit without delay. Test of PM Modi now of his promise - NA KHAUNGA, NA KHANE DOONGA," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-demands-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappas-resignation-930761.html
23-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt failed garment factory workers, says study||The government's failure to protect labour rights and enforce existing provisions left more than 1,000 workers from a garment factory which was shut down illegally with thousands of employees forced to resign, an independent study has found. The case study, 'Laid-off During the Pandemic' by Swathi Shivanand of the Alternative Law Forum, said the government failed at multiple levels, starting from its complicity in keeping wages low at Rs 7,000-Rs 8,000 per month, even as it offered incentivies to companies. In May, the company decided to shut down without giving prior notification employees as mandated by the Industrial Disputes Act. Over the course of the next two months, the company decided to break the Garment and Textile Workers Union (GATWU) and also tried to prevent them from protesting on the premises of factory by filing an injunction. The government officials, however, failed to see through the company's act of forcing workers to resign. On August 24, the conciliation officer recommended for halting the proceedings citing "workers have resigned or transferred". Only the employees who withstood the threats and sat on 50-day protest demanding the reopening of the factory saw some success in terms of better compensation package by company, whose illegalities remained unquestioned. For example, a worker with 10 years of service got Rs 1.76 lakh in place of Rs 72,727 she would have received had she resigned after pressure from the company. However, only about 500 of the 1,329 workers received the new package, while 23 opted for a transfer to another factory owned by the company. The study recommended the government to introduce counselling services in garment factories to make mental health care a priority and spread awareness on their rights. It also called for strengthening of the labour departments, to enable inspections and examine legalities of factory closures besides upward revision of minimum wages to reflect the new uncertainties and risks taken by workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-failed-garment-factory-workers-says-study-930813.html
23-12-2020||West||Mumbai hotels to ring in New Year celebrations on 'Thailand Time'||The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has asked its members hotels and restaurants in the State to gear up for early celebrations on New Year’s Eve coinciding with "Thailand Time". With the Maharashtra government announcing a night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am in Mumbai and other municipal areas, hotels and restaurants have decided to ring in the New Year Eve celebrations one-and-a-half-hour early. The HRAWI has opined that ending the year earlier is a fitting tribute to the hospitality industry's never say die attitude and welcome the New Year filled with hope and promise.  The apex association has also stated that while the curfew will disrupt the hospitality industry’s plans, it appreciates the government’s pre-emptive measures to allay any threat of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave. “Like every year, Mumbai will have its celebrations this year too, albeit a little earlier. The government is doing its best to help keep its citizens safe and we see the intent behind the decision. But if it’s celebrations that Mumbaikars want, we will give it to them while ensuring that all norms and safety measures are adhered to. This is probably even better as people will get to be at their homes at midnight to bring in the New Year with their families,” says Sherry Bhatia, President, HRAWI.  HRAWI member establishments are planning to "align celebrations with Thailand" and may even host virtual celebrations synchronised with them. “The Hospitality industry wants to put the last eight months behind and instead look forward to the remaining eight days left in the year. We have braved the storm and have decidedly put the worst behind us. Nothing is going to dampen our spirits and we will emerge stronger than before. We welcome Mumbaikars to come to join us in the last celebrations of the season, to bid farewell to 2020, and to usher in 2021 with lots of optimism, faith, and hope,” concludes Pradeep Shetty, Senior Vice President, HRAWI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hotels-to-ring-in-new-year-celebrations-on-thailand-time-930563.html
23-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Jailed activists on hunger strike to back farmers' stir||Various activists arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links' case are observing a day-long hunger strike on Wednesday at Taloja jail in Maharashtra in support of farmers who are protesting against the Centre's new farm laws. The activists, in a joint statement on the occasion of the National Farmers' Day, said they are lodged in the jail in Navi Mumbai and cannot participate physically in the farmers' agitation. Hence, they are observing a day-long symbolic hunger strike in the jail. "The demands you (farmers) have raised are absolutely right and just," they said in the statement, conveyed through advocate Nihalsingh Rathod. The activists currently behind bars in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links' case include Sudhir Dhawale, Surendra Gadling, Anand Teltumbde, Hany Babu, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Father Stan Swamy, Gautam Navlakha and Rona Wilson, Rathod said. The activists in their message said they had decided not to involve Stan Swamy and Navlakha in the protest, despite their insistence, due to their health issues. "They (Swamy and Navlakha) are standing morally with us," the activists said in the message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-jailed-activists-on-hunger-strike-to-back-farmers-stir-930644.html
23-12-2020||West||745 passengers quarantined after landing in Mumbai in two days||As many as 1,688 passengers arrived at the Mumbai international airport from the UK and other countries since Monday midnight and 745 of them were quarantined in the city, a civic official said on Wednesday. In the wake of detection of a new variant of coronavirus in the UK, a new Standard Operating Procedure has been issued for dealing with passengers arriving from Europe and the Middle-East. It could not be ascertained if any of these 745 passengers were found to have Covid-19 symptoms. Around 2,000 passengers were expected to land at the Mumbai airport in the last two days, but only 1,688 had landed as of Wednesday afternoon, said an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). As many as 745 of them were placed in institutional quarantine in Mumbai, he said. BMC teams at the airport are exempting from quarantine some categories of passengers such as pregnant women or those traveling to attend last rites of their kin, the official said. So far two passengers have been exempted. On Tuesday, 590 passengers arrived in Mumbai by three flights from the UK. Of them, 187 were from Mumbai, 167 from rest of Maharashtra and 236 were from other states. Mumbai municipal commissioner I S Chahal on Monday had announced that all passengers arriving from the UK, other European countries and Middle-East will have to stay in institutional quarantine for at least seven days. The Union government on Monday said all UK-India flights will be suspended from December 23 to December 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/745-passengers-quarantined-after-landing-in-mumbai-in-two-days-930683.html
23-12-2020||West||Launched by PM Modi, India's 'first-ever' seaplane service struggles to stay airborne||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has denied sharing report of feasibility test for seaplane service between Ahmedabad and Kevadia, the seat of the Statue of Unity, as well as expenses incurred in launching the project on the ground that revealing such information would "directly affect strategy and economic interest of the state" as well as "commercial confidence" in the state. On October 31, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the seaplane service while the state was in the middle of a campaign for Assembly bypolls which the BJP swept eventually. However, since the launch, the service has remained grounded for most of the days and as per reports it flew barely 25 days. During the launch, it was hailed as the country's first ever seaplane service. Responding to an application filed under Right to Information Act (RTI) by DH, the AAI denied sharing information related to total expenses that the government incurred in launching it. The RTI reply stated, "The project is still under development. The total expense can only be provided on completion. The capital expenditure for this project is being borne by Govt of India under the UDAN scheme." The authority also refused to share the feasibility test report. It said that the test was conducted but "The deveopment of these Water Aerodrom is still underway. Any information regarding this, shared at this stagge would directly affect strategy/and economic interest of the State." It further added, "The information sought would also affect commercial confidence, disclosure of which may harm the state interest, thereby larger public interest. Hence, the information sought cann't be disclosed under section 8 (A) (A) and (D) of the Right to Inforomation Act, 2005."  Meanwhile, the seaplane project, jointly started by state and central government along with private airline SpiceJet, has come under severe criticism for its irregular service. It is being said that the project was launched in a hurry in view of the local polls. "If you look at closely, most of such projects including Ro-Ro service between Bhavnagar and Surat failed. I think the state government should focus on basic amenties such as drinking water, education and health which are the need of the hour for a state battling with coronavirus cases," said Congress spokesperon Manish Doshi. When contacted, SpiceJet spokesperson said, "Bookings for SpiceShuttle’s seaplane service between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati Riverfront and Kevadia’s Statue of Unity are now open. The service will resume from December 30, 2020." This comes after a gap of nearly a month when the service was not available.  The airline reponded that "Seaplane operation had been temporarily suspended due to mandatory aircraft maintenance. Since the maintenance facility (dry and wet dock) was under construction at Ahmedabad, the aircraft had to be sent to our lessor’s facility at Maldives. The maintenance facility at Ahmedabad should be ready soon which would ensure that future maintenance is done here itself."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/launched-by-pm-modi-indias-first-ever-seaplane-service-struggles-to-stay-airborne-930716.html
23-12-2020||West||No public gatherings for Christmas, New Year in Gujarat: Govt||In view of Covid-19 pandemic, public prayers or gatherings will not be allowed in Gujarat during Christmas and New Year, the state government said on Wednesday. At the same time, the government allowed local authorities to take a call on allowing celebrations at public places "in special cases". "In view of the coronavirus situation in the state, no religious public gatherings, rallies, prayers in public places or public procession will be allowed during Christmas and New Year," a release quoted Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja as saying. It said local administration will not grant permission for celebrations in public places, except in special cases. "If permission is granted in special cases, the administration must ensure full compliance with Covid-19 related guidelines at such places and ensure that only a limited number of people attend such events," the release said. Jadeja said the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on religious celebrations issued separately by the Centre and the Home department of the state government earlier will also remain applicable for upcoming festival of Christmas and New Year celebrations. "The number of persons who can gather at a church or any place of worship must be 50 per cent of the occupancy limit or 200 people, whichever is less. No public rally, gathering or procession is allowed as part of the religious celebrations," said the release. Jadeja added that more number of police personnel will be deployed at various public places to ensure effective implementation of Covid-19 guidelines. He said the government was committed to prevent the spread of coronavirus during upcoming festivities. Gujarat's cumulative Covid-19 caseload stood at 2,38,205 as on December 23, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-public-gatherings-for-christmas-new-year-in-gujarat-govt-930756.html
23-12-2020||West||Maharashtra govt looking for alternative sites for metro car shed: Shinde||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde on Wednesday said the state government was looking for alternative sites for car shed for Mumbai Metro as the Union government did not seem inclined to cooperate. Last week, the Bombay High Court stayed the Mumbai suburban district collector's decision allotting 102 acres of saltpan land in Kanjurmarg for the car shed, as the Union government contended that it's salt department owns this land and not the state. Addressing a press conference, Shinde said the state government was of the view that the Union government should cooperate with the state for development works. "If the state and the Union Government resolve the controversy over the car shed site, the project can be completed on time," Shinde said. But since the Centre wasn't showing any inclination to help the project, the state government was exploring alternative sites, the senior Shiv Sena leader said. Some 40 hectares of land in Kanjurmarg is barren and a car shed can be constructed there for Metro Lines 3, 4 and 6, and also a junction for trains for Ambernath and Badlapur, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-looking-for-alternative-sites-for-metro-car-shed-shinde-930757.html
