24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||137 return to Mysuru from UK||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that 137 people from Britain have visited Mysuru  between December 1 and 21, and all of them will be subjected to Covid-19 test, as a new variant of Corona has been reported in UK. The district administration has taken all measures to identify them. While 119 persons reached the city between December 1 and 20, 18 persons reached on December 21. The persons arrived in the city on December 21 have been subjected to Covid-19 test at UK and the reports are negative. While a few, who reached the city before December 20, informed that they have been tested, the remaining have to be contacted, she said. According to sources, out of 119, a few are in Mandya, Kodagu and Bengaluru. We have informed the respective district administrations and also provided contact details, said an officer. Test The DC urged the UK returnees to undergo test. The authorities have made arrangements at the Town Hall and the returnees can give samples from 10 am. Follow guidelines An officer said, the people need not worry about the spread of the virus but, follow the Covid norms like wearing mask, hand sanitisation and social distancing. The people are found in a relaxed mood gathering in the public places. They should follow the guidelines to contain the spread of the virus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/137-return-to-mysuru-from-uk-930816.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Council secy responds to chairperson's notice||Karnataka Legislative Council secretary K R Mahalakshmi has sent an official response to Chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty on the show-cause notice issued to her. Last week, Shetty had issued her a notice over the ruckus that ensued in the Council on December 15, where deputy chairperson S L Dharmeowda had occupied Shetty’s seat in a bid to move a no-trust motion against him. Shetty had, in his notice, questioned the secretary as to why she did not intervene in the situation and stop Gowda from occupying his chair. According to a source in the Council secretariat, the secretary has defended her stance. “She has stated that she gave a copy of the regulations to the deputy chairman on being asked for it in the House while the crisis was unfolding,” thesource said.  Meanwhile, Shetty has given back his bungalow and car to the Council, pending communication from Governor Vajubhai Vala on convening the next Legislative Council session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/council-secy-responds-to-chairpersons-notice-930856.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers' Day: BJP plans massive outreach tomorrow||BJP district units and Shakthi Kendras will organise several programmes on December 25, celebrated as Farmers’ Day, to commemorate the birthday of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.  Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said there will be live screening of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to farmers at all units. Local farmers will be invited to take part in the event and progressive farmers will be facilitated. The events at district units and Shakti Kendras will begin an hour before the PM’s address, during which awareness on the benefits of the new farm laws will be created, Somashekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-day-bjp-plans-massive-outreach-tomorrow-930858.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||CM releases sustainable devpt goals 2030 action plan||Karnataka must strive to improve its ranking in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Wednesday. Releasing the SDG 2030 - Strategy and Action plan, Yediyurappa said the state was ranked sixth at present in the country as per the Niti Aayog SDG Index and encouraged officials to perform better in the coming year.  Speaking on the occasion, he assured that the government would allocate more funds to areas that were lagging behind. The Karnataka SDG 2030 Strategy and Action plan is a roadmap for the state to realise the 17 goals under sustainable development. Chief Secretary T M Vijaybhaskar said discussions would be held with the finance department on taking forward the action points of the SDG. DH had earlier (September 2020) reported on how the government would have to ensure funding of Rs 9.87 lakh cr to meet the SDGs.  According to the 2030 strategy document, the state has lower scores in the Niti Aayog index when it comes to solving hunger, gender equality, poverty and industry, innovation and infrastructure. It has fared well on other goals, including clean water and sanitation, life on land, affordable and clean energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-releases-sustainable-devpt-goals-2030-action-plan-930862.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Classes for II PU students on Sundays too||Students of II PU, who are set to go back to college from January 1, will attend classes even on Sundays. The department of pre-university education is planning to conduct classes for II PU students on Sundays too, so as to recover the academic days lost due to the pandemic and also to cover the portions. According to the faculty in pre-university colleges, 70% of the academic days are already lost and they are left with 30% of the active academic days to complete the portions. "There is no other option as the portions need to be covered keeping JEE, NEET and CET in mind, at least for science students," said a senior official from the department. "For II PU, we used to have 150 academic days and 70% of it is already lost. Now, we need to cover the portions in the available days, which will be difficult. We demand that the department issue a fresh calendar for this year,  along with details of the trimmed syllabus," teachers said. "In the available academic days from January 1, we need to conduct classes, tests and preparatory exams," said a teacher with a government PU college in Malleswaram, Bengaluru. The teachers said online teaching was not effective. "As teachers we are not satisfied with online classes. So, how can we expect students to face the exams based on online classes?" another teacher said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/classes-for-ii-pu-students-on-sundays-too-930863.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt releases timetable for restarting Vidyagama||The state government on Wednesday issued a detailed timetable for the relaunch of its ambitious Vidyagama programme at schools across Karnataka. The circular issued by the department of primary and secondary education stated that the classes will be held on alternative days. As per the timetable, the classes will be held in two shifts - 10 am to 12.30 pm and from 2 pm to 4 pm on alternative days. However, the classes for the Class 10 students will be held regularly on all days from 10 am to 12:30 pm. The school authorities have been given free hand to change the schedule according to the students' strength and availability of classrooms and other infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-releases-timetable-for-restarting-vidyagama-930870.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka reports 958 cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka saw 958 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Wednesday. The active cases as on December 23 stand at 13,736. Of the active cases, 217 are in ICUs. The new fatalities took the death toll to 12,038 in the state. The Covid-19 case count has reached 9,12,340. A total of 1,206 patients were discharged following recovery across the state taking the number of recoveries to 8,86,547. Bengaluru Urban reported 550 infections on Wednesday. Tumakuru district recorded 50 new cases, Mysuru 43, Chamarajanagar 27 and Hassan 26.  A total of over 1,33,17,070 samples have been tested so far, out of which 99,943 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-reports-958-cases-9-deaths-930871.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||SOP issued for intl passengers arriving in state from UK||All international travellers who have travelled from or transited through UK in the past four weeks (from November 25 to December 23) will be required to declare as per existing procedure, their travel history (of past 14 days) and fill up the Self Declaration Form to be screened for Covid-19. The flights from UK stand suspended temporarily from December 23 till December 31.  All passengers who came from UK during the intervening period from December 21 to December 23 shall be subjected to the screening process. Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, Mangaluru airport, Mangaluru seaport and Karwar seaport shall ensure that all passengers travelling from or transiting through airports in UK and disembarking in India are subjected to RT-PCR test on arrival. The test shall be done for all passengers on arrival, even if they carry a negative test report. In case of a positive sample, it is recommended that spike gene-based RT-PCR test is performed by an appropriate laboratory. Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional facility in separate (isolation) unit coordinated by the respective district health authorities/BBMP. They should earmark specific facilities for such isolation and treatment. Passengers testing positive shall not be allowed for home isolation, irrespective of symptoms or no symptoms, till genomic sequencing is completed. All testing labs have been instructed to send the positive samples to InStem(NCBS)/Nimhans, Bengaluru for genomic sequencing. If the report of the sequencing is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol including home isolation/treatment at facility level as per case severity may be followed. If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of new variant of SARS-CoV-2, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. While necessary treatment as per the existing protocol will be given, the patient shall be tested on the 14th day after having tested positive in the initial test. In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, further samples may be taken, until two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart test negative. Those who are found negative on testing with RT-PCR at the airport/seaport would be advised strict quarantine at home for 14 days and followed up. The concerned airlines shall ensure that prior to check-in, the traveller is explained about this SOP. In-flight announcements must also be made explaining the relevant information to the passengers. Information in this regard shall be prominently displayed in arrival area and waiting area of  airports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sop-issued-for-intl-passengers-arriving-in-state-from-uk-930872.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||UK returnees test negative for Covid||Two out of 16 persons, who returned to Hassan district from the United Kingdom, have tested negative for Covid. The results of others are awaited.  As per the norms, they have been placed under quarantine and their throat swabs have been collected for the Covid test. The 16 people, who have arrived from the UK are from Arehalli in Belur taluk, Sakleshpur, Arsikere and Channaryapatna taluks, including two children and six women. Out of them, one has returned to London on December 20. The reports of others are awaited. If they test negative, they will be placed in home quarantine and if found positive, they would be shifted to a Covid hospital, according to the health and family welfare officer Dr K M Sathish. Chamarajanagar  Similarly, five persons have returned from the UK to Chamarajanagar district in the last 20 days. Two of them have tested negative. Three persons had returned on December 19 and their samples have been collected. The results are expected on Thursday, according to Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. Kolar  Meanwhile, four persons, including a woman and her child in Kolar and a couple, who had returned to Kolar and Bangarpet in Kolar district also tested negative for the virus on Wednesday. Dharwad In a big relief to the people of the district, five persons who had returned from the United Kingdom to Dharwad district, have tested negative for Covid-19. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil told DH on Wednesday that five persons had arrived in the district on December 21. However, based on the government order, all five persons were subjected to the RT-PCR test. The lab reports received on Wednesday were negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uk-returnees-test-negative-for-covid-930875.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||HC directs cop to clean road for not registering FIR||The Kalaburagi Bench of the High Court in a recent order directed a police officer to clean the road in front of his police station for one week. The Station House Officer (SHO) of Bazar police station in Kalaburagi was directed to do community service for failing to register FIR on receiving the complaint of a cognizable offence. Tarabai, a native of Minjagi Tanda in Kalaburagi, moved a habeas corpus petition contending that her son Suresh had gone missing on October 20, 2020. Subsequently, he was produced before the court on November 3, 2020. However, the court observed that the entire development in the case disclosed a disturbing facet of functioning of the police stations in that part of the state. A division bench comprising Justice S Sunil Dutt Yadav and Justice P Krishna Bhat said the entire problem was because one police officer was not complying with the procedure prescribed under the CrPC. Despite knowing well that the complaint of Tarabai about her son constituted a cognizable offence, the police officer neither made an entry in the Station House Diary nor registered an FIR. When the bench called upon the police officer for infraction of the law, the counsel representing him submitted an undertaking that he was ready to do community service. The counsel requested the court to take a lenient view. The bench accepted the undertaking and directed him to clean the road in front of his station for one week. The court has also directed the senior officers in the state to take serious view of such lapses by police officers in the state. Insofar as Kalaburagi, the bench directed the district superintendent to hold a workshop or orientation course to all the police officers on the subject of ‘Zero FIR’, pertaining to the registration of FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hc-directs-cop-to-clean-road-for-not-registering-fir-930894.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers under PM’s crop insurance scheme dropped 22% this year||Ever since the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) was made optional for farmers from this financial year, the number of beneficiaries under the scheme has reduced by 22%. In the previous years, the scheme was compulsory for farmers who availed seasonal loans from financial institutions. Farmer organisations say that the scheme is scamming farmers as the number of people who received insurance covers was only a handful, despite the larger number of eligible beneficiaries. Officials say that the dip in numbers is not an indication of the scheme’s popularity and was a ‘seasonal phenomenon’. Data shows that the number of beneficiaries under the scheme reduced by around 3.2 lakh between the khariff sowing seasons of 2019 and 2020. While the total beneficiaries under the scheme was 14.2 lakh in 2019 khariff season, it has reduced to 11 lakh this year. Cultivated area covered under the scheme was a measly 13.25 lakh hectare, compared to a high of 18.73 lakh hectares in the 2017 khariff season. In contrast, crop damage in Karnataka was suffered in around 18 lakh hectares of land during the three spells of floods this year. During the period, the number of farmers enrolled default by loans, decreased by around 41% from 5.97 lakh to 3.55 lakh. Similarly, farmers who enrolled voluntarily also dipped from 8.22 lakh to 7.44 lakh. Mahendra Madiwal, a farmer in Athani, Belagavi district and representative of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, said that the insurance scheme just remained on paper. “Less than 10% of farmers in regions affected by floods or drought get benefits,” he said, adding that the scheme has had fewer takers in the last two to three years. ‘It’s a big scam’ Citing an example from T Narsipur taluk in Mysuru district, Kuraburu Shanthakumar, president of State Sugarcane Growers’ Association, said that though thousands of farmers with small holdings enlist for the scheme, only a handful of people benefited. “It is a big scam, cheating farmers,” he alleged. B Y Srinivas, director, Agriculture department, attributed the dip in enrolments to a seasonal phenomenon. “More beneficiaries enrol if there is a large chance of natural disasters like floods or droughts. If the crop is expected to be bountiful, there will be fewer takers for the scheme,” he said, adding that all settlements will be completed at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-under-pm-s-crop-insurance-scheme-dropped-22-this-year-930895.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poor demand: Govt deletes 40,000 toilets from target list||Karnataka has slashed its toilets target by over 40,000 after authorities found that there was no demand wherever they were initially proposed to be constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission. For 2020-21, Karnataka set a target of building 4.76 lakh toilets for households that were left out. Now, 41,596 toilets have been deleted from the target, according to official data.  Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the government provides assistance of Rs 12,000 (Rs 15,000 for SC) for a household to construct a toilet.  The deletion of over 40,000 toilets came even as authorities were struggling to meet the construction target.  “We get proposals for toilets that get included in the target. But, on the field, we find that there won’t be demand,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Principal Secretary L K Atheeq said. “Other reasons include lack of space to build the toilet, duplication of beneficiaries and so on,” he added.  Of the 4.76 lakh targeted toilets, construction has been completed or is in progress for 4.18 lakh toilets. That left 58,064 toilets that authorities had to complete within December 30, requiring 5,806 toilets to be taken up every day. Now that 41,596 toilets have been deleted, the run rate has come down.  “We are not readily agreeing for deletion,” Atheeq said. “The panchayat development officer (PDO) has to give it in writing before deletion.”  In November 2018, rural Karnataka was declared open-defecation free (ODF) after 45.42 lakh toilets were constructed for as many households that had no access to toilets. The toilets being constructed now are for those left out of the 2012 baseline survey (LOB) and those categorised under no one left behind (NOLB).   According to data, the highest toilets target is in Kalaburagi at 62,188, followed by Vijayapura (38,627) and Ballari (31,215) - all in north Karnataka.  Apparently, the need for beneficiaries to invest money from their own pockets is slowing down the rate of toilet construction. “A toilet requires Rs 25,000-40,000,” an official pointed out.  The only solace is that at least 75% of the toilets constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission are being used, according to the official. “People are finding it increasingly difficult to defecate in the open.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poor-demand-govt-deletes-40000-toilets-from-target-list-930896.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||APMC fee hike: APMC traders warn of indefinite strike||Traders at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) yards have threatened to launch a state-wide trade bundh for an indefinite period if the state government does not reduce APMC market fee to 0.35% as per the government order dated August 4. The state government, which is looking at increasing its revenues, issued a fresh notification on December 15 giving effect to a hike in market fee to 1% for all trade done inside market yards across the state. The government, on August 4, had reduced the market fee to 0.35% from 1%, while the traders had demanded reduction to 0.20%. “We want the government to roll back the fee hike with immediate effect. We have told the minister to also create a level-playing field for the traders, who trade in the APMC market yard as well as outside the market yard by fixing the same amount of market fee. If they cannot charge fees outside the market yards, they should at least abolish the entire market fee for all traders,” Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, Chairman of APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) told DH. During the stakeholders meeting on Wednesday, the Minister for Cooperation, S T Somashekhar told traders that he would discuss the matter in the Cabinet meeting on December 28. The traders have given an ultimatum of December 28 to revoke the market fee hike and have planned to launch a trade bandh if the government fails to act favourably. The government is expected to generate around Rs 250 crore revenue if the market fee is fixed at 0.35%, while the market fee at 1% would yield in excess of Rs 600 crore. Lahoti said a rise in market fee will severely impact the business for merchants inside the market yards. “It would be unremunerative for traders to conduct the business by paying higher market fees,” he said. The stakeholders told the minister that the revenue to the government would double if they levy market fee for trade outside the market yards as well. Currently, there is no market fee for trading in 108 notified agricultural commodities outside the APMC market yards. Somashekhar stated that he would take up the matter for discussion during the upcoming Cabinet meeting on December 28 and take the approval for reversing theorder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/apmc-fee-hike-apmc-traders-warn-of-indefinite-strike-930897.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Candidate contesting Gram Panchayat election dies||A candidate contesting gram panchayat elections from the second ward of Nelyadi gram panchayat died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday night. The deceased candidate was identified as Abdul Hameed Painter (60). He was campaigning throughout the day and had suffered severe chest pain late in the night. He breathed his last enroute to the hospital, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/candidate-contesting-gram-panchayat-election-dies-930928.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||13 UK returnees test negative in Mysuru||Samples of 13 persons, who returned from the UK to Mysuru, have tested negative for Covid-19. Health department officials have contacted 18 persons and collected 14 samples. Three persons have given samples in Bengaluru and their report also tested negative, one officer said, and the remaining one will give a sample today afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/13-uk-returnees-test-negative-in-mysuru-930945.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Demand for IT Park in Mangaluru gets a boost||A recent survey of the IT industry suggests that IT professionals from different parts of India and abroad are willing to relocate to Mangaluru or Udupi if the cities offered better opportunities for the field, in a major boost to the cities' demand for an IT park. The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), in collaboration with CII and a few IT companies, surveyed as many as 2,240 IT professionals from across the globe with a majority of them hailing from Coastal Karnataka, of which 96 per cent expressed willingness to move to Mangaluru or Udupi for work. More than 95 per cent respondents, currently residing in foreign countries, were ready to return to Mangaluru for favourable career opportunities and about 53 per cent of the respondents were looking for a better standard of living. “Mangaluru needs a tech park as there is a lot of talent in the region. But talents are forced to relocate to different cities in search of career opportunities," one of the respondents said. The survey revealed that 87 per cent of respondents were willing to move to different cities provided there are better job opportunities. A significant share of respondents were programmers, technical support or involved in consultation, BPO, research and development, analysis and software testing. The survey showed that professionals favoured better work-life balance, and rated recreational opportunities as the least important. Close to 93 per cent of graduates were keen on pursuing their career in Mangaluru. KCCI president Isaac Vas said many IT companies being run from commercial complexes are not able to carry out their operations smoothly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-for-it-park-in-mangaluru-gets-a-boost-930953.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid isn't over, conduct online exams: VTU students||Engineerning students took to social media platforms to express their anger against the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) for not conducting online examinations. In a series of tweets, students demanded that the university conduct examinations in online mode. The tweets were trending with the hashtag #vtukillingstudents and tagged Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and urged him to direct the university to cancel the offline exams. "This is a real shame for a technological university which is not prepared to conduct online examination and is risking lives of students during the pandemic," said a student. "The main motive of this protest is to make VTU drop its decision of conducting offline exams and give online option as well because the pandemic isn't over yet," said another student. Students even said the SOP is not followed by college hostels and there was no monitoring process in place. "In my college hostel, four students were put in one room and all of us are using the common bathroom. This is really exposing us to the virus," said a student of a private engineering college in Bengaluru. However, the university authorities were unavailable for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-isnt-over-conduct-online-exams-vtu-students-931124.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||No more alliances for ULB polls: D K Shivakumar||The Congress will go it alone in all future urban local body elections, the party’s state president D K Shivakumar said on Wednesday. “The High Court has set the schedule for elections to the civic bodies of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and others. It has been decided that from now on, the party will field candidates on its symbol and contest all the seats,” Shivakumar told reporters.   “All these days, the Congress used to forge alliances at the local level and not field candidates. But going forward, we will contest on our own. Whether we win or not is different, but it’s important that we contest on the party’s symbol,” he said.  Asked about his relationship with JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy, Shivakumar said they remain friends. “Our friendship is there and will continue going forward. Why is the media speculating about this?” he said.  “The JD(S) is a political party with its own constitution and ideology. What they do with the BJP is their business. I don’t know how the BJP views them. But we have respect for that party. They have formed government several times, including with us. So, I’d not like to speak ill about them,” he said.  ‘Govt confused on schools’ Shivakumar said the government was “confused” on the reopening of schools. “Our education minister says he’ll talk to CM, school managements and parents. The government should first clear its confusion,” he said. “Politicians may say anything. But ultimately, the interests of students, schools and teachers should be protected. The government should consult experts. As a parent and someone who runs an educational institution, I’m also confused on what the government will decide,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-more-alliances-for-ulb-polls-d-k-shivakumar-930854.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||HC remarks: Congress demands CM B S Yediyurappa's resignation||The Congress on Wednesday demanded the immediate removal of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa following adverse remarks against him by the High Court even as it questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership on the issue. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged that the chief minister had been delaying the investigation of corruption charges against him and cited a Karnataka High Court order that made remarks against him as it did not allow his petition to dismiss an old corruption case against him. "Karnataka and corruption seem to go hand in hand and are intertwined, and there is culpable conspiratorial silence of all the powers that be, including our extremely eloquent prime minister, BJP president J P Nadda and the party's former chief Amit Shah. All of them maintain silence on this very special arc of immunity accorded by the BJP to Yediyurappa. It is mysterious, inexplicable and shocking," Singhvi told reporters. He said the Congress calls for the "immediate resignation, removal, stepping down" of the chief minister, "but knowing full well that it will not happen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hc-remarks-congress-demands-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-resignation-930868.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar terms Karnataka night curfew 'illogical', urges govt to withdraw it||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar demanded on Thursday that the night curfew should be withdrawn, calling it an “illogical” move. The BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government will impose a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am starting Thursday night. The night curfew will end at 5 am on January 2. The government cited the new Covid-19 strain as the reason for the decision. “The government is not acting according to the voice or directions of health institutions. They should revoke this decision. They have succumbed to some circumstances. This curfew doesn’t have any meaning,” Shivakumar told reporters. “From morning to evening, any number of people can join together. We’ve had elections, the Assembly session and thousands of people coming together in markets. A midnight curfew means there’s some ulterior motive,” he said, adding that the night curfew was imposed to “trouble one section of society.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-terms-karnataka-night-curfew-illogical-urges-govt-to-withdraw-it-931015.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Go back to 10 pm-6 am night curfew: Horatti||MLC Basavaraj Horatti on Thursday asked the government to fix the timings of night curfew from 10:00 pm to 6:00 am as announced earlier. "The government reducing the duration of night curfew, after the announcement was made once, is not correct," he said. Night curfew should be effective in checking Covid-19 spread. Imposing it only for a couple of days to prevent gatherings during new year celebrations was also an option. But, the government has not consulted opposition parties regarding Covid-19 management since March, Horatti added. Ministers react Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai stated that night curfew and its duration were decided as per the suggestion of experts, in the wake Covid-19 spread in Europe and New Year's Eve celebrations. Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said, self-discipline by people is also important to check Covid-19 spread, in addition to government measures like night curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/go-back-to-10-pm-6-am-night-curfew-horatti-931054.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah demands Yediyurappa's immediate resignation as Karnataka CM||The Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday demanded that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa resign immediately after a High Court order dismissing his petition seeking rejection of an old corruption case against him. Urging the BJP leadership including Prime minister Narendra Modi to intervene and ask Yediyurappa to step down, the senior Congress leader said the saffron party high command that has been planning to replace the Chief Minister has now got a strong weapon against him. "I demand the resignation of Mr Yediyurappa, because his petition for quashing the FIR against him was dismissed by the High Court of Karnataka.Therefore he has no right to continue as Chief Minister for a second," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said BJP leadership has to immediately intervene and ask Yediyurappa to resign. The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday had rejected Yediyurappa's plea seeking quashing of an FIR against him pertaining to illegal denotification of land in 2006-07 when he was the Deputy Chief Minister in the BJP-JD(S) coalition government headed by H D Kumaraswamy. Noting that the judge in his order has in detail explained the reason why investigation has to continue and FIR cannot be quashed, Siddaramaiah wanted to know how Yediyurappa could continue as CM. "As he is the Chief Minister and has powers, there are chances of influencing the investigation.There cannot be a fair and impartial investigation, so Yediyurappa should not be in power and should resign immediately. Let him come back once acquitted, we don't have any objections," he said. If Yediyurappa respects the law and believes in democracy he should resign immediately, the CLP leader said. "If he is adamant and does not resign, then the BJP and Prime Minister must intervene. Those who had claimed 'Na Khaunga, Na Khane Dunga' (PM Narendra Modi's slogan promising to end corruption) must act," he said. He said if Yediyurappa does not resign,the congress will take to the streets and protest."...but I feel he may resign on his own," the congress leader said. "We will decide in party forum and decide what to be done to put pressure on him to resign..," he said. Stating that the High Court has said the FIR cannot be dismissed and the investigation has to take place under the watch of the Lokayukta court, Siddaramaiah claimed it is because the HC has no trust in the Lokayukta police. "There is a serious allegation against Yediyurappa. Yediyurappa can be issued a warrant and may even be arrested as it is a non-bailable offence under prevention of corruption act," he said in response to a question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-demands-yediyurappas-immediate-resignation-as-karnataka-cm-931063.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Cabinet rejig likely after Amit Shah tour||The BJP top brass may ask Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reshuffle the state Cabinet after Union Home Minister Amit Shah's state tour. Shah is likely to visit the state on January 15 or 16 to inaugurate Central Reservation Police Force training centres at Bhadravati and Hospet. After Shah's tour, the party is likely to tell the CM to go ahead with his plan to rejig the cabinet, the BJP sources said. Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijendra on Friday met BJP General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh and held a discussion. Though what transpired between them is not known, sources in the party said it was a courtesy call by Vijendra. Vijendra briefed Singh about political developments in the state including ongoing gram panchayat polls, sources said. After Amit Shah's state visit, Singh is also likely to meet party leaders. After which, the party top brass may ask the CM to reshuffle his cabinet. The CM earlier expressed his desire to reshuffle his cabinet by dropping a few ministers and inducting fresh faces. The CM was also keen on inducting all MLAs who defected to BJP from Congress earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-rejig-likely-after-amit-shah-tour-931192.html
24-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Now, a January date for Cabinet expansion||The much-delayed expansion of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet is now being discussed to happen in January. While sources rule out a Cabinet reshuffle, 5-6 ministers will be inducted as the BJP high command is said to have given its nod, following party general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh’s visit to the state earlier this month. There are seven Cabinet berths vacant at present.  Pressure has been mounting on the CM to accommodate MLCs M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar, along with recently elected MLA Munirathna among others as ministers. “Though the high command earlier had plans to change the CM and reshuffle the entire Cabinet, that plan is currently put on the backburner for lack of alternative leadership options. The Central leadership now feels that changing Yediyurappa could hurt the Lingayat vote bank, which has backed BJP election after election in recent years,” one source said. Moreover, expert maneuvering by the CM to secure his vote bank - announcing Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation and proposing inclusion of the Lingayats in the central OBC list - is said to have helped his case, in remaining at the helm of administration. Yediyurappa will be allowed to go ahead with the Cabinet expansion after gram panchayat polls whose results will be declared on December 30, it is said. MLC C P Yogeeshwar and MLAs from Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu districts are expected to make the cut. “Names of Sullia MLA S Angara, Karkala MLA V Sunil Kumar and Kodagu MLAs K G Bopaiah and Appacchu Ranjan are doing the rounds,” party sources said. The party hoped to address the dissatisfaction over lack of ministers from a few districts which are bastions of the saffron party. Central party office-bearers who handle Karnataka affairs have consented for the expansion and have asked Yediyurappa to send a list of names to be inducted as ministers. They are likely to be sworn in during the first or second week of January, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/now-a-january-date-for-cabinet-expansion-931193.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||DH-PV Navo-Pramati workshop for UPSC, KPSC aspirants||Deccan Herald and its sister publication Prajavani, in association with Navodaya Foundation and Navo-Pramati School of Civil Services, have organised a workshop for aspirants of UPSC and KPSC exams on January 5, Tuesday, at Kalamandira, on Vinobha Road, in Mysuru. S R Ravi, general secretary of Navodaya Foundation, said IPS officer Ravi D Channannavar, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev will participate in the inaugural session. UPSC master trainer Sandeep Mahajan, retired additional secretary to Union government C V Gopinath and other resource persons will conduct sessions of the workshop. The registration will be held at Kalamanidra, before the workshop, from 8.30 am to 9.30 am. The workshop will be held by following all Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. Wearing of masks, use of sanitizers and social distancing is compulsory. Due to the prevailing situation, only 400 participants will be allowed, on first-come-first serve basis. Call: S R Ravi on 96860 72224, T L Sandeep on 96069 12170 or 96069 12160.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dh-pv-navo-pramati-workshop-for-upsc-kpsc-aspirants-930819.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Water bodies turn hot spots with bar-headed geese||With bar-headed geese migrating from Mongolia, most of the water bodies in Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts have turned into hot spots for nature lovers.    A large number of birds are seen on the backwaters of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam in Sritangapatna taluk of Mandya district, Kabini Dam backwaters in H D Kote taluk, Hadinaru Lake on Mysuru–Nanjangud border, lakes and ponds in Gundlupet taluk of Chamarajanagar district, etc. Bar-headed geese, which travel long distances from across the globe, have migrated to the region for breeding. Hundreds of birds migrate to the region from Mangolia, Tibet, Kazakhstan and Russia, before crossing over the Himalayas. Rajkumar Devaraje Urs of Wildlife Conservation Foundation said, this time, the birds have migrated a little early, due to couple of reasons, like early winter and due frozen lakes in South China and North India. In addition, cold air started to become quicker in Northern hemisphere and it is a reason for early migration. As soon as there is climatic changes in the Northern hemisphere, the migration commences, he said. Like Mysuru region, the birds also migrate to North Karnataka region, but, in small numbers due to lack of paddy fields. Usually, the birds migrate in November and December end. But, this time, the birds were seen during October in some parts of North Karnataka and North India. But, the birds move from one place to another, he said, adding that the birds get distributed in most parts of thecountry. Rajkumar said, the population of the birds has been distributed to different lakes and not congregated in a single place. The birds were found largely near paddy fields, where water is available. The birds largely depend on paddy and don’t feed on fresh water fish. The goose rest in the mornings and consume grains during the nights. The bar-headed goose flies at the highest altitude - around 7,000 metres. The birds are larger than ducks and are purely vegetarian. They feed on grass, roots, grains, seeds, fruits, and algae growing in water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/water-bodies-turn-hot-spots-with-bar-headed-geese-930820.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||250-kg butterfish draws attention||A giant butterfish, caught from the Arabian Sea, was the centre of attraction at Sea Fish World, a fish stall, near Devaraja mutton market, in Mysuru, onWednesday. The fish was brought from Calicut, in Kerala, to Mysuru, as part of Christmas celebrations. People thronged to see the huge fish and took pictures with it. The fish weighs around 250 kg and its estimated worth is Rs 1 lakh. Ibrahim of the stall said the fish was caught at Arabian Sea on Monday, December 21 and was brought to Mysuru, via Kozhikode. As soon as the people learnt about the huge fish, there was a great demand for it from hoteliers. The fish was sold at Rs 400 per kg, he said. Last year, a huge fish weighing 125 kg was brought from Kerala, to the same shop, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/250-kg-butterfish-draws-attention-930821.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Forest department failure alleged in animal deaths||The Forest department has pulled up the socks, after animal lovers alleged that the department has been negligent despite the death of a few domestic animals, due to explosives, under Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary limits, recently. A buffalo and a cow were killed after biting explosives laced with food and fodder, at Vadakehalla and Tokare village, recently. The animals suffered serious injuries on their faces and succumbed after a couple of days. Animal lovers wanted to know how the higher officials claim that they are not aware of animal deaths due to explosives, though it was not a first such incident. Are the personnel on daily patrol not informing their higher officials? they asked. According to the villagers, a dog died in a similar manner, after biting a explosive, around six months ago, and such incidents are reported frequently in the region.  As soon as the two incidents came to light, the officials have started to trace those involved in making explosives and supplying them to people in the villages near the sanctuary. According to sources, it is alleged that the locals place explosives covered with food to prevent wild boars from destroying their crops and not to poach wild animals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/forest-department-failure-alleged-in-animal-deaths-930823.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Gruhoshobhe exhibition till December 27||Gruhashobhe international living style exhibition was inaugurated by Hemanth Kumar Gowda, Chairman, Karnataka Exhibition Authority, on Dasara Exhibition Grounds, in Mysuru, in the presence of Nagachandra, director, Simon Exhibitors, recently. It will be open till December 27, from 11 am to 9 pm. The exhibition has furniture, electronics items, household appliances, solar products, power savers, mixers, grinders, refrigerators, washing machines, television sets, juicers, water purifiers, vegetable choppers of various makes, hair dryers, hair straighteners, body massagers and others. Special attraction of the event is a replica of the proposed Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, created by artist Ramesh of Mysuru with thermocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/gruhoshobhe-exhibition-till-december-27-930825.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Mahadevappa questions 'morality' of Prasad||Does MP V Srinivas Prasad, who is with the communal forces, have morality? asked former minister H C Mahadevappa, in a tweet, here, on Tuesday. He has responded to a statement of Prasad on former chief minister Siddaramaiah and Mahadevappa entering into a secret pact with the JD(S), to defeat Prasad in the Nanjangud byelection of 2017. “Should we have allowed Prasad, who contested on a BJP ticket, to win? Should we have allowed our own Congress candidate Kalale N Keshavamurthy to lose?” Mahadevappa has asked. “I have used the opportunity of my election as MLA and elevation as minister, in my political career, for the development of the state and welfare of the people as per the principles of B R Ambedkar. Does Prasad have such morality to say so, after joining the BJP, a communal party. After becoming MP of Chamarajanagar in 2019, his contribution to the constituency and upliftment of people is nil. By mere political activities, he is wasting the political power, obtained by the efforts of Ambedkar,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mahadevappa-questions-morality-of-prasad-930827.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Wheel lock for parking for long hours in the offing||Mysuru City Police have proposed to lock the wheels of vehicles that are parked for more than four hours on D Devaraja Urs Road, in the city. A first round of talks have been held with the members of the association of shopkeepers on the particular road, recently. Mysuru is often described as a peaceful city, compared with Bengaluru, due to various reasons, including thinner vehicular traffic. But, Mysuru is getting busier over the past few years and parking in the Central Business District (CBD) has become a problem on the main streets like D Devaraja Urs Road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Dhanvanthri Road, Ashoka Road, Shivarampet, Santhepet and near Jaganmohan Palace. Mysuru City Police, Traffic Division, has taken various steps to decongest vehicular traffic and to solve other issues. D Devaraja Urs Road, the continuation of Albert Victor Road, from KR Circle, leading to the Deputy Commissioner’s office, is already a one-way road. Still it is a congested road, mainly due to parking on both sides, including parallel parking, besides the parking lot. “There is space to park 220 cars on D Devaraja Urs Road. However, nearly 100 slots are used by shopkeepers themselves, leaving the customers searching for space. This leads to stopping of cars, besides the parking lots and also parallel parking, causing inconvenience to road users. Thus, Assistant Commissioner of Police S N Sandesh Kumar held a meeting with the shopkeepers,” said Police sources. “As the ACP proposed locking of the wheels of vehicles that are parked for more than four hours, on the particular road, the businessmen sought a dedicated lot for them to park their vehicles. The ACP said, a public road cannot be occupied for long hours by shopkeepers. The traders sought parking space at Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry, Town Hall or Gaadi Maala for their vehicles. The ACP asked them to make a representation in this regard,” said Police sources. It has to be noted that a massive parking lot, under constriction since over a decade by the Mysuru City Corporation, is yet to be completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/wheel-lock-for-parking-for-long-hours-in-the-offing-930828.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Online workshop on testing, evaluation in Urdu held||A five-day online training-cum-workshop on ‘Testing and Evaluation’ for teachers, assistant professors, lecturers and research scholars of Urdu began at National Testing Service-India (NTS-I) of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru, recently. Biresh Kumar, resource person (academic-Hindi), NTS-I, briefed about the activities of CIIL and its various schemes, in his inaugural address. He emphasised on the activities and important developments of NTS-I in the area of testing and evaluation and asked to participants to make use of the opportunity. Experts like Sajid Jamal, department of Education, Aligarh Muslim University, UP; Zubair Shadab Khan, CPDMT, Aligarh Muslim University; and Md Rizwan, department of Persian, Maulana Azad National Urdu University; trained the participants in various academic and technical sessions. NTS-I junior resource persons (academic-Urdu) G M Ansari, Md Saleem Ahmed and Taiyab Ali Khan organised the workshop under the guidance of Pankaj Dwivedi, officer in-charge, NTS-I, P Dharmesh Fernandez, Head, Centre for Testing & Evaluation, CIIL, C G Venkatesha Murthy, Director, CIIL, Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/online-workshop-on-testing-evaluation-in-urdu-held-930829.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Administrator for Palace Panchagavi Mutt||The Assistant Commissioner of Mysuru has been appointed as the Administrator of the Palace Panchagavi Mutt, in Mysuru, in view of conserving agricultural lands and other properties of the Mutt as per government orders. The government has passed the order in the wake of complaints that the mutt, situated at the foot of Chamundi Hill, has misused its properties for personal gains of a few persons. As per a notification from the Assistant Commissioner, all correspondence and transactions with the mutt should be done through him, until further government orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/administrator-for-palace-panchagavi-mutt-930830.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Two ASIs succumb to Covid in Hassan district||Two Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASIs) of Police have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district. Balakrishna (59) of Hassan Layout Police Station and Doreswamy (57) of Gorur Police Station are the deceased. According to a source, Doreswamy was recently promoted as ASI and was transferred to Gorur. Both had tested positive for Covid and were under treatment at the Covid hospital, but succumbed to the infection on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/two-asis-succumb-to-covid-in-hassan-district-930874.html
24-12-2020||Mysuru||Three held in Mysuru for selling ivory artefacts||The Forest department vigilance squad has arrested three persons, who were trying to sell artefacts made of ivory (elephant tusks), in Mysuru, on Thursday. They have also seized three artefacts. The arrested are Manohar, 45, of Mysuru, Shivadas, 55, and Sumanth, 26, of Somwarpet, Kodagu district. A team, led by Deputy Conservator of Forests Poovaiah, arrested the trio, while trying to sell the artefacts at Naidu Nagar, in Mysuru. Sand boa rescued The mobile squad has also arrested four persons for illegal possession of sand boa, near Srirampura, in Mysuru. The arrested are Chandru of Nanjangud, Kumar of Malavalli, Shivaprakash of Chamarajanagar and Ravish of Bengaluru. The reptile has been rescued. The accused were trying to find prospective buyers, as it is believed that its possession brings prosperity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-held-in-mysuru-for-selling-ivory-artefacts-931129.html
24-12-2020||National||Centre eases scrapping GST registration to curb fraud||The Centre on Wednesday notified new norms for goods and services tax (GST) registration and reserved the right to cancel a taxpayer’s registration without giving an opportunity of being heard, in case an appropriate authority has reasons to believe the registration is liable to be cancelled. A registration now will also be cancelled if input tax credit is claimed by violating GST Act provisions or if outward supplies exceed what is declared in the GST form for one or more tax periods. During the cancellation proceedings, these taxpayers would remain suspended, the finance ministry said. The move is expected to curb GST frauds. Tax authorities have booked fraudsters who have floated multiple dummy firms, obtained GST registration, issued fake invoices of goods and services without actual supply. The tax department also increased the time limit for GST registration from three days to seven days. In case an applicant has opted for Aadhaar-based authentication, then each application will be followed by biometric-based Aadhaar authentication and a photograph. Registered persons whose value of taxable supply in a month exceeds Rs 50 lakh will have to pay at least 1% of their GST liability in cash and will not be able to use the amount of ITC in electronic credit ledger from January 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-eases-scrapping-gst-registration-to-curb-fraud-930880.html
24-12-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on December 24||India crossed the 1-crore mark for coronavirus infections as the country witnessed a substantial drop in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  10,145,853 as of December 24 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  147,062 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 96,36,487 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-december-24-930908.html
24-12-2020||National||Covid-19: India registers 24,712 fresh cases||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,23,778 with 24,712 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 96.93 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,46,756 with 312 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,93,173 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.75 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 2,83,849 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.80 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,53,08,366  samples have been tested up to December 23 with 10,39,645  samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-registers-24712-fresh-cases-930956.html
24-12-2020||National||Farmers protesting at Delhi borders resolute in seeking repeal of farm laws||Braving the harsh cold, thousands of agitating farmers at the Delhi borders on Thursday remained steadfast in their demands to repeal the Centre's three new agri laws. Dense fog reduced visibility to just 100 metres in parts of Delhi on Thursday, affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department said, adding the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, settled at 4.5 degrees Celsius. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri as thousands of farmers have been staging their protests at the borders for nearly a month now. This has also led to traffic congestion forcing police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Thursday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to farmers' agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. "The Chilla, Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad  to Delhi because of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara,bhopra& Loni borders," it said in a tweet. In another tweet, police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are closed. "Pl take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44," the traffic police mentioned. On Wednesday, the protesting farmers hardened their position and asked the government not to repeat the proposal of "meaningless" amendments that they have already rejected but come up with a "concrete" offer in writing for the resumption of talks. Reading out a reply to the government's talks offer during a press conference, farmer leaders said they are ready for dialogue with an open mind if they get a concrete proposal, but made it clear they will not accept anything less than a complete repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The sixth round of talks on December 9 was cancelled following a deadlock with the farmer unions refusing to budge from their demand for repealing the three laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protesting-at-delhi-borders-resolute-in-seeking-repeal-of-farm-laws-930966.html
24-12-2020||National||Cong leaders meet Prez, submit memorandum on farm laws; Priyanka Gandhi detained||Sharpening its attack on the government over the new three farm laws, the Congress on Thursday staged a strong protest outside the Congress headquarters here after they were prevented from marching towards Rashtrapati Bhawan. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and party MPs and leaders staged a sit-in protest outside their office and were detained by the Delhi Police for violating prohibitory orders. The Congress had planned a protest march from the party office at Akbar Road to Rashtrapati Bhawan, where Congress leaders were to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and hand over a memorandum signed by 2 crore farmers. However, the Delhi Police imposed section 144 CrPC around the Rashtrapati Bhawan, including the Congress office, following which the protesting Congress leaders were detained and taken to Mandir Marg police station. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury later met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded withdrawal of the three farm laws. "We told the president that the laws are anti-farmer and that farmers and labourers will suffer due to them. The government said these laws are in favour of the farmers, but the country is seeing that farmers are against these laws," Rahul Gandhi said. "The farmers would not return till these laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws," he told reporters after meeting the president. He said all the opposition parties are standing with the farmers. He alleged that the way the laws were passed without any discussion, consultations, they need to be withdrawn. "'We three people went to the president, but took the voice of farmers to the president, by taking 2 crore signatures of farmers," he said, adding that "the farmers are in pain and are also dying, the prime minister will have to listen to them." If the prime minister does not take these laws back, the country will suffer, he claimed. "Anyone trying to take power from Modi will be dubbed as anti-national," he alleged. Gandhi further alleged that only three-four people are running the system and said the party is fighting this. "It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office...There is no democracy in India, it is only in imagination, not in reality," he charged. Earlier Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the government is committing a sin by name-calling the protesting farmers. "It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If government is terming farmers protest as sedition, it is a sin. The government is committing a sin by calling names to farmers," she said. "The Government is arrogant, is doing only own politics and has no respect for farmers or the jawans, who are the sons of farmers," she charged. She also alleged that anyone speaking against this government is name-called and dubbed as anti-nationals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-leaders-meet-prez-submit-memorandum-on-farm-laws-priyanka-gandhi-detained-930998.html
24-12-2020||National||ED attaches Rs 4,109 crore worth of assets in Agri Gold ponzi scam case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached properties worth Rs 4,109 crore spread over five states including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana in connection with the Agri Gold's ponzi scheme fraud case.  The case pertains to the collection of Rs 6,380 crore from over 32 lakh subscribers in various states, who were later denied the promised returns.  The central agency had on Wednesday arrested the main accused Avva Venkata Rama Rao, the company’s chairman and two directors – Avva Venkata Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad on the money laundering charges. A special court in Hyderabad sent them to 10-day judicial custody. ED is investigating the case under the Prevention of Money laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), based on multiple FIRs lodged in AP, Telangana and Karnataka.  “The scam was perpetrated by the accused Avva through Agri Gold group of companies. Avva hatched a well-planned conspiracy and along with his seven brothers and other associates had set up more than 150 companies. They collected deposits from the general public with a promise of providing developed plots/farmlands or option of withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term,” ED said in a press release on Thursday.  Thousands of commission agents were engaged to lure the public with various schemes for a hefty commission. In the end, naive investors neither received the plots nor could recover their deposits. The plight of the swindled, mostly middle-class people, was especially evident in Andhra Pradesh.  “Investigations further revealed that Avva and his family went on a siphoning spree and illegally diverted the public deposits, invested in myriad verticals and in private companies which were directly owned by their family,” ED said.  The Agri Gold accused names had also appeared in the Paradise Papers leaks on the offshore investments worldwide. “They had incorporated companies with the help of the infamous Mossack Fonsenca in the Cayman Islands. Investigation conducted so far has led ED in identification of assets totaling to Rs 4109 crore, now provisionally attached,” the agency said. The attached assets include 2,809 landed properties, Haailand Amusement Park of M/s Arka Leisure and Entertainments Private Limited in Guntur spread over 48 acres, shares of various companies, plants and machinery. The attached properties are located in the following districts of five states - Andhra Pradesh: Anantapur, Kurnool, Krishna, Chittoor, Guntur, Kadapa, Vizianagaram, East & West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Kadapa Telangana: Mahaboobnagar, Narayanpet, Khammam, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Vikarabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Nalgonda Karnataka: Bengaluru, Kolar, Yadgir, Mandya Tamil Nadu: Krishnagiri Odisha: Khurda||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-4109-crore-worth-of-assets-in-agri-gold-ponzi-scam-case-931026.html
24-12-2020||National||UK-returnee who tests Covid-19 positive dodges authorities; takes 28-hour train from Delhi to Andhra||A UK-returned 47-year-old woman, who tested Covid-19 positive upon her arrival at the New Delhi airport on Monday, took a train journey of about 28 hours to reach Rajahmundry on Wednesday late night. As fears of a mutant Coronavirus strain's spread from the European nation worry the public, the news of Mary Winfred Ann Parrie's such return has caused hullabaloo in the town spread along the River Godavari bank. The escapade of Parrie, an Anglo Indian has also jolted the Andhra Pradesh health machinery taking comfort in the drastically fallen daily new Covid-19 cases in the state. Parrie, who was working as a teacher in a private school in Rajahmundry (Rajamahendravaram), visited the UK recently, as the family reportedly plans to move there. Her husband is in the UK. Her 22-year-old son went to Delhi and accompanied her back on the New Delhi-Visakhapatnam train. “She is stable and continues to be asymptomatic, while her son has tested negative,” Dr Ramesh Kishore, coordinator, East Godavari district hospital services told DH. Parrie is presently kept in isolation at a government health facility in Rajahmundry, and provided care, vitamin tablets. The Delhi airport's RT-PCR test, and three types of tests conducted at Rajahmundry - Truenat, Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR tests - have all confirmed her to be Covid-19 positive. “Analysis at the National Institute of Virology, Pune/Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad would reveal the strain of virus she is infected with,” Dr Kishore said. It is still not clear as to how Parrie managed to board a train from New Delhi when there are strict government guidelines advised for the UK returnees. Flights from the UK also stand cancelled till December 31. “We are verifying her claims that she was asked by the Delhi hospital authorities to be under home isolation,” the official said. On Wednesday, Andhra government was alerted by officials in Delhi about her journey but Parrie could not be contacted as her phone was switched off. Health officials waiting for her at the Rajahmundry station shifted her directly to a health facility. “One good aspect is that they travelled in an AC first-class coach so the contact with rest of passengers would be minimal,” Dr Kishore said. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh health minister AKK Srinivas has appealed the public not to panic as no case of new Covid-19 strain has been confirmed yet in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-returnee-who-tests-covid-19-positive-dodges-authorities-takes-28-hour-train-from-delhi-to-andhra-931038.html
24-12-2020||National||Will talk to airport authorities: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Covid-19 positive patients escaping||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the city government will approach airport authorities over a report that two Covid-positive flyers from the UK had slipped out from the airport. Amid mounting concern over a new strain of the virus detected in UK, the Delhi government on Tuesday had said people who have arrived here recently from that country, are being traced and tested, while an institutional quarantine facility was being set up separately for positive cases at the LNJP Hospital. At a press conference, asked about the report that two passengers from the UK, who had landed at Delhi airport on Tuesday, had further travelled to Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, despite testing positive for Covid-19, Jain said, "I have also read about it in the newspaper today". "Flight operations and security there is under the airport authorities... But, a person who has tested positive, should not have moved out," Jain said. Asked about the responsibility of the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport, the health minister said, "We will talk to airport authorities about it". According to the report, the two UK flyers, who had "slipped out", have been traced and "brought back" to Delhi. All passengers arriving from the UK are being tested for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport. "Those found positive are being quarantined in an institutional quarantine facility," Jain said. Sources said, three persons who returned from the UK, and tested positive, have been brought to LNJP Hospital's separate isolation. The institutional quarantine facility has been created at city government-run hospital, a dedicated coronavirus facility, in an isolated area, away from the main Covid wards, for UK passengers testing positive at the airport. "As per the new SOPs, genome sequencing of their test samples are also to be done. Those cases, where the old strain will be found, will be moved to the regular Covid wards," a source said. Jain on Wednesday had said people who have arrived here from the UK in the last few weeks, are being rigorously traced, and tested if anyone is showing slightest of Covid-19-like symptoms, even as he asserted the situation in the city was under control with positivity rate plummeting to below one per cent. According to a December 22 order, all passengers travelling from or transiting through airports in the UK and disembarking in India would be subjected to "RT-PCR test on arrival". "Also, passengers of the flights from the UK landing at Delhi International Airport for the last four weeks (November 25-December 23, 2020) will be tested, and then further followed up on a daily basis for 28 days," the order said. Jain had earlier said that Delhi has fought difficult battles with Covid-19 and all efforts will be made to ensure that the gains made in the management of the pandemic are "not reversed" "The Delhi government is on alert in the wake of a mutated coronavirus strain detected in the UK. The situation is being closely monitored, as this strain is more transmissible," he had said. The Civil Aviation Ministry on Monday had said all flights from the UK to India and vice versa will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31 in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. Delhi recorded 871 fresh Covid-19 cases and 18 new fatalities on Wednesday, even as the positivity rate slipped to 0.99 per cent, the lowest in the last eight months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-talk-to-airport-authorities-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-on-covid-19-positive-patients-escaping-931050.html
24-12-2020||National||Gadkari lays foundation stone of Rs 8,341-cr road projects in Rajasthan||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of Rs 8,341-crore highway projects in Rajasthan. Addressing a virtual event on the occasion, the road transport, highways and MSMEs minister also said highway works worth Rs 1 lakh crore are either ongoing or at the DPR (detailed project report) stage. "Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 18 highway projects in Rajasthan today (Thursday). "These projects carry a road length of nearly 1,127 kilometres, involving a construction value of Rs 8,341 crore," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot presided over the virtual function. Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, V K Singh, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Choudhary and former Union Minister Rajyavardhan Rathore as well as several ministers of the state also attended the event. These projects will ease the transportation of commercial goods within and across the state, will improve connectivity to the borders, enhance employment opportunities, and improve tourism and infra development, among others, the statement said. Addressing the event, Gadkari said work is ongoing or is at the DPR stage for projects worth Rs 1 lakh crore. "The ministry intends to complete 2,700 km length of NHs (national highways) at a cost of Rs 35,000 crore by the year 2021-22, whereas another 2,500 km costing Rs 30,000 crore will be completed by the year 2023-24," he said. DPR is being prepared for other projects of 2,811 km worth Rs 50,000 crore. Gadkari assured the state government of his full support in developing NH network in Rajasthan. He called upon the chief minister to forward two proposals from each MP and one proposal from each MLA in the state in this respect to him, and said he will personally examine for quick approval. The minister said that since the year 2000, Rs 6,556 crore were approved under CRIF (Central Road and Infrastructure Fund) for the state, out of which Rs 4,574 crore have been released till now. The minister announced a sum of Rs 1,000 crore under CRIF for the current year, against the annual accrual of Rs 615 crore only. He said there has been 40 per cent growth in road construction in Rajasthan during the past six years, and the length of NH in the state stands at 10,661 km now. He said all districts of the state are connected with national highways. He added that 186 road works of 7,906 km worth Rs 73,583 crore were approved in the state during the past six years. Work on 5,154 km of road worth Rs 30,000 crore were completed during this period. Gadkari announced that under the Bharatmala Pariyojana, works on 1,976 km worth Rs 32,302 crore will be done in Rajasthan. He said DPR is already being prepared for 14 projects of 800 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-of-rs-8341-cr-road-projects-in-rajasthan-931058.html
24-12-2020||National||Congress finalises alliance with Left for West Bengal polls||Congress on Thursday announced an alliance with the Left parties for the West Bengal assembly elections early next year, five years after a similar experiment had ended in a big failure. West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury made the announcement of the alliance at a press conference. “The Congress high command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal,” Chowdhury said adding that the seat sharing discussions will take place between the state units of the alliance partners. In 2016 assembly elections, the Congress and the Left parties had shied away from a formal alliance but had entered into a “strategic and tactical” understanding, and managed to win 71 seats in the 294-member assembly, while Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool posted a bigger victory than in 2011. The Left parties had suffered a drubbing in the elections as they managed to win only 31 seats, while the Congress had emerged as the second largest party with 40 seats. The Trinamool had won 219 seats. “There is nothing abnormal about it,” Chowdhury shot back when pointed out that Congress and Left were arch rivals in Kerala and are now friends in West Bengal. Chowdhury launched a broadside against Trinamool supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of opening the doors for the BJP in the state. “It is because of Mamata Banerjee, the BJP got a foothold in West Bengal. She became a minister in the NDA government in 1999 and allowed the BJP to grow in the state,” Chowdhury said. The Congress leader also accused Banerjee of “wiping off the opposition” in the state, which led to removal of the “secular buffer” that could have stopped the BJP from making inroads in West Bengal. At the same time, Chowdhury termed the claims that the BJP could win 200 seats – a target set by Home Minister Amit Shah – in the assembly elections due in April-May as “wild imagination”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-finalises-alliance-with-left-for-west-bengal-polls-931061.html
24-12-2020||National||Centre again invites farmer unions for talks, says it won't be logical to discuss MSP-related demand||The government on Thursday again invited protesting farmer unions for talks but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), which is out of the purview of three new farm laws. In a three-page letter written to 40 farmer leaders, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal said, "I again request you that the government has been discussing all issues with open heart and good intention to end the protest, and will continue to do so. Kindly suggest a date and time (for the next round of talks)." Previous five rounds of talks between the government and the unions have failed to break the deadlock with the farmers insisting on repeal of the three laws and camping at various border points of Delhi for nearly a month now. Aggarwal asked the union leaders to provide details of other issues they want to discuss. The talks will be held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi at a ministerial level, he said. On MSP, Aggarwal said the farm laws have no connection with the price regime nor would have any impact on the procurement of farm produce at the fixed rates. This has been told to the unions in every discussion and it has also been made clear that the government is ready to give written assurance on MSP, he said. "Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions," he noted. Aggarwal's letter has come in response to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's December 23 letter, through which it had informed the government that the farmer unions are ready for talks but asked it to send a "concrete proposal in writing instead repeating rejected proposals around meaningless amendments." In the December 24 letter, the government reiterated that it is ready to find a "logical solution" on the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. Aggarwal said it is important to keep all doors open for discussion for the government. It is the responsibility of the government to listen to farmer organisations and farmers and the government cannot deny this. The government with open heart has held several rounds of discussion with farmer unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and urged them to choose a date as per their convenience for the next round of talks, he added. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and some other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-again-invites-farmer-unions-for-talks-says-it-wont-be-logical-to-discuss-msp-related-demand-931062.html
24-12-2020||National||Govt eyes road infrastructure expansion, rise in electric vehicle sales for 2021: Gadkari||After striving to turn the pandemic-induced "crisis into an opportunity" with ongoing construction of tunnel roads in tough terrains and critical infrastructure, the government will step on the gas in the new year for massive penetration of electric vehicles as well as expansion of road networks. From Kailash Mansarovar route to Zojila tunnel to Lipulekh pass, massive construction works in the country's roads and highways sector are either in progress or launched or have been completed during the coronavirus pandemic-ravaged 2020. In the words of Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, the driving force behind roadways expansion and numerous infrastructure development projects, the government decided to turn the crisis due to the pandemic into an opportunity. The total length of national highways is currently around 1,34,400 kilometres and the aim is to add another 60,000 kilometres in five years' time. As the globe battled Covid-19, "we decided to turn it (crisis) into an opportunity and massive work could be done in tough terrains, including tunnel below Chamba town, work on Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route and other strategic highways", Gadkari told PTI. In 2020, the government launched the work for the strategic 14.15 kilometre-long Zojila tunnel to provide all-year connectivity between Srinagar valley and Leh. Remodelling of the project, which has been pending for quite some time, is projected to result in savings worth about Rs 5,000 crore. During the pandemic, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) completed a substantial part of the work of road connectivity from Dharchula to Lipulekh, popularly known as Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route. The strategically-crucial stretch connects the Lipulekh pass at a height of 17,000-feet along the border with China in Uttarakhand with Dharchula. "Seven tunnel roads are under construction in the Jammu and Kashmir region alone, including construction of the 8,450 metre-long twin-tube tunnel between Qazigund and Banihal that will be completed by the coming March. The work on 2,968 metres-long 6-single tunnels road between Ramban and Banihal is due for completion in December 2021," Gadkari said. "We have completed about 85 per cent work on the Kailash Mansarovar route and the remaining work is likely to be completed by April 2021," the Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said. According to him, through different programmes, a target for development of 60,000 kilometres of national highway in the next five years has been set. The work is on full swing, including the Rs 1 lakh crore-Delhi-Mumbai express corridor, which the government is confident of completing in the next two years. Gadkari also noted that about 50 per cent work on the corridor has been completed. Also, 22 new express highways are on the anvil, including the Chennai-Bangalore one, that will help reduce overall logistics costs. With India's pledge to reduce carbon emissions by 30-35 per cent by 2030 and efforts to cut down on Rs 8 lakh crore-worth crude oil imports, the focus is also on green fuel and electricity as well as Electric Vehicles (EVs). "India is power surplus. So the benefits of e-mobility solutions are immense... The Centre intends to have an electric vehicle sales penetration of 30 per cent for private cars, 70 per cent for commercial cars, 40 per cent for buses, and 80 per cent for two and three-wheelers by 2030 by providing various incentives, which are likely to drive the growth of EV market in India," Gadkari said. The government is planning to set up at least one e-charging kiosk at each of the around 69,000 petrol pumps across the country with an aim to accelerate the uptake of electric vehicles, he said. Asserting that India has the potential to become the largest EV producer in the world in the next five years, Gadkari said, "now is the time to harbour the ambition to become number one... the raw material is available, power rates are reducing... It is a win-win situation". In addition to electricity, ethanol can be another powerful fuel, the minister said and asserted that from being a Rs 22,000 crore-ethanol economy, it could be easily taken to Rs 2 lakh crore which would generate 25 lakh employment opportunities. At least 1,600 crore litres of ethanol is required for blending with petrol as 10 per cent can be blended now but procurement is only 450 litres. "We plan to permit blending up to 22 per cent and for that 3,500 litres of ethanol will be required for petrol only while additional huge requirement will be needed for diesel as in coming days there will be flex engines for automobiles on the pattern of developed nations," the minister said. In the context of the road transport ministry recently coming out with Cab Aggregator Guidelines, Gadkari said, "we are committed to formalise this industry in order to create a professional manpower of drivers and operators who are trained with all best practices and equipped with required skill to provide end to end connectivity". On the roadways front, 2020 saw asset monetisation programme getting accelerated under the Toll Operate Transfer (TOT) model which was reworked leading to realistic price discovery of an asset. Infrastructure debt funds have been allowed to participate in direct financing of the asset under monetisation through this route and smaller projects have been made available to help investors. Investment trusts and special purpose vehicles have also been introduced for funding for expressways. To fast-track highways construction technical and financial qualification for eligibility has been relaxed to encourage wider participation of builders in HAM (Hybrid Annuity Model), EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) and BOT (Build, Operate and Transfer) models. Working capital requirements were streamlined by rescheduling and fast-tracking payment cycles, thereby releasing more than Rs 8,000 crore-worth of payments during the lockdown period. Among other initiatives, performance security requirement has been done away with to ease cash flow in the sector and funds worth Rs 4,000 crore have been released while existing PPP contractors either in HAM or BOT or TOT have been compensated for losses. "The target to is to build highways worth Rs 15 lakh crore in the 3-4 years and during my earlier tenure, I had ensured works worth Rs 17 lakh crore in my combined ministries," Gadkari said. For 35 logistics parks under the Bharatmala initiative, a special purpose vehicle -- National Highways Logistics Management Company -- has been set up with NHAI Member Manoj Kumar as its Chairman. Enhanced focus on electronic toll collection through FASTags has resulted in an increase in toll collections which are likely to reach Rs 33,000 crore by March and rise to Rs 1 lakh crore by 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-eyes-road-infrastructure-expansion-rise-in-electric-vehicle-sales-for-2021-gadkari-931064.html
24-12-2020||National||PFI received over Rs 100 cr in its banks over the years: ED to Kerala court||The Enforcement Directorate has informed a court in Kochi on Thursday that over Rs 100 crore was received in the bank accounts of Popular Front of India and Campus Front of India over the last few years, furthermore, the ED said that links of PFI in the recent violence in Bengaluru's DJ Halli was suspected According to the report filed seeking an extension of custody of Campus Front of India national general secretary K A Rauf Sherif, the sources and utilisation of the funds received by PFI and CFI leaders were still under investigation. It was suspected that the funds were utilised for the anti-CAA protest in Delhi. PFI's links with the recent violence in Bengaluru's DJ Halli and KG Halli was also suspected. PFI's political wing SDPI's was found involved in the Bengaluru violence. The ED report also said that a major chunk of funds was received from outside of India, suspected to have come through hawala transactions. Incriminating documents and digital devices were seized during the raids at offices of PFI and house of PFI leaders. The report added that it was evident that PFI and CFI were involved in money laundering and the proceeds of crime were used for committing unlawful activities in India. The ED earlier accused Rauf of funding the trips of Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan along with PFI leaders to Hathras in UP to visit the family of rape-murder victim. Rauf reportedly sent money for this purpose to Atiq-ur-Rehman, who was a member in the delegation and a former treasures of CFI. There was an ulterior motive of disturbing social harmony and inciting communal riots, said the ED report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfi-received-over-rs-100-cr-in-its-banks-over-the-years-ed-to-kerala-court-931079.html
24-12-2020||National||No record of meeting with farmers on farm bills: Centre in reply to RTI||The Centre on Thursday stated that it has no records of any kind pertaining to meetings or discussions with farmers' organisations before finalising the three farm bills. The Centre informed Mumbai-based activist Jatin Desai in response to a query filed under Right to Information Act (RTI). The CPIO of Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare responded saying: "This CPIO does not hold any record in this matter." The matter was related to three farm bills and farmers agitation. "I had asked simple information from the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers welfare that how many meetings were held with the farmers organisations before three farm ordinances were issued and also how many meetings were held with them between issuing ordinances and passing of the bills in the parliament," he said. Describing the reply as misleading, he has filed an appeal. "I have already appealed against the misleading information. CPIO should have provided correct information. CPIO just cannot say: 'This CPIO does not hold any record in this matter'," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-record-of-meeting-with-farmers-on-farm-bills-centre-in-reply-to-rti-931094.html
24-12-2020||National||PM levelling baseless allegations against us over 'repeatedly lying to farmers' on Farm Laws: 11 Opposition leaders||Eleven Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Sitaram Yechury, on Thursday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of making "baseless" allegations against them that they were “repeatedly lying” to the farmers about the new farm laws and “using them for their politics”. The leaders issued a joint statement saying Modi's remarks were a "complete travesty of truth" and called for the repeal of the controversial laws before inviting  protesting farmers and other stakeholders for a discussion on agrarian reforms. On the basis of these consultations, the suggested new enactments may be considered by the Parliament, if necessary, by convening a special or a joint session. Besides the top Congress, NCP and CPI(M) leaders, the statement was also signed by D Raja (CPI), T R Baalu (DMK), Farooq Abdullah (National Conference), Tejaswi Yadav (RJD), Akhilesh Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Dipankar Bhattacharya (CPI-ML), Debabrata Biswas (Forward Bloc) and Manoj Bhattacharya (RSP). The leaders said they have expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers and their call for this "ongoing historic struggle" was given by more than 500 farmer organisations from all over the country under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Many of them opposed these laws when they were being enacted in the Parliament, without discussions, or, proper consideration and MPs who sought a vote were suspended, they said. "Amongst the many unsubstantiated accusations made, one of them is that those who spoke of agrarian reforms in election manifestos earlier but are now opposing.  Yes, we are for reforms, but what sort of reforms? Opposition parties seek reforms to strengthen Indian agriculture; enhance the prosperity of our farmers; and ensure continued food security for our people and the country. The present farm laws undermine these very objectives," they said. "Among the 'big lies' that the opposition is supposedly spreading is on the MSP, the PM claims to implement the Swaminathan Commission Report in this regard. This report had recommended an MSP of C2+50 per cent, while this government, at best, implements A2+50 per cent. In fact, this government told the Supreme Court its inability to implement C2+50 per cent MSP.  Who is spreading untruths?" the statement said. They also debunked the accusation that the Opposition parties were “shooting from the shoulders of the farmers” in order to “regain lost political ground”. Despite all tall claims of improving farmers’ prosperity and implementing a higher MSP, they said, the "fact remains" that farmers’ distress due to indebtedness is growing leaving a record number of them with no other recourse than committing distress suicides. The leaders noted the "unity, grit and determination" being shown by farmers from Delhi’s neighbouring states in the midst of a severe cold wave in a peaceful manner and tens of thousands now on their way marching from different places to join this protest is a "testimony to the fact" that the farmers across the country have risen in opposition to these farm laws. Already 32 farmers have lost their lives, they said demanding the repeal of the laws and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-levelling-baseless-allegations-against-us-over-repeatedly-lying-to-farmers-on-farm-laws-11-opposition-leaders-931097.html
24-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: No night curfew in Karnataka||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, No night curfew in Karnataka; A Covid-19 positive woman, who recently arrived from the UK was picked up from Rajamahendravaram; The BCCI's governing body ratifies the entry of two new franchises in the IPL to make it a 10-team affair from 2022 and government again invites protesting farmer unions for talks : Here are the top news of December 24, 2020: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa withdrew the night curfew just six hours before it was to be imposed on Thursday.  “Based on experts’ opinion, it was decided to impose a night curfew aimed at curbing the spread of the new Covid-19 strain detected in Britain and other countries. However, in the wake of public opinion that a night curfew is not necessary, it has been decided to withdraw it after discussions with Cabinet colleagues and senior officials,” Yediyurappa said in a statement.  He urged citizens to impose self-restraint by wearing face masks and ensuring social distancing. He asked citizens to avoid “unnecessary” travel and strictly follow Covid-19 regulations of the government “to help stop the spread of the virus.”    A Covid-19 positive woman, who allegedly managed to give the slip to authorities in Delhi after her recent arrival from the UK and reach Andhra Pradesh by train, was picked up from Rajamahendravaram and admitted to a hospital along with her son, officials said. Their swab samples are being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune to determine whether she contracted the new strain of Covid-19, detected in the United Kingdom, a Health department official said.   The BCCI's governing body on Thursday ratified the entry of two new franchises in the IPL to make it a 10-team affair from 2022 and also decided to back the ICC's push for cricket's inclusion in the 2028 Olympics, during its Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Ahmedabad. "Two new teams will be introduced in the 2022 IPL," a Board source told PTI. It is learnt that time at hand is too short for even a nine-team IPL next year as an elaborate tender- floating process, increase of matches and ensuring that all foreign player' international calenders are adjusted, would be prove to be a herculean task.   The government on Thursday again invited protesting farmer unions for talks but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), which is out of the purview of three new farm laws. In a three-page letter written to 40 farmer leaders, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal said, "I again request you that the government has been discussing all issues with open heart and good intention to end the protest, and will continue to do so. Kindly suggest a date and time (for the next round of talks)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-no-night-curfew-in-karnataka-931102.html
24-12-2020||National||Plea in SC to appoint chairman, members of Law Commission||A PIL petition has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to make the Law Commission a statutory body and appoint a chairman and members to the body, which remained headless since September 1, 2018. With the Law Commission not working, the Centre doesn’t have the benefit of recommendations from this specialised body on the different aspects of law, which are entrusted to it for study and recommendations, a plea by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said. The commission, on a reference made to it by the Centre, apex court and high courts, researches law and reviews existing laws for making reforms and enacting new legislations. It also undertakes studies and research for bringing reforms in justice delivery systems for elimination of delay in procedures, speedy disposal of cases, reduction in the cost of litigation etc., he pointed out. Upadhyay asked the court to direct the Centre to take appropriate steps to appoint a chairperson and members to the 22 Law Commission of India. Alternatively, being the custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to appoint the chairperson and members of the Commission of India and declare it as a statutory body, he pleaded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-to-appoint-chairman-members-of-law-commission-931108.html
24-12-2020||National||BJP dares Rahul Gandhi for debate on what Congress & Modi govt have done for farmers||The BJP on Thursday challenged Rahul Gandhi for an open debate on what the Congress did for farmers' welfare when in power and what the Modi government has done for them, as it rejected his allegations against the Centre as "baseless and illogical". Union minister Prakash Javadekar accused the Congress of ignoring farmers' interests and keeping them poor to ensure cheap grain prices, and asserted that the Modi government empowered them by implementing the Swaminathan commission report to give them remunerative price through MSP. The BJP leader noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer Rs 18,000 crore to nine crore farmers on Friday, taking to a total of Rs 1.20 lakh crore the amount of money it has directly credited to their bank accounts so far. "This is merely the beginning. It will continue for 10 years and the total scheme is of Rs seven lakh crore," he said, noting that the all the Congress did when it was in power was to waive their loans amounting to Rs 53,000 crore. This money was not given to farmers but to banks against their loans, he noted. "I challenge the Congress and Rahul Gandhi for an open debate. I will prove how the Congress always ignored farmers' interests and how Modi empowered them. Farmers always demanded remunerative price for their produce but the Congress never did so," he added. The opposition party has been "unmasked" as it has become clear and it and its allies have been using farmers' shoulders to fire at the government and have been "instigating" them, he alleged. Gandhi had alleged earlier in the day that there is "no democracy in India" and it exists "only in imagination". A Congress delegation met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the Centre's three agri laws. "The farmers (camping at Delhi borders) would not return till these laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws," he told reporters after meeting the president. Javadekar made light of Gandhi's demand for a session, saying when Parliament is in session, Congress members obstruct and do not take part in a debate. He said the government's doors are always open for dialogue with agitating farmers, and it is confident that a solution will emerge. At a briefing at the BJP headquarters, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi took a swipe at Gandhi by calling him "perpetually young, disenchanted, frustrated and agitated" and said his "baseless and illogical" broadside against the government was in line with his nature. In a counterattack on the Congress leader over his charge that the government invariably dubs its critics as "anti-national", Trivedi said the opposition party had levelled a case of "treason" against former prime minister Charan Singh, a noted leader of farmers, and jailed him as well. BJP stalwart and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also been levelled with a similar charge by the party, he said. He asked why Gandhi is not agitating for farmers in Kerala as the state from where he is an MP does not have the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. "This cannot be accepted what is good in Kerala is bad in Delhi," he said, noting that food processing giants such as Nestle and Pepsico have been present in Punjab for many years. Farmers in other states should also benefit from similar private interventions in the farm market, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-dares-rahul-gandhi-for-debate-on-what-congress-modi-govt-have-done-for-farmers-931115.html
24-12-2020||National||Air India pilots warn of 'industrial action' over wage cut||Disinvestment-bound Air India's pilot unions have rejected the paltry five per cent rollback in their salary cuts and warned of "industrial action" if there is no "substantial" reversal in their paycuts. In a joint letter to Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal on Thursday, the Indian Pilots' Guild (IPG) and the Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) said, "(The) pittance in the form of a five per cent decrease in the current wage cut is an outright insult, its sting magnified in light of our unwavering support and trust in this company." They said this "generosity" amounts to a reduction of about 3 per cent in the current gross pay cut for pilots. In April, Air India had reduced its pilots' salary by up to 70 per cent to partially offset the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on its finances. "We have given the management every benefit of doubt as well as ample time to redress the issue of disproportionate paycut for pilots of Air India and its subsidiaries so there is no point left in mincing words. "If we do not see a timely substantial reduction in this disproportionate paycut, we will be forced to seek justice through harsher means including 'Industrial Action'," the two unions said. In the letter, the unions said, "We do not accept this paltry five per cent rollback in illegal paycut and you may advise the concerned to donate this five per cent towards funds for building the Parliament or PM-CARES (Fund)." Right now, the "disproportionate unilateral" paycut imposed on pilots in the name of Covid-19 amounts to a gross reduction of the pilots' rightful wages from April, the letter said. It added, "This cut has been carefully worded to slash our wages by more than half while insulating top management from any meaningful austerity contribution such as a fair percentage cut on gross emoluments which spreads the burden fairly." Stating that the pilots have been patient and shown a lot of restraint to ensure smooth flight operations and have gone above and beyond during this pandemic, the letter said. "In spite of 171 pilots testing Covid-19-positive, operations continue to run smoothly even in the face of a resurgence of an even deadlier strain of Covid-19." It also said that while the parliamentarians themselves have taken a cut of 30 per cent on gross emoluments and refused to take a higher cut, it is egregious for pilots "to continue tolerating this arbitrary massive paycut of 55 per cent on our gross emoluments". In a letter to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri last month, the unions had said that while other airlines have restored the wages, Air India group pilots continue to get reduced salaries, up to 70 per cent lower than normal wages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-pilots-warn-of-industrial-action-over-wage-cut-931121.html
24-12-2020||National||CBI arrests 2 former managing directors in ponzi scam||The CBI has arrested two former managing directors of companies in two separate cases related to a scam in which Rs 756 crore of investors' money is under scanner, officials said Thursday. Awdhesh Singh, the then managing director of Sun Plant Agro Ltd and Dipankar De, the then managing director of New Land Agro Industries Ltd were arrested for illegally collecting Rs 697 crore and Rs 139 crore respectively from investors by luring them with the assurance of high returns, they said. The CBI alleged that the duo fled after collecting the money in West Bengal and misappropriated the amount, they said. The agency had taken over the investigation of Saradha and other ponzi scam cases on the orders of the Supreme Court on May 9, 2014. Sun Plant Agri had collected funds from people by offering them lucrative returns in the name of selling trees to investors. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had said that the collective investment scheme violated rules and regulations and was running without any registration. The SEBI had also found irregularities in schemes run by New Land Agro and had directed it to refund the money collected by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-2-former-managing-directors-in-ponzi-scam-931130.html
24-12-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to flag off first driverless train on December 28; launch NCMC for Airport Line||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate India's first-ever driverless train operations in Delhi Metro on December 28. The driverless trains will be fully automated, which will eliminate the possibility of human error. After the first driverless services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) of Delhi Metro is expected to have driverless operations by mid-2021 said a statement from the Prime Minister Office. The PM will also launch a fully operational National Common Mobility Card service on the Airport Express Line on December 28 via video conferencing. The National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to travel on the route using it. This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, the PMO said. Kisan Rail The PM will flag off the 100th "Kisan Rail" from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal on December 28 via video-conferencing. The multi-commodity train service will carry vegetables such as cauliflower, capsicum, cabbage, drumstick, chili, and onion as well as fruits like grape, orange, pomegranate, banana, and custard apple, the statement said. It may be noted that the first Kisan Rail was introduced from Devlali to Danapur on August 7, which was further extended up to Muzaffarpur. As a result of a good response from farmers, its frequency was increased from a weekly service to three days in a week, the PMO added. The launch of the train by Modi comes amid protests by a section of farmers against three farm laws near Delhi's borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-flag-off-first-driverless-train-on-december-28-launch-ncmc-for-airport-line-931131.html
24-12-2020||National||Looking forward to welcome UK Prime Minister Johnson: India||India on Thursday said it was looking forward to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's visit here next month, amid reports that the trip may not be possible because of the rapidly-spreading mutated version of the coronavirus in the UK. "We had invited the prime minister of the UK as the Chief Guest in the Republic Day parade in 2021. When UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab was here, he had publicly confirmed his acceptance. So we look forward to welcoming the prime minister here," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He was asked at a media briefing about reports that it may not be possible for Johnson to visit India next month. UK Foreign Secretary Raab visited India last week ostensibly to prepare ground for Johnson's trip. "The UK Prime Minister has accepted the very generous invitation to attend India's Republic Day celebrations (as chief guest) in January which is a great honour," Raab had said at a joint press conference with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-forward-to-welcome-uk-prime-minister-johnson-india-931136.html
24-12-2020||National||Former CEO of rating agency BARC arrested in TRP scam||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Thursday arrested a former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) from Pune district in the fake TRP scam, an official said. Partho Dasgupta, the accused, is the fifteenth person to be arrested in the case related to the alleged rigging of Television Rating Points (TRP) by some TV channels. He was arrested by Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) from the jurisdiction of Rajgad Police Station in Pune district and will be produced before a court here on Friday, the official said. Earlier, the CIU had arrested former chief operating officer (COO) of BARC Ramil Ramgarhia in the case, among others. Mumbai police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers. It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ceo-of-rating-agency-barc-arrested-in-trp-scam-931140.html
24-12-2020||National||Farmers dug up helipad in Haryana deputy CM's constituency||Farmers waiving black flags on Tuesday dug up a portion of a helipad in Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s constituency, later claiming that their protest had forced him to cancel his visit there. Police, however, said the protest by a small group of farmers took place hours after they were informed that the visit had been cancelled. His party said there was no visit planned. A small hole was dug up by the protesters at the temporary helipad, police said. The protesters asked Chautala to choose between power or side with farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws. Terming the state government as “anti-farmer”, they raised slogans against Chautala and dug up a portion of the temporary helipad at Karsandhu village in Uchana. They claimed that Chautala had to cancel an event near the village because of their protest. However, a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) spokesperson told PTI that Chautala had no programme to attend in Uchana. After a press conference in Chandigarh, he had to leave for Delhi, he said. The protesters said till the time Chautala does not come in their support, they will hold protests against the JJP leader. “He should resign and stand with farmers. If he has to support the BJP, let him but then we will not allow him to enter Uchana," they said. The protesters said Chautala became deputy CM as they voted for him. "He is a great grandson of Chaudhary Devi Lal, the messiah of farmers who dedicated his entire life for their sake. But Dushyant is clinging to power. He will have to make a choice now,” said farmer leader Krishan Kumar. “We wanted to greet him with black flags because he continues to support the anti-farmer BJP government,” said another protesting farmer. Dushyant is the JJP MLA from Uchana. His party with 10 MLAs is supporting the BJP, which has 40 members in the 90-member state assembly. A police official from Uchana said they were informed early in the morning that the deputy CM’s programme has been postponed. He said in the afternoon, a group of farmers reached the school where the temporary helipad was located. “A small hole was dug up by the protesters, the police official said. At a press conference in Chandigarh earlier in the day, Chautala reiterated that he will tender his resignation the day he feels he is unable to ensure the minimum support price (MSP) for the farmers’ produce in Haryana. To another question on the withdrawal of support to the BJP in the state, Chautala said, "There is no pressure. We are running the government in a very stable manner." On Tuesday, a group of farmers had shown black flags to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar passing through Ambala City. Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some of them hurled sticks at some vehicles. Later, the Haryana Police booked 13 farmers on charges of attempt to murder and rioting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-dug-up-helipad-in-haryana-deputy-cms-constituency-931150.html
24-12-2020||National||Schools for Classes 9 to 12 to reopen in Pune city from Jan 4||Schools and colleges for Classes 9 to 12 will reopen in the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from January 4, 2021, an official said on Thursday. The civic body had earlier postponed the reopening of schools and colleges in its limits and stated that they will continue to remain shut till January 3. In an order issued on Thursday the civic body stated that schools and colleges for classes 9 to 12 will reopen from January 4. "It is mandatory for all schools and colleges to follow the Covid-19 protocols and adhere to safety measures such as thermal screening, oximeter checking of students and staff," the order stated. The schools and colleges will also have to ensure that the seating arrangements are made in keeping with the physical distancing norms, it was stated. RT-PCR tests for teachers and non-teaching staff have been made mandatory for schools and colleges. Schools and colleges for Classes 9 to 12 have already reopened in the rural parts of Pune district from November 23 in keeping with the state government's directives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-for-classes-9-to-12-to-reopen-in-pune-city-from-jan-4-931158.html
24-12-2020||National||Include repeal of new farm laws in agenda for fresh talks: Farmer unions on govt's fresh letter||Protesting farmer unions alleged on Thursday that the government's latest letter for talks is nothing but a propaganda against the peasants to create an impression that they are not interested in dialogue and asked it to put the scrapping of the three recent farm laws in the agenda to resume the parley. The unions said the minimum support price (MSP) cannot be separated from the demand of repealing the contentious agriculture laws, asserting that the issue of a legal guarantee for the MSP is a key part of their agitation. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for the last 27 days, is likely to hold a meeting on Friday to discuss the Centre's letter and respond to it formally. Earlier in the day, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. The government's letter comes a day after the morcha asked it not to repeat the proposal of "meaningless" amendments that they have already rejected but to come up with a "concrete offer" in writing for the resumption of talks. "The government is not serious about our demands and they are writing letters every day. The new letter is nothing but a propaganda being created by the government against us to give an impression that we are not interested in holding talks. The government should bring the repeal of the three farm laws in the agenda for a fresh round of dialogue," senior morcha leader Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI. He said a legal guarantee of the MSP is an important part of the farmers' demands, which cannot be neglected by the government. In his letter to the 40 farm unions, Aggarwal said, "I again request you that the government has been discussing all issues with an open heart and good intentions to end the protest, and will continue to do so. Kindly suggest a date and time (for the next round of talks)." Another farmer leader, Lakhvir Singh, said the government's letter to the unions does not have any new proposal. "They (government) can say that the laws will not affect the MSP, but the fact is that if the FCI (Food Corporation of India) is not there in the market, who will buy our crops at the MSP? "Even today, of the 23 crops that come under the ambit of the MSP, only wheat and rice, and sometimes cotton is bought at the MSP," Singh, the vice president of the All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab), claimed. Avtar Singh Mehma, press secretary, Krantikari Kisan Union, said the Centre can keep claiming that the laws will not affect the MSP system, but farmers want an MSP guarantee act that will ensure that their crop is sold at the minimum support price. "The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will meet on Friday to discuss the government's letter and then respond to it," he said. Five rounds of talks between the government and the unions have failed to break the deadlock, with the farmers insisting on a repeal of the three laws and camping at various border points of the national capital for nearly a month now. Aggarwal asked the unions to provide details of the other issues they want to discuss. The talks will be held at the Vigyan Bhawan here at a ministerial level, he said. On the MSP, the official said the farm laws have no connection with the price regime nor would have any impact on the procurement of farm produce at the fixed rates. This has been told to the unions in every discussion and it has also been made clear that the government is ready to give a written assurance on the MSP, he said. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/include-repeal-of-new-farm-laws-in-agenda-for-fresh-talks-farmer-unions-on-govts-fresh-letter-931163.html
24-12-2020||National||CSC ties up with French institute to offer skill training||To make the government’s Digital India initiative safer and robust in rural India, the Common Service Centre (CSC), a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, has launched a cybersecurity course in collaboration with French institute -- Ecole Superieure Robert de Sorbon. The CSC has also started CAD and 3D Printing courses in collaboration with the French company to enhance skills and improve the employability of rural youth. “Both the courses will run through our education and vocational training arm – CSC Academy – and these courses will be specially be available to our rural youths across India. Our partnership with Ecole Superieure Robert de Sorbon, a not-for-profit, prestigious institution of higher education from France, will add more value to our courses which have been designed keeping mind the improve chances of employment and to promote entrepreneurship among our youths in rural areas,” said CSC Managing Director Dinesh Tyagi. The French Institute will support CSC to enable Cyber Security Course at CSC academies across India. Similarly, CSC’s partnership for CAD and 3D Printing courses at CSC academies across India will help in developing industry-relevant skills to generate employment and self-employment opportunities for the youth. It will also help youths in developing their skills on machining tools like 3D Printer and able to create complex industrial components and able to convert their creative and innovative ideas into reality with the help of CAD and 3D printer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-ties-up-with-french-institute-to-offer-skill-training-931164.html
24-12-2020||National||Filming of centrally protected monuments will be free from Dec 25 to Aug 15||Filming of centrally-protected monuments to promote tourism and culture will not be chargeable from December 25 to August 15, 2021 to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and commemorate the celebrations of the 75th year of the country's independence, according to an order of the Ministry of Culture. The order issued on Thursday states that the ministry "exempts the payment of fees/charges under rule 44(1) of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1959 for the filming of centrally protected monuments and sites from December 25, 2000 to August 15, 2021". This, however, will not be applicable to the 27 world heritage sites. "On the occasion of Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji's birth anniversary, from 25 December to 15 August 2021, the @ASIGoI will allow filming in monuments free of charge, except for the world heritage sites. It is an auspicious occasion to promote freedom, language, art, culture, tourism. This has been done under the Dekho Apna Desh initiative to encourage people to see their own country," Culture Minister Prahlad Patel said in a tweet. However, the order states that the applicants or agencies have to apply for permission to carry out shooting activities as under Rule 43 of the AMASR Rules, 1959. It also states that the director general, if satisfied that the licence asked for should not be granted, may for reasons to be recorded refuse to grant the same. "The exemption will be provided to the applicants/agencies specifically working on the areas of the Indian independence movement, life of a freedom fighter, sacrifices in the freedom movement, Indian tradition and culture, promotion of national language, folk arts/folk language, heritage of Indian tourism development and promotion and other issues relating to national importance," the order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) states. However, the applicants will have to pay a refundable security deposit, applicable for the filming of centrally-protected monuments and sites. "Except the 27 world heritage sites, at the other sites, filming will be free. This is to promote lesser known sites, encourage people to film at these sites and promote places within the country," said Nitin Tripathi, Media Advisor, Ministry of Culture. The ASI has 3,692 centrally-protected monuments under it and the fee for filming at the these locations is Rs 50,000 per day per site, which is non-refundable, and Rs 10,000 as security deposit, which is refundable. Patel had earlier reduced the time taken to give permissions for filming at these monuments to 20 days, which earlier used to take months, and also brought down the filming fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filming-of-centrally-protected-monuments-will-be-free-from-dec-25-to-aug-15-931178.html
24-12-2020||National||India to invite Afghanistan to next meet on Chabahar port||Afghanistan will be invited to the next meeting of India, Iran and Uzbekistan on joint use of strategically-located Chabahar port, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. The dates for the meeting, to be hosted by India, were being finalised, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the Chabahar port is being increasingly seen as a fulcrum of connectivity to Central Asia. India, Iran and Uzbekistan held their first trilateral talks on December 14 to explore ways for joint use of the port for trade and enhancing regional connectivity. "Afghanistan as a major stakeholder will be invited for this meeting," Srivastava said. The port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost trade ties among the three countries in the wake of Pakistan denying transit access to New Delhi. The port can be easily accessed from India's western coast, bypassing Pakistan. The trilateral meeting on December 14 took place in the backdrop of India pitching for participation of Uzbekistan in the International North South Transport Corridor (INSTC) project. The virtual meeting was held as a follow up of decisions taken during talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan on December 11 during which ways to speed up connectivity projects linking central Asia was a major focus. The INSTC is a 7,200-km-long multi-mode transport project for moving freight among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Central Asia and Europe. The trilateral meeting was jointly chaired by India's Shipping Secretary Sanjeev Ranjan, Deputy Minister of Transport of Uzbekistan D Dehkanov and Deputy Transport Minister of Iran Shahram Adamnejad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-invite-afghanistan-to-next-meet-on-chabahar-port-931180.html
24-12-2020||National||India, China agreed that next round of military talks should be held soon: MEA||India and China have agreed that the next round of military talks should be held soon for working towards an "early and complete" disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the diplomatic and military talks have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other's positions on the issue. Last week, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. In the virtual meeting, both sides agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the LAC in eastern at the "earliest". "India and China continue to maintain communications through diplomatic and military channels. These discussions have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other's positions," Srivastava said. He was replying to questions on the over seven-month border standoff. "As you are aware, a meeting of the WMCC on India China border affairs took place on December 18 and the two sides have agreed that the ninth round of senior commanders meeting should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols and fully restore peace and tranquillity," he said. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Army Chief Gen MM Naranave on Wednesday visited various high-altitude forward areas in eastern Ladakh and reviewed India's overall military preparedness. Asked whether India cancelled all diplomatic events planned with China to celebrate the 70th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, Srivastava said the activities have not yet been launched. "This is the 70th year of establishment of diplomatic relations between India and China. However, the activities that have been agreed upon have not yet been launched," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agreed-that-next-round-of-military-talks-should-be-held-soon-mea-931185.html
24-12-2020||National||Adani Group sues YouTuber for spreading 'fake news' on its grain silos business||Adani Agri Logistics of Adani Group has filed a civil suit in Ahmedabad against a YouTuber for allegedly spreading “fake news” on its operation involving the development of food grain storage facilities for Food Corporation of India. The suit has been filed against Vinay Dubey, who was described by the petitioner company as a “YouTuber and creator of YouTube channel Loktantra TV”. Despite repeated attempts, the company officials refused to share details. Officials said that since the matter is subjudice, they can’t reveal any information. Sources said Dubey, who is said to be a resident of Uttar Pradesh and lives in Mumbai, had posted a video on his YouTube channel which the Adani group has found “fake”. The civil suit was listed for hearing in a city sessions court on Thursday which was adjourned till December 28. Earlier this month, Adani Group had tweeted a detailed statement in response to “the misleading video posted by the Loktantra TV YouTube channel that is leveraging the ongoing farmer crisis in order to malign our reputation and misguide public opinion.” The company has found that the purported video accused it of building grain storage facilities that would be allegedly used to hoard food grains from farmers and sold at a higher price at open markets. “Firstly, the Adani Group is in the business of developing and operating grain silos for Food Corporation of India (FCI) since the year 2005, wherein the company sets up storage infrastructure based on transparent bidding parameters set by the government of India. All such PPP (public private partnership) projects are awarded to the concessionaires on a prescribed competitive bidding process. The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as pricing of grains as it is only a service/infrastructure provider for the FCI, while the FCI controls the procurement and movement of the food grains for the Public Distribution Systems... To conclude, we do not own any food grains procured from farmers and are in no way connected to the pricing of grains. These kinds of storages are in benefit to the farmers, and they are the primary beneficiaries,” the Twitter post reads. “Secondly, the video also misleads audiences into believing that a private rail line is being used to facilities the Adani Group. On the contrary, these railway lines are very much a part of the tender requirements floated by FCI under this PPP Project, whereby the railway lines facilitate the movement of grains from silo units to their distribution centres across India... Shockingly, the video urges the word ‘goons’. We strongly condemn such words for a professional team fulfilling their duty with a commitment to nation-building,” it adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adani-group-sues-youtuber-for-spreading-fake-news-on-its-grain-silos-business-931198.html
24-12-2020||National||Serum Institute of India's Covid-19 vaccine not to get nod till UK authorises AstraZeneca shot||Nearly three weeks after it sought the Indian pharmaceutical regulator’s nod for emergency use of its Covid-19 vaccine, Pune-based Serum Institute of India is yet to receive an approval from the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation primarily due to the absence of such an approval from the UK drug regulator to the original vaccine created by a partnership between Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Since the SII vaccine is the same as the Oxford-AstraZeneca one, Indian regulators would like to look at the vaccine’s efficacy data from the clinical evaluations carried out abroad before permitting its emergency use in India. The Indian trial of the Serum vaccine on 1,600 volunteers is only to test the vaccine’s safety and immunogenicity or immune response in the Indian population. There would be no efficacy trial in India. As a consequence, the CDSCO will have to rely on the assessment made by the UK Medicine and Healthcare Product Regulatory Agency, which is likely to take up the Astra vaccine case next week after the company submits its final tranche of clinical trial data. Authorisation by the MHRA, sources said, would give confidence to the regulators in other countries in the wake of a controversy surrounding the trial protocols after it was found that two doses of the vaccine yielded two different levels of protection – 62 per cent and 90 per cent protection – depending on the quantity of the vaccine administered. The SII sought an Emergency Use Authorisation license from the CDSCO on December 7. Two days later, the regulator reviewed the application and sought updated safety data of the phase 2/3 clinical trial in India, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India and lastly, outcome of the assessment of the MHRA to grant the EUA license. Sources said the SII had furnished the data to the CDSCO last week and the regulator would now review the data to take a call. Pfizer and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad also approached the CDSCO for the EUA approval. The former has even asked for a waiver for the clinical trial requirement. But the multinational giant that got approval for its vaccine in the UK, EU and US markets is yet to make a presentation before the CDSCO while additional data was sought from Bharat Biotech when their case was taken up earlier this month. Meanwhile, SII tied up with two other companies for clinical trials of their Covid-19 vaccines in India. Last week, it approached the regulator seeking clinical trial permission of a novel vaccine manufactured by Novovax, but the regulator asked the company to modify the trial protocols. The Pune-based company has also partnered with the US firm Dynavax for the clinical trial of their vaccine in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-indias-covid-19-vaccine-not-to-get-nod-till-uk-authorises-astrazeneca-shot-931200.html
24-12-2020||National||Centre's fresh invite to protesters as it meets farmers supporting new laws||A day after agitating farmers rejected the government's offer for talks, the Centre wrote another letter urging them to set a fresh date for talks even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar received farmer delegations who expressed support for the farm laws. The letter from Vivek Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Agriculture Ministry, said it was the responsibility of the government to ensure all voices were heard as the protests by farmers unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, on Delhi borders were set to complete a month on Friday. “The government has, respectfully and with open mind, held several rounds of talks and has also proposed to hold the next round of talks at your convenience,” Agarwal said in the letter addressed to 40 leaders of farmer unions. As the government kept the door of talks with the agitating farmers open, members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, Baghpat and Kisan Sena called on the Agriculture Minister, expressing support for the Centre’s farm reforms. Activists of the Kisan Sena also took out a rally in support of the farm sector laws and blocked the Delhi-Noida highway as they were enroute to meet the minister. “Representatives of farmers organisations met me and expressed support for the farm laws. They said the farm laws have fulfilled their long-standing demands and that the government should on buckle under any pressure on these laws,” Tomar told reporters after meeting the farmer’s representatives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address farmers on Friday and transfer an installment of Rs 2,000 under the income support scheme to over nine crore farmers. BJP is trying hard to reach out to a maximum number of farmers with ministers and senior leaders fanning out across the country to be amongst farmers when the Prime Minister makes his speech. Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to be present at a gaushala temple in Kishangarh village in Mehrauli in south-west Delhi to hear the Prime Minister’s virtual address to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-fresh-invite-to-protesters-as-it-meets-farmers-supporting-new-laws-931202.html
24-12-2020||National||China not allowing ships to dock, says India||With sailors from India stuck in two ships anchored off the Jingtang and Caofeidian ports in China for several months now, New Delhi on Thursday subtly alleged that Beijing did not allow the vessels to dock and discharge cargo citing Covid-19 concerns, although the others, which arrived later, had been permitted to do so. Even as the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are engaged in a stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations, a new irritant has emerged in New Delhi’s relations with Beijing. As many as 39 sailors from India are stuck on board the bulk cargo vessels, MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia, since June 13 and September 20 last respectively, because the port authorities of the communist country did not allow the ships to discharge cargo or change crew. “There is a considerable amount of stress on the crew members on account of this unprecedented situation,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. The MV Jag Anand and the MV Anastasia are at anchorage near the Jingtang Port and the Caofeidian Port in China respectively. “The Chinese authorities have conveyed that on account of various Covid-19-related restrictions imposed by the local authorities, crew change is not being permitted from these ports,” said the MEA spokesperson. “We also understand, however, that some other ships, which arrived after the Indian ship had arrived, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave. The reasons for this are not clear.” The Embassy of India in Beijing is in touch with the authorities in China and has sought “facilitation and assistance, which could lead to an early resolution of the issue and help ameliorate the situation of the crew” of the MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand. Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese government, said in Beijing on Wednesday that the local authorities had responded “in a timely manner” to the appeals from the Government of India and provided the sailors on board the stranded ships “necessary convenience and assistance while adhering to epidemic prevention rules”. He, however, justified the decision of the local port authorities not to allow the vessels to dock, offload their cargo or change their crew. “In China, there are clear requirements on epidemic prevention and control at ports and on quarantine of crew members. These are all based on science,” said Zhao. A source in New Delhi said that the Chinese government had not yet clarified how the ships, which had arrived in the ports after the MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand, had been allowed to dock at the ports, offload cargo and leave as the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 should have been applied in an unbiased manner. The MEA spokesperson said that New Delhi had taken note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese government statement on Wednesday about the "provision of necessary facilitation and assistance” to the sailors stuck in the two vessels. A few other ships with coal from Australia are also waiting near the ports in China and some of them have onboard sailors from India. A source said that the ships were not allowed to dock at the ports as China banned the import of coal from Australia in the wake of deteriorating relations between Canberra and Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-not-allowing-ships-to-dock-says-india-931206.html
24-12-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | J&K DDC Polls: 'Gupkar Gang going vocal for local'||The DDC polls mark the Centre’s first attempt at restoring democratic processes in the Jammu and Kashmir, following the revocation of its special status and bifurcation in August 2019. The Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) took a big lead over the BJP as votes were being counted till late in the night in the maiden district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-jk-ddc-polls-gupkar-gang-going-vocal-for-local-930905.html
24-12-2020||National Politics||There's no democracy in India, it is only in imagination, says Rahul Gandhi over Farm Laws row||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday launched a scathing attack on the BJP government saying there is “imaginary democracy” in the country and even RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat would be labeled a “terrorist” if he dared to stand up against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rahul’s sharp attack came minutes after he led a three-member delegation to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding the repeal of the three farm sector laws, which have farmers from across Punjab and parts of Haryana camping at the Delhi borders for nearly a month against the Centre’s agricultural reforms. Scores of Congress leaders, including AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the police as they tried to march to the Rashtrapati Bhawan to demand the repeal of the three laws. Besides Rahul, Congress’ floor leaders in Parliament Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury met the President and handed over a memorandum opposing the farm sector laws and expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers. “We did not go to the President alone but took along with us two crore signatures seeking these demands. Prime Minister Modi has to hear them,” Rahul told reporters. The former Congress President also demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the farm sector laws. He accused the Modi government of favouring “crony capitalists” dubbing anyone opposing them as “terrorists” and “anti-national”. “They will be called a terrorist – be it farmers, labourers or anyone. If one day even Mohan Bhagwat stands up against him, he will be branded a terrorist,” Rahul said. On the detention of Congress leaders by the police, he said it was the government’s usual way of “detaining or beating up” protests. “Which country are you talking about? Are you talking about India? There is no democracy in India. Democracy exists only in your imagination, not in reality,” Rahul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/theres-no-democracy-in-india-it-is-only-in-imagination-says-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-row-931044.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt keeping watch on those who returned from UK in past 2 weeks: Officials||The authorities have enhanced monitoring of city residents who returned in the past few weeks from the UK, where a highly infectious coronavirus strain has emerged, to prevent any violation of the mandatory home isolation, Delhi government officials said on Wednesday. Teams of health department and civil defence volunteers have been deployed at the district level to keep watch on the persons who returned from the UK in the last two weeks and tested negative but are required to undergo home isolation. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain said tracing and testing of all those who travelled to Delhi from the UK in the past two weeks will be ensured. “Delhi Government is aware, and all the people who have travelled from the UK to Delhi in the past two weeks will be traced, tested and advised quarantine," he said in a statement. A district magistrate said the Bureau of Civil Aviation has shared details of those who have returned from the UK and teams are visiting them to check for any symptoms of the virus and report them for testing. "We are making sure that all those who have returned from UK in past two weeks are being contacted and ensured RTPCR test if any symptoms are reported . Tracing of their contacts after return to Delhi is also underway," he said. The government has set up a separate facility at the LNJP hospital for those passengers from the UK who are found COVID-19 positive in the RTPCR tests conducted at the IGI airport, for their treatment and genomic testing, officials said. Besides, a five-star hotel in Aerocity near the airport has been earmarked as a paid quarantine facility, while a Covid care centre in south Delhi will serve as a free institutional isolation facility for passengers from flights in which positive cases are detected, they said. Those passengers who have returned from the UK in the past few weeks and have been found negative will undergo two weeks' home isolation followed by another two week period under observation, officials said. Jain said while the new strain is contagious, the only way to protect  from any infection is by wearing a mask and taking all proper precautions. He requested people to be careful saying no matter the strain, the only way to protect oneself is by wearing the mask when stepping out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-keeping-watch-on-those-who-returned-from-uk-in-past-2-weeks-officials-930826.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Night curfew in some Rajasthan cities on Dec 31||The Rajasthan government has imposed a night curfew on December 31 in all cities having a population of over one lakh. The restrictions will remain in place from 8 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, according to an order issued by the Home Department. No New Year party will be organised on the occasion while bursting of firecrackers will be banned. According to the order, markets will be closed at 7 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-in-some-rajasthan-cities-on-dec-31-930910.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Dense fog shrouds Delhi; air quality remains 'severe'||Dense fog reduced visibility to just 100 metres in parts of Delhi on Thursday, affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.   The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, settled at 4.5 degrees Celsius. “Dense fog in the Palam area reduced visibility to 100 metres between 5:30 am and 8 am. At Safdarjung, moderate fog lowered visibility to 201 metres,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said.   According to the weather department, “very dense” fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is “dense”, 201 and 500 “moderate”, and 501 and 1,000 “shallow”.   Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of Delhi over the next two days. The mercury is expected to drop to three Celsius on Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, the IMD said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. High humidity, low wind speed and lowering temperatures kept Delhi's air quality in the "severe" zone for the third day on the trot, according to weather department officials. No major improvement is predicted till December 26, Srivastava said.  The city's air quality index (AQI) was 427 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 433 on Wednesday and 418 on Tuesday. Air pollution in the neighbouring cities of Faridabad (450), Ghaziabad (442), Greater Noida (454) and Noida (448) also remained in the “severe” zone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dense-fog-shrouds-delhi-air-quality-remains-severe-930944.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Kashmir's flood prevention system comes at the cost of internationally-protected wetland||A flood management plan, drawn up to protect the capital of Indian-administered Kashmir after record rainfall in 2014 caused widespread damage and about 150 deaths, is drying out an internationally protected wetland near Srinagar, officials say. The two-stage plan, started in 2018, includes dredging and deepening an existing drainage channel that diverts water from the River Jhelum around the city, through the Hokera wetland and back into the river in Baramullah district to prevent flooding. The flood spill channel in Hokera has now been excavated down to an average of 15 feet (4.6 m) in the first phase of the plan, and is expected to help ward off minor flood threats. But the work has also dried out about half of the 1,375-hectare (3,400-acre) internationally recognised wetland, as more water runs off into the channel, putting wildlife and nature at risk, according to wetland wildlife warden Ifshan Dewan. Six smaller channels dug in an unsuccessful bid to rewet the land have ended up draining it further, with nearly all of Hokera now appearing dry, the Thomson Reuters Foundation witnessed on a visit this month. Sami Ullah Bhat, assistant professor at the University of Kashmir School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, noted that thousands of farmers rely on the wetland as a source of fodder for the cattle they rear to produce milk and beef. "Damage to the wetland will have a direct impact on their livelihoods," he said. Villagers said there had been far less grass as the wetland - known locally as Hokersar - dried out over the past two years, forcing them to buy fodder for their cows during winter. "If Hokersar stays this way, we would have to work as daily labourers for our livelihood," said Ghulam Ahmad of Lawaypora village, who has three cows. A letter sent by the office of Kashmir's regional wildlife warden to the Irrigation and Flood Control (IFC) Department this month said the work had caused "water deficiency of the wetland and converted a major portion of the wetland into a landmass". An earlier letter this month, also from the wildlife warden's office, demanded the IFC make changes to protect the wetland "on a war-footing basis without further delay". Sharachchandra Lele, an environmental policy and governance fellow at the Bangalore-based Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, said officials should have been aware the project was likely to damage the wetland. “Wetlands by definition are shallow water bodies retaining some water level all year around. Any attempt to dredge a wetland is bound to destroy its basic ecological structure and function," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Because the wetland is an internationally recognised Ramsar conservation site, the government plan to expand a flood channel passing through it should have raised a red flag, he said. The Hokera wetland sits along a migratory route used by nearly 70 species of water birds, from egrets and cormorants to ducks, according to the Ramsar Sites Information Service. Reiko Iitsuka, a senior advisor for Asia-Oceania at the Ramsar secretariat, said her office had contacted the Indian government, seeking more information on the Hokera situation. The Thomson Reuters Foundation has seen more than a dozen letters sent by Kashmir wildlife officials since July 2019 asking the IFC and its dredging contractor to take action to ensure the wetland can continue to hold water, as stipulated in the original contract for the work. That includes installing sluice gates to maintain water levels, and removing dredged material dumped in the wetland. Wildlife officials said the measures were designed to ensure the wetland has 3-4 feet (0.9-1.2 m) of water year round. The IFC's chief engineer, Iftikhar Kakroo, said he had recently seen for himself how the wetland was drying out. "But we will hopefully find a solution to this soon," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The agency executing the work informed him they were removing the excavated material from the wetland, he noted. "The (sluice) gates will also be installed. It has not been done so far because the design was not ready," he added. Consultations are underway with the government on the second phase of the flood management project, which is expected to start soon and will increase the carrying capacity of the River Jhelum and its flood spill channel further, he added. At the wetland, which lies 12 km (7.5 miles) west of Srinagar city centre, people now walk across land where previously boats were needed to navigate the water. Animals graze and boys play cricket amid mounds of dumped material. Warden Dewan said 80% of the dredged material was still lying in the wetland. “Hokersar is gone,” said student Touseef Lone, 22, who lives in Zainakote, a town adjacent to the wetland. “My legs tremble when I see myself walking deep inside the wetland, which only accepted boats two years back,” he said, as he strolled through a dry patch of the once-wet land. "Look at these wide cracks. This is what they have done to Hokersar by draining all its water," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmirs-flood-prevention-system-comes-at-the-cost-of-internationally-protected-wetland-930993.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||51 lakh to get Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi in first phase||Around 51 lakh people -- three lakh healthcare workers, six lakh front-line workers and 42 lakh with co-morbidities in all age groups -- will be administered Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He said one person will get two doses each, which means that 1.02 crore doses will be required in the first phase. At present, the Delhi government has a cold storage capacity for 74 lakh doses and it will be increased to 1.15 crore doses in the next five to seven days. The administration has already identified officers and workers who would be required for the vaccination drive and have been trained. Each team will have five people. "The vaccine will be administered to only those people whose registration has been done. Those people will be contacted via SMS and will be given full information regarding the vaccine roll-out," Kejriwal said. He also said in case there are some post-vaccine side-effects on a person, the government has made proper arrangements for treatment of such patients. Acknowledging that there has been a "significant decrease" in daily deaths due to Covid-19 in the capital, he said efforts should be made to further reduce it. The recovery rate has also considerably increased and people who got infected are getting recovered and going back to their homes, he said. "But now, everyone is eyeing the vaccine. The Delhi government has made all arrangements for the administration of the vaccine to the Delhiites. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive the vaccine from the Central government, its storage, and administering it to Covid-19 patients," he said. The Centre has prepared three types of priority lists for the people who will be administered the vaccine because the production of the vaccine and the capacity will not be so much as to dispense the vaccine to the whole country, the chief minister said. He said there are three lakh healthcare workers in Delhi, who will be among the first to be vaccinated. Front-line workers, including police personnel, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers, numbering around six lakh is another section in the priority list. The third category is the people who are either above 50 years of age or are below 50 years of age and have comorbidities, such as diabetes or heart-related issues, which is around 42 lakh people in Delhi, the Chief Minister said. Kejriwal had chaired a meeting on the rolling out and administering of the vaccine in Delhi. The health department officials gave a presentation on the preparedness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/51-lakh-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-delhi-in-first-phase-931006.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Punjabi rendition of 'Bella Ciao' finds its way to farmers' protest||“Bella Ciao”, the anthem of resistance across the world, now has a Punjabi version that echoes with the sounds of farmers protesting and 27-year-old Poojan Sahil who created the song can’t be happier at its acceptance and success. The video of the song has almost 2.7 lakh views on YouTube in less than a week and is being widely shared across social media platforms.  Sahil, who teaches mathematics in a Delhi school, said "fear, abuses and disappointments" are par for the course for a socially conscious musician but it all seems worth it if his words give strength to the thousands of farmers who have been protesting for the last month to demand a rollback of the three new agriculture laws. "I have a parameter for my songs. As soon as I start getting abuses on the YouTube comments I understand it has become slightly popular and has moved out of the usual echo chamber! For this song it happened in less than 24 hours of uploading it," Sahil told PTI. He had created a Hindi version of “Bella Ciao” during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year and knew the song, which returned to the popularity charts through Netflix's popular drama "Money Heist", would resonate with the youth. "I had already created a 'Wapas Jao' (Hindi version) of 'Bella Ciao' during various student protests in India and it was received well. It was then also used for the CAA protests a number of times. I realised the youth connects to it and obviously 'Money Heist' has helped in that. When the farmers' protest began, I thought it would fit well, given the history of the song," Sahil said. "Bella Ciao" (Goodbye Beautiful) originated in the late 19th century in north Italy with women peasants singing it in protest to the harsh working conditions. The Italian resistance song was also used by members of various anti-fascist groups against Benito Mussolini during the Second World War. Over the decades and years, it has cropped up in protests around the globe, be it Greece, Tunisia or France. Sahil said the popularity of the Hindi version of the song during the anti-CAA protests inspired him to come up with the Punjabi lyrics. "I think the melody of the song is truly timeless," he said. The Punjabi lyrics of the song – the video by 'Karwaan-e-Mohabbat', a civil society campaign for social harmony, has sweeping shots from the protest grounds near the border areas of Delhi -- talks about how farmers have left everything behind to protest against the new farm bills. "We have left all inhibitions behind/Singing O merciless/ Go back, go back, go back/ every grain of the soil sings in chorus/ O merciless go back," say the lyrics, which are not the translation of the original but a rendition in Punjabi. Asked about being a creative, socially conscious voice in contemporary times, Sahil said it is a "taxing experience". "It is a very taxing experience to be honest with the fear, abuses and disappointments that have to be faced regularly. However, when it feels like the movement and the people struggling are gaining some strength and hope through our words and music, it seems all worth it," he said. The lyricist-musician-singer has also reprised many classics, including "Woh Subah Kabhi to Ayegi", Faiz Ahmed Faiz's "Hum Dekhenge" and "Muhabbat Zindabad" from "Mughal-E-Azam". He said he tries to be hopeful about the future through these songs. "… These songs of hope are also like the conversations I am having with myself to keep the hope alive!" Sahil said, adding that he is inspired by people around him, family, friends and "everyone who keeps trying in their own way to work towards a better tomorrow". Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabi-rendition-of-bella-ciao-finds-its-way-to-farmers-protest-931009.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||New coronavirus strain: Uttar Pradesh traces UK returnees, faces switched-off phones hurdle||The Uttar Pradesh Health Department is facing an uphill task of connecting to those who have recently returned from the UK, where a new variant of the coronavirus has been detected, as many of them have switched off their mobile phones. Passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom have been suspended from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of the mutated strain of the virus. Also, the Centre has advised states to ensure that passengers from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and be isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Lucknow Sanjay Bhatnagar on Thursday said, "The central government has provided a list of those returning from the UK to Uttar Pradesh, including those coming to the state capital. But it only mentions their phone numbers. Efforts are on to contact them but most of them have switched off their phones." Many have been traced and efforts are on to connect with others them, the CMO said. A senior official of the Health Department said an alert has been sounded in all the states. "The list received by Uttar Pradesh from the Centre mentions phone number of about four dozen passengers who arrived here from the United Kingdom since November 24. But it does not have their addresses. Phone calls to most of the mobile numbers are either not being received or are switched off," the official said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should undergo tests for detection of Covid-19. He also directed compulsory RT PCR tests of all those who came to the state after December 9. "We have to remain alert keeping in mind new strain of coronavirus. All those who came to the state from abroad between November 25 and December 8 should be tested and compulsory RT-PCR test should be done for those coming after December 9," the chief minister was quoted as saying in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-coronavirus-strain-uttar-pradesh-traces-uk-returnees-faces-switched-off-phones-hurdle-931011.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Congress MLAs to reach Madhya Pradesh Assembly on tractors on December 28||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLAs will arrive at the state Assembly here on tractors on December 28 as a mark of protest against the Centre's three new farm laws and rise in fuel prices, a party legislator said on Thursday. The three-day winter session of the state Assembly will begin from Monday. MP Congress president Kamal Nath has asked all the party MLAs in the state to reach the Congress office in Bhopal on December 28 morning. The legislators will then travel to the state Assembly complex on tractors to protest against the three new agri laws and inflation, Congress MLA Harsh Yadav told PTI. The three new farm laws are against the interests of farmers, he claimed. Besides, the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas have hit the roof, the former state minister said. Congress currently has 96 MLAs in the state. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's border points since November 26 against the Centre's three new farm laws. They are demanding a repeal of the laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlas-to-reach-madhya-pradesh-assembly-on-tractors-on-december-28-931014.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||After DDC poll results, spotlight shifts to independent candidates in Jammu and Kashmir||Political spotlight has shifted on independent candidates as they won 50 out of 280 seats in the just concluded DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir finishing third behind the BJP and National Conference (NC) who won 75 and 67 seats respectively. Barring five of 20 districts, the independents won atleast one seat in all other districts. Among the successful independent candidates, 27 won in Kashmir and the rest in Jammu division. In two districts – Srinagar and Poonch - independent won seven and six seats respectively out of 14 each and are in a position to decide who can be the chairmen of the DDC. Out of 2,178 candidates, who were in the fray for the DDC elections in J&K, 1238 were independents while BJP had fielded 235, NC 169, PDP 68, Apni Party 166, Congress 157, PC and JKPM 11 each, CPI (M) eight, LJP six, and Panthers’ Party 54. According to political analysts, it would be interesting to see if they join the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) or BJP - the single largest seat winner. Some of the independents, who won, are dissenters and had left their political parties after they were denied tickets to fight elections due to seat-sharing agreement between PAGD partners. It is highly likely they will join back their fold. The independents will be the kingmakers in four district development councils (DDCs), where there is no clear majority to either the PAGD or the BJP. The PAGD is an alliance of arch-rivals and regional heavyweights – NC and PDP - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The independents defeated some political heavyweights, including former legislators and ministers. In Sangrama constituency of Kashmir, independent candidate advocate Irfan Lone defeated former MLA Shoaib Lone, a candidate of Apni party and PDP’s spokesperson Suhail Bukhari. In Suchetgarh constituency of Jammu, independent candidate Taranjit Singh defeated BJP’s two-time MLA and former minister, Sham Lal Choudhary, by a slender margin of 11 votes. Former MLA Shah Mohammad Tantray, who had resigned from the PDP early this year, was defeated by independent candidate Riyaaz Choudhary in Loran constituency of Poonch district. Independent candidate Avtar Singh was the luckiest among the contestants as he won by just three votes. Singh polled 246 votes against 243 by his NC rival Ali Mohammad Bhat to become the winner from Dadsara constituency of militancy-hit Pulwama district in south Kashmir. From the same district, BJP’s Minha Latief won by 14 votes against her PDP rival Ruqaya Bano.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-ddc-poll-results-spotlight-shifts-to-independent-candidates-in-jammu-and-kashmir-931018.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||8 Uttar Pradesh officials booked after cattle deaths||Police have booked eight officials, days after 10 animals were found dead and not disposed of properly at a cow shelter in UP's Lalitpur district, authorities said on Thursday. The cattle had died under mysterious circumstances last week at the temporary cow shelter in Saujana in Mahroni tehsil. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had raised concerns over the "horrific" conditions of cows in Uttar Pradesh and asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take a cue from her party-led government in Chhattisgarh on their protection. In a two-page letter to the Chief Minister, she cited pictures of dead cows at Saujana and said they were "heart-wrenching and disturbing". On Wednesday, a case was lodged against eight people based on the complaint of Chief Veterinary Officer Krishan Shakya, said Mahroni Circle Officer (CO) Phool Chand Yadav. District Panchayati Raj Officer Avdhesh Singh and Block Development Officer Sunil Kumar Singh are among those against whom the case has been registered, the CO said. Yadav said no arrest has so far been made in this connection and the matter is being probed. Others named in the FIR are forest officer Abdul Shamir Ansari, Animal husbandry officer Ranjit Kumar Kushwaha, revenue inspector Manohar Rajput, lekhpal Ghanshyam Sen, gram panchayat adhikari Saurabh Yadav and gram pradhan Ajayvir Vikram, the CO said. Mahroni Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Mohammad Kamar said DM Dinesh Kumar has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the death of cattle and failure to properly dispose of their carcasses. Madawara SDM S P Singh has been asked to conduct the probe, Kamar said. The DM has already suspended an animal husbandry officer, a gram panchayat adhikari and a lekhpal (revenue officer) in connection with the incident. Attacking the chief minister, Priyanka Gandhi on Monday said even though he came to power claiming to protect the cows, his government has "completely failed", and asked who should be held responsible for their deaths. "Before coming to power, you had talked of 'Gau-Vansh raksha' (cow protection) and setting up of 'Gaushalas'. The truth is that your government has completely failed in this regard despite announcements by your government. "Cows are being mal-treated in the name of 'Gau-vansh'. Cow shelters have been opened but the truth is that cows are not given water and fodder and there is complete insensitivity towards them. The entire system is gripped in corruption," she said, wondering how many cows are dying across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-uttar-pradesh-officials-booked-after-cattle-deaths-931021.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||UP govt to withdraw cases against Muzaffarnagar riot accused BJP lawmakers||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to withdraw riot cases against three BJP lawmakers, including two ministers, who were accused in 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal violence. According to the sources in the government, an application seeking the withdrawal of riot-related cases against saffron party MLAs Sangeet Som, cane minister Suresh Rana and Minister of State Kapil Dev Agarwal was filed in the district court in Muzaffarnagar. "The application was filed in the court of an additional district judge. The court is yet to hear the application," sources said. A senior BJP leader said that the three MLAs had been implicated in false cases by the then Samajwadi Party (SP) government. ''These MLAs are victims of political vendetta,'' the BJP leader said on Thursday. The SP, however, slammed the state government over its move to withdraw the cases. ''It will send the wrong message in the society....people, who are close to the powers that be, will think that they can get away even after perpetrating crimes.....the MLAs will be declared innocent by the court if they have not done anything wrong,'' said an SP leader. Sixty-two people were killed and thousands of others were displaced in the communal violence, which flared up in Muzaffarnagar after two youths belonging to the 'Jat' community were beaten to death by a mob at Kawal village in the district in August 2013. The three MLAs had allegedly delivered inflammatory speeches in the 'mahapanchayat' convened after the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-withdraw-cases-against-muzaffarnagar-riot-accused-bjp-lawmakers-931024.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||AAP leader Raghav Chadha accuses BJP of vandalising his Delhi Jal Board office, attacking staff; party denies||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday claimed that BJP workers vandalised his office and attacked staff members at the board's headquarters at Jhandewalan here. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) denied the allegations saying the attack was orchestrated by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Some of the staff members have suffered injuries, Chadha claimed. “Around 250 people barged into my office and broke the glasses, doors and pots. They threatened my staff and attacked them,” Chadha claimed. The BJP workers had come to the DJB headquarters to protest and the police allowed them to enter the premises, he claimed. Chadha also tweeted a video clip purportedly showing broken doors, glass, pots, furniture and bloodstains on the floor. Delhi BJP spokesperson Virendra Babar alleged that the AAP had itself orchestrated the attack and was now blaming the saffron party. The Delhi Police has detained party unit chief Adesh Gupta and many workers, but we are not afraid of these tactics, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-leader-raghav-chadha-accuses-bjp-of-vandalising-his-delhi-jal-board-office-attacking-staff-party-denies-931046.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi expert committee recommends reducing ICU beds allotted for Covid-19 patients||The AAP government informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that an expert committee has recommended reducing, from 80 per cent to 60 per cent, the number of ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals in the national capital. The Delhi government placed before Justice Navin Chawla the decision taken on Wednesday by the De-escalation Committee (Covid-19) which was constituted to assess the current position of hospital admissions and discharges and recommend reduction in the number of beds dedicated for coronavirus patients, if required. The committee has recommended that "de-escalation may be carried out in a graded manner preferably in Delhi government and private sector hospitals", but not in central government hospitals, the high court was informed by Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan. "Therefore, the committee recommends that Covid ICU beds reservation of 80 per cent of total ICU beds in the private sector be reduced to 60 per cent, making 40 per cent ICU capacity of the private hospitals available for the non-Covid critical care. "This will make available 600 ICU beds (approx) for non-Covid patients. The committee decided not to change the Covid ICU beds status of any Delhi government hospitals as for now," the AAP government said. The court was also informed that the committee has recommended that "the Covid beds reservation of 60 per cent of total beds in all private hospitals should be de-escalated to 45 per cent. This will result in making 55 per cent beds in private sector hospitals available for non-Covid patients.  "It will increase the non-Covid beds in the private sector from existing 6,760 to 8,696 (approx), an increase of more than 1,930 beds. Covid beds in the private sector shall decrease from existing 9,051 to 7,115(approx)," the committee has said. The committee has said that its recommendations shall be subject to the overarching principal that the status of fully Covid-19 hospitals should not be changed as for now.  "Further all the hospitals are free to have more Covid beds than mandated, in all the categories of beds in view of logistical and practical convenience," it has said. It has further said that the de-escalation plan shall be reversible in nature and non-Covid beds provided through the de-escalation "shall be converted to Covid beds in case of any such need across the state". "Hence, it is emphasized that the reversible de-escalation plan-in principle is subject to availability of satisfactory Covid services across the state. Further, any agency may be required to reverse the conversion of Covid to non-Covid beds within a time span of three days in case of any unexpected surge in the number of Covid cases.  "Accordingly, hospitals need to ensure adequate preparedness in terms of infrastructure and human resource for reverse conversion of non-Covid beds to Covid beds as per prior status (pre de-escalation plan)," the committee has said. The other recommendations of the committee were to de-escalate to 1,000 from 2,010 the number of Covid beds in Lok Nayak hospital and similar reductions from 1,500 to 500 was recommended in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. "However, Rajeev Gandhi Super Specialty will continue functioning as a dedicated Covid hospital along with other identified Covid hospitals in the government sector. lt was also decided that Covid beds in other Delhi government hospitals shall continue to function," the committee has said. It has also said that it will re-visit the recommendations after 10 days to assess the impact/outcome and will strategise accordingly in light of the emerging situation. The high court was hearing a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers to quash the Delhi government's September 12 order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here. The September 12 order of the Delhi government was earlier stayed by the high court on September 22. However, a division of the high court on November 12 vacated the stay order taking into account the change in circumstances since the time the stay order was passed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-expert-committee-recommends-reducing-icu-beds-allotted-for-covid-19-patients-931055.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Release detainees if you want democracy to survive: Farooq Abdullah to Centre, urges restoration of 4G in J&K||Regional National Conference (NC) president and former chief minister, Farooq Abdullah Thursday urged the Center to release all those detained recently "if it wants democracy to survive in the union territory (UT)". “If the government of India wants democracy to survive in J&K, all those detained recently should be released immediately,” octogenarian Abdullah told reporters, after chairing a meeting of PAGD leaders at his Gupkar residence, here. “I also urge the government to ensure restoration of 4G internet services as soon as possible. The Prime Minister is talking about 5G, but we don’t even have 4G services in J&K. Besides, I urge the Lieutenant Governor led J&K administration to provide uninterrupted power and supply to the people of J&K as people have suffered for this since ages,” he said. The PAGD is an alliance of arch-rivals and regional heavyweights – NC and PDP - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. Asked whether the PAGD would stay or break after the conclusion of the district development council (DDC) polls, in which it won the highest number of seats, the NC leader said, “We are here to stay and nobody should have any doubt in it.” Speaking on the occasion, PAGD spokesperson and Peoples Conference chairman, Sajad Lone, alleged that the government was acting in a partisan manner. “It (government) should desist from this and not humiliate the great verdict of DDC polls,” he said. “History is witness that who tried to humiliate the peoples’ verdict ended up in a disaster. Under no circumstances, should democracy be tinkered with.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/release-detainees-if-you-want-democracy-to-survive-farooq-abdullah-to-centre-urges-restoration-of-4g-in-jk-931066.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Give more time for fuel stickers, HSRP before fining people, Delhi HC suggests to AAP govt||The Delhi High Court Thursday suggested to the AAP government to give more time to people to obtain colour coded fuel stickers and high security registration plates (HSRP) before it starts fining them Rs 5,500 for the violations. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said the Delhi government should not create panic among the citizens which would make some people take advantage of the situation. The court also said that advertising the requirement for stickers and HSRP by the Delhi government in August this year "was not the ideal time". The court was hearing a PIL by the President of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, Anil Kumar, alleging that the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) were overcharging for the colour coded fuel stickers and HSRP that have been made mandatory for vehicles in the national capital. Advocate Sunil Fernandes, appearing for Kumar, told the court that the challan drive by the Delhi government has created a fear psychosis in the minds of the people who are scrambling to get the stickers and HSRP so that they would not have to face the fine.  Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, told the bench that it has nothing to do with fixing the rate of the stickers and HSRP and it was only concerned with implementing the Supreme Court directions that all vehicles should have HSRP and the stickers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/give-more-time-for-fuel-stickers-hsrp-before-fining-people-delhi-hc-suggests-to-aap-govt-931073.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Woman throws hot tea on police officer’s face in Bihar, arrested||A woman tea vendor has been arrested for throwing steaming hot tea on the face of police inspector Suman Jha when the officer had gone to the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) campus to clear the encroachment from the hospital premises in Muzaffarpur district. Due to the impact, the officer had to be rushed to the emergency ward of the SKMCH, where his condition deteriorated. Jha was later shifted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), where he is recuperating. An FIR was lodged against the woman, Sarita Devi, and two of her associates based on a statement by Jha, who is in charge of the police outpost at the SKMCH. Sarita has been arrested, while two of her accomplices are absconding. According to police sources, Sarita runs a tea stall on the campus of the SKMCH. “I had gone there to remove encroachments on the campus after principal of SKMCH Dr Vikas Kumar submitted a written application about illegal shops and kiosks on the hospital campus. When I reached there, Sarita got infuriated and hurled abuses at me. Within no time, she threw hot tea on my face. As a consequence, I fell down there and was rushed to the emergency ward of the hospital by the security personnel,” said the police officer in his complaint. “Sarita has been arrested for fatal attack on the police officer,” confirmed Sunil Razak, the officer-in-charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-throws-hot-tea-on-police-officer-s-face-in-bihar-arrested-931082.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||36-year-old Punjab farm labourer cycles 370 kms for 2 days to join protests at Singhu||"I had to reach Singhu because if the farm legislations are not repealed, I will lose my livelihood," claimed Sukhpal Bajwa, a farm labourer from Punjab who cycled 370 km for two days to reach Delhi to support the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new agri laws. Standing by his cycle, the 36-year-old from Punjab Moga's district said he could have taken a bus or a train to Delhi, but that could mean his family would have to go hungry. "What can I do when I don't own a vehicle. I am a daily-wager and can barely make ends meet by working in a farm. Bus or train would have been expensive, I thought it is better if my family spends that money on their food," said Bajwa. The journey was tough and "this was also the first time that I travelled this far all alone, completing over 370 km from my village in Moga", he said, adding that it took him two days, with a few breaks, to reach the Delhi (Singhu) border, whereas in a motor vehicle, the same distance would have taken around six hours. Bajwa said on the way, one of his cycle's tyres got punctured late in the night on December 18 and it delayed his travel. "I set out on December 17 with bedding and essentials, and finally reached here on December 19. These laws will kill my only job and I am the sole earner in my family of four. I won't leave till they (the government) repeal the laws," he said. In contrast to Bajwa's rickety cycle, at another corner of the Singhu protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border are 10 swanky and expensive looking bicycles. These belong to 67-year-old retired chief engineer Ranjit Singh and his group of nine, most of them above 50 years of age, for whom it was an out-and-out choice to cycle to Singhu to support the thousands of farmers who are protesting for nearly a month against the farm laws. Singh and his group had set out on their journey of 265 km on December 20 from Patiala in Punjab. It took them 26 hours, which included a halt at Karnal in Haryana of three hours, to finally reach their destination. Their purpose to choose bicycles as mode of transport was "motivating the youth and those farmers who are sitting in the comfort of their homes to come and join the protests". The group, in which barring two all are above 50 years of age, include two retired chief engineers, advocates, a serving army officer, a former army officer, a doctor and businessmen. "I wanted to come on December 16, but because of some family issue had to delay the plan. We left Patiala at 9 in the morning and reached Singhu at 11 next morning,” said Singh. "We want to encourage more and more people to join the protest. If we oldies can do this, why can't others? We will go to the Tikri border and other protest places as well before leaving for our respective homes," said the 67-year-old, who is currently into farming in his village at Fatehabad, Haryana. Farmers are protesting the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/36-year-old-punjab-farm-labourer-cycles-370-kms-for-2-days-to-join-protests-at-singhu-931089.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Jaish commander among two militants killed in Kashmir’s Baramulla||A self-styled commander of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit was among two militants killed in a gunfight with security forces in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Thursday. The encounter erupted after the Indian Army’s Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Wanigam Payeen village of Baramulla, 60 km from here, following ‘specific’ information about the presence of militants there, police said. During the search operation militants fired at the forces triggering a gun battle in which two militants were killed, police said. As per sources, the killed militants were identified as Abrar alias Langoo from Pakistan and Amir Siraj from Sopore. However, police didn’t confirm their identities till evening. Siraj had gone missing on June 24 this year and was said to be an ace footballer. Since the beginning of district development council (DDC) polls in Kashmir in the last week of November, there has been a decline in anti-militancy operations by the security forces. Today’s encounter was the just second between militants and security forces in December. This year security forces have killed over 200 militants, including 31 foreigners, in over 90 operations across Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-commander-among-two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-baramulla-931101.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Four killed as bus overturns in MP's Jabalpur district||Four persons, including a woman who had been injured in an earlier accident, were killed when a bus overturned and fell on them at Bagdari turn in the district on Thursday, police said. A jeep had turned turtle a litle while earlier at the same spot, 30 km from Jabalpur city, where the road turns sharply. The bus overturned and fell on people standing on the road, killing four of them, said Sub Divisional Officer of Police (Patan) Devi Singh. Fourteen persons, including some passengers inside the bus, were injured, he added. Two of the deceased were identified as Phulrani Patel (62) and Ruplal Vishwakarma (30). People were standing by the roadside as a jeep had turned turtle at the same bend in the road. Phulrani Patel was among those injured in the mishap, and she was waiting for ambulance when the bus crushed her to death. A marriage party had boarded the bus to return to Shahpura from Indore, Singh said. Superintendent of Police S Bahuguna, who visited the spot, said they would write to the concerned department and ask to widen the road at this spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-killed-as-bus-overturns-in-mps-jabalpur-district-931114.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||PM Modi to launch Ayushman Bharat scheme to cover all J&K residents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Ayushman Bharat scheme on Saturday via video conferencing to extend health insurance coverage to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The Prime Minister's Office said on Thursday that the scheme will ensure universal health coverage, and focus on providing financial risk protection and ensuring quality and affordable essential health services to all individuals and communities. Home Minister Amit Shah and the union territory's Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will also be present on the occasion. The scheme will provide free of cost insurance cover to all the residents of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, the PMO said, adding that it will provide financial cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis to all residents of the UT. There is provision for operational extension of 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana' (PM-JAY) to approximately Rs 15 lakh additional families, the PMO statement said, adding that that the scheme will operate on insurance mode in convergence with PM-JAY. The benefits of the scheme will be portable across the country. The hospitals empanelled under the PM-JAY scheme shall provide services under this scheme as well, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-launch-ayushman-bharat-scheme-to-cover-all-jk-residents-931117.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Army completes Summary of Evidence in Shopian encounter; court martial of its 2 men possible||The Army has completed the Summary of Evidence against two of its men involved in July's Amshipura encounter in South Kashmir's Shopian district in which three civilians were killed and a possible court martial could take place after completion of formalities, officials said. General Officer in Command of the strategically located XV Corps Lt Gen B S Raju said the Summary of Evidence has been completed but refused to give away any details of the outcome. "Yes, the Summary of Evidence has been completed and the army will take next course of action as per the law," Lt Raju told PTI here. The army had ordered a Court of Inquiry earlier this year after reports appeared on social media that three youths, labelled as terrorists, had been gunned down by its personnel. The Court of Inquiry, which completed its probe earlier in September, had found "prima facie" evidence that troops had "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) during the July 18 encounter in which three men were killed. Following this, the army had initiated disciplinary proceedings. Officials in know of the development said the two army personnel may face court martial proceedings for violating the powers vested under the AFSPA, 1990 and not following the Do's and Don'ts of Chief of Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court. The officials said the accused personnel may face serious charges under the law. They also said the role of the three civilians as well as the person who had allegedly led the army to the youths in Amshipura in Shopian needs to be thoroughly examined by the police. The three civilians killed in Amshipura were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammed Ibrar, hailing from Rajouri district. Their identities were subsequently confirmed through a DNA test. The bodies were handed over to their families in Baramulla in October. The role and antecedents of these three youths are also being investigated due to lack of clarity on their intent and actions upon coming to Shopian. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had visited the families of the three Rajouri youths and expressed condolences. He had also assured the families that the UT government will extend full support to them and ensure that justice is done in the case. He had also conveyed the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the government stands with the aggrieved families, and they will be taken care of with all support from the government. The officials said the Army has been maintaining high standards of transparency and punishing officials whenever rules are violated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-completes-summary-of-evidence-in-shopian-encounter-court-martial-of-its-2-men-possible-931171.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||Government events to start with "worship of daughters" in Madhya Pradesh||All government programmes in Madhya Pradesh will now begin with "worship of daughters" in keeping with an announcement made by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan four months ago, officials said on Thursday. Chouhan had announced on August 15 that all official programmes in the state will begin with "betiyon ki puja" ("worship of daughters"). As per the announcement by the chief minister, the state government has decided to start all official programmes by performing betiyon ki puja, an order issued by the general administration departments deputy secretary DK Nagengra said. Since Chouhan assumed office (he is in his 4th term), he launched a number of schemes for the welfare of girls. These included Laadli Laxmi Yojna, a scheme later emulated by other states, and "Beti Bachao Beti Padhao" (save and educate girls). State BJP spokesman Rajnish Agrawal said "worship of daughters" is a practice that existed in earlier party governments also. Basically, it is an attempt to raise awareness about welfare of girls for which the state government has launched a number of schemes, Agrawal said. However, state Congress media cell vice-chairman Bhupendra Gupta termed it as a drama to divert people's attention from real issues like crime against women, human trafficking, inflation, COVID-19 and rising prices of petroleum products, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-events-to-start-with-worship-of-daughters-in-madhya-pradesh-931197.html
24-12-2020||North and Central||In democracy, no place for pressure tactics to get demands met, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said in a democratic set up there is no place for "pressure tactics" to get the demands met. His comments came in reference to thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre's new farm laws. “These days we are seeing this 'tamasha'..pressure being created to get (farm) laws repealed. They are saying we are sitting here, take back these laws. Is this a democracy,” he asked while addressing a gathering in Panchkula in connection with the upcoming municipal polls. Maintaining that there are other ways to protest, he said it can be registered on the floor of Parliament, state assembly, through the media and by going amongst people. We have freedom of expression and there is a way to put forward one's point, he said. The CM, however, said there is no place for “pressure tactics” to get the demands met. He also accused the opposition of misguiding farmers. He said the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls are not the only platform to teach a lesson to such people but in civic polls too this can be done. Meanwhile, the Congress hit out at Khattar over the “tamasha” remark. “Mr Chief Minister, you have shown anti-farmer thinking by calling legitimate struggle of farmers as a 'tamasha'. You should feel ashamed for such kind of words. You (police) even get attempt to murder case registered against those (farmers) who showed black flags to you in Ambala. Leave your ego and apologise,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted in Hindi. Earlier on Sunday, Khattar had defended the Centre's new farm laws and claimed a handful of people are opposing these due to “political reasons”. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country are protesting for the past nearly a month near various border points of the national capital, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, which the ruling party has claimed are for their benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-democracy-no-place-for-pressure-tactics-to-get-demands-met-says-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-931199.html
24-12-2020||Opinion||Farm law protests: Possible middle of road alternatives||There is little doubt that the three Farm Laws have created unease if not unrest across the country. In some parts of India, the agrarian crisis has combined with the fear of these laws to create a perfect storm. The propaganda that non-participation in protest is equal to support for the laws, that the protests are by those who are anti-national or that only rich farmers are protesting would be erroneous at its worst or at least ignorant of history. The government has too often made the mistake that it will not budge since it wrongly believes that a climb-down is a political defeat. Such an attitude does not bode well for the long-term health of agriculture. The discontent needs to be seen in the context of rising cost of cultivation, recent moves to dismantle subsidies and the sharp increase in taxes on diesel prices which are pinching all categories of farmers – small and marginal, medium and rich. Widespread discontent is also fuelled by the impression that the Central government is not keen to find solutions to the long standing problems in agriculture, especially the ever increasing cost of production. The farmers’ protests and the present stalemate is probably a good time for the Central government to consider at least some important changes to the laws and the problems of agriculture as middle of the road alternatives. A repeal of these badly conceptualised and designed laws is the most preferred option. Possible changes The most important change that the government has to undertake is a remedy to its blunder that allows the government to be a judge of its own policies and as the final arbiter of disputes between parties. This attempt to shelve the concept of separation of powers, which is a fundamental aspect of our Constitution, must be withdrawn. This must be moved to the judiciary with the change that it shall be entrusted to special courts which have to be (a) established, (b) operationalised and, (c) shall discharge cases in a time bound manner. The implementation of the laws shall be linked to these three aspects lest they end up like most laws where these three aspects lag the passage of the laws by the legislature. The second problem that needs urgent attention is the issue of extreme price volatility, especially at the time of harvest. This age old problem continues to plague agriculture. Increased supply invariably means a collapse in prices and the nature of agricultural holdings means most of the producers have no option but to sell immediately at harvest – even at extremely low prices or simply destroy their crop. Invariably, the 22 crops with MSP are marginally better off. At the time of its introduction, minimum Support Price (MSP) was expected to offer a floor price – something that happens at times, and often only, when sales are in mandis. There is erosion in the centrality of mandis in many states, except when farmers hope to eke out at least the MSP during times of price collapse. This has occurred concurrent to the growing clout of intermediaries/traders since they are now an important provider of inputs including capital. Fragmentation of holdings and rise in number of tenant farming has only helped increase influence of intermediaries. Moreover, the practical aspects of implementing MSP are essentially with the states. A probable solution that the Central government may consider is the need for it to go beyond MSP and instead offer a guaranteed market stabilisation mechanism with clear budgetary allocations where the state governments purchase the crop in case of price fall below the floor price set by the Centre and are reimbursed by the Centre. There is an existing mechanism through the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) to estimate the costs. An old problem in India is budget allocating monies but departments not spending these allocations resulting in the lapse of funds. To avoid this in the case of agriculture, any market stabilisation budgetary allocation should be made non-lapsable thereby averaging the amount of money that the government may have to spend. Third, apart from decline in margins for cultivation one of the biggest problems remains the availability of credit from the formal banking sector, which carries the least interest. Despite claims of ever increasing priority sector lending (PSL) targets for agriculture and allied activities, credit disbursal to small and marginal farmers is low. In 2019, an RBI Internal Working Group agreed that Kisan Credit Card (KCC) penetration was only 10.5 per cent of the total agricultural households. Hence, expanding this is the need of the hour and will go a long way to help the smaller cultivators. (S Ananth is an independent researcher Based in Andhra Pradesh. Views expressed are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/farm-law-protests-possible-middle-of-road-alternatives-930961.html
24-12-2020||South||MK Alagiri convenes supporters' meeting on January 3||Over six years after he was expelled from the DMK, former Union Minister M K Alagiri will begin 2021 by meeting his supporters in Madurai to elicit their views on his political plans. The former DMK strongman, who lorded over Madurai for two decades without any formal post, has convened a meeting of his supporters on January 3. Alagiri's announcement on Thursday comes months before Tamil Nadu goes to its most crucial Assembly elections in recent times. The 69-year-old Alagiri, who was expelled from DMK in 2014 by none other than his late father M Karunanidhi in his capacity as party president, continues to be cold-shouldered by the outfit and its new chief M K Stalin, his younger brother. “I have convened a meeting of my supporters on January 3. Will decide on my future course of action after listening to them,” Alagiri told reporters here after meeting his ailing mother Dayalu Ammal at the Gopalapuram residence. “Definitely. I will go by what they say,” he said when asked whether he would launch a new political party. Alagiri also replied in the negative when asked whether there was any chance of him working with or for the DMK in the upcoming 2021 assembly elections. At the same breath, Alagiri said participation in an election could be in three different ways – exercising one's franchise, contesting the election or working in the election. He was responding to a question on his earlier statement that the upcoming elections will certainly witness his participation. Alagiri's comments on Thursday comes a month after speculation mounted that he will launch a political party ahead of the Assembly elections and align with the BJP. However, the rebel DMK leader had rejected the proposed alliance as “rumours.” The former Union Minister also said he may meet Rajinikanth soon as he did not meet him on his birthday earlier this month. Tamil Nadu will go to assembly polls in the first half of 2021 and the contest is expected to be very fierce this time with too many players in the political ground. After his expulsion in 2014, Alagiri lost his clout as Stalin won over all his loyalists for he controlled the DMK and enjoyed Karunanidhi's backing. Alagiri maintained a low-profile till Karunanidhi's death and his efforts to raise a rebellion after his father's demise too petered out. Pushed to the wall, Alagiri did a 360-degree turn by announcing that he will accept his younger brother's leadership and made a fervent appeal to be re-inducted into the DMK. His coming out of the deep slumber just a few months before the elections, which the DMK feels will firmly place Stalin in the Chief Minister's chair, could be his way of reminding his younger brother about his appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mk-alagiri-convenes-supporters-meeting-on-january-3-930978.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala govt moves SC against HC order increasing number of pilgrims to Sabarimala temple||The Kerala government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the state high court’s verdict which had directed it to increase the number of pilgrims to the historic Sabarimala temple to 5,000 per day, saying it will put a "great strain" on police personnel and health officials in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government, in its petition filed in the apex court against the December 18 judgement of the Kerala High Court, has said the state had constituted a high-level committee headed by the chief secretary which had set the number of pilgrims per day to 2,000 on weekdays and 3,000 on weekends respectively. It said that to control the Covid-19 pandemic during the Sabarimala temple festival season between December 20 and January 14 next year, the state had constituted the high-level committee to consider all aspects and to fix the number of pilgrims who can be permitted per day to visit the shrine. It said the committee, in a meeting convened on December 14, considered the report submitted by revised health advisory of the Health and Family Welfare Department and enhanced the number of pilgrims per day to 2,000 on weekdays and 3,000 on weekends. “The high court disposed of the writ petitions filed by some of the respondents herein, with a direction to the government to increase the number of pilgrims per day to 5,000. The enhancement of pilgrims was done by the high court without considering any proper report or other documents. The number of police officials, health officials and pilgrims affected by Covid-19 in the Sabarimala temple so far is on the higher side,” the state government said in its petition, filed through advocate G Prakash. It said that entry to the temple is controlled by a virtual queue managed by police and pilgrims are tested for Covid-19 before allowing them to enter the temple. “Increase in the number of pilgrims will put police personnel and officials of the health department in great strain and difficulty in controlling the pilgrims of this magnitude,” it said. “It is also reported on the media that a new Covid-19 virus was detected in England and considering the spread of new virus, Government of India cancelled all flights to and fro from England. This being the situation the Government of Kerala, seeks urgent interference of this court with the impugned judgment to control the spread of Covid-19 during the Sabarimala festival season,” it said. As an interim relief, the plea has sought ex-parte stay of the high court order which was passed on a batch of petitions including those seeking direction to enhance the permissible number of pilgrims per day. Earlier this year, the apex court had constituted a nine-judge Constitution bench to deliberate upon issues pertaining to the scope of freedom of religion as also of judicial scrutiny into "essential religious practices" of separate "religious denominations" These issues have arisen out of a judgement in the Sabarimala temple case. The nine-judge bench has been set up after a five-judge bench, by a 3:2 majority verdict, had referred the matter to a larger bench while examining the review petition filed against the historic September 28, 2018 judgement which had allowed women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-moves-sc-against-hc-order-increasing-number-of-pilgrims-to-sabarimala-temple-930980.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala cabinet again seeks special Assembly session to discuss farm laws||The Kerala cabinet on Thursday again decided to recommend to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan seeking approval for a special Assembly session on December 31 to discuss and pass a resolution against the three central farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting near Delhi. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the media about the cabinet decision and said his government was "hopeful" that the Governor would accord sanction for the special session. This comes days after Governor Khan declined consent for the Left government in the southern state to convene a one-day session on December 23 to discuss the central laws and express solidarity with the agitating farmers. The Governor's act had triggered sharp criticism from the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and opposition United Democratic Front (UDF). "I hope the Governor will give approval to convene the special session. According to the Parliamentary system in our country, a Governor usually gives approval for a decision taken by a government having majority," Vijayan told reporters. Khan's decision on Tuesday had evoked a sharp response from the government side with Agricultural Minister V S Sunil Kumar calling it "undemocratic", while opposition Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said it was unfortunate and against "democratic values". However, the state BJP had welcomed the governor's action, saying the attempt to pass a resolution against the laws passed by Parliament and given assent by the President was 'unconstitutional.' The special session decision was taken in the backdrop of thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, camping at various borders of Delhi for almost four weeks demanding the repeal of the three agricultural laws. The farmers are apprehending that the new laws will pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the "mercy" of big corporates. But the government has been saying these fears are misplaced and offered to hold fresh talks with them to resolve the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cabinet-again-seeks-special-assembly-session-to-discuss-farm-laws-931019.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED attaches Rs 1.85 crore worth FDs, gold||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 1.85 crore in connection with its money laundering probe in the alleged Kerala gold smuggling case, the agency said on Thursday. The case emerged on July 5 when gold, weighing over 30 kg, was seized by the Customs department from the "diplomatic baggage" that had landed by air cargo at the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport from the Gulf. The seized gold is stated to be worth Rs 14.82 crore and the ED said that it was "camouflaged as diplomatic baggage to the UAE Consulate, which has immunity from checking at airport as per the Vienna convention." The agency said, "fixed deposits along with seized cash totaling to Rs 1.85 crore" have been attached under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the Kerala gold smuggling case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-attaches-rs-185-crore-worth-fds-gold-931034.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala govt firm on the decision to convene special session against Centre's farm laws||The Kerala Government is going ahead with the decision to convene a special session in the Kerala Assembly to discuss the Centre's farm laws. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has proposed to conduct the special session on December 31. He said that issues faced by the farmers and the sector as a whole were a major cause for concern, which proves the need for a special session. This move by the government will further intensity its brawl with Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who had earlier rejected the state cabinet's recommendation to convene a special session pertaining to farmers' issues. The governor had said that there was no emergency situation which required a special session to be held. He also said that the budget session will be held from January 8. The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front and the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front strongly flayed the Governor's stand and even termed it 'unconstitutional'. Vijayan also sent a strongly-worded letter to the Governor citing relevant portions of the Constitutions and various court orders, maintaining that convening Assembly did not come under the discretionary powers of Governor. However, the Governor stuck to his earlier stand itself. The government and opposition were planning to pass a resolution against the farm laws at the special session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-firm-on-the-decision-to-convene-special-session-against-centres-farm-laws-931043.html
24-12-2020||South||TN readies Covid-19 vaccine shot priority list; 21,000 personnel trained||A list of people who should be inoculated on priority in Tamil Nadu is ready and 21,000 personnel were being trained and 46,000 centres identified in the state for the rollout of the immunisation exercise after the vaccine is made available, a top state health official said here on Thursday. The comprehesive list, including about five lakh health workers, all other frontline personnel like those from municipal administration, revenue and police, the elderly and those with co-morbidities is ready, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. Referring to a meeting with Secretary, Union Health Ministry via a virtual link on Wednesday, the top official said 21,000 personnel who could give vaccination shots have been identified and they were being trained. Also, he said 46,000 centres for the purpose of vaccination has been identified and requisite infrastructure to handle the immunisation drive like cold chain facilities was ready, he told reporters. Tamil Nadu alone has as many as 51 walk-in coolers and 2,800 secondary cold storage points ready, he said. "Vaccines are expected in January. The approval for vaccines should come from the Centre." Since Tamil Nadu has more elderly population, it is expected that the State could be allocated more vaccines and such aspects were under discussion, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-readies-covid-19-vaccine-shot-priority-list-21000-personnel-trained-931048.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala govt moves SC against HC's orders to increase daily number of pilgrims in Sabarimala Temple||The Kerala government has approached the Supreme Court against the Kerala High Court's direction which increased the daily number of pilgrims to Sabarimala temple from 2,000 to 5,000. The state government said that it would put police personnel and officials of the health department in great strain and difficulty. State Chief Secretary questioned the validity of the High Court's judgement on December 18, 2020, which disposed of a batch of writ petitions and directed the state government to increase the number of pilgrims to the Sabarimala temple, during the festival season starting from December 20, 2020, and is scheduled to end on January 14, 2021. The state government sought an immediate stay on the HC's on grounds of the health risks, administrative difficulties and the new coronavirus strain, detected in the United Kingdom. The state government said while increasing the number of pilgrims to 5,000 per day, the High Court failed to consider the revised health advisory of December 14, limiting the number of pilgrims per day to 2000. It also pointed out that the present situation of the Pathanamthitta district, where the temple is situated, was again considered and a report on the Covid -19 Situation has been filed on December 18. "As per this report, the situation in the Pathanamthitta district is grave and therefore it recommended measures to control the Covid-19 pandemic. It is also reported in the media that a new Covid-19 virus with a new strain has been detected in England and considering that the Government of India stopped all flights to and fro from England and India," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-moves-sc-against-hcs-orders-to-increase-daily-number-of-pilgrims-in-sabarimala-temple-931075.html
24-12-2020||South||India's first oldest Covid-19 survivor passes away||A 93-year old man from Pathanamthitta district in Kerala who received much attention after recovering from Covid-19 during the initial months of the pandemic in the country died due to age-related ailments on Thursday. Abraham Thomas and his wife Mariyamma, 88, hailing from Ranni, were infected with Covid-19 in March from their son and family who returned from Italy. They recovered from the infection after about a month-long treatment at Kottayam medical college hospital. They received much national attention as the recovery chances of aged people from Covid-19 was then considered very low. A family member told DH that Abraham was active after recovering from Covid-19 and he was even engaged in farming activities. But about a month back kidney and liver ailments that he had been suffering, aggravated. Owing to Covid-19 he was not hospitalised but was under care at home. He breathed his last Thursday noon, said Abraham's granddaughter's husband Robin.  The traditional and healthy lifestyle of the aged couple, especially their food habits and routine involvement in farming activities, were widely discussed when they recovered from Covid-19. Doctors and staff of Kottayam medical college hospital where the two were under Covid-19 treatment also received much appreciation for the homely care given to the aged couple. The nurses even used to sing a lullaby for them to sleep and used to tell stories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-oldest-covid-19-survivor-passes-away-931076.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala govt announces Rs 10,000 cr worth development projects in next 100 days||Months ahead of the assembly elections, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic government in Kerala on Thursday announced Rs 10,000 crore worth development projects would either be completed or launched in the next 100 days in the state. It also enhanced welfare pension and extended the distribution of the free provision kit for ration card holders, a hit among the commoners, for another four months from January. Assembly elections are likely to be held in the state in April-May 2021. Making the announcements, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Left government could "successfully complete" 570 of the total 600 poll promises mentioned in the LDF's election manifesto besides hundreds of other projects not part of it since 2016. He claimed the 100-days-programme, announced by his government in September last, was "a huge success" and hence it was planning to implement its second phase. "In the next 100 days, the government will either complete or begin development projects worth Rs 10,000 crore in the state. Of this, a total of 5,526 projects, to the tune of Rs 5700 crore, will be completed or inaugurated and 646 projects worth Rs 4,300 crore will be launched," Vijayan said. In the second phase, the government was targeting to create 50,000 job openings, including through poverty eradication mission, Kudumbashree, he said. Nine new industrial units, including the Defence Park in Palakkad, would be inaugurated in January. "From January 1, 2021, welfare pensions would be raised to Rs 1,500, increasing them by Rs 100 each as a new year gift. "Free provision kits will be provided to all ration card holders, for the next four months. Over 80 lakh families will be benefited from it," the Chief Minister said. The kits, comprising among others edible oil, atta, sugar, black gram (chana), were launched in April during the first phase of Covid-19 lockdown. Vijayan said more job opening would be ensured in the IT sector and the government would create eight lakh working days through the employment guarantee scheme. Twentyseven new tourism projects, worth Rs 310 crore, construction of 30,000 new houses under LIFE Mission, opening of 30 new school buildings, 49 new family health centres, 153 new kudumbashree budget hotels were among the several projects announced by Vijayan. The inauguration of thefirst phase of the Kerala Fiber Optic Network (KFON) project, envisaged to provide free internet, would be held next February. This would help in taking the benefits of the project to below poverty line (BPL) families and 30,000 government offices within a few months, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-announces-rs-10000-cr-worth-development-projects-in-next-100-days-931103.html
24-12-2020||South||DYFI worker killed at Kerala's Kasargod||A DYFI worker was murdered at Kasargod district in Kerala on Wednesday night. The accused were suspected to be Indian Union Muslim League workers. Abdul Rahman Auf, 30, of Kalluravi near Kanhangad was murdered. A three-member gang alleged stabbed and hacked him. Based on a statement of another person who suffered injuries in the attack, the police launched a search for three workers of the Youth League. District Police Chief Shilpa Dyavaiah said that it was too early to say that it was a political murder. The police were learned to have already nabbed the three accused. Political tension was reported to be prevailing in the locality in connection with the recent local body polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dyfi-worker-killed-at-keralas-kasargod-931106.html
24-12-2020||South||Rahul Gandhi highlights plight of old farmer couple from Kerala's Wayanad, shares video||Mathew and Mary, a farmer couple of Wayanad in Kerala, shot to the limelight after Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi posted a video of their plight on Twitter. The two, aged around 90 and 85 respectively, who are still involved in farming activities, shared their concerns over the falling prices of agriculture commodities and how it was affecting their livelihood. Rahul said in a post on his official Twitter account (@RGWayanadOffice) that the couple shared the pain, anxieties and difficulties of the farmers across India. "All Indians and the government must listen to them," he added. The elderly farm couple Mary and Mathew from Pulpally, Wayanad have toiled on their land year after year. They share the pain, the anxieties and the difficulties of farmers across India. In the video, the couple laments over the insufficient returns from the agriculture sector and blames it on the government for the fall of prices of commodities. India has become unlivable for farmers. There is no existence for India without farmers, they said. The couple said that the prices of commodities like pepper, coffee and yam have fallen drastically over the years while also highlighting "there was fair price" during Rajiv Gandhi's term as prime minister. Meanwhile, local Congress leaders are planning for Rahul's next visit to the constituency and a meeting with the aged couple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-highlights-plight-of-old-farmer-couple-from-keralas-wayanad-shares-video-931137.html
24-12-2020||South||ED files chargesheet against suspended IAS officer Sivasankar in gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday filed a chargesheet against Kerala chief minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar in the money laundering case. Steps were also being initiated to attach his assets. According to sources, the ED accused that Sivasankar played a key role in the smuggling activities and received a commission from the UAE agency-funded housing scheme in Kerala. The agency also suspects that about Rs 1.8 crore recovered from other key accused in the gold smuggling, including the UAE consulate former employee Swapna Suresh, was received as a commission by Sivasankar. In the supplementary chargesheet filed under section 44 and 45 of PMLA for commission of offence of money laundering, the ED alleged that Sivasankar had knowingly assisted the three in smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel. With the agency filing the chargesheet, the chances of Sivasankar getting bail in the ED case became bleak. LIFE Mission is a state project envisaging total housing for the homeless. The ED claimed Sivasankar parked the illegal money accepted from Eappen in the bank lockers held jointly by Swapna Suresh and P Venugopal, his chartered accountant, in a scheduled bank and a nationalised bank branches in Thiruvananthapuram. He committed the offence of money laundering under Section 3, punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA, it said. The ED alleged that Sivasankar was in close contact with another woman to whom he was sharing the day-to-day developments of gold smuggling issue. Besides ED, the National Investigating Agency and the Customs are conducting separate inquiries into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-files-chargesheet-against-suspended-ias-officer-sivasankar-in-gold-smuggling-case-931154.html
24-12-2020||South||Don't grant permissions to parties for gram sabha meetings: Tamil Nadu govt tells district collectors||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday asked district collectors not to allow political parties or individuals to conduct gram sabha meetings contending that it violates the Panchayat Raj Act, close on the heels of opposition DMK holding such meetings and passing resolutions against the AIADMK dispensation. In a directive, the government also warned action against political parties if they go against the law and conduct such meetings. The DMK had on Wednesday launched a major campaign “Let us Reject AIADMK” through which the party plans to hold gram sabha meetings in 16,500 villages and pass resolutions against the current dispensation. Hans Raj Verma, Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Rural Development Department, said gram sabhas are apolitical in nature and accused a few political parties of using the meetings to create confusion among people. “District Collectors should not give permission for holding such meetings,” Verma said in the directive. “Since the government has not allowed conduct of such gram sabha meetings, if political parties misuse the name and hold such political meetings, action will be taken against them,” the bureaucrat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-grant-permissions-to-parties-for-gram-sabha-meetings-tamil-nadu-govt-tells-district-collectors-931156.html
24-12-2020||South||Amid Covid-19, Kerala faces Shigella scare after 11-year-old succumbs to disease||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala is also facing a scare of Shigella infection An eleven-year-old child died of the infection in Kozhikode district last week and around 40 cases were reported. While the health authorities were heaving a sigh of relief that it was contained, another one-and-a-half-year-old child was found infected on Wednesday. The child is under treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode. The fresh case was reported from a fresh location outside the first cluster. Since the bacterial infection was suspected to be spreading mainly through water, the district health authorities have initiated cleaning of wells and other drinking water sources in the localities where the infection was found. The people were also directed to ensure utmost hygiene. Diarrhoea and fever are primary symptoms of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-covid-19-kerala-faces-shigella-scare-after-11-year-old-succumbs-to-disease-931162.html
24-12-2020||South||Kerala govt announces slew of welfare measures||The CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala announced a slew of welfare measures on Thursday, including a hike of Rs 100 in welfare pensions, free provision kits for four more months to all ration card holders, creation of 50,000 more jobs and medicines required for organ transplant patients at one-fifth of the price. With the Assembly elections in Kerala hardly five months away, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan formally announced the welfare measures as part of a 100-day plan. The announcement assumed much political significance as the welfare measures of the government were considered to be the key factor that helped the Left Front gain an upper hand in the recent local body elections despite the government facing a series of serious allegations, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the 100-day programmes were just an eyewash as many programmes announced in an earlier 100-day programme were yet to be implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-announces-slew-of-welfare-measures-931201.html
24-12-2020||South||Five UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Kerala||Raising concerns over the chances of a new mutated variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spreading in Kerala, five persons who arrived in Kerala from the UK recently, tested positive for Covid-19. In view of the Centre's directives, the samples of all the five are being tested at a lab in Bengaluru to check whether it was the new variant of Covid-19 found in the UK, sources in the state health department said. All the five were learned to have reached Kerala through Nedumbasserry International Airport in Kochi a few days ago and were under home quarantine. It was in view of the centre's directive regarding additional surveillance on people who returned from the UK that the health authorities identified the five and were being subjected to retests. State health department sources said that all those who returned from European countries recently were being screened. Travel history of those who recently returned from all foreign countries also needs to be verified to ensure that they did not travel to the UK recently. There could also be chances of people arriving from the UK through airports in other states in India and then travelling to Kerala by road or rail. Kerala was the first state in India to report a case of Covid-19. A student who returned from China was tested Covid-19 positive on January 30, 2020. It was due to high alertness and preparedness of the state health department that a spike in Covid19 cases could be contained to a large extent and the death rate could be also kept at the lowest possible levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-931203.html
24-12-2020||South||Dalit woman's burnt body found in Andhra Pradesh; aid announced for kin||A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly found killed and the body partly burnt to cover up the crime at Dharmavaram in Anantapuramu district of Andhra Pradesh, police said on Thursday. Sneha Latha (19), whose body was found on Wednesday, was recently appointed an outsourced employee of State Bank of India, the police said. Her parents suspect that Rajesh, a construction worker, might have committed the crime as he had been harassing her in the name of love, they said. Rajesh was taken into custody for interrogation, police said. Police found from the call list of the victim that Rajesh had called her several times and also sent hundreds of messages in the last one month. Anantapuramu district Superintendent of Police Yesu Babu said the victim was not sexually assaulted. We have taken Rajesh into custody for interrogation and are hunting for his friend Karthik, who could be an accomplice, he said. The official denied the allegation that the police did not act on previous complaints lodged by Lathas parents against the harassment of Rajesh. Meanwhile, the state government announced a statutory compensation of Rs 8.25 lakh to the victim's family. Besides, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 10 lakh from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, according to Anantapuramu district Collector Gandham Chandrudu. The Collector said Rs 4.12 lakh was being paid to the victims family immediately and the balance would be released after the charge-sheet is filed in the case. A housing site, a house and five acres of land would also be given to the family apart from a government job to the eligible family member. We will support Lathas family by all means, the Collector said. Leader of the Opposition N Chandrababu Naidu spoke to the victims parents over phone and consoled them. He demanded a CBI investigation into the killing to bring out the facts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-womans-burnt-body-found-in-andhra-pradesh-aid-announced-for-kin-931211.html
24-12-2020||State||HC quashes second FIR on protest against Income Tax raids||The High Court has quashed the FIR registered against former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, former ministers G Parameshwara and D K Shivakumar in connection with a protest held outside the Income Tax Department office on Infantry Road in the city on March 28, 2019. Justice John Michael Cunha quashed the Special Court’s order directing the police to investigate and the subsequent FIR, on the ground that a second FIR on the same incident is not maintainable.  A Mallikarjuna, a social activist of Gubbi in Tumakuru district, had filed a private complaint against the politicians for staging the protest against the Income Tax Department. The court gave liberty to the complainant to approach the investigating officer of Commercial Street police station who is investigating the first FIR registered about the incident. The court said the private complaint, filed by Mallikarjuna, can be treated as a statement under section 161 of CrPC. The petitioner contended that the protest was staged against the targeted income tax raids on JD (S) and Congress leaders at the instigation of the central government. He also stated that the department has not filed any complaint against the leaders and workers who took part in the protest. According to the petitioner, the registration of FIR for holding a protest would violate their fundamental right to protest. On the day of the protest, a BBMP officer, as part of a flying squad, had filed a complaint with the Commercial Street police station. The complaint said the protest was conducted without prior permission from the Chief Electoral Officer. The second FIR was registered pursuant to the private complaint filed by Mallikarjuna on November 27, 2020. The FIR at the Commercial Street police station names block secretaries of Congress and JD (S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-quashes-second-fir-on-protest-against-income-tax-raids-930861.html
24-12-2020||State||Karnataka to revamp public health facility and set up network of model PHCs||The Karnataka government is mulling a complete overhaul of its Primary Health Care (PHCs) network across Karnataka besides sprucing up the infrastructure enabling them to offer emergency medical services on 24x7 basis. The network of 2,359 PHCs - will be the first responders in any medical emergency in rural areas play a crucial role in providing comprehensive health care from promotive to preventive health care, treatment and palliative care at every village panchayat level. Giving a presentation to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on establishing model PHCs and upgrading the existing PHCs, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that for every 30,000 population there is one PHC in Karnataka and if there are any shortcomings, new PHCs will be set-up. CM Yediyurappa said that all PHCs will be equipped to provide 24X7 medical services to the needy. “We are committed to provide effective and free health care to the people at the grass-root level. The threat of a second wave of Covid is looming large over us and our hospitals and health facilities must gear up to contain that spread. Our government will extend all support in achieving this,” Yediyurappa said. As part of the latest plan, the 6 bedded PHCs will be upgraded to 12-bed and 20-bedded facilities. “The number of doctors will be increased from one to a minimum of 3 to 4 including a woman and Ayush doctor,” the health minister said. Every PHC will have a radiology section with X-Ray and Ultrasound scanning facilities besides separate rooms for minor OTs, casualty room, two-tables in labour operation room and a primary level lab. Yoga and wellness centres will be part of the PHC to enhance mental and physical wellbeing of the public. Government is also considering providing accommodation to Doctors and nurses to ensure round-the-clock availability of staff at any point of the day. “We have decided to provide one ambulance for every PHC. Building a model PHC would cost anywhere between Rs 6 crore and Rs 8 crore. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have better health infrastructure and CM has directed to set up a model health infrastructure for the entire country in Karnataka,” Sudhakar explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-revamp-public-health-facility-and-set-up-network-of-model-phcs-931029.html
24-12-2020||State||New GST rules likely to slow down businesses in Karnataka, say experts||The Centre's CGST (14th Amendment) Rules, 2020, notified on Wednesday, have raised concerns with many industrialists fearing that they will further slow down businesses already hit by the pandemic. The frequent changes in the GST regulations have irked many, with industrialists pointing out that instead of ease of business, the taxation system was only adding to the confusion. "We want these rules to be withdrawn. We will soon give a representation to the GST Council," a member of FKCCI said, requesting anonymity.   As per one section of the amendment, businesses where the value of taxable supply in a month exceeds Rs 50 lakh, will be able to use only 99% money available in their electronic credit ledger (which works like an electronic passbook reflecting input tax credit available for each taxpayer), locking 1% money. This, industrialists say, will create problems for liquidity forcing businesses to ensure additional 1% working capital all the time.  Economic analyst Nityananda said the government was effectively stopping taxpayers from using their own money through this regulation. A few exemptions are granted under the rule, which includes an exemption for those who have paid their output tax through the electronic cash ledger for an amount of at least 1% of their total output tax liability. However, it still puts the taxpayer in jeopardy as ultimately the system is forcing businesses to have an additional 1% of working capital at all times, Nityananda added. Further, even though the regulation is limited to business with taxable supply of at least Rs 50 lakh a month, it covers a large gamut of industries, including several small business, according to the analyst. "In many cases, the volume of turnover is high, but the margin of the business is low. This could impact even small businesses."  For small businesses, there is another concern. The GST Council recently gave an option for businesses with a turnover up to Rs 5 crore to file their GST returns on a quarterly basis. This also eats into liquidity, experts said.  "This has a huge impact on small scale industries. We buy materials from a trader, paying tax for the material. Until the person files the returns, we cannot claim our input tax credit. This blocks our working capital, especially in times of Covid-19," explained Umashankar, chairman of GST panel, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-gst-rules-likely-to-slow-down-businesses-in-karnataka-say-experts-931128.html
24-12-2020||State||Online induction puts off fresh batch at engineering colleges||The first batch of students in the engineering colleges of the state were welcomed in the virtual mode on Thursday, with the colleges organising induction programmes online in view of the pandemic. The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has issued a circular directing the colleges to stick to virtual mode of induction programme for the current academic year. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has also reduced the mandatory 21-day induction programme to one week.  In a circular, VTU has instructed the colleges on the specific topics to be covered during the programme. Universal human values, physical health, familiarisation of department/branch and innovation, visit to local areas, language proficiency modules, literature, awareness of Covid-19 and standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed are the topics covered. Principals of engineering colleges said they received overwhelming response from the students for the online induction programme. “We are happy to receive overwhelming response from our first-year students for blended learning. Online sessions were conducted to educate students about the pandemic situation and how to develop mental and physical strength to face challenges. Students were educated about the need to be equipped with laptop and good internet connectivity. Students were counselled to utilise time efficiently and enrol in online certification courses to improve skillset,” said Prof Suresh L, principal of Cambridge Institute of Technology Bengaluru. Colleges have planned offline induction programme too for first year students tentatively in the first week of January.  “Induction programme, when conducted on campus, will aid our professors to develop a good rapport with freshers. Our students will also feel happy to get introduced to their professors in person,” Suresh said. ‘Physical induction best’ Prof B Sadashive Gowda, principal, Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering, Mysuru, said, “During physical induction, students are involved in different activities, but online induction has limitations. The objectives of the induction are to build rapport between fresh students and the staff and speed up acclimatisation of students to theinstitute.” Students not too happy Students too are not happy with the online induction programme and felt it is not beneficial. “It looks like we are the batch of students affected a lot by the pandemic as our II PU exams and competitive exams were hit by Covid. Now, even the induction programme is affected. Online mode is not as effective as offline,” said a student of first year at RV College of Engineering, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-induction-puts-off-fresh-batch-at-engineering-colleges-931189.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt yields to B'luru hoteliers, relaxes night curfew hours||The hotels' and restaurants' association in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka are divided over the sudden decision by the government to impose night curfew. While the Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association has hailed the decision, the Bruhat Bengaluru Hoteliers Association demanded relaxation of the curfew hours. However, within a few hours of the Bengaluru hoteliers demanding relaxation of the curfew hours, on the lines of Maharashtra, the state government changed its earlier decision to impose curfew from 10 pm to 6 am and announced that the curfew will be in place from 11 pm to 5 am. "In Maharashtra, government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am. We wanted similar restriction in Bengaluru if at all curfew is imposed. The government has changed the timings as per our request," said P C Rao, president of the association. However, Rao said that the curfew will affect business as restaurants have invested heavily on the New Year events, decorations and special orders. "Most of the restaurants do good business during the year-end. But the sudden imposition of curfew will harm it big time," he said. However, the Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association has welcomed the decision. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president of the Association, said, "Health of the public is the priority during the pandemic. We wholeheartedly support the decision of the government and will abide by it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-yields-to-bluru-hoteliers-relaxes-night-curfew-hours-930876.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Taxi, auto, tourist vehicle operators slam night curfew||Hours after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced night curfew to contain the new strain of the coronavirus on Wednesday, commercial vehicle operators, including cab drivers, protested the unilateral measure taken without consulting the stakeholders. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Tourist Vehicle Operators’ Association, said the government should have considered their condition before announcing the rules that directly affect their business. “The two weeks between Christmas eve and the first few days of the New Year are a crucial holiday season for all commercial vehicle operators. We had hoped to get sufficient bookings to sustain our business which is hit hard by Covid-19. The government should have consulted all the stakeholders before announcing such a move,” Holla said. He said that their entire bookings do not come to even 10% of the pre-pandemic levels. Most of the major operators have surrendered their vehicles, including over 12,000 buses, to avoid paying hefty road taxes ranging from about Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh per quarter depending on the vehicle. “The government should give us exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax for at least one year as we have to survive in the business. We have already lost 80% of our workforce, which is crucial for our economy to run,” he added. Ola, Taxi For Sure and Uber Drivers and Owners’ Association president Tanveer Pasha said night travel during the holiday season had helped lakhs of drivers to earn their bread. “The business from corporate companies has stopped completely due to the work from home measures. We earn a little in the evenings and night when people come out of the houses. The government’s illogical decision to allow all activities in the morning and ban them only at night will hurt us,” he said. The autorickshaw drivers shared similar concerns and suggested that all commercial vehicles should be exempted from the night curfew rules. C Sampath, general secretary of Adarsha Auto Union, said, “Our earnings have not touched even half of the pre-pandemic levels as people fear boarding commercial vehicles. The government should see our plight and provide an exemption from such rules.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/taxi-auto-tourist-vehicle-operators-slam-night-curfew-930877.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt personalises crop advice with tech aid||Karnataka is in an advanced stage of designing a technology-enabled system in which farmers will receive personalised crop advisories to help every individual increase yield.  Authorities claim that this will be a first-of-its-kind initiative since the government now has a rich database comprising details of land, crop and soil for every farmer. This data will be mixed with village-wise weather details to provide advisories that are relevant to farmers and the crops they are growing.  Karnataka has 72.46 lakh farmers registered on the flagship Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) portal, which makes customisation of crop advisories possible. Every farmer is given a FRUITS ID comprising Aadhaar, caste, land records and mobile number.  "We know what each farmer grows, thanks to the crop survey. Then, we have soil health details -- red soil, black soil, alluvial soil and so on. Plus, we have weather information for every village depending on the agro-climatic zone. Using all this, the advisory can be given crop-wise, land-wise and agro-climatic zone-wise," Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla told DH.  At present, Chawla said the crop advisories being issued are "generic" in nature.  The new system of advisories will also take into account at what stage the crop is in. "We know the approximate sowing and harvest date of the crops," Chawla said. "The advisory can be pushed to categories of farmers. For example, those growing pomegranate on black cotton soil in Vijayapura will get an advisory that is relevant to them," he said.  The personalised crop advisory will roll out as soon as this project receives administrative approval. It is likely to first start for the mango crop in partnership with the Karnataka Mango Development and Marketing Board.  "There's nothing better than this," Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit said, adding that personalised crop advisory was long overdue. "If a person is growing maize, he'll get what he should know." But farmer leader K S Nandini Jayaram of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha is not convinced. "This will definitely spoil our crop diversity," she said. "This is a hidden agenda for mono-cropping and an attempt at specialised farming, making marketing easy for corporates. All that we farmers want, instead, is a secure market."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-personalises-crop-advice-with-tech-aid-930879.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt failed garment factory workers, says study||The Karnataka government's failure to protect labour rights and enforce existing provisions left more than 1000 workers from a garment factory which was shut down illegally with thousands of employees forced to resign, an independent study has found. The case study, 'Laid-off During the Pandemic' by Swathi Shivanand of the Alternative Law Forum, said the government failed at multiple levels, starting from its complicity in keeping wages low at Rs 7,000-Rs 8,000 per month, even as it offered incentives to companies. In May, the company decided to shut down without giving prior notification employees as mandated by the Industrial Disputes Act. Over the course of the next two months, the company decided to break the Garment and Textile Workers Union (GATWU) and also tried to prevent them from protesting on the premises of factory by filing an injunction. The government officials, however, failed to see through the company's act of forcing workers to resign. On August 24, the conciliation officer recommended for halting the proceedings citing "workers have resigned or transferred". Only the employees who withstood the threats and sat on 50-day protest demanding the reopening of the factory saw some success in terms of better compensation package by the company, whose illegalities remained unquestioned. For example, a worker with 10 years of service got Rs 1.76 lakh in place of Rs 72,727 she would have received had she resigned after pressure from the company. However, only about 500 of the 1,329 workers received the new package, while 23 opted for a transfer to another factory owned by the company. The study recommended the government to introduce counselling services in garment factories to make mental health care a priority and spread awareness on their rights. It also called for strengthening of the labour departments, to enable inspections and examine legalities of factory closures besides upward revision of minimum wages to reflect the new uncertainties and risks taken by workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-failed-garment-factory-workers-says-study-931041.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||One more U-turn: BS Yediyurappa withdraws Karnataka night curfew order||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa withdrew the night curfew just six hours before it was to be imposed on Thursday.  “Based on experts’ opinion, it was decided to impose a night curfew aimed at curbing the spread of the new Covid-19 strain detected in Britain and other countries. However, in the wake of public opinion that a night curfew is not necessary, it has been decided to withdraw it after discussions with Cabinet colleagues and senior officials,” Yediyurappa said in a statement.  He urged citizens to impose self-restraint by wearing face masks and ensuring social distancing. He asked citizens to avoid “unnecessary” travel and strictly follow Covid-19 regulations of the government “to help stop the spread of the virus.”  Karnataka was to have a statewide night curfew starting Thursday from 11 pm to 5 am. This was to end at 5 am on January 2. The decision evoked mixed responses and many were left wondering if this would help at all.  The withdrawal of the night curfew is the latest U-turn by the Yediyurappa administration. On Tuesday, the CM said a night curfew was “not needed right now”. On Wednesday, Yediyurappa announced the imposition of a statewide night curfew as per advice from Government of India and the Technical Advisory Committee. Even then, it was first announced that the curfew would start on Wednesday night itself from 10 pm to 6 am. This was later changed to Thursday, from 11 am to 5 am.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the decision to impose a night curfew itself was amusing. “Except private vehicles, the government allowed buses, taxis and autos to ply. This is the decision of a mad government,” he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-more-u-turn-bs-yediyurappa-withdraws-karnataka-night-curfew-order-931068.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP MLA alleges police high-handedness, seeks action against cops||BJP’s Mudigere legislator MP Kumaraswamy has alleged police high-handedness after he was levied Rs 250 fine for an offence he said he had not committed.  The episode took place on Thursday when Kumaraswamy was travelling to Legislators’ Home from Sheshadripuram in a rented vehicle. "When the car stopped due to heavy traffic near Sheshadripuram police station, police personnel forced me to roll down the tinted windows of the car and levied fine even when I was wearing a mask”, Kumaraswamy stated in his letter to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. "The incident occurred at around 12.30 pm. "Though I was left embarrassed, I paid the fine amount as a responsible citizen without arguing with the policemen. I request you to take suitable action against the police personnel who levied the fine without any reason," Kumaraswamy stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-mla-alleges-police-high-handedness-seeks-action-against-cops-931120.html
24-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC/ST panel can’t be construed as tribunal or court, rules Karnataka HC||The High Court has held that the Karnataka State Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Commission cannot be construed as a Tribunal or a forum discharging the functions of a judicial character or court. The court made this observation while quashing the order passed by the commission in a service-relateddispute. The dispute was between two government servants belonging to the scheduled castes working at the office of the director to the department of pre-university education. The petitioner M B Siddalingaswamy was promoted as Superintendent in 2012 and the other officer K R Muralidhar was promoted in 2015. Muralidhar filed a petition before the commission contending that he was senior to Siddalingaswamy and was entitled to retrospective promotion from 2012 and also sought other benefits. The commission passed the order in November 2016 directing the government to accord retrospective seniority to the fifth respondent with effect from 2012 and also grant him all consequential monetary benefits. The petitioner contended that the petition before the commission was not maintainable and Muralidhar had to approach the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal (KAT). The counsels appearing for the commission and the government contended that redressal of grievance of a citizen belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe is the duty of the Commission when discrimination against such candidate is evident on the face of it. Justice M Nagaprasanna said that the powers bestowed upon the commission by the constitution are procedural powers of the civil court for the purpose of investigating and enquiring into matters and are limited only for that purpose. The court said that a reading of sections 8 and 10 of the Karnataka State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 2002, makes it abundantly clear that the Commission is not empowered to adjudicate upon the rights of parties. “The Commission cannot be construed to be a Tribunal or a forum discharging the functions of a judicial character or Court. Article 338 of the Constitution itself does not entrust the Commission with the power to take up the role of a Court or an adjudicatory Tribunal and determine the rights of parties inter se,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc/st-panel-can-t-be-construed-as-tribunal-or-court-rules-karnataka-hc-931184.html
24-12-2020||West||Mumbai Police step up vigil as Covid-19 night curfew comes into force||Increased patrolling by police, heightened vigilance and curbs on timings of bars and pubs are back in Mumbai as it came under a night curfew to check the spread of Covid-19, but essential travel and services will remain unaffected, officials said on Wednesday. The Maharashtra government has imposed the night curfew in municipal corporation areas (cities) from December 22 to January 5 as a precautionary step amid concerns over detection of a new variant of the coronavirus in Britain. Mumbaikars can go out during the curfew, in force from 11 pm to 6 am, for valid reasons, but not in a group of more than five persons, a top police official said. The curfew is for the safety and health of Mumbaikars and restrictions are only on gathering of five or more persons during the seven-hour-period, said Vishwas Nangre Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). All permitted business activities in night will be allowed except in establishments used for entertainment and recreational purposes, he said. "All essential services are allowed and people also can travel on two and four-wheelers for essential work," Nangre Patil said. He appealed to Mumbaikars to adhere to Covid-19- related protocols which are already in place. Remember to wear face masks. Remember to keep distance. Remember, you owe yourself another good year, and a great life, Nangre Patil said. Police have been conducting marches and are going around streets requesting people to stay indoors during the curfew hours, another police official said. Vehicles used for non-essential purposes during the night curfew will be seized, a city police spokesperson said. Increased police patrolling was seen near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Haji Ali areas of south Mumbai in the wee hours of Wednesday. Police personnel were seen conducting a march in suburban Dindoshi. They were seen also conducting checks in suburban Goregaon and Malad and asking people, who were out on streets, to go to their homes and adhere to the government's order. In suburban Kandivali, police personnel patrolled streets and informed citizens about the night curfew. They also warned of action under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code on assembly of five or more persons at one place. The police have increased checking of vehicles by conducting 'nakabandi' (road blockades) at various places in the city at night. "Vehicles used during the night curfew for non- essential and non-exempted purposes will be seized," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) S Chaitanya, who is spokesperson of the Mumbai Police. All local police officers, including zonal DCPs, have been out on streets during the night curfew to strictly implement the curbs, he said. "Action is being taken against those violating the prohibitory orders. The police were ensuring no shops or establishments are open beyond the given time limit," he said. In neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai also, the police are ensuring strict implementation of the night curfew order to check the spread of the Covid-19, a third official said. The police on Tuesday raided a posh club near the Mumbai airport, where 34 people, including some celebrities, were caught for allegedly violating Covid-19 prevention norms. After the raid, the city police had tweeted: "Party (Nahin) Chalegi Till Six In The Morning! A raid was conducted at a nightclub in Andheri at around 3 am, for flouting Covid prevention norms. Action has been initiated against 34 people, out of which 19 were from Delhi & Punjab, including some celebrities #NewNormal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-step-up-vigil-as-covid-19-night-curfew-comes-into-force-930822.html
24-12-2020||West||I don’t want to sit in AC rooms and tweet: Urmila Matondkar||Filmstar-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar has a clear mission: not just tweet, but do. “I just do not want to sit in AC rooms and Tweet…I know what I have to do and how to do and I will keep learning,” said the 46-year-old, who has recently joined the Shiv Sena. Urmila hails from a middle-class Mumbai family and has given some stellar performances as an actor in films like Masoom, Rangeela, Satya, Bhoot, Ek Hasina Thi and Pinjar. She is now set to prove her mettle in politics. Before Shiv Sena, Matondkar had been associated with Congress. She resigned from the party months after joining on account of infighting in the Congress Mumbai unit. “As I have said earlier, I am a people’s actor…I will work hard to become a people’s politician,” Urmila told DH during an informal chat at the Shiv Sena Bhavan at Dadar in Mumbai. “I am regularly interacting with people, reading a lot and making notes,” she said. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra led by Shiv Sena has recommended her name to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for a seat of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. However, Koshyari is yet to take a call on the 12 names in the fray for the Upper House. Often described as 'Mumbai chi mulgi', the actor said, "Whenever it happens, it will happen. Notwithstanding my formal nomination, I have started working as a Shiv Sainik...I had not joined the Shiv Sena just for a seat...I really want to do something for people." The actor, an arts graduate in psychology, said that she was impressed by Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray for the way he took on challenges like the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, drought, floods, cyclone and so on. "What has to be noted, and this is the general impression of common persons, is that he is taking people along and constantly interacting with them," she said. Matondkar prefers not to go into detail about her nearly six-month association with Congress. "It is 14 months now (since I left the Congress)...let's not talk about that," she said, adding that she has high regards for Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, and Maharashtra Congress chief and state's Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat. Referring to her start with Congress, the actor called it an unforgettable experience. Matondkar unsuccessfully contested from Mumbai North against BJP veteran Gopal Shetty in the Lok Sabha elections. "The response that I got from the people was tremendous, the love they gave me...I am not the kind of person who will keep regretting things. It was a chapter, it is over and I have learnt a lot," she said, adding that Congress is now a part of Shiv Sena-led coalition MVA and she is working with them. The brawl that led her to quit the Congress was a tug of war between Mumbai party factions led by Milind Deora and Sanjay Nirupam. When asked about the shift in ideology from Congress to Shiv Sena, she said, "The word secular has been lost in translation. Being secular doesn’t mean you have no belief in religion while being a Hindu doesn’t mean you hate other religions. Shiv Sena is a Hindutva-wadi party. Hinduism is a great religion which is all-inclusive...we all believe in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam." About whether she would be named a party spokesperson, she said Shiv Sena already has people "who are doing a great job". The actor was set to return on the screens through a web-series this year, but the coronavirus pandemic put a stop to those plans. "There was also a film on offer and in discussions stage, but the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the subsequent lockdown. I am focused and now my main focus is to work for people and live up to their expectations," Matondkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-don-t-want-to-sit-in-ac-rooms-and-tweet-urmila-matondkar-930942.html
24-12-2020||West||Maharashtra unveils temple restoration plan||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has cleared a temple's restoration plan in Maharashtra, months after the party came under pressure from the BJP to reopen places of worship, including temples, in the state. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance has earmarked Rs 101 crore for the restoration project for the financial year 2021-22. This would also be included in next year’s annual budget. The government has also set up a nine-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar to take the plan forward. The temples in Maharashtra were shut from March, due to lockdowns prompted by the Covid-19 pandemic, and only reopened on 16 November. The MVA had received criticism from the BJP over the delay in reopening places of worship. A verbal spat on the issue between Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Thackeray in October snowballed into a national issue. During the recently-concluded winter session of the Maharashtra legislature, Thackeray had announced the plan to restore old temples and it was cleared during Wednesday’s weekly Cabinet meeting. The committee includes officials of the Finance, Public Works, Tourism, Environment, Cultural Affairs, Dean of Sir JJ College of Architecture and Director of Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, and Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation. In a letter to Thackeray in October, Koshyari had said: “….You have been a strong votary of Hindutva.  You have publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as Chief Minister. You visited Vitthal Rukmini Mandir in Pandharpur and performed the puja on Ashadi Ekadashi. I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turn ‘secular’ yourself, the term you hated.” Thackeray, however, had shot back writing to him: “You have taken oath as a Governor…and secularism is a part of the Constitution. However, I don’t need a certificate on Hindutva from anybody, nor do I have to learn it from anyone. Those giving a warm welcome to people who compare my state and its capital (Mumbai) with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir don’t fit in my Hindutva.” In the wake of the governor's letter, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemning the kind of language used by the Governor. Union Home Minister Amit Shah snubbed the Governor saying, “I have read the letter. He has made a passing reference. I believe some restraint could have been exercised."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-unveils-temple-restoration-plan-930959.html
24-12-2020||West||Nagpur man with UK travel history tests positive for Covid-19||A 28-year-old man who recently returned from the UK has tested positive for coronavirus at Nagpur in Maharashtra, an official said on Thursday. After the government earlier this week imposed travel restrictions to and from the UK, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) appealed to those having recent travel history to that country to inform the civic body about it. "The person concerned on his own informed us about his travel history to the United Kingdom. He returned to Nagpur from the UK 15 days back," NMC Commissioner Radhakrishnan B told PTI. His RT-PCR test was conducted on Tuesday and he tested positive on Wednesday. The patient's swab samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for further examination, the official said. "We don't know whether it is the old mutant or new mutant (of the virus). He has mild symptoms and as a precautionary measure, he has been kept at a different ward in the Government Medical College and Hospital here," he said. Three-four family members of the person have also been tested. They are quarantined at home and are being monitored, the civic chief said. He appealed to people having recent travel history to the UK and Europe to come forward and get themselves tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-man-with-uk-travel-history-tests-positive-for-covid-19-930968.html
24-12-2020||West||Pune police busts fake surety racket||In one of the biggest swoops in recent times, the Pune Police have busted a big racket involving the provision of fake documents to people to furnish surety and secure bail. The police have arrested 37 persons including six women in the operation so far, which is being overseen by Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta. It is estimated that the group has helped more than 25,000 persons in the last few years in securing bail based on fake sureties in courts. “This is a big racket that we have busted. They were operating for a long time. Our investigations are still continuing,” Gupta said. The accused were helping people whose cases were underway in the district and judicial magistrate first-class courts. “We have laid traps in multiple places and arrested the accused,” Gupta said, adding that they have been remanded to police custody till 26 December. The accused were charging people for standing as surety for bail and providing fake documents including Aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards, property documents and 7/12 revenue extracts. They also provided photographs to establish fake identities. According to initial investigations, several accused persons involved in alleged robberies, thefts, burglaries and sexual offenses managed to secure bail based on these fake sureties. The accused were charging between Rs 12,000 and Rs 20,000 to stand as fake sureties. Nearly a fortnight ago, the Pune Police received top-secret information about five such gangs in operation and formed special teams, which carried out investigations and launched the crackdown. The team was led by two Inspectors, 27 probationary sub-inspectors besides a large number of other ranks. When asked about the possible involvement of lawyers and others, Gupta said, “Investigations are still underway.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-police-busts-fake-surety-racket-930971.html
24-12-2020||West||Goa health officials begin efforts to locate UK, UAE arrivals since December 9||In the wake of detection of a new Covid-19 variant in the UK, Goa health authorities are trying to track down 602 people who arrived in the state from Britain and the UAE since December 9, an official said on Thursday. The maximum number of people who have arrived from these two places are expected to be in Cansualim area of South Goa district, predominantly a beach destination, he said. A list of 602 people has been prepared after going through arrivals from the UK and the UAE since December 9, the official from the Directorate of Health Services said. This includes 91 people in Cansaulim, 57 in its neigbbouring Cortalim area in South Goa, 48 in North Goa's Corlim area which also includes Old Goa, and 47 in Chimbel, Ribandar and parts of Panaji in North Goa district, he said. The authorities are also trying to locate 41 people in Candolim area, which includes places like Calangute, Baga and other tourist destinations, and another 28 in the capital city Panaji and its adjoining areas. The state machinery has also been asked to locate people who arrived from these two countries and are living in Loutolim Curtorim, Navelim, Quepem, Vasco, Chinchinim, Balli, Canacona, Curchorem, Sanguem (all in South Goa), and Aldona, Mapusa, Siolim, Porvorim, Shiroda, Dharbandora, Ponda, Cansarvanem and Colvale (North Goa), the official said. Goa on Wednesday reported 125 new coronavirus cases, taking the count of infections in the state to 50,364. The state has so far reported 727 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-health-officials-begin-efforts-to-locate-uk-uae-arrivals-since-december-9-930975.html
24-12-2020||West||Goa set for Christmas celebration with Covid-19 norms in place||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa is all set to usher in Christmas festivities from Thursday midnight with beaches already crowded and markets abuzz with last-minute shopping by parishioners. Churches and chapels in Goa, which comprises about 30 per cent people of Christian faith, are geared up for the midnight masses, to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, while adhering to the standard operating procedures laid down by the state government. Residents of Nuvem village in South Goa district have put up Christmas stars along the three-km stretch on a national highway connecting capital city Panaji with Margao. However, post-midnight dances have been cancelled at various places, officials said. Talking to PTI, Fr Maverick Fernandes of the Goa Church said, "A midnight mass can at a time have up to 200 people, who will have to maintain physical distance, wear masks and sanitise their hands." He said all the parishes have been given the liberty to decide the size of crowd for the midnight masses. Another priest from a church in South Goa said the Christmas mass is an event which no one would like to miss. "Since the crowd size has to be restricted, the number of masses will have to be increased this year as parishioners would like to attend them," he said. "Religious activities are on. But, the dances which used to be held after the midnight mass have been cancelled at various places," he said. Markets in the state were seen packed with items used to decorate cribs, depicting the birth of Lord Jesus. "You will find the same number of cribs this time as last year. The Covid-19 restrictions have not dampened the spirits of people," claimed Agnelo Gracias, a resident of Nuvem village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-set-for-christmas-celebration-with-covid-19-norms-in-place-931010.html
24-12-2020||West||Asymptomatic passengers won't be tested on arrival: Maharashtra govt||Passengers arriving from Europe, South Africa and the Middle-East will not be subjected to RT- PCR test for coronavirus immediately upon arrival, the Maharashtra government said in a fresh circular on Thursday. The circular amended the Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) issued for dealing with passengers arriving from these regions on December 21 following the detection of a new variant of coronavirus in the UK. Seven-day institutional quarantine has been made mandatory for asymptomatic passengers arriving from Europe, South Africa and the Middle-East. Symptomatic passengers are immediately shifted to designated hospitals. The circular said that no RT-PCR test will be conducted on arrival for asymptomatic passengers. The test will be conducted at the hotel where the passenger is quarantined between 5th and 7th day, it said, adding that the cost of test will be borne by the passenger. If the report is negativethe passenger will be discharged from institutional quarantine but he or she will have to stay in isolation at home for further seven days. If the result is positive but the patient is still asymptomatic, he or she will stay in institutional quarantine at the same hotel or at COVID-19 hospital for 14 days, the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asymptomatic-passengers-wont-be-tested-on-arrival-maharashtra-govt-931074.html
24-12-2020||West||11 UK returnees in December have tested Covid-19 positive in Goa: Rane||Eleven passengers among those who arrived in Goa from the UK after December 9 have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Thursday, amid concerns over detection of a new coronavirus variant in Britain. Talking to PTI, Rane also said that RT-PCR testing of 979 passengers, who came to Goa from the UK after December 9, is currently going on. The state government has decided to designate the ESI Hospital in South Goa district for the purpose of keeping all the patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 after their arrival from the UK, he said. "As per guidelines, RT-PCR testing of 979 passengers who came after December 9 is going on. Nine passengers were initially found positive for COVID-19 after their arrival from the UK, while two more subsequently approached after being symptomatic and have tested positive," the minister said. Samples of these patients have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for further testing, said Rane, who is in Mumbai for his health checkup. He said it is proposed to keep these patients at the ESI hospital in Margao town of South Goa, as "all those tested positive after arrival from the UK are supposed to be kept in separate institutional isolation". Meanwhile, a senior Goa health official said they would ask the state government to sanction one lakh more RT- PCR test kits to tide over any possible shortage. "The state government has to be prepared for mass testing, if required," he said. Earlier, in the morning, an official from the state Directorate of Health Services said they are trying to track down 602 people who arrived in the state from the UK and the UAE since December 9. Goa on Wednesday reported 125 new coronavirus cases, taking the count of infections in the state to 50,364. The state has so far reported 727 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-uk-returnees-in-december-have-tested-covid-19-positive-in-goa-rane-931083.html
24-12-2020||West||PM puts money in farmer accounts when polls are around: NCP||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi releasing the next instalment of funds for farmers under a central welfare scheme, the NCP on Thursday accused him of depositing money in peasants accounts when polls are around. Speaking to reporters here, Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said the BJP is not a party of farmers, but of those who loot agricultural produce". Countering him, the Maharashtra BJP said the Modi government has taken several steps in the interest of farmers and alleged it is the NCP which did not help cultivators when in power. The prime minister will release the next instalment of financial benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) on Friday via video-conferencing. With the push of a button, Modi will enable the transfer of more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore beneficiary farmer families. The PM will also interact with farmers from six states during the event, which comes in the backdrop of ongoing protests by peasants outside Delhi against the three agri- marketing laws enacted by the Modi government recently. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to deposit Rs 6,000 in the accounts of farmers. Modi saheb has begun this business of depositing money in (farmers') accounts when elections are around and senses troubles, Malik alleged. Nearly half a dozen states, including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Assam, are slated to go to polls in the first half of 2021. Malik said only BJP workers will sit for interaction with the prime minister and charged the party with beginning a game of campaigning. The NCP leader alleged that the BJP has not been a party of farmers, but of those who loot agricultural produce. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesman Keshav Upadhye hit back at Malik and accused the Sharad Pawar-led party of not helping farmers hit by agrarian crisis when in power. Upadhye alleged that farmer suicides were highest in the country when Pawar was the Union agriculture minister in the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government (2004-14). He noted that agriculture growth rate had slipped into negative under the UPAs watch. Modi ji has taken several decisions in the interest of farmers over the past six years. They (the NCP when in power) did not help farmers when the agrarian crisis hit Maharashtra. "So, they wont be able to see the pro-farmer works Modi ji has been doing, Upadhye said. He said that the NCP should first do something in the interest of farmers before criticising the prime minister. The BJP staged protests for farmers and resolved their problems. The Centre has been taking decisions in the interests of farmers, Upadhye added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-puts-money-in-farmer-accounts-when-polls-are-around-ncp-931165.html
24-12-2020||West||Amazon threat: Final court hearing against MNS chief on Jan 5||A civil court here will hold final hearing on January 5 on a suit filed by Amazon against the MNS and its chief Raj Thackeray over alleged threat by his party for non-inclusion of Marathi as an option on the e- commerce giant's app, a lawyer said on Thursday. Thackeray and MNS office-bearer Akhil Chitre, another respondent in the case, on Tuesday filed their affidavits in response to the suit following which the civil court at suburban Dindoshi posted the matter for final hearing on January 5, the plaintiff's lawyer, Akshay Purkar, said. Amazon has filed the civil suit against the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and its affiliate (workers' union) which had allegedly threatened to block the firm's operations in Mumbai if it did not include Marathi as one of the preferred languages on its mobile application or website. On December 13, Purkar had told the court that the MNS and its workers were threatening the plaintiff (the company) and resorting to unfair labour trade practices by inciting its employees through their "arm-twisting tactics". Purkar had then sought interim relief against the party and its workers. The court had on December 13, after hearing brief arguments, noted that protection is required to be given (to company and its staff). At this stage, it appears that protection is required to be given for the working of the plaintiff company, otherwise there will be disturbance in their business activities, the court had said. The court had restrained the MNS and its activists from obstructing the plaintiff or its employees from working at the e-commerce firm's site or disturbing its business activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amazon-threat-final-court-hearing-against-mns-chief-on-jan-5-931166.html
24-12-2020||West||Gujarat govt collects Rs 116 crore in mask fines||Gujarat collected a whopping Rs 116 crore as fines from 23.64 lakh people till December 22 for not wearing masks, the state government informed the Gujarat High Court on Thursday, revealing the extent of the violations in the western state. "Whole response of the state to Covid-19 rests upon the implementation of various guidelines, notifications, prescriptions, etc issued by the government. Without proper and meaningful implementation, all efforts of the state would be futile and theoretical. In this regard, it is imperative to bring to the attention of the court that till 22.12.2020, a total fine of Rs.1,15,88,600/- has been collected from 23,64,420 persons for not wearing face masks or appropriately covering their faces," the state government's affidavit in the high court stated. The state government has also claimed that various guidelines were issued for conducting bypolls for eight Assembly seats in November for maintaining social distancing and other norms. "The activities in specific areas were under close surveillance by concerned authorities. Necessary guidelines were also issued to take precautions for door-to-door campaigns, roadshows/rallies, election meetings and gatherings etc. during these periods." The affidavit has been filed by Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Jayanti Ravi. The state government had made masks mandatory in public places since the Covid-19 outbreak in March, with officials imposing a steep Rs 1,000 fine for violations. The fine amount was raised from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 after the HC ordered the state to do so noting a rise in mask violations. Earlier this month, the high court had ordered the state to make a rule to punish violators with 5-10 days' mandatory non-medical community service at coronavirus care centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-collects-rs-116-crore-in-mask-fines-931169.html
24-12-2020||West||Section 144 to be invoked near Koregaon-Bhima war memorial||The Pune district administration has issued orders to invoke section 144 of CrPC in and around Perne village where the `Jay Stambh' (Victory Pillar) in the memory of the battle of Koregaon-Bhima stands. The area witnesses commemorative programs on January 1 every year as Dalits mark anniversary of the 1818 battle in which East India Company's forces which included Dalit troops defeated the army of the Peswha of Pune. Dalits celebrate this victory as the beginning of self-assertion of oppressed communities. However, section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be invoked to restrict movement of people in the area ahead of January 1 in view of the COVID-19 situation, a district official said. Section 144 will be in force from the midnight of December 30 to January 2, 2021, and people from outside have been prohibited from entering the villages around the war memorial. People should pay their tributes from home in view of the pandemic, the administration had appealed earlier. "Since this year the commemoration ceremony will be symbolic, only those who have been issued passes by the local police will be allowed to visit the pillar. People from villages around the pillar are prohibited from assembling, holding rallies and wielding any sorts of weapons, sticks," said the district administration's order. Violence had broken out during the bicentenary celebrations of the Koregaon Bhima battle on January 1, 2018, in which one person was killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/section-144-to-be-invoked-near-koregaon-bhima-war-memorial-931190.html
24-12-2020||West||Cautious Goa looks out for 600 UK returnees on Xmas eve||On Christmas eve and ahead of the festive season, when the movement of people peaks in the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday, urged around 600-odd UK returnees to get themselves tested or isolated in wake of the spate of Covid-19 infection in the island nation linked to a new mutated strain of the virus. Sawant also said the district administration had sent teams to trace the 600-odd travellers, mostly NRIs who have returned home to celebrate Christmas. "Passengers who have arrived in Goa from the UK over the last six days are being monitored. They should either isolate themselves in hotels or at their homes. They should get themselves tested. Our administration is trying to look out for them," Sawant told reporters outside his official residence in Panaji on Thursday. "Even if their RT-PCR test is negative, they should still stay in isolation and get themselves tested again. We are sending their reports to Pune for analysis as per MHA guidelines," Sawant said. The Goa administration is particularly cautious reining in the spread of the mutated strain of the virus on account of the festive season when people visit each others' home to exchange Christmas and New Year greetings. Goa's Churches have also issued a strict protocol to prevent a possible spread of the infection during prayer services by limiting the audience to 100 per mass. Special mass services will also be held only for senior citizens in Goa's Churches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cautious-goa-looks-out-for-600-uk-returnees-on-xmas-eve-931204.html
