25-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Police arrest imposter who cheated 13 people||The Mangaluru City Police arrested a man at a KSRTC bus stand in Mangaluru on charges of cheating people with false matrimonial alliances and job opportunities using over 20 fake Facebook accounts. According to City Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash, Senior Superintendent of Posts Sriharsha N had lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime Police Station stating that one Parameshwarappa Rangappa is pretending as a senior postal officer in Mangaluru on Facebook, seeking a matrimonial alliance with the daughter of Hanumanthappa Bisalli from Goa. He had allegedly edited clippings of television channels using an app to portray himself as the winner of the Rajyotsava award and Meghadhoot award. After verification, Hanumanthappa realised that there was no such person working in the Mangaluru postal department. Two constables in the City Armed Reserved Police had also complained to the cyber police that Parameshwarappa had cheated them out of over Rs 6 lakh, on the promise of Grade 1 and 2 officers' jobs in the department of posts using a fake Facebook account in the name of Pooja C N. Following the complaints, the cyber police investigated and arrested Parameshwarappa in Mangaluru. During the interrogation, he had revealed that he had created over 20 Facebook accounts in various names. He would normally befriend senior officers from departments of posts, forests, police, KPTCL and education over social media platforms to build the credibility of his claims. After this, he would pretend to be the senior officer in the department of posts. He has cheated 13 people and collected Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh from them. The cyber crime police have seized laptops, five mobile phones, and fake IDs of the postal department and ICICI Bank debit card, worth around Rs 1.35 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-arrest-imposter-who-cheated-13-people-931372.html
25-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anand Mahindra tweets video of 'hybrid' taxi even Elon Musk can't match||The photograph of a special hybrid car with half a bullock cart and half an ambassador car, which had gone viral during Lakshadeepotsava celebrations in Dharmasthala, is once again in limelight. Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra shared a video on his Twitter page of the car and challenged Elon Musk and his electric-car-maker Tesla to match "the low cost of renewable energy-fuelled car". The tweet from his official handle declares; "I don’t think @elonmusk & Tesla can match the low cost of this renewable energy-fuelled car. Not sure about the emissions level, though, if you take methane into account." In the video two bullocks are shown pulling half an ambassador with a capacity to accommodate two people. In the 50-second video, two bullocks are shown pulling an ambassador-type car cabin with a capacity for two people. There is a man sitting in front of the cabin controlling the cart. The tweet garnered over 31,000 likes and 4,000 retweets, with some of Mahindra's followers demanding a "self-drive option" in jest, while others called out the businessman for the "unethical design" of the car. The video has been viewed more than 4 lakh times. An unethical design. The weight of the passengers and vehicle should not fall on the animals' shoulder. They should be just pulling engines, not tyres to bear the weight. 2 more tyres on the front would have made it more ethical. Self driving option also On multiple occasions, Mahindra has taken to Twitter to engage and entertain his 8.3 million followers with trivia, jokes and videos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anand-mahindra-tweets-video-of-hybrid-taxi-even-elon-musk-cant-match-931427.html
25-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dog bites 15 people in Shiralakoppa town||More than 15 residents were bitten by a dog with rabies in Shiralakoppa town on Friday evening.  According to people, the dog with rabies went on biting people in various parts of the town. It has bitten some sheep also. Around ten injured persons are undergoing treatment in a community health centre in the town and the others are undergoing treatment in district McCann general hospital in Shivamogga city. Later, town panchayat workers captured the dog.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dog-bites-15-people-in-shiralakoppa-town-931568.html
25-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||KPCC chief D K Shivakumar blames K Sudhakar for night curfew decision||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Friday said that Health Minister K Sudhakar lacked basic common sense for having decided to impose a night curfew, which was later withdrawn.  “The entire nation and the world is looking at this City (Bengaluru). To say that the infection will happen during the night and not during the day... who will step out after 11 pm?” Shivakumar told reporters.  Recalling the tumultuous year that has passed, Shivakumar said that people had suffered much. “The younger generation... they’d want to share their highs and lows. But, without asking anybody’s opinion...” he said, seeking the photograph of the expert who suggested the night curfew. “We will worship that person’s photo.” According to Shivakumar, the government should instead enforce Covid-19 precautions. “It’s basic common sense. Every morning and during the day, people are coming out in the markets and for work. Control whatever you can. Help people financially. Has the government reduced tax for industries or provided employment allowance? Have they waived interest?” he said, mocking the government for making several U-turns.  “I’m not worried about Sudhakar. I’m worried about Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as to why he has become so weak. He signed off on (night curfew) listening to one person. It was withdrawn not because we asked, but because his own ministers and the party took him to the task,” Shivakumar said, reiterating how no action was taken against Sudhakar for posing in his private swimming pool “even as swimming pools were closed world over.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kpcc-chief-d-k-shivakumar-blames-k-sudhakar-for-night-curfew-decision-931461.html
25-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Senior BJP MLA Yatnal hints at 'historical changes' in Karnataka after Sankranti||Legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has predicted “crucial change” in addition to Cabinet expansion, by Sankranthi. The festival falls on January 14, 2021. “The Sun changes his path after Sankranthi and ‘Uttarayana’ begins from that day. Therefore, North Karnataka stands to benefit after Sankranthi,” Yatnal told reporters here on Friday. He said that Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to visit Vijayapura on January 16 and there will be a “major change” even before his arrival. The “injustice” caused to Vijayapura all these years will be set right, he claimed. He said that the government should not hurry for reopening schools in the state. “I am also the head of an educational institution. These institutions can somehow tide over this year’s loss. But, there should not be any adverse effect on the health of children,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/senior-bjp-mla-yatnal-hints-at-historical-changes-in-karnataka-after-sankranti-931579.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Forum holds mock funeral to oppose amendments to farm Acts||Members of the State Backward Classes Awareness Forum, along with other activists, performed a mock funeral procession as a mark of protest against the State and Central governments, for the amendments to the Land Reforms and APMC Acts. The members performed the mock burial at a burial ground at the foot of Chamundi Hill. Forum president K S Shivaramu and retired professor K S Bhagwan participated in the protest. Bhagwan said the mock funeral reflects the farmers’ situation. The governments are anti-farmers and the governments should withdraw the amendments, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/forum-holds-mock-funeral-to-oppose-amendments-to-farm-acts-931234.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru gears up for Christmas, Vaikunta Ekadashi today||Mysuru city is ready to celebrate two important festivals -- Christmas and Vaikunta Ekadashi -- on December 25. While Christians celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, sharing sweets and arranging lunch and dinner for family, relatives and friends, Hindus will observe fasting on ‘Vaikunta Ekadashi’. However, the festivities are likely to be dampened due to the restrictions imposed by the State government, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the government’s directives, Christmas would be celebrated in a simple manner, with limited occupants in churches at a time. People visiting churches and temples are directed to strictly follow social distancing and wear masks. St Philomena’s Church, St Bartholomew’s Church, Wesley Cathedral, Hardwicke Church, Pushpashram Church, Infant Jesus Church in Mysuru have been decorated and special mass prayers arranged. People, who understand the current situation, have geared up to celebrate the festival amid the Covid-19 protocols. As the people of Mysuru have been celebrating all festivals in a simple manner due to Covid, Christians too has decided to scale down the celebrations, said Bishop of Mysuru K A William. In his Christmas message, he said, “All should shed selfishness and pray for a Corona-free world. It is important to live in peace and harmony, during such a crisis. Churches will hold special prayers every hour on December 25 from 5 am to 9 pm. The government guidelines will be followed strictly.” Vaikunta Ekadashi Vaikunta Ekadashi, also known as Mukkoti Ekadashi, is an important festival for Hindus. Vaishnavas observe day-long fasting and visit Vishnu temples. It is believed that ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’, the gate to the abode of Lord Vishnu, Vaikunta, is opened on this day and the devotees observing fast would attain salvation. The temples erect special entrance on the day, symbolic to ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’. Most of the temples have made it mandatory for the devotees to follow social distancing. Lakshmi Venkataramanaswamy Temple at Vontikoppal has decided not to allow devotees into the temple, to check any spread of virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-gears-up-for-christmas-vaikunta-ekadashi-today-931235.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Jumbo tramples Forest dept employee to death||A Forest department personnel, Gururaj (52), died after being trampled by an elephant while on duty at the Nagarahole National Park, in the taluk on Thursday afternoon. Employees Gururaj, Chandru and Ashok were on a patrol at a distance of one kilometre from the department office, when the incident occurred, said Nagarahole Tiger Project director Mahesh Kumar. Gururaj had been serving the department at Nagarahole from 1991. While Gururaj died on the spot, Chandru escaped unhurt, Ashok sustained injuries and has been admitted to the hospital. The department will provide compensation as per the norms, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/jumbo-tramples-forest-dept-employee-to-death-931236.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Revanna warns of protest near CM’s house||MLA H D Revanna warned of staging a protest in front of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s house in the second week of January, if the government does not release funds for the works sanctioned for Hassan district, during the JD(S)-Congress coalition government. Addressing media persons in Hassan on Thursday, Revanna said, the BJP government has not sanctioned any development works for the district, so far. While development works are being carried out in other districts, crores of rupees sanctioned for Hassan district has been stalled, after the local MLA wrote to the government. Funds have not been released to the constituencies of JD(S) MLAs. The government is into revenge politics since the last 18 months, Revanna alleged. The airport work, Chikkamagaluru-Beluru-Alur railway route, the park near Channapatna lake, new prisons and other works, that were sanctioned during the tenure of H D Kumaraswamy as chief minister have been stalled, Revanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/revanna-warns-of-protest-near-cm-s-house-931237.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||No New Year at Mysuru Palace: DC||This New Year there will be no special events at the Mysuru Palace. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has ordered cancellation of events to welcome 2021. Every year, the District Administration used to welcome New Year in a grand manner, with display of crackers and by illuminating the Palace at midnight. But, this time, there will be no illumination, flower show or display of firecrackers, she said. The district administration has also imposed restrictions on people visiting the Chamundi Hill on New Year day. Covid test for UK returnees The District Administration and the Health department have conducted Covid-19 test for 18 persons, who reached Mysuru from UK. All the persons have tested negative for the infection, she said. It has to be noted that a total of 137 persons reached Mysuru from UK. Among them, a few people belong to Mandya and Kodagu districts, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/no-new-year-at-mysuru-palace-dc-931239.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||3 held for selling ivory artefacts||The Forest Department Vigilance Squad has arrested three persons for allegedly trying to sell artefacts made of ivory in Mysuru on Thursday. They have also seized three artefacts. The arrested are Manohar (45) of Mysuru, Shivadas (55), and Sumanth (26), of Somwarpet, Kodagu district. A team, led by Deputy Conservator of Forests Poovaiah, arrested the trio, while trying to sell the artefacts at Naidu Nagar, in Mysuru. Sand boa rescued The mobile squad has also arrested four persons for illegal possession of sand boa, near Srirampura, in Mysuru. The arrested are Chandru of Nanjangud, Kumar of Malavalli, Shivaprakash of Chamarajanagar and Ravish of Bengaluru. The reptile has been rescued. The accused were trying to find prospective buyers, as it is believed that its possession brings prosperity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/3-held-for-selling-ivory-artefacts-931240.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Job fair in Mysuru on December 30||Magic Bus India Foundation, in association with Majestic High School, on Azeez Sait Double Road, Udayagiri, in Mysuru, has organised a job fair on December 30, at the school. The registration for the employment mela will be held from 9 am to 11 am. The interviews will be held from 10 am to 4 pm. Employers from the manufacturing, ITEs, retail, BFSI, telecom, marketing, sales and BPO sectors are expected to take part in the job fair. Approximately 500 job openings, in various disciplines and sectors, are available for Mysuru and the surrounding industries and firms. Youth, with qualifications such as SSLC, PU, ITI, diploma or any degree, in the age group of 18 to 30 years can participate. Contact: 95356 96563, 99729 16082, 93415 53151, 85508 59189, 99005 07334, or 96116 68922.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/job-fair-in-mysuru-on-december-30-931241.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Online veena concert today||Mysuru-based cultural organisation Ganabharati has organised an online veena concert by Balu Masthi, on December 25, at 6 pm. He will be accompanied by Sunil Subrahmanya on the mridanga. The programme is not a public performance, but will be live on Ganabharathi Facebook page and on Youtube, says a press note from A Radhesh, member of Ganabharati. Balu Masthi, a Carnatic veena artist, has been learning and playing music since a young age. He was a youth artist on All India Radio, during his childhood. He learnt veena from the late A V Prakash for many years. He also learnt veena from Jayanthi Kumaresh. Sunil Subramanya, born in 1986 near Sringeri, was drawn to the art of percussion as a child. He is from a family with deep roots in music, particularly Bhajana Sampradaya. He started his initial training at an age of 10 years, under his father Subramanya and Sringeri Ramachandra Rao. At the age of 15, Sunil came under the tutelage of mridangam maestro Bangalore Arjun Kumar. Sunil has his advanced training from Umayalapuram Sivaraman. Sunil is an ‘A’ graded artist of All India Radio andDoordarshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/online-veena-concert-today-931242.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Two-year-old leopardess rescued||A two-year-old leopardess was trapped in a cage laid by the Forest department at Uppinahalli Koppalu village, under Dandiganahalli hobli of Channarayapatna taluk, on Thursday. Following complaints by villagers, the department had placed a cage on an agricultural land on the outskirts of the village, on December 4. The leopardess fell into the cage on December 24. Range Forest Officer H R Hemanth Kumar and personnel visited the spot. The leopardess was released into the forest later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/two-year-old-leopardess-rescued-931243.html
25-12-2020||Mysuru||Don’t hurry to reopen schools from Jan 1, urge parents, teachers||Parents and teachers have strongly opposed the State government’s decision to reopen schools from January 1, 2021, despite the emergence of new Covid-19 strain. The parents have urged Education Minister S Suresh Kumar to think twice before taking a decision. The Primary and Secondary Education Department has decided to conduct classes for 10th and 12th standards, across the State. The minister had said that it was inevitable to reopen schools due to the Board examinations. The parents have asked the Education minister, “Why was he in a hurry to reopen schools, despite the pandemic?” Chandrashekar, parent of C Tejas, a Class X student, said, at a time when a new variant of the virus is emerging, how could the Education department and the minister take such a hasty decision? ‘Should think practically’ “Minister Suresh Kumar must think twice before making a statement. His statements are putting parents, teachers, as well as students, into confusion. The minister should think practically before making a comment,” he said. Geetha Sahadev, mother of student Nairuthya, said, “We have decided not to send our daughter to school, at any cost. She may lose one academic year, but, her health is important for us. The government should reconsider its decision.” Shivashankar, who takes care of his grandchildren, said, the government’s decision has an impact on children. His son’s family resides abroad and their children are with Shivashankar, pursuing education in Mysuru. “The children are worried and afraid. I am confused,” he said. A teacher, who did not want to be be identified, said, “When students can remain absent for classes, it is mandatory for teachers to attend schools. The teachers have no proper transport facility and a majority of them use private transportation. But, who will ensure our safety?” he asked. “We have to conduct classes wearing face shields and mask throughout the day. We have family, children and elderly at home. Why the government is not concerned about the teaching community?” he asked. AHV blames minister BJP MLC A H Vishwanath, also former Education minister, criticised his own party Minister Suresh Kumar and asked about the hurry to reopen schools. “Children are our country’s asset and we have to protect them. I don’t know why the minister is taking such decisions. He gives statements and withdraws them. No decision has remained stable. The decision should be withdrawn as no parent or teacher is ready. Don’t play with children’s lives,” he said. Vishwanath suggested reopening of schools after January 14, after holding discussions with experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/don-t-hurry-to-reopen-schools-from-jan-1-urge-parents-teachers-931245.html
25-12-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on December 25||India crossed the 1-crore mark for coronavirus infections as the country witnessed a substantial drop in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,01,68,733 as of December 25 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,47,314 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->    No. of people discharged: 97,17,834  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-december-25-931286.html
25-12-2020||National||DH Toon | Vajpayee's 'Raj dharma, revised edition' for PM Modi||A new book fleshes out the political philosophy of veteran BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee and gives an insider account on how the late former prime minister thought and worked. The book, titled Vajpayee: The Years that Changed India, will hit the stands on December 25 -- on the occasion of Vajpayee's 96th birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vajpayees-raj-dharma-revised-edition-for-pm-modi-931291.html
25-12-2020||National||62% of cybercrime complaints in 2020 linked to financial frauds: Delhi Police||Sixty-two per cent of the cybercrime complaints lodged in 2020 were related to financial frauds, police said in a statement here. The Delhi Police said a spurt was witnessed in incidents of cybercrime during the coronavirus lockdown. Twenty-four per cent of the complaints were related to the social media, primarily online harassment, and the rest 14 per cent were related to crimes such as hacking and data theft. “Among the complaints of various cybercrime received, the predominant ones are of online financial frauds, accounting for around 62 per cent of the total,” the statement said. A perusal of the complaints received by the Delhi Police reveals that cases of extortion by morphing videos of people, especially related to sexual conduct, have increased manifold. Several cases were registered in matters related to tech support, immigration and IRS call centre scams and 125 persons were arrested. These fake call centres were being used to cheat foreign nationals. The Delhi Police has busted five such fake call centres that were operating at a big level from Moti Nagar, Rajouri Garden and Peeragarhi and arrested 125 persons, including the owners or managers who were operating these, the statement said. Fake call Centres primarily target citizens of English-speaking countries. They impersonate as legitimate technical support from reputed tech companies such as Microsoft, Apple, HP, AT&T. Another modus operandi commonly used is to extort money after threatening legal action in respect of tax violations, social security number misuse or immigration rule violations, the statement said. The cybercrime unit of the Delhi Police has been taking stringent action against criminals and arrested more than 214 offenders, the statement said. In last 10 days, a total of five illegal call centres have been busted, it added. Due to the action taken by police, 278 profiles containing objectionable content were blocked. This includes Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tiktok and YouTube accounts. The maximum number of accounts -- 140 that were blocked -- were of Twitter, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/62-of-cybercrime-complaints-in-2020-linked-to-financial-frauds-delhi-police-931294.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Modi to interact with farmers of six states on Dec 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with farmers on the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25, the BJP said, adding that the party will hold “kisan samvad” at over 2,500 places in Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also release the next instalment of the financial benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) on December 25 via video-conferencing, his office said on Wednesday. With the push of a button, Modi will enable the transfer of more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore beneficiary farmer families, it added. Modi will also interact with farmers from six states during the event, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. "The farmers will share their experiences with PM-KISAN and also on various other initiatives taken by the government for the welfare of farmers," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-farmers-of-six-states-on-dec-25-931296.html
25-12-2020||National||Vajpayee's efforts for making strong, prosperous India will be remembered forever: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid rich tributes to the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. Vajpayee's visionary leadership saw the country's development reach unprecedented heights, he said in a tweet. "His efforts for making a strong and prosperous India will be remembered forever," Modi said. पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री आदरणीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। अपने दूरदर्शी नेतृत्व में उन्होंने देश को विकास की अभूतपूर्व ऊंचाइयों पर पहुंचाया। एक सशक्त और समृद्ध भारत के निर्माण के लिए उनके प्रयासों को सदैव स्मरण किया जाएगा। Born in 1924, Vajpayee was a founder member of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP, a party which rose from the margins to rule India for the first time in the 1990s with him being its main face. His tenure is credited with ushering in a fresh wave of liberalisation, boosting growth and infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vajpayees-efforts-for-making-strong-prosperous-india-will-be-remembered-forever-pm-modi-931311.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to Madan Mohan Malaviya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Hindutva icon Madan Mohan Malaviya on his birth anniversary, saying he dedicated his entire life to social reforms and serving the nation. Born in 1861, Malaviya was a former president of the Congress who later founded the Hindu Mahasabha. He was also one of the founders of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Noting that Malaviya was an inspiration behind BHU, Modi lauded him as a multifaceted talent. His contribution to the country will inspire the coming generations, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-madan-mohan-malaviya-931326.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Modi greets people on Christmas||Greeting people on Christmas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the life and principles of Lord Christ give strength to millions across the world. May his path keep showing the way in building a just and inclusive society, the Prime Minister said in a tweet. "Merry Christmas! The life and principles of Lord Christ gives strength to millions across the world," Modi said. "May everybody be happy and healthy," he added.  Merry Christmas! The life and principles of Lord Christ gives strength to millions across the world. May his path keep showing the way in building a just and inclusive society. May everybody be happy and healthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-christmas-931327.html
25-12-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine may be available in drugstores: Report||As India gears up to vaccinate over a billion people against the coronavirus, experts dealing with vaccine-related decisions in government are considering making the vaccine available at drugstores for private use, for those who can afford to buy it. The government is preparing to begin inoculation for the vulnerable population early next year, once a candidate is finalised. It is currently drafting beneficiaries which include about 30 million health and frontline workers.  “This is something that was also done for the influenza vaccine; those who can pay are allowed to access the vaccine in private (market) with certain riders,” a senior official in the government told the publication. Currently, three candidates  --  Pfizer-BioNTech, Serum Institute of India’s Oxford-AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech-Indian Council of Medical Research -- have submitted their bids to the national drugs regulator for emergency use authorisation or the EUA.  AIIMS Director, Dr Randeep Guleria, said in an interview that the regulatory approval might come later in the year or by early 2021.  This comes as a relief to the country which continues to be the worst-hit in the world after the United States with over one crore cases and death toll due to the virus nearing 1.47 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-may-be-available-in-drugstores-report-931344.html
25-12-2020||National||President, Vice-President, PM pay rich tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and parliamentarians on Friday paid floral tributes to Madan Mohan Malaviya and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the Central Hall of Parliament on their birth anniversary. Prime Minister Modi also released a book, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee: A Commemorative Volume", to mark the occasion. Soon after the book release, as the prime minister was about to leave the venue, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members Sanjay Singh and Bhagwant Mann raised slogans demanding repeal of the three new central farm laws. Modi was speaking with Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury at that moment. Besides Azad and Chowdhury, Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and LJP's Chirag Paswan were among other lawmakers present at the event. The leaders first paid tributes to Malaviya and then to Vajpayee on their portraits in the Central Hall. Born in 1861, Malaviya was a former president of the Congress who later founded the Hindu Mahasabha. He was also one of the founders of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Noting that Malaviya was an inspiration behind BHU, Prime Minister Modi, in a tweet earlier in the day, lauded him as a multifaceted talent. His contribution to the country will inspire the coming generations, the prime minister said. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was born in 1924, was a founder member of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP, a party which rose from the margins to rule India for the first time in 1990s with him being its main face. His tenure is credited with ushering in a fresh wave of liberalisation, boosting growth and infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-vice-president-pm-pay-rich-tribute-to-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-birth-anniversary-931346.html
25-12-2020||National||Midnight mass, carols usher in Christmas in Goa amid Covid-19||The peel of the midnight bells in churches and the carols reverberating the praise of Lord Jesus ushered in the Christmas festivities in Goa amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Christmas celebration in the state, where nearly 30 per cent population is Christian, started with traditional fervour amid strict adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the state government. "People came out in large numbers to attend the midnight mass. However, only 200 people were allowed to attend the mass in each church and the attendees had to maintain physical distance, wear masks and sanitise their hands," a priest attached to Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Church in Panaji said on Friday. The size of the crowd for the masses during the day will have to be decided by the priest in each church, he said. The festival will continue till the New Year, the priest added. At some places, special pandals were set up outside the churches to accommodate those people who could not attend the mass inside. A police official said, "No untoward incident was reported during the festival. But police have increased their vigil in view of the crowd." Apart from the churches and chapels, people also thronged the beaches across the state at midnight. Markets in the state were seen packed with items used to decorate cribs, depicting the birth of Lord Jesus. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant wished the people on the occasion. "Warm greetings and best wishes to the people of Goa on the occasion of Christmas. Christmas signifies a time of love, joy and peace. May the joys of the season fill our heart with goodwill and cheer. Merry Christmas," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/midnight-mass-carols-usher-in-christmas-in-goa-amid-covid-19-931347.html
25-12-2020||National||India reports 23,067 fresh Covid-19 cases, 336 deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,46,845 on Friday with 23,067 new infections being reported in a day, while total recoveries crossed 97 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll increased to 1,47,092 with 336 new fatalities, the data at 8 am showed. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,17,834 during the same period, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.77 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 2,81,919 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 16,63,05,762 samples have been tested for detection of Covid-19 up to December 24 with 9,97,396 samples being tested on Thursday itself. Of the 336 new fatalities, 89 were reported from Maharashtra, 37 from Delhi, 32 from West Bengal, and 22 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 49,058 fatalities, followed by 12,039 from Karnataka, 12,036 from Tamil Nadu, 10,384 from Delhi, 9,505 from West Bengal, 8,267 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,089 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,260 from Punjab. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-23067-fresh-covid-19-cases-336-deaths-931350.html
25-12-2020||National||Protesting farmer unions to hold meeting, respond to Centre's letter||Protesting farmer unions are likely to hold a meeting on Friday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with farmers during a money transfer event as the agitation at Delhi's borders against the new Agri laws is about to complete a month. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- is expected to meet later in the day to discuss the Centre's letter and respond to it formally. On Thursday, the protesting farmer unions alleged that the government's latest letter for talks is nothing but a propaganda against the peasants to create an impression that they are not interested in dialogue and asked it to put the scrapping of the three recent farm laws in the agenda to resume the parleys. The Union Agriculture ministry while extending a fresh invite, however, made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), saying it was out of the purview of the new farm laws. The ministry also reiterated it is ready to find a "logical solution" to the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. With the push of a button, Prime Minister Modi will enable the transfer of more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore beneficiary families. The amount will be the next instalment of financial benefits to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). The protests have led to closure of roads in Delhi, and diversions have also caused traffic congestions. Taking to Twitter on Friday, Delhi Traffic Police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic. "Pl take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44," the department said in a tweet. In another tweet, the traffic police said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to take alternative route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders," it mentioned. In an advisory, the Delhi Traffic Police said NH-44 beyond Singhu Border has been closed for general traffic with effect from Saturday, and diversions have been made accordingly to avoid inconvenience to the public. According to another advisory, vehicular traffic going to Haryana from NH-44 via Palla red light is being diverted from NIIT to Holambi 100-foot-road and DSIDC 80-foot-road to pass through Lampur border and Safiabad border. Another diversion is from the U-turn near DSIDC and Singhu village cut towards the Singhu school toll tax. Vehicular traffic coming from Haryana via Safiabad, Saboli, Pau Maniyari borders is being diverted from the Safiabad More, Saboli More, Ramdev Chowk and sector-A/5 Narela via Raja Harish Chander hospital towards NH-44 to go to Delhi. Vehicles coming from Lampur border is being diverted towards Grain Mandi and then Munim ka Bagh via Harish Chander red light to NH-44. Vehicular traffic coming from Azadpur Mandi to GTK depot will be diverted from GTK depot towards Rohini. Vehicles coming from Mukandpur to Singhu border will be diverted towards Mukandpur, the advisory stated. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmer-unions-to-hold-meeting-respond-to-centres-letter-931354.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Modi releases Rs 18,000 crore under Kisan Samman Nidhi, interacts with farmers||Amid speculation that the December instalment of PM-Kisan disbursals may be delayed due to farmers’ protest, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday transferred Rs 18,000 crore to the accounts of more than nine crore farmers and interacted with them through video conferencing asking them not to pay heed to certain political leaders politicking on farm laws. The money was released on the birth anniversary of former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which is celebrated each year as "Good Governance Day". A sum of Rs 2,000 has been credited to the farmers account under PM-Kisan Sammnan Nidhi Yojana under which each beneficiary farmer is entitled Rs 6,000 in a year. The money is provided to small and marginal farmers in three equal instalments. “Ever since the scheme has started a sum of Rs 1,10,000 has reached to the accounts of farmers,” Modi said interacting with the community across seven states and took the opportunity to lash on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, whose government has stopped the verification process for such benefits to farmers long ago. "I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers and my brothers and sisters from West Bengal have not been able to get this benefit. More than 23 lakh farmers  from Bengal have applied online but the state government has stopped verification process long ago,” he said. “Her actions against farmers has hurt me a lot,” Modi said as he sought to know why the Opposition was silent on the matter. “These parties who do not talk about the interest of farmers in West Bengal, come to Delhi and talk about them. These parties who talk about APMC mandis, have forgotten that there are no APMC mandis in Kerala. They never protest in Kerala,” he said interacting with leaders of farming community at more than 19,000 locations. The government has been insisting that the farm sector reforms are in the interest of farmers and not in the interest of corporates. Union Home Minister Amit Shah too interacted with a select group of farmers. "No corporate can snatch away any farmer's land as long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister," he said. Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has invited the protesting farmers for talks and said he was hopeful the farmers will understand the new farm law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-releases-rs-18000-crore-under-kisan-samman-nidhi-interacts-with-farmers-931362.html
25-12-2020||National||Farmers halt toll collection on most highways in Haryana||Responding to a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmers protesting the Centre's new farm laws halted toll collection on most highways in Haryana on Friday. According to officials, toll collection was halted either past midnight or from early Friday morning at several toll points in the state. While at many places, farmers took over toll plazas not allowing authorities to collect fees from commuters, at other places toll employees themselves halted the process in view of the protest. The toll plaza employees allowed vehicles to pass through without paying any charge. A few days ago, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had announced that toll booths in Haryana would not be allowed to collect toll from December 25 to 27. Farmers halted operation of toll plazas on NH-44 at Bastara in Karnal. They also halted toll collection process at another plaza located on the Karnal-Jind highway, at Khuian Malkana toll plaza at Dabwali in Sirsa district and at Makrauli Kalan on Rohtak-Panipat highway. However, the toll was being collected as usual on Friday morning at Kherki Daula toll plaza in Gurgaon. BKU leader Jagjeet Singh Dalewala had a few ago said, "From December 25 to 27 all toll booths in Haryana will not be allowed by us to collect toll, we will stop them from doing so." Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for around a month as the stalemate between the government and the protesters, who are demanding a repeal of the three new agri laws, continued without any signs of a breakthrough. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-halt-toll-collection-on-most-highways-in-haryana-931363.html
25-12-2020||National||2020: Bihar went to polls amid Covid-19; NDA scraped through, Opposition came out stronger||In a year that left the world in the throes of the Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar pulled off a mammoth electoral exercise which saw the NDA retain power but a reinvigorated opposition snapping at its heels. The state was relatively less affected by the deadly coronavirus, accounting for under five per cent of the total cases in the country, and an even smaller percentage of fatalities, despite being home to almost one-tenth of its population. Nonetheless, it bore the brunt of a massive migrant crisis triggered by the pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown that rendered millions of people homeless and jobless, forcing them to undertake arduous treks to their native villages hundreds of miles away from their places of work. Bihar also remained in news for the dramatic turn of events following Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide in Mumbai. The FIR lodged against actress Rhea Chakraborty by the actor's Patna-based father, and alleged attempts by Mumbai police to hinder the investigation prompted the Nitish Kumar government to recommend a CBI probe into the matter, a request quickly accepted by the Centre. The Shiv Sena, which heads the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, smelt a rat and alleged that the Bihar chief minister was acting with his eyes on "electoral gains". Although the CBI investigation opened a can of worms in the film industry over alleged bias against outsiders and consumption of drugs, it is yet to find any incriminating evidence against Chakraborty, an ex-girlfriend of Rajput, linking her to his suicide. She hit back with a counter-complaint against the deceased actor's sisters, accusing them of giving statements in the media aimed at misleading the probe. The emotive issue, however, disappeared from public discourse as the assembly elections drew nearer and matters pertaining to governance took centre stage. The state's outspoken police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who hogged media limelight during the row between Bihar and Maharashtra police over Rajput's suicide probe, took VRS and joined the chief minister's JD(U) hoping to make a splash in the elections, could not secure a ticket and was left cooling his heels on the sideline. While the NDA emerged victorious, its composition underwent a change with the entry of smaller players like Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM and Mukesh Sahni's VIP. More importantly, the BJP emerged as the stronger partner, returning with a tally far greater than that of the JD(U), a development that is expected to alter power equations in the times to come. The JD(U) blamed the slump in its tally on the brinkmanship of LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who pulled out of the NDA and fielded candidates against many of Nitish Kumar's nominees. He also levelled a litany of allegations over governance and claimed Kumar misbehaved with his late father and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan. In the opposition camp, Lalu Prasad's younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav came of age, steering the RJD to an impressive performance in the assembly polls, though the Grand Alliance helmed by his party fell short of getting a majority. Quite expectedly, accusatory fingers were pointed towards the Congress which seemed to have pulled the five- party coalition down, contesting 70 seats but winning only 19. In contrast, the moribund Left performed beyond expectations, with the CPI, CPI(M) and the CPI(ML) together winning 20 out of the 29 seats the three parties contested. Yadav, however, maintained that the NDA owed its victory to alleged manipulations by pliant district-level officials. His party is hopeful of a major upset in political equations in the not-so-distant future, with an aggressive BJP flexing its muscles and a weakened Nitish Kumar worried about a possible diminution in his clout. The NDA enjoys a slender majority with 125 seats in the 243-strong assembly. The Grand Alliance has a tally of 110. In a surprise development, Sushil Kumar Modi, the most visible face of the BJP in Bihar since the 1990s, was relieved of his duties as the deputy chief minister, with some analysts citing his failure to assert himself before Nitish Kumar as the reason. The saffron party's Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi were sworn in as Kumar's new deputies. Modi was recently elected to the Rajya Sabha from the seat that had fallen vacant after Paswan's death. There is talk of his possible induction into the Modi government. The JD(U) chief is, meanwhile, working towards regaining lost ground. To this end, he is understood to have been giving a thought to mending fences with allies-turned- adversaries such as Upendra Kushwaha, whose RLSP drew a blank in the assembly polls. RLSP's poll ally AIMIM, headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, however, got lucky. It won five seats, notwithstanding accusations by the Grand Alliance that its entry into Bihar was aimed at helping the BJP-led NDA by communally polarising voters, especially in the Seemanchal region which has a large Muslim population. Although Bihar has not witnessed protests by farmers organisations against the three contentious agriculture marketing laws on a scale comparable to northern states, political parties outside the NDA have supported the agitation. The state saw many demonstrations against the CAA- NPR-NRC before Covid-19 struck and large public gatherings were banned. CPI's rising star Kanhaiya Kumar undertook a spirited statewide tour against the CAA while fellow JNUite Sharjeel Imam, who has been booked for sedition, was arrested in his home town Jehanabad for his alleged inflammatory speeches on the issue. Nitish Kumar's JD(U) ended up supporting the Citizenship Amendment Bill in Parliament and ousted dissidents like Pavan Varma and Prashant Kishor, who said the move could cost the JD(U) its following among Muslims. The chief minister, however, attempted a damage control and a resolution opposing a country-wide NRC was unanimously passed by the assembly with more than 50 BJP MLAs supporting it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-bihar-went-to-polls-amid-covid-19-nda-scraped-through-opposition-came-out-stronger-931367.html
25-12-2020||National||Herculean task of providing social security cover for informal workers awaits EPFO in 2021||Providing social security cover for over 40 crore unorganised sector workers, re-modelling existing schemes and incentivising fresh hiring will pose challenges for retirement fund body EPFO in the new year. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), which now provides social security for more than six crore formal sector workers, will have a herculean task in improving the delivery of services with focus on implementation of the ambitious Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) that seeks to boost fresh hiring in 2021. With the Code on Social Security likely to come into force from April 1, the EPFO will also have to remodel its schemes and services as unorganised sector workers too will come under the social security umbrella. There are over 40 crore unorganised workers in the country like gig and platform workers. The latter are those who are not on rolls of an establishment and don't get social security benefits like provident fund and gratuity. Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh's (BMS) former General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay told PTI that the implementation of the Code on Social Security "would bring new challenges for the EPFO in 2021." "The EPFO would have to expand the ambit of its schemes as well as network for providing social security to unorganised sector workers. These workers would get social security benefit under the Code," he said. Upadhyay, also an EPFO trustee, opined that the body would have to remodel its schemes and services to provide social security for the unorganised sector workers. Earlier, there was an issue on who will provide for the employers' share of contribution towards social security schemes run by the EPFO in case of informal workers. Now, either the government will provide for the employers' share or the informal sectors will be allowed to subscribe to social security schemes wherein there will be contribution only from their side. Depending on the model, the EPFO would have to redesign its system for delivery of services. Presently, the EPFO has the infrastructure to provide services to over six crore subscribers and the same will have to bolster so that it can cater to additional 40 crore workers from the unorganised segment. Talking to PTI, Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said the "main focus of the EPFO in 2021 would be on the ABRY to incentivise fresh hiring". Chandra is also the Vice-Chairman of the EPFO's apex decision making body Central Board of Trustees. "The other efforts on delivery of services would also continue. But the main focus would be on job creation through the ABRY," Chandra noted. In post-pandemic times, employment generation would be a daunting task for the government and it has chosen the EPFO to implement the ABRY. Earlier this month, the central government approved the ABRY to boost employment in the formal sector and incentivise creation of new employment opportunities under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0. Total outgo for the scheme would be Rs 22,810 crore during 2020-2023 period. In the current fiscal, the outgo is pegged at Rs 1,584 crore. The coronavirus pandemic has significantly impacted economic activites and there are now signs of recovery. Against this backdrop, the ABRY has been unveiled. Under the scheme, the government will provide subsidy for two years in respect of new employees engaged on or after October 1, 2020, and up to June 30, 2021. It will pay both 12 per cent employees' contribution and 12 per cent employers' share -- 24 per cent of wages towards Employee Provident Fund (EPF) -- for two years. This will be for workers in establishments employing up to 1,000 people. However, the government will pay only employees' share of EPF contribution for two years in respect of new employees in establishments employing more than 1,000 employees. The EPFO has been mandated to develop a software for the scheme as well as a procedure that will be transparent. It will also work out the modalities to ensure that there is no overlapping of benefits provided under the ABRY with any other scheme implemented by the EPFO. The pandemic has already posed many challenges for the EPFO this year and has kept its workforce on their toes in terms of delivering services in an efficient manner. Earlier this month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said that the EPFO has settled 52 lakh Covid-19 non-refundable advance claims, and disbursed Rs 13,300 crore. After the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, the government allowed over six crore subscribers of the EPFO to withdraw an amount not exceeding their three-month basic pay and dearness allowance from their respective EPF accounts. For 2019-20 period, the EPFO has decided to pay an interest of 8.5 per cent, the lowest in seven years. In the coming year, the body will also take a call on the interest rate on EPF for 2020-21 based on its income estimates for the fiscal. Now, it has to be seen whether the EPFO would be able to maintain 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2020-21 as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/herculean-task-of-providing-social-security-cover-for-informal-workers-awaits-epfo-in-2021-931369.html
25-12-2020||National||Rajinikanth admitted to hospital after blood pressure spikes||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was on Friday admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad, where he was shooting for his latest film Annatthe, after his blood pressure showed “severe fluctuations”. The actor tested negative for the novel coronavirus on December 22 after four persons on the sets of the movie tested positive for the same. Rajinikanth, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016 and had confined himself to his Poes Garden residence in Chennai for about eight months before he decided to complete the shooting, was under isolation since Tuesday, though he tested negative for Covid-19. The actor, who arrived in Hyderabad on December 13 along with his elder daughter Aishwaryaa, has been shooting for Annatthe inside the sprawling Ramoji Studios till four members of the crew were infected with Covid-19. Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on Friday morning and will undergo further investigations on Saturday. The hospital said his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations and needed further evaluation for which he has been admitted to the hospital. Aishwaryaa is with him in Hyderabad. “He will be investigated and monitored closely in the hospital till his blood pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion he does not have any other symptoms and is hemodynamically stable,” the hospital said on Friday afternoon. In an evening update, Apollo Hospitals said Rajinikanth is being monitored closely and medications to control his blood pressure are being carefully titrated. “He will remain in the hospital tonight and undergo further investigations tomorrow. He is stable and is resting. Family and treating doctors have requested all well-wishers to avoid visiting the hospital as he is not being allowed to meet any visitors,” the update added. Doctors had advised Rajinikanth not to be among people as he is vulnerable to catching the Covid-19 infection due to his low immunity levels owing to the renal transplant. The producers of the film, Sun Pictures, had made elaborate arrangements, including creating a bio-bubble environment inside the hotel where Annatthe crew was staying, to minimise the risk of catching Covid-19. Rajinikanth's hospitalisation also comes six days ahead of his proposed announcement of the day of his political party's launch to contest the 2021 Assembly elections on December 31. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan and DMK President M K Stalin enquired about Rajinikanth's health. Former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu, actor Pawan Kalyan and several others also wished a speedy recovery for the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajinikanth-admitted-to-hospital-after-blood-pressure-spikes-931382.html
25-12-2020||National||BJP is the Bharatiya Jhoot Party: Om Prakash Rajbhar||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar has alleged that the ruling BJP was acting as the "chowkidar" of big corporates. "BJP is the Bharatiya Jhoot Party. It is not the chowkidar of farmers but its leaders are acting as chowkidars of Adani and Ambani," Rajbhar told reporters in Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. His comments came amid protests by farmers on various border points of Delhi against the Centre's three farm laws. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Alleging that the poor, weaker sections of society, backwards and minorities are being made "poorer" in the name of Covid-19, the SBSP president said fear of the pandemic is not seen during elections, but discussions start once the elections come to an end. He also wondered as to how 98 per cent of the people infected with the virus recovered when there is no vaccine yet. "We do not believe in corona. Cold and cough are very old diseases," Rajbhar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-is-the-bharatiya-jhoot-party-om-prakash-rajbhar-931383.html
25-12-2020||National||Dry run for Covid-19 immunisation drive in 4 states next week||Ahead of the nation-wide Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre will conduct a dry-run across four states to test the readiness of the systems put in place for the elaborate exercise. The mock-drill, to be conducted on Monday and Tuesday in Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat, would entail testing of cold-storage and transport arrangements, data-entry in the Co-WIN software developed exclusively for vaccine delivery, testing receipt and allocation, deployment of team members. Each state will plan the dry run in two districts and preferably in five different session-type settings – district hospital, community health centre (CHC) or primary health care centre (PHC), urban site, private health facility, and rural outreach. This will also provide hands-on experience to programme managers at various levels. An important focus of the dry run will be on the management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) as well as on adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission. The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and review at block and district levels, and preparation of feedback to be shared with the state and the Centre. A detailed checklist has been prepared by the Union Health Ministry and shared with the four states to guide them in the dry run. “As the vaccine administrators will play an important role in the immunisation process, training of trainers and those who shall administer the vaccine has been taken up across various states,” the health ministry said. As many as 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level training of trainers, which comprised state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, information, education and communication officials, and development partners. As of date, state-level training has been completed at all states and Union Territories with the participation of more than 7,000 district-level trainees, except Lakshadweep which will be conducted on December 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-run-for-covid-19-immunisation-drive-in-4-states-next-week-931384.html
25-12-2020||National||Try new farm laws for a year or two, amendments will be made if not found beneficial: Rajnath to farmers||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws as an "experiment" for a year or two and in case they are found not beneficial for the farming community, the government will do all necessary amendments. Describing the protesting farmers as his own people, Singh said, "Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers' families. We have a lot of respect for them." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on Delhi borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws enacted in September. At least five rounds of talks have taken place between the protesting unions and the government but a stalemate has continued with farmers refusing to accept anything less than the repeal of the laws, which they fear would leave them at the mercy of corporates by weakening mandi and MSP systems. The government has allayed these apprehensions as misplaced and has projected the new laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping the farmers. Addressing a rally at Dwarka in the national capital, Singh said he himself is a farmers' son and assured that the Modi government "will never do anything which is not in the interest of the farmers". "People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws that they are not in their interest. I am the son of a farmer and have worked in farms. I want to assure you that there is not a single provision in these laws which is against farmers," Singh said at the rally organised as part of the ruling BJP's massive outreach programme on the farm laws. He reiterated that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue and some people are trying to create a misconception that it will end. Requesting farmers to try the new agri laws for a year or two as an experiment, the former BJP president said if these are not found beneficial, the government would bring all necessary amendments. "For once let this act (acts) be implemented, for a year or two... Try this experiment and if you feel that this act (acts) is not in the interest of farmers, then I can say you this with conviction as I know the intention of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi we will do all necessary amendments in it," Singh said. Underlining that all problems can be resolved through dialogue, Singh said Prime Minister Modi wants the talks with farmers to continue, and therefore, the government has extended an invitation to them. Singh appealed to all protesting farmers to come forward for discussions on the farm laws and if they want to rope in experts for discussions, the government is ready for that as well. "Several rounds of talks have been held whatever suggested by farmers our government has ready to do all those amendments. The problems can be resolved through dialogue only, wherever there is scope for amendment government is ready to do that," the Defence Minister said. Hailing former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh as the great farmers' leader, former BJP president also attacked opposition parties saying that Congress and CPI always cheated and breached the trust of the farmer leader. He also mentioned and talked about Sir Chotu Ram in his address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/try-new-farm-laws-for-a-year-or-two-amendments-will-be-made-if-not-found-beneficial-rajnath-to-farmers-931386.html
25-12-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee destroyed West Bengal: PM Modi attacks Opposition over farmers' protest||Ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a scathing attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, charging her with “destroying” the state and “doing politics” by denying 70 lakh of its farmers the benefit of a central scheme. Banerjee hit back by saying the Modi government has done nothing to help West Bengal. “The public is closely watching those doing selfish politics. The parties that do not speak on the benefit of farmers in West Bengal are engaged in harassing the citizens of Delhi in the name of farmers and ruining the economy of the country,” Modi said. He was interacting with leaders of the farming community after releasing the latest instalment Rs 18,000 crore to benefit over nine crore farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme. “If you listen to a 15-year-old speech of Mamata Ji, you will know how much her ideology has ruined Bengal,” he said. “I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers and my brothers and sisters from West Bengal have not been able to get this benefit. More than 23 lakh farmers from Bengal have applied online but the state government has stopped the verification process long ago,” he said. Banerjee has told the Centre that the scheme would be implemented in West Bengal only if the fund was routed through the state government. “Her action against farmers has hurt me a lot,” Modi said, as he sought to know why the Opposition was silent on this. Union Home Minister Amit Shah too interacted with farmers and said, “No corporate can snatch away any farmer’s land as long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister.” The PM-Kisan scheme was launched last year and initially provided income support to all small and marginal farmers holding cultivable land up to two hectares. Its ambit was later expanded to cover all farmer families in the country irrespective of the size of their landholdings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-destroyed-west-bengal-pm-modi-attacks-opposition-over-farmers-protest-931404.html
25-12-2020||National||Narendra Singh Tomar urges Punjab farmers to end protest, resume talks with govt||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday urged Punjab farmers to end their protest and come forward to hold discussions with the government to resolve the deadlock over the three new farm laws. Tomar, who is leading the talks with 40 farmers unions, hoped that farmers would understand the importance of these three legislations and will hold discussion with the government to reach a solution to break this stalemate. Stating that there is some misconception in minds of Punjab farmers, the agriculture minister said: "I want to urge them to leave the protest and come forward for the dialogue. I am hopeful that farmers will understand the importance of new laws and reach a solution." Thousands of farmers and their family members are protesting at various Delhi borders for nearly a month seeking repeal of the three farm laws. So far, five rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 40 protesting farmer unions have remained inconclusive. The government has written twice inviting them for the next round of talks at a date of their convenience. Besides Tomar, Food, Commerce and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are participating in the discussion with the 40 farmer unions. The protesting groups have maintained that the new laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has been saying that these apprehensions are misplaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-singh-tomar-urges-punjab-farmers-to-end-protest-resume-talks-with-govt-931407.html
25-12-2020||National||TMC depriving West Bengal farmers of getting cash benefits: BJP||Slamming the West Bengal government for not implementing the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' scheme in the state, the BJP on Friday accused the Mamata Banerjee dispensation of depriving the farmers of getting cash benefits extended by the Centre. Nearly 23 lakh farmers of the state have registered their names on the central portal to avail the benefits under the programme, but the state government has refused to identify them and submit the list of beneficiaries to the Centre, BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya alleged. Taking to Twitter, he said, "Of the approx 72 lakh farmers in WB, nearly 23 lakh have self-registered on the central portal seeking benefits under the #PMKisan Samman Nidhi, but Pishi (aunt) wouldn't certify them! Each farmer in WB has so far lost Rs 14,000 (including latest instalment) and the state 9,800 crore." Each farmer in WB has so far lost Rs 14,000 (including latest instalment) and the state 9,800 crore. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. "Today, when the PM will transfer Rs 18,000 crore to 9 crore farmer families across the country, farmers of West Bengal will be deprived because the CM has refused to identify and submit the list of beneficiaries to the central government. Pishi's ego means farmers suffer!," Malviya said. He said, "In terms of the average monthly income of farmers as reported by NABARD in 2016-17, WB ranks low at 24 among 29 states. Pishi has failed farmers." Only 55% of WB’s agricultural land is irrigated. Despite being a water rich state it is poorly irrigated. It ranks 24 out of 29 states. In terms of average monthly income of farmers as reported by NABARD in 2016-17, WB ranks low at 24 among 29 states. Pishi has failed farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). With the push of a button, Modi enabled the transfer of money at an event which the ruling BJP has made into a mega exercise to reach out to farmers by having its leaders interact with the farming community at more than 19,000 venues across the country and also listen to the prime minister's address. The programme comes amid protests by various farmer unions in Delhi against three farm laws recently enacted by the Modi government. Malviya said West Bengal is poorly irrigated, despite being a water-rich state. "Only 55 per cent of WB's agricultural land is irrigated. Despite being a water-rich state, it is poorly irrigated. It ranks 24 out of 29 states," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-depriving-west-bengal-farmers-of-getting-cash-benefits-bjp-931408.html
25-12-2020||National||Asaram's followers visit UP jail, distribute blankets; investigation to be completed in 2-3 days, says official||The investigation into allegations that followers of godman Asaram, who is serving a sentence for rape, visited the district jail here and distributed blankets will be completed in two to three days, Deputy Inspector General (Jails) R N Pandey has said. Pandey visited the Shahjahanpur district jail in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and investigated the matter in detail for over seven hours, besides recording statements of jail officials. "Statements of Jail Superintendent Rakesh Kumar, Jailor Rajesh Kumar and others were recorded. Documentary evidence such as books and pamphlets distributed by the followers of Asaram were also collected," Pandey said on Friday. The jail gatekeeper, warden and some inmates were also questioned, he said, adding that he would complete the probe in two to three days and hand over the report to the Director General (Jails). According to reports, the self-styled godman's two followers had come from Lucknow, distributed blankets and held a prayer meeting in which Asaram’s photograph was placed on Monday. The probe was ordered after photos of the programme went viral on social media. Asaram was convicted in April 2018 of raping a Shahjahanpur girl at his ashram near Jodhpur in 2013. He was arrested by the Jodhpur Police on August 31 that year and has been in jail since then. The girl’s father alleged on Tuesday that Asaram was “glorified” at a “satsang” (prayer meeting) held in the prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asarams-followers-visit-up-jail-distribute-blankets-investigation-to-be-completed-in-2-3-days-says-official-931419.html
25-12-2020||National||Political rivals misusing farmers' protest to push their agenda; Govt willing to talk to all on farm issues: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the government's talks with protesting farmers and said genuine apprehensions about MSP guarantee have got overshadowed by unrelated issues such as the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. While putting up a strong defence of the three new farm laws, Modi said the Centre is willing to resume the dialogue on all farmers-related issues, even with those staunchly opposed to his government as long as the talks are based on issues, facts and logic. He asserted that an overwhelming number of farmers across the country have welcomed the new laws and are already reaping the benefits, and listed out the BJP's victory in panchayat elections across states, in which farmers were the main voters and including in areas surrounding protest sites. He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers. Referring to the protests, Modi said farmers had some genuine apprehensions about new laws including on MSP guarantee when the agitation started, but soon people with political affiliations came in between and started firing from peasants' shoulders to push their own and unrelated demands. "You would have seen that when the agitation started their demand was about MSP guarantee. They had genuine issues because they were farmers. But then those with political ideology took over," Modi said. "MSP, etcetera were pushed aside and now what is happening. They are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free. Why have they shifted from farmer's issues to new demands," he said. "Despite that, farmers across the country have wholehearted welcome agriculture reforms I assure you that I will not let you down," Modi said. Modi alleged that the farmers' protest is also being used now for opposing many existing policies. Though the prime minister did not name any particular group, he made several references that appeared aimed at Left-affiliated outfits and other opposition parties. He said those with political agenda are not letting farmers engage in dialogue with the government to address their concerns. He hit out at various opposition parties for misleading farmers. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on various Delhi borders for almost a month to protest against the three farm laws. At least five rounds of formal talks have failed to break the deadlock with the farmer groups refusing to accept anything less than the complete repeal of the laws. While the government has projected these laws as major reforms aimed at benefitting farmers, protesting unions have been saying that these legislations would leave them at the mercy of corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. The government has maintained that such apprehensions were unfounded as the MSP and mandi systems are not just continuing but also expanded and strengthened further. His address followed the release of over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). With the push of a button, Modi enabled the transfer of money at an event which the ruling BJP has made into a mega exercise to reach out to farmers by having its leaders interact with the farming community at more than 19,000 venues across the country and also listen to the prime minister's address. Modi released the installment of Rs 2,000 to every farmer on the birth anniversary of the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which is every year celebrated as "Good Governance Day" by the ruling party. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal installments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-rivals-misusing-farmers-protest-to-push-their-agenda-govt-willing-to-talk-to-all-on-farm-issues-pm-narendra-modi-931421.html
25-12-2020||National||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's mother dies in Patna||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's mother Bimala Prasad died after a prolonged illness, it was disclosed by the senior BJP leader here on Friday. Prasad, who is also the local MP, shared the news on his Twitter handle, recalling the departed soul as "a deeply pious lady and woman of great conviction" who had been, to him, a source of inspiration. "My mother Bimala Prasad left for her heavenly abode last night. She was ailing for some time. My mother was a deeply pious lady and a woman of great conviction. She had been supporting the party right from the beginning. She actively participated in the JP movement of Bihar as woman volunteer", said the Union minister in a series of tweets, sharing pictures of himself taken along with his mother while she was alive. "I recall leaders like Atal ji, Deendayal ji, (and) Nanaji Deshmukh relished food and hospitality by her during their visit to Patna. She was a source of my inspiration and all my achievements in life are because of her blessings. May her soul rest in peace", Prasad, whose late father Thakur Prasad was a towering leader of the Jan Sangh and had served as a minister in the Janata Party government in the 1970s, added. Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar also condoled the death of the Union minister's mother. Kumar called up Prasad and offered words of solace to the bereaved leader. According to family sources, the deceased was in her 90s and breathed her last at a private hospital in the city on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasads-mother-dies-in-patna-931432.html
25-12-2020||National||Sitar exponent Pt Satish Vyas to be given Tansen award by Madhya Pradesh||The Tansen Award 2020 instituted by the Madhya Pradesh culture department will be bestowed on renowned Sitar player Satish Vyas on the opening day of the 5 -day Tansen Sangeet Samaroh in Gwalior on Saturday, an official said. Incidentally, Vyas' father maestro CR Vyas was a recipient of the prestigious award, which carries a reward of Rs 2 lakh and a citation, in 1990. The festival, named after the legendary musician who was born in Behat, will culminate on December 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitar-exponent-pt-satish-vyas-to-be-given-tansen-award-by-madhya-pradesh-931444.html
25-12-2020||National||2020: A glimpse of life without trains as Railways battled odds to keep India's lifeline running||The year 2020 showed India a glimpse of how life would be without trains. As the coronavirus lockdown was announced on March 24, the Railways for the first time in its 167-year-old history shut down all its services. People stranded across the country and who usually looked to the Railways to ferry them home, were left without their lifeline. Some, like the thousands of migrant workers, took to the streets choosing to walk to their destinations. As the Railways directed its resources towards carrying essentials across the country, lakhs of tickets were cancelled during the summer holidays -- something unheard of in rail history. It was on May 1 that the wheels of trains started chugging again. This time, to ferry migrant workers home. Between May 1 and August 30, the Railways ferried 63.15 lakh workers home across 23 states in over 4,000 Shramik Special trains, not only bringing huge relief to the stranded migrants, but also hope for the others that their lifeline was down, but not out. It was, however, the Shramik Special trains which saw the Railways being criticised by the Opposition parties over the fares being charged from the migrant workers. While the Railways said that it did not charge a penny from the workers and spent more than Rs 2,000 crore on their transportation, the politics over the issue continued. "What do trains mean for me? They mean hope, joy and also a sense of routine. For 25 years, I have taken the same route home to Bihar to be with my family after months of being away from them. That's what they mean to me, they get me to my family. "Every year, I would book tickets around the same time to go home. This year it did not happen and I feel a sense of loss that something that was part of life could very easily be taken away," said Jitender Kumar, a security guard working in Noida. Currently, the Railways is operating 1,089 special train services, while Kolkata Metro was running 60 per cent of its services, Mumbai suburban was running on 88 per cent and 50 per cent of Chennai suburban services were in operation. Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav agreed that it was a tough year for the national transporter, but also highlighted how it innovated and used the crisis as an opportunity. "This year has been of grit and victories for Indian Railways. Faced with daunting and unprecedented Covid-related challenges, Indian Railways has not only been able to keep the national supply chain running and move millions of people back home in most adverse circumstances, but has also been able to realise the potential of its workforce, which driven to the wall has come out with innovative solutions," Yadav told PTI. While passenger movement dipped resulting in an estimated loss of 87 per cent as compared to last year, the Railways' made drastic changes in their freight movement, introducing parcel services, carrying essentials like milk, medicines and even ventilators. The innovation was to realise that if the Railways could not move passengers freely, it could move freight instead. Business Development Units (BDUs) were set up at Railway Board, Zonal Railway and Divisional levels. Multi-disciplinary teams from BDUs have been reaching out to customers to attract new business. It also introduced time-tabled parcel services to provide reliable services to courier services, e-commerce companies. The Railways also launched eight Kisan Rail Services to enable farmers to send their produce across the nation with enhanced speed and reduced cost. With all its focus on freight movement, the Railways' freight staged a recovery in September by registering a record loading of 102 Million Tonnes (MT), which is the highest ever loading for the month of September in any year. The momentum in freight loading continued and growth of 15 per cent and 9 per cent has been obtained in the subsequent months of October and November respectively. With passenger trains off the tracks, the Railways doubled the speed of freight trains from 24 kmph a year ago to 46 kmph which means half the time taken for sending products. It also completed over 350 critical and long pending major bridge and track works. While the year saw no major accidents, the Railways family bore the pain of 30,000 employees infected with coronavirus and saw more than 700 frontline workers breathe their last. While it did not carry passengers across the country on holidays, it sent lakhs of migrant workers home to their loved ones. While it did not manufacture state-of-the-art Train 18s, the Railways produced more than 5,000 Covid care coaches. Its production units supplemented the government's efforts by producing masks, sanitisers and even overalls for use by railway employees. "The Railways used Covid as a challenge and has been able usher in an unprecedented growth in development of infrastructure, innovation, capacity expansion of network, freight diversification and transparency matters. Railways has this crisis as an opportunity to lay the foundation for future development and next level of travelling experience for passengers," said Yadav. Looking forward, he said plans have been made to meet both infrastructure and traffic requirements till the year 2050. A National Rail Plan (NRP) 2030 has been developed with a view to develop infrastructure by 2030 to cater to the traffic requirements up to 2050. Based on the NRP, a Vision 2024 document has been prepared to develop infrastructure by 2024 to enhance modal share of Railways in freight transportation to more than 40 per cent and to cater to the traffic requirements up to 2030. However, there are two key issues on which the Railways is at loggerheads not only with its own officers and unions, but also political parties. While in 2020 the size of the Railway Board was reduced and it has been reoriented on functional lines, the decision to unify the eight organised Group 'A' services into one service under the Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) has drawn a lot of flak. The modalities for recruitment of officers into IRMS and unification of the existing services are being worked out. Another issue on the Railways' decision to introduce 151 modern passenger trains operated by private players over 109 routes has resulted in both unions and Opposition parties accusing the national transporter of selling national assets. While Kumar does not understand the implications of either the reorganisation of cadres or running of private trains, he does, however, know that a glimpse of a life without trains meant moments away from loved ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-a-glimpse-of-life-without-trains-as-railways-battled-odds-to-keep-indias-lifeline-running-931450.html
25-12-2020||National||Domestic violence remained serious concern for WCD ministry in 2020||Domestic violence against women remained a prime cause of concern for the Ministry of Woman and Child Development in 2020 with over 5,000 such complaints received in the year. The National Commission for Women was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined in their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Over 5,000 complaints of domestic violence were received by the NCW in 2020. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has attributed the rise in complaints to factors like economic insecurity, financial instability and isolation among others. "Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of COVID-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases," Sharma told PTI. She said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. "The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims, and police officers being at the frontline to tackle COVID-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively," she said. Sharma said the NCW launched a WhatsApp helpline number for emergency response during the lockdown to deal with the increased number of complaints of domestic violence. According to her, the NCW's audio-visual media outreach program aims to create awareness about legal provisions for protection of women and to apprise women to approach the government through various helplines and institutional support. Speaking about how the year 2020 has been for children, apex child rights body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said education posed as the biggest problem for children in the country. "We were not in the habit of educating our children online but when COVID-19 came it was a challenge. We, however, started overcoming it by different means and now the situation is improving. We succeeded in ensuring that children kept in touch with their schools whether it was private or government schools," he said. "The most important role played by teachers and anganwadis was to deliver midday meal at the doorsteps of children which was tremendous work done by them," he told PTI. On concerns that there may be a rise in the dropout rate of schoolchildren due to the pandemic, Kanoongo said having such apprehension even before the schools reopen is "not correct". "Once the schools reopen, we will bring the children to schools. And in fact online education has kept all children in touch with schools," he said. The NCPCR also came out with family-centric recommendations to combat child trafficking at "source, transit and destination hotspots" amid concerns over its rise post the COVID-19 lockdown. The government developed a new standard operating procedure for care and protection of street children to strengthen the processes and interventions so that there should not be any child in a street situation and they should be with their families. Kanoongo said the vision for 2021 is to give digital push to various initiatives of the commission which would also help in linking children with social security schemes. In September, the NCPCR directed eight states that account for over 70 per cent of children in care homes to ensure their return to their families, noting that it is the right of every child to grow up in a familial environment. However, the decision was rolled back on order of the Supreme Court. A social audit report by the government revealed that as many as 2,764 childcare institutions across the country, accounting for nearly 40 per cent of such homes, did not have adequate measures to prevent any form of physical, emotional abuse of children that results in trauma. The social audit of all childcare homes across the country was ordered in 2018 when cases of sexual exploitation of girls were reported from childcare institutions in Deoria in Uttar Pradesh and Muzaffarpur in Bihar. The report also found that 2,039 CCIs constituting 28.5 per cent of such homes were still not registered with the government. The National Nutrition Mission or POSHAN Abhiyan remained a key focus area of the WCD ministry for the second consecutive year. The month of September was observed as the Poshan maah when various activities around the theme of identification of severely acute malnourished children and plantation of nutri gardens, were undertaken as the focus areas. However, the National Family Health Survey-5 which was released in December presented a grim scenario according to which malnutrition increased among children in 2019-20 from 2015-16. Mortality rate among infants and those under five years of age fell in 18 states and union territories out of 22 surveyed, while around 16 states and union territories registered a rise in percentage of children under five who are underweight and severely wasted, according to fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) data. Around 13 states and union territories out of the 22 surveyed ones recorded a rise in percentage of children under five years who are stunted in comparison to 2015-16 while 12 recorded a rise in percentage of children under 5 years who are wasted. Sixteen states and union territories recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are severely wasted and underweight in comparison to NFHS-4, the NFHS-5 found. The report also presented high prevalence of child marriages in Bihar, West Bengal and Tripura where over 40 per cent women were married before they turned 18. Crime against children was another area of concern for the ministry. A total of 13,244 child pornography, rape and gang-rape complaints were lodged from March 1 till September 18, the WCD Ministry informed Parliament. While some issues were addressed, the ministry might continue to face challenges in 2021 with the social impact of coronavirus on women and children feared to become even more visible next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-violence-remained-serious-concern-for-wcd-ministry-in-2020-931459.html
25-12-2020||National||Facing farmers' fury, BJP deploys 54 ministers to clear 'misgivings' on farm laws||Union Home Minister Amit Shah sought to assure farmers that no corporate can snatch any farmer's land as long as Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister while addressing a gathering in the national capital. This statement had an uncanny resemblance with BJP's repeated assurance on the quota issue that nobody can touch reservation as long as Modi is in power. While the Prime Minister in his speech slammed the Opposition governments in West Bengal and Kerala on the farm issue, the BJP pressed 54 ministers, including 21 Cabinet rank ministers to attend the Kisan Samman Nidhi programme and send a message of the Modi government's sensitivity towards farmer issues. BJP chief JP Nadda said, "Sending Rs 18,089 crore directly into accounts of 9.4 crore farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana is a big step from the point of view of good governance." While Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraman, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and many others spoke on the issue in Delhi, the epicentre of farmer agitation was Nitin Gadkari's programme venue held in Silchar, Assam, which is another state going to polls in 2021. As farmer agitation completed one month with no signs of the protest abating, the Centre on Friday went into a conciliatory mode, to the extent of urging the farmers to "try the new Agri laws as an experiment for a year or two" and making a promise that the "government will amend the legislations" if they are not found beneficial. Despite more than half a dozen rounds of talks between the government and the representatives of the farmers,  a resolution is yet to emerge and political analysts say it has much to do with the issue of trust deficit. Last week, Rahul Gandhi sought to widen the ambit of his attack on the government on farmer issues alleging "farmers, Dalits and women" are victims of "Modi's Jumla strike". The Opposition, which has not been able to build a very successful campaign against Modi government on corruption, with Rahul Gandhi's Chowkidar Chor Hai campaign on Rafale also not cutting much ice, has repeatedly managed to put the NDA dispensation in a tight spot on farmer and Dalit issues starting from 2014 end soon after Modi government came to power for the first time. A concerted campaign by Rahul Gandhi-led Congress and other Opposition parties in 2015 against Modi government's land ordinance had forced the government to step back on it. The same year, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's reported remarks about a review of reservation in the middle of Bihar polls provided an opportunity to the Opposition to form an alliance and make a big issue of the quota and they painted the BJP as anti-reservation, seeking to galvanise SCs and OBCs in Bihar. That was the first time when Modi categorically rubbished the reservation rumours, saying nobody can touch till he was in power, a commitment he reiterated multiple times. The remark came up most recently in 2019-end during polls in the tribal state of Jharkhand, when he said, "Till Modi is here, nobody can touch the reservations, given to us by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar." Identity issues played a key role in both these elections and BJP lost both. Again, the farmers' issue has proved to be a soft belly of the Modi government. They had lost a government in Madhya Pradesh in 2018, a year after the killing of six farmers in a police firing during a protest in Mandsaur in 2017. Sensing an opportunity again over the momentum building against the farm laws, Congress and other Opposition parties, which had in past sought to corner the government on the farmer and Dalit issues, once again, upped the ante. Conscious of the potential damage that the campaign can do, BJP has gone fully hog brandishing "pro-farmer" credentials of the Modi government. MoS Finance Anurag Singh Thakur assured that the government will fulfil its promise to double the farmers' income by 2022 and Amit emphasised on how the Modi government fulfilled the years-old demand of one and half times MSP on crops during 2014-19. While he again assured that the provision of MSP will continue and Mandis will not shut down, Shah also struck another conciliatory note if farmer organisations felt that any provision of the farm laws is against their interests, the Modi government is ready to discuss and consider this with an open mind. Senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh went to the extent of promising that the "government will amend the legislations" if they are not found beneficial and urged farmers to "try the new Agri laws as an experiment. "Let farm laws be implemented from one year or two. Let's try this as an experiment, and if found not beneficial for farmers, the government will be ready for all possible amendments," he said addressing a rally in Dwarka, another locality of Delhi. Singh, who has repeatedly identified himself as the 'son of a farmer" also chose to take a strikingly different line from many BJP leaders refraining from finding members of 'tukde tukde gang" among the protesting farmers and asserted "those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers' families. We have a lot of respect for them." On one side, Singh assured that the Modi government will never do anything which is not in the interests of the farmers, and the other, Prime Minister cited the election results of Panchayat bodies in Assam, Rajasthan and Jammu Kashmir after the passage of the new farm laws. "Mostly people from rural areas, farmers took part in these. In a way, they have rejected all the parties, who are misleading the farmers." Claiming that farmers across the country have given full support to farmer laws, Modi assured them "we will let anything cloud your trust (in his government)." In Rampur, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said, "no corruption, no cut and no commission. The Modi government is committed to the protection and promotion of farmers". While Smriti Irani accused Rahul Gandhi of "shedding crocodile tears and telling lies" on the farm laws, Devendra Fadnavis said farm laws will provide "freedom" to farmers. I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar felt "some" farmers protesting against the recently enacted Central laws were misguided by their "political masters" even as the farmer Unions had recently expressed their strong annoyance a few days back against the government linking their protest to Opposition politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facing-farmers-fury-bjp-deploys-54-ministers-to-clear-misgivings-on-farm-laws-931464.html
25-12-2020||National||Bangladesh claims no illegal immigration into India, raises concern over smuggling||Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) on Friday claimed that no illegal immigration is taking place into India from the neighbouring country, but expressed concern over rising incidents of smuggling across the border. Addressing a joint press conference with Border Security Force (BSF) Director-General Rakesh Asthana, BGB Director-General Maj Gen Md Shafeenul Islam said that at least 86 Bangladeshi nationals were killed on the Indian side in the last three years for their alleged criminal activities. Asthana, however, said BSF has apprehended 3,204 persons this year for illegally entering India from Bangladesh and 60 of them, whose nationalities were established, were handed over to BGB. Discussing various issues concerning the border during the ongoing five-day 51st DG-level talks between the BSF and BGB that started on December 22, the two forces signed a Joint Accord of Discussion and decided to increase coordinated night patrolling to prevent illegal activities. "No illegal immigration is going on from Bangladesh to India. The GDP of Bangladesh is on a steady upward trend. There is no reason for any citizen to come to India for jobs or any other reason. People have come with valid documents only for medical purposes," Islam said. Many families in border areas have their relatives on the other side and they keep visiting them during festivals or other occasions, but with only valid travel documents, he added. The BGB DG also denied the reports that some people have crossed over to his nation from Assam as they did not find their names in the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The "continuous illegal immigration" is a political hotcake for political parties in Assam, Northeast and also in West Bengal, and promises to deport such immigrants are made in every election. The top officers of the two forces, however, expressed concerns over the illegal movement of Rohingyas and said BSF and BGB are taking measures to control it by regularly apprehending such people on both sides of the border. Both of them also accepted that criminal activities, mostly smuggling of various items, are on the rise. "We are concerned about cross-border illegal trade. These syndicates are mainly dealing with narcotics and cattle smuggling. We are constantly monitoring them and have increased our vigil along the border," Asthana said. On rising incidents of cattle smuggling, Islam said it is affecting the local cattle farms in Bangladesh as the country is self-sufficient in cattle production. "In fact, we are producing more cattle than we need. Moreover, 400-600 cattle legally come every day from Myanmar. Because of smuggling, many criminals are getting killed in operations by security forces," he added. The BGB chief told the press that three persons were killed in 2018 on the Indian side for their criminal activities, while the figure stood at 35 and 48 persons in 2019 and 2020, respectively. "The border killing is a concerning issue, not only for the BGB but also for the Bangladeshi people," he added. Asthana said even Indian people are getting killed due to their involvement in criminal activities such as smuggling, and mentioned that at least three Indians were killed this year. "This is an issue that concerns both parties. We can assure one thing that BSF uses lethal weapons as a last resort only. These killings are taking place at the dead of the night between 10 pm and 5 am. We are trying to solve this in the most appropriate manner," he added. The BSF DG said his force has apprehended 3,204 persons for illegally entering into India through various border states such as Assam, West Bengal and Tripura, and 60 of them were handed over to the BGB after establishing their nationalities. "Those people whose nationalities can not be identified by the BSF, are handed over to the local police as they have a better mechanism to deal with," he said. Asthana said the two forces have agreed to increase the "coordinated night patrolling" in vulnerable places to prevent smuggling and illegal movement of people in order to reduce the killing of civilians by the security forces. "We have agreed to initiate confidence-building measures in border areas. We will also promote civic activities like organising medical camps, having border hubs and helping visit of people so that the population living along the border is benefitted," he said. Asthana further said that the BGB has agreed to extend full cooperation to the BSF in its year-long celebration to commemorate the 50 years of independence of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-claims-no-illegal-immigration-into-india-raises-concern-over-smuggling-931469.html
25-12-2020||National||NGT asks UoI, states to install bird diverters on power lines to stop death of Great Indian Bustard||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Centre and states to install bird diverters on all existing power lines within four months and under-grounding of the new power lines to prevent fatality of critically endangered species Great Indian Bustard. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order after considering a report by a six-member expert committee. “Since the main reason for mortality of GIBs is the collisions with power lines laid by the Wind/Solar Energy projects, crisscrossing their paths and under-grounding of transmission lines is not viable for the projects already completed, installation of the bird diverters to prevent such fatalities needs to be undertaken on priority basis expeditiously, preferably within four months,” the bench said. Under-grounding of transmission lines needs to be ensured for all new projects henceforth, as recommended by the six-member expert Committee, by making it a mandatory condition for grant of consents, the tribunal said. “While granting such consents, impact of such projects on biodiversity of the area, specially in the context of GIBs, be undertaken. The MoEF/CPCB/ state pollution control boards may take further action as per action plan suggested by the six-member Committee, appointed by this tribunal,” the bench said. Monitoring of compliance be done, preferably by the Wildlife Institute of India at least twice in a year, the NGT directed. The Union Environment Ministry had earlier acknowledged that adult mortality among Great Indian Bustard is still very high due to collisions with power-lines that crisscross their flying paths. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by the Centre for Wildlife and Environment Litigation, through advocate Gaurav Bansal, seeking directions to the ministry to make bio-diversity impact assessment mandatory for every wind-power project, irrespective of its size or capacity. The plea said according to the 30th Forest Advisory Committee meeting, power lines, especially high-voltage transmission lines with multiple overhead wires, are the major threat to the critically endangered species as they have poor frontal vision. It said 75 per cent of the birds have died due to collision with power lines in the past 30 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-uoi-states-to-install-bird-diverters-on-power-lines-to-stop-death-of-great-indian-bustard-931474.html
25-12-2020||National||Punjab CM asks protesting farmers not to disrupt telecom services||Amid reports of disconnection of power supply to various mobile towers across the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday urged protesting farmers not to inconvenience the people with such actions. Pointing out that telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the Covid pandemic, the Chief Minister asked farmers to show the same discipline and sense of responsibility which they had been exercising during their protest at the Delhi border. Urging the farmers not to take the law in their hands, Singh said such actions were not in the interest of Punjab and its future. He said the people of Punjab had been standing with the farmers in their fight against the farm laws, and would continue to do so. Forceful disruption of telecom services due to snapping of power supply to mobile towers by farmers in several parts of the state was not only adversely affecting the studies and future prospects of students, who are dependent entirely on online education, but also hampering the daily life of people working from home due to the pandemic, the Chief Minister said. Such actions would affect the state’s already disturbed economy, Singh said and exhorted farmers to continue with their peaceful protests without causing any inconvenience to the citizens of Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-asks-protesting-farmers-not-to-disrupt-telecom-services-931479.html
25-12-2020||National||20-year-old man with Ebstein's anomaly gets new lease of life after heart transplant at AIIMS||A youth suffering from a rare cardiac anomaly got a new lease of life at the AIIMS, New Delhi, on Thursday after the heart of a 17-year-old brain-dead girl in Vadodara was flown to the national capital and transplanted in him. This was the third heart transplant at the AIIMS here this year. The other two were conducted in mid-February and early March, before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The 20-year-old youth, a resident of West Delhi, suffered from congenital heart defect, a condition known as Ebstein's anomaly. Because of this, his heart had become very weak and its right section was not able to pump blood. He had been visiting AIIMS for almost four years for treatment. "In the last six months, his condition deteriorated. He had become very sick and bed-ridden and urgently needed a heart transplant," Dr Milind Hote, a professor in the Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, said. "We received information from National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation about the availability of a donor heart from Gujarat," Dr Hote said. An AIIMS team went to Vadodara on Thursday morning, retrieved the heart and flew back to Delhi by afternoon. It was then transplanted in the youth following a nearly seven-hour-long surgery. The Delhi Police on created an 18-km-long green corridor for the ambulance carrying the heart from the city airport to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. It took just 12 minutes to transport the heart from the Terminal two of the airport to the hospital. "The youth is admitted in the ICU after the surgery, and his condition is stable," Dr Hote said. "The entire exercise was coordinated by the Organ Retrieval Banking Organization, AIIMS. The Indigo team and the Delhi police acted promptly and extended their full support to ensure the harvested heart reached from the donor hospital to AIIMS within a short time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-year-old-man-with-ebsteins-anomaly-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-heart-transplant-at-aiims-931482.html
25-12-2020||National||Indian expats from Saudi, Kuwait stranded in UAE get free accommodation||Around 300 expats, mostly Indians, stranded in UAE after Saudi Arabia and Kuwait closed their borders to prevent the spread of the new strain of the coronavirus have been provided free accommodation, according to a media report on Friday. The expats have taken an indirect route of flying via the United Arab Emirates to Saudi and Kuwait since there were no direct flights from their home countries, the Gulf News reported. They were caught off guard with the news about flight suspensions in their countries of residence, after finishing a 14-day mandatory quarantine in hotels and other paid accommodation in the UAE, it said. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have closed their land and sea borders and suspended commercial flights over fears about the new coronavirus strain, which is spreading fast in the UK. Dubai Markaz Centre's volunteers' wing Indian Cultural Foundation (ICF) tied up with construction firm Aasa Group to arrange the free accommodation and food to the stranded passengers, the report said. Most of the 300 stranded expats are from the south Indian state of Kerala, said Abdul Salam Saquafi, ICF public relations manager.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expats-from-saudi-kuwait-stranded-in-uae-get-free-accommodation-931486.html
25-12-2020||National||Nation remembers Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birthday||President Ram Nath Kovind led the nation on Friday in paying homage to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary with leaders hailing the BJP stalwart's vision of a strong and prosperous India. An event was held in the Central Hall of Parliament where Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and many parliamentarians paid floral tributes. Modi also released a book, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee: A Commemorative Volume", to mark the occasion. President Kovind paid homage to Vajpayee at 'Sadaiv Atal', a memorial to the former prime minister, here. Besides Kovind and Modi, top Union ministers also attended a prayer meeting at the memorial and paid homage to the first prime minister from the saffron party. Vajpayee's visionary leadership saw the country's development reach unprecedented heights, Modi said in a tweet. "His efforts for making a strong and prosperous India will be remembered forever," he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu shared several poems penned by Vajpayee to remember him fondly and lauded him as a "great visionary" and the "man of masses". "Atal Ji was a leader par excellence who was respected across party lines. He was an exceptional orator, a distinguished scholar and a gifted poet, but above all, he was a large-hearted human being who cared deeply for the country and its welfare," he said. Home Minister Amit Shah said Vajpayee's ideas and dedication to the country's development will always inspire them to serve the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda were among other key leaders who paid homage to him. Born in 1924, Vajpayee was a founder member of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP, a party which rose from the margins to rule India for the first time in 1990s with him being its main face. His tenure is credited with ushering in a fresh wave of liberalisation, boosting growth and infrastructure. Paying tributes, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said Vajpayee had an intuitive understanding that the post-Cold War world required India to drastically rework its relationships and this vision led to a new beginning in ties with the US. He said the eminent leader warmly reached out to various regions and continents that laid ground for expansion of India's overall external engagements, particularly with Europe, Africa, Latin America and countries in the ASEAN region. He added that India's principled approach of engaging China on the basis of mutual respect and mutual sensitivity also reflects Vajpayee's thinking. In Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan unveiled a statue of Vajpayee near Bhopal's Shaurya Smarak. He said a grand memorial based on the former prime minister's works, life and personality would come up in his birthplace Gwalior.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nation-remembers-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-his-96th-birthday-931488.html
25-12-2020||National||TRP scam: Former CEO of BARC sent to police custody||A magistrate's court here on Friday remanded Partho Dasgupta, a former CEO of the rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), to police custody till December 28 in the alleged fake TRP scam. Dasgupta was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch from Pune district on Thursday and produced before the court on Friday. The police sought his remand for further probe, saying his custodial interrogation was required to understand his role in the scam. Dasgupta's lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre argued that the offences of cheating and criminal breach of trust for which he has been booked were not made out against him. The probe was harassment and a use of pressuring tactics by police, the lawyer alleged. After hearing both sides, the court sent the accused in the custody of crime branch till December 28. Dasgupta is the fifteenth person to be arrested in the case related to alleged rigging of Television Rating Points (TRP) by some TV channels. The court on Thursday had granted bail to another accused in the case,Ramil Ramgarhia, a former chief operating officer of the BARC. The probe was over and therefore his detention was not needed, the court observed. Most of the accused in the case are now out on bail. Mumbai police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers. It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their ratings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-scam-former-ceo-of-barc-sent-to-police-custody-931492.html
25-12-2020||National||Farmers' money not sent to WB govt due to TMC's 'cut money' culture: BJP||BJP said on Friday that cash is not being sent by the Centre to the West Bengal government for disbursement among farmers due to the 'cut money' culture of the ruling Trinamool Congress. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh told reporters here that TMC is seeking the cash money that is being disbursed by the Centre to the farmers be sent to the state government for subsequent disbursements. "We have seen how money given by Narendra Modi to the West Bengal government to combat the disaster wrought by Cyclone Amphan has been squandered as it had swelled bank accounts of Trinamool Congress leaders," he alleged. This is why money will not be sent to the state government but directly transferred to the accounts of the farmers, Ghosh added. Trinamool Congress has said that the Centre is spreading a false narrative that the West Bengal government is depriving the farmers from getting cash benefits and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had only asked that money be routed through the state instead of sending directly to their accounts. Ghosh said that the farmers of the state are losing and "Once BJP comes to power in West Bengal (in the 2021 assembly polls) their dues will be given". On the saffron party's poll preparations, he said it has started a new campaign which will be booth-based and guidelines have been laid out for the local party leaders. There are around 78,000 booths in West Bengal and the party will highlight the 'lawlessness and endless corruption' in West Bengal. Referring to Banerjee's announcement that an agro-based park will be set up Singur, Ghosh said the government is day-dreaming about bringing in industrialisation in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-money-not-sent-to-wb-govt-due-to-tmcs-cut-money-culture-bjp-931496.html
25-12-2020||National||Attempt to 'divide and mislead' farmers, allege protesting union leaders after PM Modi's speech||Protesting farm unions on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address appeared as an attempt to "divide and mislead" the farmers and said they want a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP). Reacting to the Prime Minister's allegations that political rivals were misusing the protest to push their agenda, farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar said unions do not allow any political party to use their stage and accused the government of diverting the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers and asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. In a blistering speech targeting Opposition, Modi said when the agitation began farmers had some genuine demands like guaranteed minimum support price but people with political motives then took over and began making unrelated demands like the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. Kohar said, "The Prime Minister's claim that we are being misguided by other political parties is false. It has been a month since we have been protesting at Delhi borders, and we have not offered our platform to any politician. "In fact, we have banned them from using our stage. Our protest is not political." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on various Delhi borders for almost a month to protest against the three farm laws. At least five rounds of formal talks have failed to break the deadlock with the farmer groups refusing to accept anything less than the complete repeal of the laws. "In public speeches, the Prime Minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing?," Shiv Kumar Kakka, a senior leader of Sankyut Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions -- told PTI. "PM Modi made an attempt to divide and mislead the farmers during his address today...in election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so," Kakka alleged. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee secretary Avik Saha sought to know why the central government is not giving a legal guarantee on MSP. Saha said the Prime Minister on Friday only addressed farmers from six states and wondered why he did not address issues of protesting peasants. Kohar, who is also the member of Sankyut Kisan Morcha, said during his speech, PM Modi claimed that the three farm laws will benefit farmers, but he did not tell how the new laws will be beneficial. "You cannot go away by saying that it is good law, you will have to prove how it is good for farmers. There should be arguments based on facts," he said. Avtar Singh Mehma, state press secretary, Krantikari Kisan Union (Punjab), alleged that the government's claim that some farmers are in support of the three laws is "false". "We had targeted political parties like the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the AAP before we came to Delhi. So how can we be misguided by these political parties?," Mehma asked Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attempt-to-divide-and-mislead-farmers-allege-protesting-union-leaders-after-pm-modis-speech-931497.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Modi, Mamata Banerjee lock horns over farmers’ issue||A war of words ensued between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over her government’s alleged refusal to implement the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in the State. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s allegation that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) was depriving the 70 lakh farmers of Bengal from the benefits of the scheme, Mamata said that he was trying to “mislead the people with half-truths and distorted facts.” “I personally have written two letters and have even spoken to the concerned Minister two days ago but they are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains,” the Chief Ministers said in a statement.  Asserting that her government was always ready to co-operate with the Centre when regarding farmers’ interests, the Chief Minister said that while the state government was implementing so many schemes of the Centre the allegation of non-cooperation on a scheme for benefiting the farmers “seems absurd.” She further alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was “used to indulging in politicking” even at the cost of violating established norms regarding the implementation of Central schemes by the state government. She said that “lakhs of farmers” had hit the streets demanding the withdrawal of new farm laws which were “anti-farmer” as they threatened to dilute the minimum support price (MSP) and the state procurement system leaving farmers at the mercy of big private players. The Chief Minister also said that the people of Bengal would give a “befitting reply” to those who were trying to malign the state and see through the “malicious propaganda.” She further alleged that despite “all the posturing of the Central Government” it did nothing to help the State. “They are yet to release Rs 85,000 crore of outstanding dues that includes unpaid GST dues of Rs.8,000 crores. If he (Prime Minister) genuinely wants to help the State, he must release at least a part of these funds so that we are in a better position to address our needs,” stated Mamata. Earlier the Chief Minister had conveyed it to the Centre that her government was ready to implement the scheme in Bengal if the fund was routed through the state government instead of being directly sent to the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-mamata-banerjee-lock-horns-over-farmers-issue-931500.html
25-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi slams West Bengal government over farm laws||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lashes out at TMC government over the farm laws; Union Minister Rajnath Singh has appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws as an "experiment" for a year or two, and Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad on Friday after severe fluctuations were recorded in his blood pressure.  Here is the top news of December 25, 2020: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lashed out at Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal while alleging that they have destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided every year. The Prime Minister wondered while there were agitations against the new farm bills, no protests were visible against West Bengal's decision of not implementing PM-KISAN scheme.   Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws as an "experiment" for a year or two and in case they are found not beneficial for the farming community, the government will do all necessary amendments. Describing the protesting farmers as his own people, Singh said, "Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers' families. We have a lot of respect for them." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on Delhi borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws enacted in September.   Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad on Friday after severe fluctuations were recorded in his blood pressure, a hospital statement said. The actor tested negative for Covid-19 on December 22 is under isolation after some crew members of the film he was shooting for (Annatha) in Hyderabad tested positive for the coronavirus. The hospital said he was hemodynamically stable and had no other symptoms except blood pressure spikes and exhaustion.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modi-slams-west-bengal-government-over-farm-laws-931501.html
25-12-2020||National||SC seeks CBI reply on Bengali film producer's bail plea||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the CBI on a plea by Bengali film producer Shrikant Mohta who was arrested in January 2019 for his alleged role in the Rose Valley Ponzi scheme.  Mohta, the co-founder of Shree Venkatesh Films Pvt Ltd (SVFPL), is accused of embezzling crores of rupees under the pretext of producing films by entering into an agreement with Brand Value Communications Ltd (BVCL), a sister concern of the Rose Valley Group.  His bail has been declined thrice reportedly by the HC. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Hemant Gupta issued a notice to the CBI on a plea by Mohta challenging the validity of the Orissa High Court's order of December 1. The top court sought a response from the investigating agency by January 4 after hearing senior advocates Kapil Sibal and K V Vishwanathan appearing for Mohta. According to the CBI, the Rose Valley Group of companies collected a huge amount of money from the public by enticing them with false promises of paying higher rates of interest. The Rose Valley cheated the public as it didn't have any authorization from the Reserve Bank of India or the Securities and Exchange Board of India for carrying out such activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-cbi-reply-on-bengali-film-producers-bail-plea-931502.html
25-12-2020||National||Stop defaming farmers, hold talks on ways to repeal agri laws: Badal to Centre||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the Centre should stop defaming farmers and hold talks with them on ways to repeal its contentious agriculture laws. In a statement here, the SAD president said the Union government has adopted a “callous and insensitive attitude” towards the suffering of farmers who are camping out in the open in severe cold wave conditions at Delhi borders. “It almost seems that the government wants to punish the farmers for raising their voice against the three agricultural marketing laws which were forced through in the last parliamentary session. This is the reason why the Centre has adopted a policy which is aimed at tiring out the farmers,” the SAD leader said. “Bogey of talks is being raised with the sole purpose of defaming the farmers and giving the impression that they are being stubborn. The truth is that it is the Centre which is being obstinate by refusing to repeal the three Agriculture acts which are unacceptable to farmers across the country," he said. Asking the NDA government not to play with the "sentiments of farmers by extending non-specific talk invitations without any agenda or time frame", Badal said the Centre should hold talks on ways and means to repeal the three laws in a sincere manner. “It should also desist from defaming farmers as separatists and victimising arhtiyas (commission agents) through income tax raids. It would be best if the government called a special one-day session to repeal the three agricultural laws. Once this is done, then new laws can be framed in consultation with farmers. I don't see any reason to fault this logic. Not doing so will only strengthen the impression that corporate players who stand to gain through enslavement of farmers are coming in the way of a fair settlement to the ongoing farmer agitation, he said. Telling the top BJP leadership to adopt a "humanistic approach", Badal said, “More than 40 farmers have already lost their lives in the last one month. They have been agitating against these measures ever since they were introduced as Ordinances six months back.” “The government steadfastly refused to listen to the grievances of the farmers for five months and only initiated talks when the farmers blockaded the borders of Delhi. This does not bode well for a democratic state. How many more farmers should be martyred before the State sits up and listens to their voice and acts on it,” the former Punjab deputy chief minister added. Remembering the late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary, Badal said he would not have let things come to such a pass. “The present NDA government needs to learn from the example of inclusive governance set by the late prime minister and take everyone along with it. Divisive politics is not good for the progress of the country. The government should move swiftly to end the suffering of thousands of men, women and children who are camped in unbearable conditions on its doorsteps. Let us give the 'annadaata' the respect it deserves,” Badal added. The SAD had earlier broken ties with the BJP and had pulled out of the NDA over the agriculture laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-defaming-farmers-hold-talks-on-ways-to-repeal-agri-laws-badal-to-centre-931512.html
25-12-2020||National||US lawmakers express concern over farmers' protest in India||The agitation by the farmers against the new agricultural laws has continued to draw international attention, with seven members of the United States Congress recently writing to President Donald Trump’s Secretary of State Mike Pompeo expressing “serious concerns” over what they called “civil unrest” in India. Several members of the United Kingdom’s Parliament too are set to write a letter to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson asking him to discuss the issue of protests by the farmers with his counterpart Narendra Modi during his proposed visit to New Delhi to attend the Republic Day ceremony of India on January 26. New Delhi earlier strongly protested “unwarranted” comments by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau after he and some other members of his cabinet expressed concern over the police action on the agitating farmers in India. “We express our serious concerns regarding ongoing civil unrest in India,” the seven members of the US Congress wrote to Pompeo. “As a nation that is familiar with political protests, we believe that the United States can offer counsel to India during their current period of social disturbance”. The lawmakers, who wrote to the US Secretary of State, included Pramila Jayapal, the Indian-American Democrat member of the American House of Representatives. This is an issue of particular concern to Sikh Americans linked to Punjab, although it also heavily impacts the Indian Americans belonging to other states in India, they wrote. Six of the seven US Congress members – Jayapal, Brendan F Boyle, Debbie Dingell, David Trone, Donald Norcross, and Mary Gay Scanlon – are from the Democratic Party. Brian Fitzpatrick of the Republican Party too joined them. The members of the US Congress wrote to the Secretary of State after learning from media reports that the protesting farmers were brutally subjected to water cannon attacks, barbed wire barricades, and tear gas by the security personnel. Trone recently also issued a separate statement, expressing concern over reports of violence used against protesters. He stated that he was saddened to hear that some of the protesters had died due in part to harsh weather conditions. The majority of the farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government are Sikhs from Punjab and Haryana. Some farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan also joined the protest. "Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned about the well-being of their families in India. In view of this serious situation, we urge you to contact your Indian counterpart to reinforce the United States' commitment to the freedom of political speech abroad," they wrote to Pompeo, nudging him to discuss the issue with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. They acknowledged the right of the Government of India to determine national policy, in compliance with existing law, but added: “We also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against agricultural laws that many Indian farmers see as an attack on their economic security.” The protesters claimed that the newly enacted laws would dismantle the Minimum Support Price system and would thus leave them at the mercy of big corporate houses. The government sought to allay the apprehensions over the new laws, claiming that they would in fact ensure better opportunities for the farmers. The government had several rounds of talks with the leaders of the protesters but failed to reach an agreement with them. Earlier, the US lawmakers, John Garamendi, Jim Costa, and Sheila Jackson Lee, wrote New Delhi’s envoy to Washington D.C. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, expressing distress over the actions by the Government of India to restrict the rights of freedom of assembly and freedom of the press.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-lawmakers-express-concern-over-farmers-protest-in-india-931516.html
25-12-2020||National||Arrested ex-CEO of BARC was `mastermind' of fake TRP racket: police||Mumbai police claimed on Friday that the former CEO of the Broadcast Research Audience Council (BARC) Parth Dasgupta played the main role in the manipulation of TRP of certain TV channels including Republic TV. Republic Media Network, in a statement earlier in the day, said that the police's allegations were laughable. The sole objective of the probe was to target Republic TV, it said. The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Thursday nabbed 55-year-old Dasgupta in Pune district when he was heading for Pune from Goa. On Friday he was produced before a Mumbai court which sent him in police custody till December 28. A police release on Friday described him as the "mastermind" of the racket. Interrogation of Romil Ramgarhia, a former chief operating officer of BARC who was arrested earlier, revealed that he was involved in the rigging of Television Rating Points (TRP) with's Dasgupta's connivance, police said. Dasgupta, who was BARC CEO between June 2013 to November 2019, misused his position and was instrumental in the manipulation of TRP of certain TV channels including Republic Bharatand Republic TV, the release alleged. Republic Media Network, which has already denied wrongdoing, said the police's allegations in the whole case were laughable. The investigation was a farce and its sole objective was to target Republic TV, it claimed. BARC, which had complained to the police about alleged rigging, had said in emails in October and November that Republic TV was not involved, the media group said. Dasgupta is the fifteenth person to be arrested in the case. Most of the accused in the case are now out on bail. Mumbai police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers. It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their ratings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrested-ex-ceo-of-barc-was-mastermind-of-fake-trp-racket-police-931529.html
25-12-2020||National||NIT Srinagar students to get direct admission in PhD programme at IIT Delhi||Students from National Institute of Technology (NIT) Srinagar will get direct admission to PhD programme at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, according to an MoU signed on Friday. The MoU was signed by V Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT Delhi and Rakesh Sehgal, Director, NIT Srinagar. As per the agreement, NIT students with a CGPA of 8.00 at the end of their 6th semester (three years), will be eligible to apply for a project in summer or winter and complete their fourth year (7th and 8th semesters) at IIT Delhi. After that they will be considered for an early admission to the IIT Delhi PhD programs. "The requirement of GATE is waived off since the students will enter IIT Delhi with a minimum CGPA of 8.00. This scheme will also help NITS students to enhance their chances of qualifying for the Prime Minister's Research Fellowship for PhD at IIT Delhi," an official statement said. "During the stay of NITS students in IIT Delhi as visiting students, they would not be charged any academic fees, since they will be paying the same to their parent institution. The students will also be provided on/off-campus hostel accommodation on paid basis during their one-year stay," it added. The MoU will also provide an opportunity to the faculty of NITS under which they may apply for suitable postdoc positions or any other opportunities available at IIT Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nit-srinagar-students-to-get-direct-admission-in-phd-programme-at-iit-delhi-931532.html
25-12-2020||National||Rape accused lineman dies by suicide in Rajasthan's Bundi||A 42-year-old rape accused, who was posted as a lineman in Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) in Bundi district, died after allegedly consuming a poisonous substance outside his home on Friday, police said. Hemraj Meena, a resident of Laxmi Vihar on Bundi railway station road in Devpura, was found lying unconscious a few metres away from his house on Friday morning, said Circle Inspector at Bundi Sadar police station Satyanarayan Malav. On noticing him lying on the road, neighbours informed the family members following which he was rushed to Bundi district hospital, where the doctors declared him dead, he added. According to family members, Meena had left home around 5 am for defecating in the open, he said. Meena was posted as a lineman in JVVNL in Bundi and was booked for rape under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code in Bundi Mahila police station earlier this month, the police official further said. The woman, a resident of Bundi city, approached Mahila police station and lodged a case of rape against Meena. However, the investigation into the matter is underway and the accused was not interrogated yet, SHO at Mahila police station, Bundi, Anjana Nogia said. It is suspected that the woman was in a relationship with the deceased man. The reason behind the extreme step is not yet clear as no suicide note was recovered from his possession, CI Malav added. The police handed over the body to family members after a post-mortem later in the day and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC. A probe to ascertain the actual reason behind the death is underway, the circle inspector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rape-accused-lineman-dies-by-suicide-in-rajasthans-bundi-931538.html
25-12-2020||National||Accept farmers' demand, repeal agri laws: Pilot tells Centre||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Friday said the Union government should accept farmers’ demands and repeal its contentious farm laws. He also asked the Centre to stop the politics of “lies and deceit”, adding if the laws were in the interest of farmers, they would have been celebrating their passage rather than sitting on the roads in protest. “The government should stop misconduct with farmers and withdraw the laws. The government does not care for them. Opposition parties, NGOs and people, all will have to come together to put pressure on the government,” he told reporters during his Dausa visit. He said the government had promised to double the income of farmers and now it is not ready to give promise on the minimum support price (MSP). He also exuded confidence that the Congress will win the next assembly elections in the state. “More support among the public is there than the majority we have. Our government will complete five years in office,” he said. He said those who stood with the party in the last assembly elections should get due honour and this is what AICC general secretary Ajay Maken said. Pilot also visited Bharatpur where he offered floral tributes to its former ruler Suraj Mal on his death anniversary. Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress MLAs Vishvendra Singh, Hemaram Choudhary, Brijendra Ola, Murari lLl Meena and others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accept-farmers-demand-repeal-agri-laws-pilot-tells-centre-931548.html
25-12-2020||National||Centre not willing to solve farmers' issues, want to wear them down: Congress||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi blamed those with a political agenda for the deadlock in talks over agriculture laws, the Congress hit back, saying the government does not want to solve farmers’ problem and trying to “wear them down”. “The entire country listened to Prime Minister Modi's clarification on TV today. They say bigger the crime bigger the clarification and the prime minister is just doing that,” Surjewala said, claiming that the PM and his ministers are only giving “clarifications” without looking into the plight of farmers. “For a month, farmers are protesting near Delhi's borders in this cold weather. Forty-four of them have already died due to various reasons but the pro-capitalist government is not moved,” senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters here on Friday. “The prime minister and the BJP government is working on the policy of wearing them down. The bitter truth is that the Modi government does not want to solve the farmers' problem,” he claimed. Surjewala said the ruling party leaders are branding farmers as “Naxals, terrorists, Chinese and Pakistan agents, tukde-tukde gang". The Congress stands shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers as it involved the question of lives and livelihoods of crores of farmers of this country, he said. “This is not a political fight, this is not the BJP versus Congress fight, not opposition versus ruling party fight,” he said. Surjewala said on six occasions farmers went to their doors with their pain and sought justice. “But it seems the government has made up its mind not to find a solution,” he said. Surjewala, who is Congress' general secretary and chief spokesperson, said despite tall promises made to farmers, the truth was that not all farmer beneficiaries had been credited the amount under the PM-KISAN. “As per the 2015-16 agriculture census, 14.64 crore farmers in the country undertake cultivation on 15.78 crore hectares. The Modi government launched the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna in December 2018 in which it was stated that Rs 6,000 will be deposited into the accounts of all farmers in three installments,” he said. “Under this scheme, in the year 2018-19, instead of Rs 88,000 crore, only Rs 6,005 crores was deposited. In 2019-20, Rs 49,196 crore was deposited and in 2020-21, Rs 38,872 crore has been given till date, whereas this amount should have been Rs 88,000 crore,” Surjewala added. Surjewala asked why the benefit of the scheme is being denied to around 5.40 crore farmers. “Why have these farmers been kept out of the ambit of this scheme,” he asked. On Friday, Modi had asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. In a blistering speech targeting the Opposition, Modi said when the agitation began farmers had some genuine demands like guaranteed minimum support price but people with political motives then took over and began making unrelated demands like the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. Modi's address followed the release of over Rs 18,000 crore into accounts of more than nine crore farmer families under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-not-willing-to-solve-farmers-issues-want-to-wear-them-down-congress-931560.html
25-12-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets nation on Gita Jayanti||Greeting the nation on Gita Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the epic's noble ideals motivate people to live life to the fullest potential and be compassionate. It is believed that Lord Krishna revealed the sacred Bhagavad Gita to warrior Arjuna on this day of the Hindu calendar. "The noble ideals enshrined in the Srimad Bhagavad Geeta have radiated across the world. They motivate people to lead life to the fullest potential and be compassionate. On Geeta Jayanti we celebrate the values mentioned in the Geeta & recall the teachings of Bhagwan Shri Krishna," Modi tweeted. The prime minister also shared a link for people to listen to the audio of two chapters of the Bhagavad Gita, noting that millions all over the world chant verses from the holy scripture on this day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-nation-on-gita-jayanti-931563.html
25-12-2020||National||BJP blames 'rattled' opposition parties for attack on its workers||The BJP on Friday accused its rivals of instigating violence against its workers in opposition-ruled states like Punjab and Maharashtra, claiming that "increasing acceptance" of farm laws coupled with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "rising graph of popularity" among farmers has rattled them. BJP general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam noted that his party workers were attacked in some parts of Punjab on a day when Modi engaged with farmers and addressed them. The BJP had chosen more than 19,000 venues across the country to bring farmers to listen to his speech. Tents put up by its workers for the exercise were dismantled by rivals in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, Gautam alleged, adding that the police in both states did nothing. This indicates the support of ruling parties in these states to such acts, he said. Gautam said people carrying banners of farmer unions carried out these attacks but claimed that BJP's political rivals, including the Congress in Punjab and the Left in Vidarbha, were behind the incidents. "We have seen how top opposition leaders like Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh besides Sharad Pawar of the NCP supported these very reforms once which have been now carried out by the Modi government. They are rattled due to Modi's rising popularity among farmers," he said. A group of farmers on Friday ransacked the venue of an event organised by the BJP to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at Bathinda in Punjab, leaving at least five party workers injured, police said. However, some farmers at the venue claimed anti-social elements and not peasants were behind the incident. Some people were listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address at the event venue at Amrik Singh Road when a group of farmers reached there shouting slogans and ransacked the place. They broke chairs and the LED system, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-blames-rattled-opposition-parties-for-attack-on-its-workers-931569.html
25-12-2020||National||India, US need to be attentive to developments in Indo-Pacific: Nisha Biswal||India and the US will need to be attentive to the "dangerous currents" in the Indo-Pacific to ensure that the region continues to be a zone of peace, prosperity and pluralism, US India Business Council president Nisha Desai Biswal said on Friday. Delivering the Atal Bihari Vajpayee memorial lecture, Biswal also said India and the US will require to work together closely in the economic sphere to succeed and be competitive with the production capacity of China. She said the coming days and months will be deeply challenging for both India and the US as they will have to deploy a tremendous amount of attention and resources to stem the spread of Covid-19, while also deploying approved vaccines across broad geographies. The online lecture was organised by the Ministry of External Affairs to pay glowing tributes to former prime minister Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary. "We (India and the US) will need to take bold steps to rebuild our economies. And we will need to be attentive to the dangerous currents in the Indo-Pacific to ensure that the region continues to be a zone of peace, prosperity and pluralism. None of this will be easy. But working together all of it is possible," the US India Business Council (USIBC) president said. There have been mounting global concerns over China's military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region. Biswal, a former Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, said the time has come for the US and India to further bolster their partnership to realise the full potential of the ties, particularly considering the challenging situation thrown up by the coronavirus pandemic. "In a world ravaged by the pandemic where businesses and communities are struggling to overcome the alienating and isolating impact of this virus, when our global institutions are weakened and our traditional alliances are being tested, the time has come for the United States and India in partnership to rise to their full potential to build the better future we know is waiting for us," she said, "With the incoming Biden-Harris Administration, there will be a renewed focus on restoring our global alliances and strengthening our global institutions," she said. Biswal said expansion of the Indo-US ties and the strategic convergence that deepened under the current administration will continue, but observed that they need to be buttressed with a broader focus on shared democratic values. "And our geopolitical ambitions need to be paired with a firm grasp and strategy for engaging the geo-economic realities of the Indo-Pacific," she said. On trade relations, Biswal said the promise of a growing economic partnership driving greater trade and investment in both the US and India has been seen. "Despite the fact that we have not been able to conclude even a small agreement between our two countries, we have seen the promise of a growing economic partnership drive greater trade and investment in both the US and India," she said. The official further said: "The geoeconomic realities are such that for either the US or India to succeed and be competitive with the production capacity and efficiency of China, it will require us to work together and develop more effective and efficient economies in our respective countries." Biswal said the economic resilience, which in part reflects India's consumer culture and strong growth fundamentals, is an important facet of its enduring appeal as a destination for foreign investment, particularly from US investors. "As we look to the future, we must build on these successes and deepen our economic convergence. We must align our trade policies and help rebuild each other's economies," she said. "Only then can we build the partnership that can, in the words of Prime Minister Modi, aspire to benefit not only the American people and the people of India but truly benefit the global community," Biswal added. She said the US and India must build digital architecture that will connect communities of both countries while securing their data and usher in a new era of digital commerce without sacrificing either security or sovereignty. Biswal also paid glowing tribute to Vajpayee, saying he was the first to speak of the US-India partnership as being one between natural allies. "He spoke of a trade and economic partnership powered by the entrepreneurial talent of our peoples where new technologies and innovations would help overcome global challenges," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-need-to-be-attentive-to-developments-in-indo-pacific-nisha-biswal-931571.html
25-12-2020||National||Farmer unions to again meet on December 26 on Centre's fresh talks offer, indicate resumption of dialogue||The protesting farmer unions met on Friday to discuss the government's latest letter inviting them for talks, with some of them indicating that they may decide to resume their dialogue with the Centre to find a solution to the ongoing deadlock over the three contentious agri laws. The unions said they will hold another meeting on Saturday where a formal decision on the Centre's invite for the resumption of stalled talks is likely to be taken. An official in the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers' welfare also said the government was expecting the next round of meeting to take place in the next two-three days. One of the protesting union leaders, who did not wish to be named, said their demand for a legal guarantee on minimum support price will, however, remain the same. "We have another meeting tomorrow to take a decision on the Centre's letter. In this meeting, we may decide to resume talks with the government as it appears through its previous letters that it has not been able to understand our issues so far," the leader said. He said the government's letters have no proposals, the reason why farmer unions may decide to hold fresh talks and make it understand their demands. "MSP cannot be separated from our demand of repealing these three laws. In these laws, there is mention about private mandis. Who will ensure that our crop is sold at fixed MSP if it is not there?" another leader asked. On Friday, several farmer unions held a meeting, but no decision could be taken on the Centre's latest letter. On Thursday, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. On Wednesday, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 unions protesting at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for the last 28 days, had asked the government to not repeat the proposal of "meaningless" amendments that they have already rejected but to come up with a "concrete offer" in writing for the resumption of talks. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Friday demanded that the Centre arrange trains so that farmers from different parts of the country reach the ongoing protests at Delhi's border points, adding that they are ready to pay the cost of tickets for all peasants. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with a political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with the protesting farmers and asserted that his government was willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-to-again-meet-on-december-26-on-centres-fresh-talks-offer-indicate-resumption-of-dialogue-931576.html
25-12-2020||National||Covid pandemic has taught us to invest in R&D, strive to become self-reliant: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic has taught us the need to invest in and sustain research and development and to strive to become self-reliant, and urged the private sector to partner with various institutes to promote innovation in the country. Addressing the valedictory function of the India International Science Festival through virtual mode from Hyderabad, he also said science lays the path to progress and create material wealth for the country. "We should also aim to first achieve self-reliance in critical sectors like electronics and defence. With the third-largest startup ecosystem in the world and nearly 10,000 technology-led startups, India has great potential to become atmanirbhar (self reliant) in many sectors," he told the gathering. Describing science as the lifeline of human progress, he said hardworking scientists gave us many things -- from a light bulb to an aeroplane, to vaccines that can fight deadly diseases. "In fact, we are on the verge of releasing our own indigenous Covid vaccine. It is science and hard-working scientists that have made this possible. Beginning with very few testing kits at the beginning of the pandemic, in a span of a few months we have developed cheaper and rapid diagnostics, ventilators, and personal protective equipment (PPEs). "Today, we are even able to export PPEs. It is in this context that people have to be made aware of scientific developments of the day and the work of dedicated scientists," he said according to the text of his speech. The pandemic, the vice president said, has also reinforced the importance of scientific temper in our lives. One of the major challenges in this pandemic has been the prevalence of the 'infodemic'. False information on the nature of the virus, medication and the vaccine caused panic and anxiety among the people, he observed. "It is not vaccines or drugs that can defeat the infodemic, but a rational outlook among people. A citizenry that can think critically will be immune to such misinformation or fake news. This spirit of inquiry must be taken to the people...," he stressed. Naidu felt people must also recognise that the fourth industrial revolution is underway and India cannot afford to miss the opportunity this time. "We must quickly capitalise on our demographic dividend, skill our youth, and ride this revolution to make our unique mark in the world of science," he observed. Naidu felt there was a need to increase the focus on science education. "I am referring to both -- education in science (STEM) and in scientific thinking. We must encourage our children to pursue a career in STEM, improve the quality of research in our institutes, increase Rand D investments, and encourage diversity in the field," he pointed out. As regards scientific-thinking, there is no quick fix but to nurture critical thinking from a young age through a revamped pedagogy, he felt. Sustainability should be an intrinsic part of scientific research, he said, adding that one cannot afford to look at sustainability and technology in silos. "We need to go for a holistic and inter-disciplinary approach in science education that addresses ecological concerns," he said. The vice president felt that science and technology should address the pressing needs of the common man. Cutting edge advancements like nanotechnology are strategically important, but what is critical is recognising micro-innovations in agriculture, handicrafts, education, and health, he opined. "For instance, a reliable low-cost water-purifier could potentially save millions of lives. A resilient seed variety can benefit an entire farming community. In the end, science has to make the common man's life comfortable," Naidu suggested. Referring to Covid-19, he said if there is one thing that the pandemic has taught us, it is that we need to invest in and sustain research and development and to strive to become self-reliant. "Our space programme is a sterling example of how self-reliance can be achieved ... To this extent, I also call upon the private sector to partner with various institutes to promote innovation in the country," he said in his address. He felt there was a need to inculcate scientific temper at a young age. "Children have an inherent curiosity. How we channelise that curiosity is very important. If we encourage them to ask questions and think critically, they will become confident, self-assured, and fearless for the rest of their lives. "A confident generation means a confident nation. On the other hand, if we discourage them from asking questions and curtail their imagination, they will forever be dependent on others' solutions and remain unsure of themselves," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-pandemic-has-taught-us-to-invest-in-rd-strive-to-become-self-reliant-venkaiah-naidu-931580.html
25-12-2020||National||Knowledge can't be locked, we don't agree with concept of patent: RSS leader||RSS general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi said here on Friday that since knowledge is meant for dissemination among masses, "we do not agree with the concept of patent". Joshi was speaking at the inaugural function of a two-day convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), an RSS-affiliated student organization. "We don't agree with the concept of patent as knowledge is for dissemination among people. We can not lock knowledge," he said, speaking about the importance of knowledge in Indian tradition. "Indians have got knowledge from Rishi-Munis (sages) since ancient times and hence we have developed a lifestyle with values based on knowledge," he said. "We are blessed because we were born in post- Independence period. Our ancestors saw a life of slavery," the senior RSS leader further said. "Now we are seeing a period in which the country is progressing ahead by leaving behind all its weakness. We are part of nation-building," Joshi said. Today's generation wants to make India another US or Japan, but "we are trying to build an India which can not be defeated by anyone in the world," he said. "India's power lies in the power of its common people. Hence we are trying to increase their strength. We are trying to take all people together," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/knowledge-cant-be-locked-we-dont-agree-with-concept-of-patent-rss-leader-931587.html
25-12-2020||National||Mumbai: Alleged MNS workers vandalise Amazon warehouse||Workers allegedly belonging to the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) vandalised a warehouse of e-commerce behemoth Amazon at Marol in Mumbai's Andheri suburb on Friday afternoon, police said. The incident took place around 1.45 pm, an official said. The MNS has been targeting Amazon over the absence of Marathi on its posters and also for not providing navigation instructions in Marathi on its app. "A LED TV, glass items, laptops, printers, etc were damaged in the attack," the police official said. The process of registering a First Information Report against at least eight persons was underway at Sakinaka police station, he added, adding nobody has been arrested yet. The e-commerce company had approached Dindoshi court in the city earlier, after which a notice was issued to MNS chief Raj Thackeray directing him to appear in court on January 5. Amazon has filed the civil suit against the MNS and its workers union which had allegedly threatened to block the firm's operations in Mumbai if it did not include Marathi as one of the preferred languages on its mobile application and website. The court had on December 13, after hearing brief arguments, noted that protection is required to be given to the company and its staff. The court had also restrained the MNS and its activists from obstructing the plaintiff or its employees from working at the e-commerce firm's site or disturbing its business activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-alleged-mns-workers-vandalise-amazon-warehouse-931590.html
25-12-2020||National||On Christmas, Indian Army plays Santa for kids in Kashmir||Sepoy Gurvinder Singh of the Army's 19 Rashtriya Rifles was given a new mission in Kashmir on Friday -- 'Mission Smile'. His crisp olive greens gave way to a red costume, his assault rifle was replaced by a goodie bag and "Fauji" Santa was ready to welcome kids from the valley for a day filled with fun, with endless supplies of goodies, toffees, chocolates and some tips on their future and career. The Rashtriya Rifles encampment at Larkipora, 65 km from Srinagar, was abuzz on Christmas as the thumping of boots was replaced by giggles of children from neighbouring localities of Wessu, Pethdialgam, Brenty, Kokernag, Vailu and Gadol who were invited here by the commanding officer as a gesture to connect with locals. "We are working under the guidance of GOC of Victor Force and connecting with locals. The idea is to see the kids smile and that's what we are doing," said Col Dharmendra Yadav, commanding officer of the 19 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army's Victor Force, which looks after the militancy-hit areas of south Kashmir. He said the unit deployed its sepoy to become Santa and distribute small gifts to the kids and school-going children who were also counselled about their careers. Major Rahul Jaeenger asked the children to clear their doubts and focus on their dreams. "Every child has some speciality which needs to be toned up," he told PTI. Lt Col Manpreet Singh feels that connecting with the kids was nice and it's better to catch them young and showcase the world to them. Singh distributed all the gifts, while Subedar Harkeerat Singh, a religious teacher, conveyed the importance of Christmas to the children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-christmas-indian-army-plays-santa-for-kids-in-kashmir-931594.html
25-12-2020||National||Namaz at temple: Never wanted to disturb peace, harmony, says accused||After being released on bail, Faisal Khan—who had offered namaz at a Mathura temple around months ago—refuted the allegations that he wanted to disturb the peace and harmony in the area through his act. We cannot even think of spoiling the peace and harmony as we always worked for it, he said after his release from the Mathura jail on Thursday. Faisal was granted conditional bail on December 18 by the Allahabad High Court, which directing him not to tamper with prosecution witnesses, cooperate in the trial and not to put photographs of such activities on social media till the pendency of the case. Police had arrested Faisal Khan and booked three others after a video clip showing members of their group offering namaz on the premises of the Mathura’s Nand Baba temple surfaced on social media. The other three accused in the case were identified as Chand Mohammad, Alok Ratan, and Neelesh Gupta. According to the FIR, the accused reportedly belonged to a Delhi-based organisation, Khudai Khidmatgar, and two of them--Faisal Khan and Chand Mohammad-- offered namaz at the temple on October 29 without permission. The FIR alleged that it was done to show disrespect to the religious beliefs of the Hindu community and posed a threat to communal harmony. The complainants alleged that the accused received foreign funding for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/namaz-at-temple-never-wanted-to-disturb-peace-harmony-says-accused-931607.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Cabinet Secretary should explain if he was under pressure to shortlist Uday Mahurkar for IC: Adhir Chowdhury||Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury opposed the appointment of journalist Uday Mahurkar as an Information Commissioner in the Central Information Commission (CIC) claiming that he was an "open supporter" of the ruling BJP. Chowdhury, who is also the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, demanded from that the Cabinet Secretary whether he was under pressure to include him in the shortlist. Chowdhury, one of the three members of the Prime Minister-headed Selection Committee that makes recommendations for the appointments in the CIC, also had reservations about Yashvardhan Sinha finding a place in the shortlist of the Search Committee, as he felt that he lacked adequate "ground domestic experience". The senior Congress MP recorded his objections in a dissent note submitted during the October 24 meeting when Sinha was cleared as the Chief Information Commissioner and Mahurkar, Saroj Punhani and Heeralal Samariya were chosen for the posts of Information Commissioners. DH sought a copy of Chowdhury's dissent note earlier and the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) replied on December 6 that relevant files would be uploaded after obtaining clearance. It was made available on the website on December 24. For the posts of Information Commissioners, the committee had shortlisted seven persons, including Mahurkar. Besides Sinha, then a serving Information Commissioner, Neeraj Kumar Gupta was also shortlisted for the post CIC. In his dissent note, Chowdhury termed the short-listing of Mahurkar as "shocking" as he had not been among the 355 who applied for the post. "The fact that the Search Committee has sky-dropped the name of Mahurkar casts very serious aspersions on the integrity of the committee," he said adding that it rendered the entire exercise of inviting applications "useless". The MP demanded that the Cabinet Secretary, as the Chairman of the Search Committee, should explain the "special reasons" and "pressure exhorted upon him" for including Mahurkar in the shortlist. He stated that the journalist has a "pre-fixed ideology of supporting the ruling party (kindly verify his articles, comments, social media profile etc)". On October 29, Mahurkar had tweeted that his appointment was "an opportunity to serve the nation in Veer Savarkar’s spirit of true Nation First." He is also the author of 'Marching with a Billion', a book on Modi's governance. Chowdhury said Mahurkar's inclusion was "completely out of turn", which smacked of "apparent bias on the face of it". He was also critical of Sinha's appointment saying that he was an IFS officer of the 1981 batch and that Foreign Service officers mostly worked abroad. Even while at home, Chowdhury claimed they have nothing much to do with general administration, policy formations, service delivery and program implementation — areas that form the overwhelming bulk of RTI queries. Chowdhury demanded to reconsider Sinha's name for the post because he said that a CIC should be someone with more on-ground domestic experience in the field of service delivery, law, science, human rights and issues that concerns the general public in their day to day life. He also found fault with the Search Committee for not short-listing Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna, a 1980 batch officer, who was the senior-most and far more experienced than Sinha. Chowdhury was also critical of the functioning of the Search Committee saying the exercise was "nothing but an empty formality aimed at carrying out a hog-wash that defeats the very aim and goal" of transparency and accountability that the RTI Act envisages. He said it was appalling that the Search Committee failed to give any reasons or justifications in writing as to why the shortlisted candidates are more suitable among all those who applied for the said posts. A total of 139 candidates had applied for the post of CIC while 355 candidates applied for the various posts of ICs. Chowdhury alleged that the Search Committee "arbitrarily" selected names without providing any reason for eliminating 486 candidates for the two positions. He criticised the committee for short-listing only bureaucrats, making it appear as a "cosy club of retired civil servants who were being provided post-retirement sinecures as quid pro quo for the commitment they may have shown to their political masters".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-secretary-should-explain-if-he-was-under-pressure-to-shortlist-uday-mahurkar-for-ic-adhir-chowdhury-931309.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Seven US lawmakers write to Pompeo on farmers' protest in India||A group of seven influential US lawmakers, including Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, have written to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, urging him to raise the issue of farmers' protest in India with his Indian counterpart. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. "We have seen some ill-informed comments…relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said earlier this month. This is an issue of particular concern to Sikh Americans linked to Punjab, although it also heavily impacts the Indian Americans belonging to other Indian states, the lawmakers said in their letter to Pompeo dated December 23. “Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned for the well-being of their families in India. In view of this serious situation, we urge you to contact your Indian counterpart to reinforce the United States’ commitment to the freedom of political speech abroad,” they said. In their letter, the lawmakers said that the US as a nation that is familiar with political protests can offer counsel to India during their current period of social disturbance. “As national legislators, we respect the right of the government of India to determine national policy, in compliance with existing law. We also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against agricultural laws that many Indian farmers see as an attack on their economic security,” the lawmakers said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislation would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the Indian government but the logjam continues. In addition to Jayapal, the letter has been signed by Congressmen Donald Norcross, Brendan F Boyle, Brian Fitzpatrick, Mary Gay Scanlon, Debbie Dingell and David Trone. Over the past few weeks, more than a dozen US Congressmen have expressed their concerns on the ongoing protest by the farmers in India. Earlier this month, Congressman John Garamendi, Co-Chair of the American Sikh Caucus, along with Congressman Jim Costa and Congresswoman Shelia Jackson Lee —members of the American Sikh Caucus— sent a letter to Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, expressing solidarity with the protestors and defending their right to peaceful protest. Democratic American lawmaker David Trone on Tuesday urged the Indian government to provide safety to the protesting farmers and hailed the recent offers of dialogue and a proposal from India's Supreme Court to set up mediation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/seven-us-lawmakers-write-to-pompeo-on-farmers-protest-in-india-931341.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda targets Congress on farm laws||BJP President J P Nadda has alleged that the Congress is "confusing farmers and depriving them of their rights" in the backdrop of the farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws. Tweeting an undated video of Congress leader Sonia Gandhi on Thursday, he said, "Sonia Gandhi used to advocate the middleman-free market for farmers and now opposes it. This is the proof of the Congress's opportunistic thinking, little information and repeated talk." In the video, Sonia Gandhi can be heard saying that farmers can get the right price only when they can sell their produce directly to urban centres without middlemen. Official sources also circulated old speeches of former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi in which both are heard advocating foreign direct investment (FDI) in the farm sector, saying it will not only fetch better prices for farmers but will also save produces from damage. Congress leaders earlier staged a sit-in protest outside the party headquarters in the capital after they were prevented from marching towards Rashtrapati Bhawan. The leaders including Priyanka Gandhi were detained by the police for violating prohibitory orders. The BJP on its part challenged Rahul Gandhi for an open debate on what the Congress did for farmers' welfare when in power and what the Modi government has done for them, as it rejected his allegations against the Centre as "baseless and illogical". (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-targets-congress-on-farm-laws-931343.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: Recoveries cross 97 lakh, caseload rises to 1.01 crore||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,46,845 with 23,067 new infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have crossed the 97-lakh mark, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,47,092 with 336 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,17,834, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.77 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload in the country remained below three lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 2,81,919 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitutes 2.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,63,05,762 samples have been tested up to December 24, including 9,97,396 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-recoveries-cross-97-lakh-caseload-rises-to-101-crore-931358.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||No corporate can snatch farm land as long as Narendra Modi is PM: Amit Shah||No corporate can snatch away any farmer's land as long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister of the country, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday and asserted that the provision of MSP will continue and mandis will not be shut down. Addressing a gathering in Kishangarh village in the national capital, Shah said if farmer organisations felt that any provision of the three new farm laws is against their interests, the Modi government was ready to discuss and consider the same with an open mind. Shah blamed the Opposition, including Congress, for spreading lies about the minimum support price (MSP) and other provisions of the farm laws. "The Opposition is speaking brazen lies. I again reiterate that the MSP will continue and the mandis will not be closed. Farmers' welfare is the top-most priority of the Modi government," Shah asserted. The years-old demand of one and half times MSP on crops has been implemented by the Modi government during 2014-19, he said. Shah attended Kisan Samman Nidhi event and also listened to Prime Minister Modi's video interaction with farmers from several states, along with other BJP leaders at a Gaushala in Kishangarh village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-corporate-can-snatch-farm-land-as-long-as-narendra-modi-is-pm-amit-shah-931385.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Kapil Dev most gracious in Lahore bus ride, says former Vajpayee secretary Shakti Sinha in new book||A host of luminaries from different fields were on the bus that took Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the historic journey from Amritsar to Lahore in 1999, but cricketer Kapil Dev was perhaps the most gracious, the late prime minister’s private secretary Shakti Sinha recalled in a new book.   It took 40 minutes for the bus to go from the Indian side of Punjab to the Pakistani side and the seat next to Vajpayee on that momentous ride was a much-coveted one.   "The bus had two seats on either side of the aisle. Vajpayee was on the first seat on the left side of the bus, all by himself. Throughout the short forty-minute journey, we provided an opportunity for each member of the delegation to sit with Vajpayee and chat for a while.  "Kapil Dev came across as the most gracious, quickly moving out when it was the turn of somebody else to sit with Vajpayee. With some of the others, I had to almost physically evict them; they shall not be named as they are not with us anymore," Sinha writes in "Vajpayee: The Years that Changed India" that hit the stands on Friday, the late leader’s 96th birth anniversary. Among the others accompanying Vajpayee on the journey were journalist Kuldip Nayar, poet Javed Akhtar, actor Dev Anand, singer Mahendra Kapoor and actor-politician Shatrughan Sinha.  Sinha also has a tale to tell about the late Dev Anand, who has legions of fans in Pakistan. When the bus reached the other side of the border, the two prime ministers, Vajpayee and Nawaz Sharif, hugged each other. Dev Anand, who stood next to them, started reminiscing about the time when he left Lahore for Mumbai. "… (he) would have carried on till we gently guided him away," Sinha says. The prime minister’s motorcade gets a free pass on the roads but a car carrying his hearing aid does not, he says, recounting the delay at the beginning of the journey in Delhi.   On the way to the airport in Delhi to board the flight to Amritsar, Vajpayee realised he had forgotten his hearing device at home. "On our way to the airport, Vajpayee turned to me and nervously told me that he had left his hearing device at home. He had been checking his pockets and found them empty! Fortunately, we had cell phones by then, so I quickly rang back and asked for it to be sent pronto," Sinha writes. ".. fortunately for us, the PM's plane, operated by the air force, always has sufficient margin, a fact I knew by then. That knowledge gave us breathing space. We boarded but could not leave immediately since the car with the hearing aid was still on the way. But we were lucky that the traffic was light and the delay was a manageable twenty minutes," he adds.   The inaugural bus, 'Sada-e-sarhad', ran on February 19, 1999 between Delhi and Lahore, a distance of around 500 km, with three technical halts, taking a total of 14 hours. Though Vajpayee was to travel all the way from Delhi, the plan was later modified and he boarded the bus at Amritsar airport. Sinha, who is presently the director of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies, MS University, Vadodara, also says Pakistan’s then prime minister Sharif sent a word to his wife Begum Kulsoom Nawaz to drive from Islamabad to Lahore when he noticed that Vajpayee’s foster daughter Namita Kaul Bhattacharya was part of the delegation. Namita Kaul’s husband Ranjan Bhattacharya and their daughter Niharika were also part of the tour.  "This indicated how much Vajpayee was personally invested in the visit, raising the tenor of the occasion by a few octaves," Sinha writes   The 'bus diplomacy', as it was called in later years, was hailed as the dawn of a new era in India-Pakistan relations but proved to be a short-lived thaw in the stormy relationship between the two countries. Within months India and Pakistan were embroiled in the Kargil battle. The over 300-page book, which consists of 10 chapters, is published by Penguin Random House India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kapil-dev-most-gracious-in-lahore-bus-ride-says-former-vajpayee-secretary-shakti-sinha-in-new-book-931389.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Mayawati demands UP government to withdraw cases against Opposition leaders||BSP president Mayawati on Friday demanded that cases lodged against Opposition leaders in the state should be withdrawn as is being done with cases on BJP leaders. "In addition to withdrawal of cases filed in the spirit of 'political malice' against BJP leaders in UP, similar cases lodged against all opposition leaders should also be withdrawn," the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo said in a tweet in Hindi. यू.पी. में बीजेपी के लोगों के ऊपर ’’राजनैतिक द्वेष’’ की भावना से दर्ज मुकदमे वापिस होने के साथ ही, सभी विपक्षी पार्टियो के लोगों पर भी ऐसे दर्ज मुकदमे भी जरूर वापिस होने चाहिए। बी.एस.पी की यह माँग। "This is the demand of the BSP," she added. Last week, Mayawati had demanded that the Centre should adopt a sympathetic attitude towards the protesting farmers and repeal the three new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-demands-up-government-to-withdraw-cases-against-opposition-leaders-931410.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Farmers' protest a living monument of BJP's failure: Akhilesh Yadav||As the farmers' protest against the Centre's three farm laws completed a month on Friday, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the ongoing agitation is a living monument of the BJP government's failure. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "The protest against the farm laws is completing a month today. For the benefit of their dear rich friends and corporate sponsors, the BJP is trading a path which is against all -- farmers, labourers, middle and lower classes. The farmer protest is a living monument of the BJP government's failure." आज कृषि-कानूनों के ख़िलाफ़ हो रहे आंदोलन का एक महीना पूरा हो रहा है. भाजपा अपने प्रिय अमीर मित्रों व पूंजीपति प्रायोजकों का समर्थन करते हुए ऐसे रास्ते पर चल पड़ी है जो किसान, मज़दूर, निम्न व मध्यवर्ग सबके विरुद्ध जाता है. किसान-आंदोलन भाजपा सरकार की विफलता का जीवंत स्मारक है. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and some other states have been protesting at various border points of Delhi against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-a-living-monument-of-bjps-failure-akhilesh-yadav-931411.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi lying and misleading farmers: Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday, accusing him of "lying and misleading" farmers over the Centre's recent farm laws. Addressing a farmers' rally in her parliamentary constituency Amethi, Irani said, "Rahul Gandhi is telling lies and misleading farmers. He is shedding crocodile tears for farmers and misleading them, his own jija (brother-in-law) has encroached upon the land of farmers." Irani's attack on Gandhi comes amid protests by farmers on various border points of Delhi against the Centre's recent farm laws. Throwing a challenge at Gandhi for a debate on farmer issues, Irani asked him to come in the midst of farmers here and claimed that she would expose him for every single sin committed by him. The Union minister addressed the rally in Singhpur block in Tiloi as part of a mega exercise undertaken by the BJP to reach out to farmers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). Irani said Gandhi, whom she defeated in the last parliamentary election, is showing sympathy for farmers now, but he himself has "grabbed" the land of farmers. "The kind of development which had taken place before I came here is known to all. This family had knowingly kept Amethi and its farmers away from development. They kept misleading them, enjoyed the fruits of power sitting in Delhi and lived in a palace of gold," she alleged. Irani alleged that the Gandhi family did not think about the development of Amethi after winning elections. She also listed various development works undertaken after the BJP formed the government in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-lying-and-misleading-farmers-irani-931435.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Not a single benefit, but a lot of harm: Arvind Kejriwal on farm laws||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre's new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. According to the BJP, Kejriwal said, the laws will enable farmers to sell their produce outside mandis. But they only get half the price for their crop outside mandis so how is that a benefit. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government. "BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. They have repeatedly rejected a government offer to amend the farm laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the MSP system and stuck to their demand for the repeal of the legislations -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the government's talks with protesting farmers and said genuine apprehensions about MSP guarantee have got overshadowed by unrelated issues such as the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-a-single-benefit-but-a-lot-of-harm-arvind-kejriwal-on-farm-laws-931451.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Two AAP MPs heckle PM Modi in Parliament's Central Hall, demand repealing of new Farm Laws||Two Aam Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs on Friday heckled Prime Minister Narendra Modi inside the Central Hall of Parliament demanding repeal of the new farm laws that has farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past one month. Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann – both AAP – raised slogans and displayed placards as the Prime Minister arrived in Parliament’s Central Hall to offer tributes to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary. Singh and Mann continued to raise slogans and wave placards as Modi offered tributes to Vajpayee and interacted with other MPs gathered on the occasion. “Pro-farmer slogans echoed in the Central Hall to open the closed eyes and ears of the Modi government,” Mann, a Lok Sabha member for Sangrur in Punjab, said. AAP is making inroads in Punjab, which has witnessed a rivalry between the Congress and the Akali Dal for the past few decades with BJP playing the supporting role to the Akalis. Earlier, Opposition parties, which opposed the farm bills in parliament in September, had petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to intervene and ask the Modi government to repeal the laws. Braving the winter chill, thousands of farmers – mostly from Punjab and Haryana – have been camping on the borders of Delhi, protesting against the three farm laws for a month, contending that the “reforms” were only meant to help corporates and not the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-aap-mps-heckle-pm-modi-in-parliaments-central-hall-demand-repealing-of-new-farm-laws-931467.html
25-12-2020||National Politics||Farmers attempt to gherao Punjab BJP leader's house||Farmers owning allegiance to the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) on Friday attempted to gherao the house of a Punjab BJP leader in Jalandhar where a function was being held on the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Farmers tried to break barricades and police prevented them from doing so, following which a commotion took place in which headgears of some farmers were tossed up, police said. A programme was in progress at BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia's house in Jalandhar where on an LED screen Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to farmers was shown to BJP activists. However, the BKU (Rajewal) opposed it claiming it was "incorrect". Police said they didn't take off turbans of farmers. The turbans came off during the struggle which ensued while police tried to stop farmers, they said. While farmers are dying in Delhi, the BJP leaders are putting up screens to hold gatherings, the BKU (Rajewal) said, adding they condemn the BJP's celebratory meets and gatherings at such a time. The BKU (Rajewal) said their activists will gherao BJP leaders' houses tomorrow and hold a protest against the prime minister's Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-attempt-to-gherao-punjab-bjp-leaders-house-931593.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand sets up first-ever 'child-friendly' police station||In a bid to let children report any incidents freely and not be afraid when reporting abuse or being called for investigation, Uttarakhand constructed its first-ever 'child-friendly' police station in the state capital, Dehradun. Following the example of Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Telangana, and a few other states, the Uttarakhand Government under the advice of the Uttarakhand Child Right Protection Committee, initiated the construction of this unit. Usha Negi, Chairperson of the state's child rights protection committee told the publication that personnel will be trained in counselling and sensitivity. Children and juveniles alleged of petty crimes or are victims of child labour or abuse, will be brought to the station, designed in such a manner that it is not intimidating, and will be counselled accordingly. Shweta Chaubey, the city's superintendent of police, informed IE that until the construction similar units in other police stations dotted in the city, children will be brought to the Dalanwala 'Child-Friendly' Station for questioning and counselling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-sets-up-first-ever-child-friendly-police-station-931349.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Mercury dips across Kashmir; possibility of light rain, snow from December 26||Cold conditions intensified in Kashmir as the minimum temperature dropped at most places in the valley on Friday. The weather office has forecast the possibility of light rain and snow over a few days from Saturday. The night temperature dropped across Kashmir, except in Gulmarg, MET officials said. The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, they said. The officials said Srinagar -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 4.3 degrees Celsius, down from the previous night's minus 3.8 degrees Celsius. They said the mercury in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir went down from the previous night's low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius to settle at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius. The resort was the coldest recorded place in the valley. The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius, same as on Wednesday night, the officials said. Qazigund -- the gateway town to the valley -- recorded a minimum of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 4.0 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 3.3 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold). The MeT office has said there is a possibility of light rains and snowfall in the valley for a few days from Saturday. There is no forecast of any major snowfall activity till the end of this month, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mercury-dips-across-kashmir-possibility-of-light-rain-snow-from-december-26-931391.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Earthquake of 2.3 magnitude strikes Delhi: National Center of Seismology||A low intensity earthquake of 2.3 magnitude struck Nangloi in Delhi, the National Center for Seismology said. The earthquake's epicentre was believed to be about 18 km West-North-West (WNW) of the national capital and took place at 5:02 AM at a depth of 5km below the surface. The previous earthquake, registering a magnitude of 4.2, had taken place on December 17, with its epicentre 48km South West (SW) of Gurgaon, in Haryana. No damage to property or loss of life was reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-of-23-magnitude-strikes-delhi-national-center-of-seismology-931395.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court dismisses man's bail pleas in 4 cases||A Delhi court has dismissed bail applications of a person in four cases related to the northeast Delhi riots, saying he has been categorically identified by an eye witness as an alleged member of a "riotous mob" and is seen in CCTV footage taking part in the rioting. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the bail pleas of Praveen Giri in the cases related to rioting in the Karawal Nagar area. The court, in its order passed on December 21, said, "The applicant (Giri) has been categorically identified by eye witness Kalyan Singh as member of the 'riotous mob' on the date and time of incident and taking active part in arson and rioting in the locality/area in question. The applicant has also been captured in the CCTV camera, which was lying installed in the shop of Riyaz Malik." "He is clearly seen in the footage damaging the articles lying in the shop... Even the clothes worn by the applicant on the date and time of incident have also been recovered at his instance," it further said in its common order passed in the matters. The judge said since the public witnesses in the cases were residents of the same locality, the possibility of the accused threatening or intimidating them cannot be ruled out. During the hearing, Giri's counsel claimed that he has been falsely implicated in the cases. Special public prosecutor Nitin Rai Sharma, appearing for the police, claimed that the accused was an "active member of the riotous mob". Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-mans-bail-pleas-in-4-cases-931416.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Constitutional bench to hear petitions challenging Nepal PM Oli’s move to dissolve Parliament||A Constitutional bench headed by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana will hear on Friday all petitions challenging Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli's move to abruptly dissolve Parliament, amid an intensified struggle between the two warring factions of the ruling Nepal Communist Party to wrest control of the party. The five-member bench, formed under Chief Justice Rana, will issue a verdict on Prime Minister Oli’s move to dissolve the 275-member House of Representatives, the lower house of parliament, My Republica newspaper reported. The five-member bench comprises justices Bishwambhar Prasad Shrestha, Tej Bahadur KC, Anil Kumar Sinha and Hari Krishna Karki. On Wednesday, Chief Justice Rana’s single bench forwarded all writ petitions to the Constitutional bench. Altogether 13 writ petitions have been registered at the apex court challenging the government's decision to dissolve Parliament. During the hearing on Wednesday, senior lawyers citing Constitutional provisions argued that Prime Minister Oli has no right to dissolve the House as long as there is a possibility of forming an alternative government. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli has called a Cabinet meeting on Friday evening. He is likely to reshuffle the Cabinet following the resignation of seven ministers close to the Prachanda-led faction, the paper said, citing a source familiar with the Prime Minister’s Office. The Oli-led Cabinet now has 18 members including ministers and ministers of state. On Thursday, Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi met Nepal Communist Party’s executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’, who claims control over the ruling party after removing Prime Minister Oli from the posts of the party’s parliamentary leader and chair. In a meeting of the Central Committee members close to him on Thursday, Oli announced the removal of Prachanda from the post of the party’s Executive Chairman. Earlier, the Prachanda-led faction of the ruling party elected him as the new parliamentary leader, replacing Prime Minister Oli. Nepal plunged into a political crisis after President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House of Representatives and announced dates for mid-term elections at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli on Sunday, sparking protests from a section of the ruling party and various opposition parties, including Nepali Congress. The ruling party has now been virtually divided more than two years after it was formed following the merger of CPN-UML led by 68-year-old Oli and CPN-Maoist Centre led by 66-year-old Prachanda in May 2018. Both factions of the party have intensified efforts to retain official party recognition along with the election symbol. The two factions are now busy making strategies to wrest control of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/constitutional-bench-to-hear-petitions-challenging-nepal-pm-oli-s-move-to-dissolve-parliament-931418.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Christmas celebrated with religious fervour across Kashmir||The miniscule Christian population of Kashmir Saturday celebrated Christmas with traditional enthusiasm and religious fervour as the devotees thronged churches for mass and held special prayers for peace across the Valley amid the unabated cold wave. The biggest mass in the Valley was held at the Holy Family Catholic Church at Maulana Azad Road in the heart of Srinagar city, where hundreds of Christians, including women and children, assembled to celebrate the birthday of Jesus Christ and held special prayers. As part of midnight celebrations, chorus prayers were also organised. Large number of community members participated in the midnight mass. Later special prayers were led by the Father of the church. On the occasion the father of the church threw light on the teachings of Jesus Christ and sent across a message of peace and love. “We celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. He was born in this world to bring the message of peace. It is the celebration of God’s love in the human form,” he said. Similar functions were held in Anantnag town, 52 km from, here, and Baramulla town, 55 km from here and the world-famous ski resort of Gulmarg. Among those who prayed were tourists from different parts of the country who joined the locals on the auspicious day and prayed for peace in Kashmir and rest of the world. Reports said churches across the Valley were decorated with Christmas trees, buntings and lights, where local Muslims thronged to greet their Christian friends. The chilly weather didn’t stop people especially small kids from attending the churches for special prayer meetings. They were seen wearing new winter clothes on the occasion. According to the 2011 Census, out of total 35,631 Christian population of J&K, Kashmir has 11,857 Christian members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/christmas-celebrated-with-religious-fervour-across-kashmir-931458.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Woman hangs son to death before killing self in Uttar Pradesh||A woman allegedly hanged her two-year-old son to death before killing herself in Tikonia area here, police said on Friday. The bodies of the mother-son duo were found hanging from the ceiling in a hutment in Bhedauri village on Thursday, they said. "The woman, identified as Pratima (25), hanged herself to death. Before this she hanged her two-year-old son Jitendra to death,” police said. The exact reason behind her taking the extreme step could not be established yet, they said, adding, however, the police are suspecting some family feud as the reason behind this. Police Inspector, Tikonia, Raj Kumar Verma said the circumstantial evidence prima facie indicated suicide by the woman after killing her son. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and further action would be taken after a report is received, he said. The woman and her son were alone in the hutment when the incident took place, police said. The woman’s husband works in Dehradun as a labourer, they said. Police said a probe in the matter is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-hangs-son-to-death-before-killing-self-in-uttar-pradesh-931460.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Muslim youth walking home with Hindu girl after birthday party arrested for 'Love Jihad' in UP||A 20-year-old Muslim man, who was allegedly walking home with a Hindu girl after attending a birthday party, was accused of 'Love jihad' (Muslim youths marrying Hindu girls under false pretences for religious conversion) and arrested under the new 'anti-conversion' law in Uttar Pradesh's Bijnore district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow. The 'pradhan' (panchayat chief) of the village said that the youth and girl knew each other and they were returning home after attending a birthday party, when they were intercepted by some locals, who thought the youth was a thief and called the police. The girl was allowed to go home but the cops arrested the youth, identified as Sonu alias Saquib, he said. The police said that the father of the girl had lodged a complaint with them accusing the youth, a resident of Berkheda village in the district, of trying to 'lure' the girl through conversion and convince her to elope with him. Police claimed that the youth was arrested after the father of the girl lodged an FIR alleging that the youth had taken the girl away and was trying to get her to convert. The 16-year-old girl and her mother denied the 'Love jihad' allegation. Several cases of alleged 'Love jihad' were reported from different parts in UP since the new law came into effect.   At least two cases of 'Love jihad' failed to pass the initial legal test in the state. In one of the cases, the court-ordered release of two arrested Muslim youths after the police failed to produce any evidence against them and in another, the court stayed the arrest of a Muslim man, who had been booked under the new law. The new law provided for a maximum imprisonment of ten years and also a fine for religious conversion through deceit, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means or for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-youth-walking-home-with-hindu-girl-after-birthday-party-arrested-for-love-jihad-in-up-931472.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||DDC polls strike rate: NC, PDP fare better than BJP||While the BJP may have emerged as the single largest party in the just concluded DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir, the strike rate (proportion of contested seats won) of the regional parties – National Conference and PDP – was much higher than the saffron party. The NC won 67 seats out of the 164 it contested and the PDP emerged victorious on 27 seats out of the 68 seats on which it fielded its candidates. The strike rate of the NC and the PDP was 40.9% and 39.7% respectively. On the other hand, the BJP’s 75 wins out of the 230 candidates meant its strike rate was under 32.6%. The Congress fared the worst, winning just 26 of the 160 seats it contested with a strike rate of just 16%. The newly floated Apni Party, believed to be a proxy of the BJP, was the worst performer in terms of the winning percentage as it managed to win only seven per cent of the seats it contested. The party bagged just 12 seats out of 170 seats it contested. People's Conference, headed by separatist-turned-mainstream politician Sajad Lone, outsmarted all the other parties in the winning percentage as it emerged winner on 80 per cent of seats it contested. The party won eight seats out of the 10 it contested. The CPM was the second-best performer in winning percentage as its strike rate stood at 71.4% after the party won five out of the seven seats it contested. The BJP, however, had the highest contested vote share in the Jammu region and the lowest among big parties in Kashmir valley which is crucial statistics to understand the fault lines in Jammu and Kashmir’s politics. But in reality, the BJP’s vote share in Jammu, when plotted against the vote shares registered during parliamentary and assembly elections in the past, has declined from 59% to 34%. Among all states and Union territories, Jammu and Kashmir is the only one with a Muslim majority. While Muslims comprise 96.4% of the population in 10 districts of Kashmir, Hindus comprise 62.6% of Jammu’s population, according to the 2011 Census.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddc-polls-strike-rate-nc-pdp-fare-better-than-bjp-931489.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers gherao BJP leaders in hotel in Punjab's Phagwara||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba) activists on Friday gheraoed local BJP leaders who had gathered at a hotel here to observe the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, forcing them to slip out from the backdoor under police protection. The protesters claimed that the hotel was owned by a BJP activist who also ran a company supplying cattle and chicken feed. They said they will boycott the company's products. Led by Union's vice president Kirpal Singh Mussapur, a number of activists held a protest outside the hotel and gheraoed those BJP leaders and workers who had managed to get inside before farmers started their demonstration. The protesters also did not allow several BJP activists, including Bharati Sharma, district president of BJP's Mahila Wing, to go inside the hotel, police said. Those who had gone inside had to slip one by one from the hotel's backdoor under police protection in order to save themselves from the wrath of the protesters, police said. They included BJP district and block presidents Rakesh Duggal and Paramjit Singh Pamma Chachoki and former Mayor Arun Khosla. Mussapur alleged that BJP's programme and anti-farmers' propaganda were being done under the garb of Vajpayee Jayanti celebration. He said 'kisans', 'mazdoors' (farm labours) and 'mulazams' (employees) will boycott the hotel and the company's products. The protesters raised slogans against the Narendra Modi government and Union minister Som Parkash. Protesters hoisted the BKU flag on a pole outside the hotel, warning it's owner that if the flag was removed or any BJP function was allowed at the hotel in future, farmers will 'gherao' both the hotel and the company along national highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-gherao-bjp-leaders-in-hotel-in-punjabs-phagwara-931495.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Pop-up ‘gol gappa langar' at Singhu – courtesy firemen from Sirsa||The child they saw wanted ‘gol gappas’, the vendor had barely made any money with people preferring to eat at ‘langars’ so fireman Surender Kamboj and his friends decided on a Christmas win-win for all -- they bought up the entire stock and distributed it free to those protesting at the Singhu border. The pop-up ‘gol gappa langar’ was a delectable festive treat for the young boy who didn’t have money and also the ‘chaat seller’ who had earned only Rs 500 in three days, barely enough for survival. Sure enough, the good deed of the group of seven firemen from the Rania fire station in Sirsa was a hit and the cartload of 'gol gappas' was over in half-an-hour. What prompted Kamboj and his friends to start the novel ‘langar’ was seeing a child loitering near a stall selling 'gol gappas'. Kamboj said he could not help but ask the child what he wanted. "'Gol gappa', said the boy who did not have any money," recounted the 33-year-old. The spontaneous actions of the firemen amazed the child and the farmers nearby. "The ‘gol gappa’ seller had not earned anything as people have been eating at ‘langars’ (community kitchen). He could sell his stock and we got a chance to do 'sewa' (service). It was a win-win situation for everybody," said Ravindra Kumar, Kamboj’s colleague. It was a Christmas miracle for Mohammad Salim, the 'gol gappa' seller, who said Kamboj gave him Rs 1,000 which was more than what he expected. He had earned just Rs 500 in the last three days. "Everything is available for free at the ‘langar’. Anything you can think of. Initially, I did not set up the stall thinking the protest would end in a few days. But it continued and I had to come out with my cart of ‘gol gappas’. I could not have stayed home forever," said the 26-year-old resident of Kundli village. The firemen said they had come to Singhu, where thousands of farmers have been sitting for a month to demand a rollback of the three farm laws, to support the protest. "We are a team of 21 personnel at the Rania fire station. We have decided to come to the Singhu border in three batches," Kumar said. "People have been donating lots of money and ration. What we have done is nothing compared to that," he added. Kumar said they asked Salim what would be right price for his entire stock. "He said Rs 800 will be fine. We gave him Rs 1,000." The fire service personnel said they had permission from the head of the station to participate in the protest. A new batch will come every three days, they said. "All of us own agricultural land in our villages. All of us are farmers," said Davinder Singh, another fireman. "Fire service is a responsible profession. But fighting for the rights of farmer community is a responsibility, too," Kamboj added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pop-up-gol-gappa-langar-at-singhu-courtesy-firemen-from-sirsa-931499.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Militant associate held in J&K’s Pulwama; grenade seized||Security forces have arrested a militant associate and seized a hand grenade from his possession in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Friday. Acting on an input, security forces conducted a search of a residential house at Syedabad village in the Tral area of the south Kashmir district, a police spokesman said. He said during the search, a Chinese-made hand grenade, concealed in a plastic jar, was seized from the premises. The owner of the house, Amir Ashraf Khan, has been arrested and shifted to police station Tral, the spokesman said. A case has been registered and further investigation into the case is on, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-associate-held-in-jk-s-pulwama-grenade-seized-931503.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||SJVN gets 3 hydroelectric projects in Chenab basin from Himachal Pradesh govt||State-owned power producer SJVN Ltd has been awarded three hydroelectric power projects totaling 501 megawatts (MW) by the Himachal Pradesh government. The three projects are to be developed in the Chenab river basin in Himachal Pradesh, SJVN said in a statement. "The Cabinet meeting chaired by Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has allocated 104 MW Tandi, 130 MW Rashil and 267 MW Sach Khas Hydro Electric Projects on the Chenab Basin to SJVN," the company said. In the statement, which was released on Thursday, SJVN did not disclose any financial details with respect to the projects awarded. With the latest allocation, the company said it now has six projects with a total capacity of 1,279 MW in the basin. The firm is already developing 430-MW Reoli Dugli, 210 MW Purthi and 138 MW Bardang hydroelectric projects in the Chenab basin. SJVN Ltd is a joint venture of the Government of India and the Government of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sjvn-gets-3-hydroelectric-projects-in-chenab-basin-from-himachal-pradesh-govt-931520.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Air quality improves to 'very poor' in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad & Gurgaon||The average air quality improved from “severe” level and was recorded in “very poor” category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon, according to a 24-hour data issued by a government agency on Friday. Presence of pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10, though, remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Friday was 391 in Ghaziabad, 376 in Greater Noida, 386 in Noida, 328 in Faridabad and 302 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app. The average air quality in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad was recorded in “severe” category for three days in a row till Thursday, according to the agency. The CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure while “severe” affects even healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. The average AQI on Thursday was 440 in Ghaziabad, 448 in Greater Noida, 441 in Noida, 408 in Faridabad and 361 in Gurgaon. On Wednesday it was 472 in Ghaziabad, 476 in Greater Noida, 462 in Noida, 428 in Faridabad and 340 in Gurgaon. On Tuesday, it was 458 in Ghaziabad, 450 in Greater Noida, 437 in Noida, 407 in Faridabad and 377 in Gurgaon. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-quality-improves-to-very-poor-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-gurgaon-931523.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Noida farmers beat plates, ring bells against farm laws during PM Modi's address||Scores of farmers protesting against the Centre’s agriculture laws here rang bells and banged plates in a demonstration timed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech. The beating of plates, ringing of bells amid sloganeering against the government for not repealing the three new laws was done at the Dalit Prerna Sthal here “to convey farmers' dissatisfaction”, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) functionary said. “Today again, PM Modi did 'apne mann ki baat' (spoke his own mind) and did not listen to 'kisanon ke mann ki baat' (farmers' point of view). Farmers are demanding that the new laws should be repealed and the MSP (minimum support price) for crops be made a law,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers and asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. Meanwhile, members of another farmers' faction, BKU (Bhanu) stayed put at the Chilla border for the 25th day on Friday in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Noida-Delhi link road via Chilla remained partially closed on Friday also, allowing only commuters from Delhi to Noida but not the other way round, officials said and suggested alternative DND and Kalindi Kunj routes for travelling between the two cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-farmers-beat-plates-ring-bells-against-farm-laws-during-pm-modis-address-931528.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM to mafia: Will bury you 10 feet deep||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday warned mafia elements that he will bury them 10 feet deep if they don't leave the state. Chouhan was speaking at a Good Governance Day event, organised to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. "Leave Madhya Pradesh, otherwise I will bury you 10 feet deep into the ground and your whereabouts will not be known," he said, warning the mafia and others involved in illegal activities. Good governance, which means a regime where people don't face any trouble, is prevailing in MP now, Chouhan said. Speaking at the event in Babai in the Hoshangabad district ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's online interaction with farmers nationwide, Chouhan said he won't spare anyone who indulges in unlawful activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-to-mafia-will-bury-you-10-feet-deep-931536.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan unveils Vajpayee statue, announces memorial in Gwalior||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday unveiled the statue of former prime minister and Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee near Bhopal's 'Shaurya Smarak' on the occasion of the latter's birth anniversary. The CM said a grand memorial based on Vajpayee's works, life, personality would be erected in his birthplace Gwalior. He said Vajpayee was a true statesman who ruled the hearts of millions and was an "institution in himself". "He was an able organiser, administrator, orator, poet, writer and journalist. Above all, he was a great human being with the quality to embrace even opponents. He made unparalleled contribution in India's new development," Chouhan said on the occasion. MP BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma, medical education minister Vishwas Sarang and Assembly protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-unveils-vajpayee-statue-announces-memorial-in-gwalior-931537.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Jolt to Bihar CM Nitish as six JD(U) MLAs join BJP in Arunachal Pradesh||A day before he was scheduled to address the national executive meeting of the Janata Dal (United) here, the BJP served a fresh jolt to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and helped six JD (U) legislators in Arunachal Pradesh defect to the saffron party. Most of these party legislators were earlier scheduled to attend the JD (U) meet in Patna on December 26-27, but the defections effected by its ally BJP has left Nitish speechless. Nitish, who is also the JD (U) national president, merely said he would react on the issue at the Saturday party meeting, although his aides termed the BJP action as “an unfriendly act which is against the coalition dharma.” Notably, the JD (U) had contested 15 seats for the 60-member Assembly in Arunachal Pradesh. It, however, won seven seats and became the main Opposition party after the BJP emerged victorious in 41 seats. However, on Friday, six out of seven JD (U) MLAs defected to the BJP. The six legislators are Dorjee Kharma, Jikke Tako, Hayeng Mangfi, Dongru Siongju, Talem Taboh and Kanggong Taku. The BJP in Arunachal now has a strength of 48 MLAs, including a legislator from the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA). “The BJP government would have carried on even with its own (adequate) support. There was no need to indulge in such act of defections which is ‘gair-dostana’ (unfriendly) and against the coalition dharma,” said JD (U) principal general secretary KC Tyagi. He, however, added that the development won’t affect the ties between the JD (U) and the BJP, the two ruling partners in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jolt-to-bihar-cm-nitish-as-six-jdu-mlas-join-bjp-in-arunachal-pradesh-931549.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||BJP 'rising,' Congress 'diminishing,' says Javadekar||Results of recent elections to civic bodies and bypolls in various parts of the country in which the BJP has made handsome wins showed the credibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday. The BJP is 'rising' while Congress is 'diminishing,' he told reporters here and slammed 'family parties.' While many parties in the country are "one-family parties' ours is a 'party which is a family," he said. The Minister for Information, Environment and Forest, however, did not name any party explicitly. Citing local body election results in Rajasthan, Goa, and Hyderabad, he said, "the BJP is rising and Congress is diminishing." In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, his party won 13 out of 21 zilla parishads bucking a 20-year trend of ruling party winning such local polls. Also, the BJP emerged as the single largest party in Jammu and Kashmir after posting impressive wins and a record vote share in the District Development Council polls in the hill region. In Hyderabad, from just four corporators the party has now got 48 and similarly in Goa, the party won the zilla parishad and panchayat samiti polls, he said. Also, he cited civic poll results from Arunachal Pradesh, outcome of Assam's autonomous Bodoland Territorial Council and Assembly bypolls in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Gujarat and said, "everywhere, the BJP is rising and the Congress is losing everywhere." The impressive results across the nation in both rural and urban regions showed the credibility of the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his party. "They (people) want promises to be fulfilled and not petty politics." In Tamil Nadu too, where Assembly elections are due during April-May next year, his party and the NDA combine would go on to deliver a "stellar performance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-rising-congress-diminishing-says-javadekar-931554.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||BJP ignores Muslims but uses one to destabilse my govt: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday accused the BJP of “using” a Muslim leader in an attempt to topple his government while ignoring the community when it comes to fielding election candidates. He made the charge while accusing BJP Rajya Sabha MP Syed Zafar Islam of being involved in alleged horse-trading during the revolt in July by a group of Congress MLAs led by former deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Gehlot said “not one ticket” was given to Muslim candidates during the last assembly elections in the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and yet, he added, “A Muslim was being used to bring down the government.” But he did not elaborate on the MP's alleged role during the attempt to "destabilise" his government earlier this year. The chief minister alleged that union ministers Amit Shah, Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat were among those involved in the “conspiracy” to destabilise the state’s Congress government. Addressing a press conference here, Gehlot claimed he has proof that the state BJP leadership was also involved. Replying to another question on Pilot’s rebellion, the CM said, “Forget and forgive”. The Congress leadership in Delhi intervened to patch up the differences between the two factions after Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled. The BJP has in the past rejected the charge against it, saying the Gehlot was blaming the opposition for a problem within the ranks of his own party. Gehlot had called the press conference Friday to highlight the achievements of his government in the last two years. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra and state ministers were also present. Reacting to the claim that his government has not fulfilled the election promise of waiving farm loans, Gehlot said the opposition is misleading people. He said loans from cooperative and land development banks have been waived but the nationalised banks are under the Reserve Bank of India, and asked why the Centre doesn’t intervene in this. He said the state government has even offered to shell out 50 per cent of the amount involved in waivers by nationalised banks. He accused the BJP government at the Centre not caring about the concerns of farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. Dotasra said the party will begin on Monday a “Kisan Samvad” programme of meetings with farmers across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-ignores-muslims-but-uses-one-to-destabilse-my-govt-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-931564.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Parts of Himachal Pradesh record sub-zero temperatures||Parts of Himachal Pradesh shivered under sub-zero temperatures on Friday, with Keylong being the coldest place in the state at minus 9.9 degrees Celsius, the meteorological centre here said. The mercury is likely to dip further with rain and snowfall predicted at isolated places over the state for two days starting Sunday, according to the weatherman. Tribal district Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 9.9 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT Centre director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius and Manali in Kullu district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 0.4 degrees Celsius, he added. Kufri and Dalhousie recorded a minimum temperature of 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius, Singh said. The mercury settled at 4.1 degrees Celsius in Shimla, he said. Una was the warmest place in the state at 21.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parts-of-himachal-pradesh-record-sub-zero-temperatures-931570.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers ransack venue of BJP event in Bathinda: Police||A group of farmers on Friday ransacked the venue of an event organised here by the BJP to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, leaving at least five party workers injured, police said. However, some farmers at the venue claimed anti-social elements and not peasants were behind the incident. Some people were listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address at the venue on Amrik Singh Road when a group of farmers reached there shouting slogans and ransacked the place. They broke chairs and the LED system, police said. Women, children and the elderly fled to nearby shops for safety. police rushed to the spot and resorted to mild baton charge to control the situation, they said. Bathinda BJP chief Vinod Gupta and state BJP legal cell co-convener Ravinder Gupta among others sustained minor injuries in the melee. While some farmers present at the venue claimed the ransacking was the handiwork of anti-social elements, the BJP leaders sought police action against them. An investigation in the matter is underway, police said. "Complete anarchy is prevailing in Punjab where law and order is in the hands of goons and police have become a silent and helpless onlooker,” remarked BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh over the incident. He said the Amarinder Singh government has been playing vicious games against the BJP and its complete breakdown of law and order in Punjab. Expressing concern over the alleged deteriorating law and order situation in which the BJP workers are "facing threats to their life", Chugh urged Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore to take action against the Amarinder government. In a letter to the governor, he said there was a serious constitutional crisis in Punjab where the BJP was not allowed to work democratically. Chugh said such attacks will strengthen the BJP resolve to fight the inimical forces vigorously. "The attempt of the Congress to throttle the BJP in Punjab will be met determinedly by BJP workers,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-ransack-venue-of-bjp-event-in-bathinda-police-931581.html
25-12-2020||North and Central||Congress' cow protection pitch in Uttar Pradesh||The Congress has dared Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the plight of cows in cattle shelters in the state and is set to embark on a foot march in Bundelkhand to highlight the issue usually associated with the BJP. The Congress’ pitch on ‘gau raksha’ comes in the wake of the death of several cows in a gaushala, apparently due to starvation, a stark reminder of the condition of cattle in a state ruled by the BJP which accords utmost importance to the protection of cow and its progeny in its political discourse. The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress is embarking on a ‘Gaay Bachao, Kisan Bachao’ padayatra from Lalitpur to Chitrakoot in the Bundelkhand region of the state on Saturday. Ahead of the yatra, the Congress claimed that the UP police had placed its leaders -- AICC Secretaries Rohit Chaudhary and Bajirao Khade -- under house arrest. UP Congress Chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, former union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya, among others are expected to lead the yatra. Earlier this week, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had shot off a letter to Adityanath expressing concern over the “horrific” condition of cows, amid reports of deaths of several cows in Saujana cattle shelter in Lalitpur district in the state. “Before coming to power, you had talked of ‘Gau-Vansh raksha’ (cow protection) and setting up of ‘Gaushalas’. The truth is that your government has completely failed in this regard despite announcements by your government,” Priyanka had said in the letter to the chief minister. The UP chief minister, often seen feeding cows, had said in November that more than five lakh were kept in government-run shelters, while more than eight lakh of them have been housed in cow shelters being run by local bodies in the state. The state government had launched the Chief Minister Destitute Cows Participation Scheme in August last year offering farmers to adopt stray cattle against an affidavit that they would look after them properly at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-cow-protection-pitch-in-uttar-pradesh-931598.html
25-12-2020||Opinion||With hacking, US needs to stop playing the victim||By Paul R. Kolbe There is indignant howling over what is surely Russia’s role in infiltrating, again, the networks of the US government and corporations — this time through a tainted software update by the company SolarWinds. Politicians of both parties have called it a virtual act of war. “America must retaliate, and not just with sanctions,” Senator Marco Rubio said. This recalls Shakespeare’s line in Hamlet about the lady protesting too much. The United States is, of course, engaged in the same type of operations at an even grander scale. We are active participants in an ambient cyberconflict that rages, largely unseen and unacknowledged, across the digital globe. This is a struggle that we can’t avoid, and there is no need to play the victim. Just as we use cybertools to defend our national interests, others will use cyberweapons against us. The National Security Agency and Central Intelligence Agency exist to break into foreign information systems and steal secrets, and they are damn good at it. They, along with the Defense Department, regularly use cybertools to purloin intelligence from servers across the world and to place foreign information systems and industrial infrastructure at risk. Ones and zeros can be more effective weapons than bombs and missiles. The exposure of Stuxnet, the Snowden leaks and the theft of CIA cybertools revealed the sophistication and extent of capabilities attributed to the United States. The Pentagon’s cyberwar force, known as Cyber Command, overtly acknowledges, through its “defend forward” doctrine, that the government will target foreign entities and information systems to fight cyberattacks. In November 2018, Cyber Command reportedly disrupted the internet access of the computers of Russia’s Internet Research Agency, the organization responsible for the disinformation campaign during the 2016 US midterm elections. In 2019, in response to Russian cyberincursions into the US energy grid, Cyber Command reportedly placed malware tools on Russia systems that could enable the United States to turn out the lights in Moscow should a conflict between the two nations arise. As solid as the US cyberoffense is, the defense leaves much to be desired, richly demonstrated by the litany of digital disasters, including the hacks of SolarWinds, the Office of Personnel Management, Equifax and Sony. The reality is that the US government and private companies both underinvest in cybersecurity. Effective defense is a collective effort, but agencies and companies are often clueless and defenseless when it comes to countering the intrusions of countries like Russia, China or Iran. In recent years, there have been suggestions that the United States might explore international agreements by which nations would agree to put constraints on cyberwarfare and espionage. But this idea isn’t really taken seriously. There’s a sense that rules written by those with the biggest guns — that is Washington — can unilaterally impose global cyberorder. The SolarWinds hack lays waste to that notion. Confidence that the United States possesses a monopoly on cyberweapons borders on hubris. Even though federal agencies do possess some of the greatest cyberespionage and warfare tools and talent on the planet, the playing field is disturbingly even. Unlike nuclear weapons, or even sophisticated conventional arms, powerful cyberweapons are cheap to produce, proliferate with alarming speed and have no regard for borders. Unable to match the United States in military spending, Russia, China, Iran and even North Korea view cybertools as a great equalizer. Why? Because the United States is singularly vulnerable to cyberattack: America is more reliant on financial, commercial and government networks than our adversaries, and, at the same time, our systems are frighteningly open and vulnerable to attack. American networks represent targets for our adversaries that are simply too soft, juicy and valuable to resist. So, does the United States give up and do nothing? Of course not. First, the United States should recognize that it has entered an age of perpetual cyberconflict. Unlike conventional wars, we cannot end this fight by withdrawing troops from the battlefield. For the indefinite future, our adversaries, large and small, will test our defenses, attack our networks and steal our information. In this respect, cyberconflict is more like fighting a disease than fighting a war, a disease with intent, and for which no vaccine is likely to emerge. Second, it’s time to build a true national cyberdefense. This would rely less on barriers and firewalls, and more on monitoring what flows within and among corporate and government networks. Instead of a Maginot line, think a territorial army defending the many layers of cyberspace. Effective national cyberdefense requires a dedicated degree of corporate engagement, intelligence sharing and trust. Neither the government nor private sector can succeed on their own. Companies and agencies, particularly those providing software services, must be held more accountable for egregious security lapses that make them easy targets and place us all at risk. Third, the United States must relentlessly counter our adversaries’ cyberoperations by penetrating their most sensitive systems. There is a saying in counterespionage that only spies catch spies. Most agents are uncovered not by surveillance or background checks, but instead by other spies. No doubt, the CIA, N.S.A. and Cyber Command are working tirelessly to build the human and technical networks needed to uncover foreign intelligence operations. But they must ramp up. Finally, even in the face of perpetual conflict, we should be prepared to sit down and talk with our cyberadversaries. It is hard to imagine a comprehensive agreement on cyberconduct that any country would abide by, or trust others to follow. Small steps, however, could start to build some degree of cooperation and, in time, a foundation for eventually regulating norms and behaviours. A good place to start might be on the potentially most destabilizing and destructive attacks — such as attacking nuclear command and control systems, or global financial infrastructures that could upend markets and economies. If we are not prepared to accept restrictions on our own actions, we can hardly cry foul when others play by the same rules. In the meantime, until some order or law takes hold in the cyber-Wild West, it’s time for the United States to stop acting surprised and stop posturing. Instead, we must better defend our digital homeland, learn to block and shake off a punch and, when needed, quietly bloody a few noses. We are in for a long fight; the American people deserve to know the nature of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/with-hacking-us-needs-to-stop-playing-the-victim-931328.html
25-12-2020||Opinion||Now we know how Boris Johnson's movie ends||By Therese Raphael Now we know how this movie ends. “Brexit means Brexit,” Theresa May declared in those electric but mystifying opening scenes after the referendum back in 2016. It wasn’t clear then or for a long while after what Brexit meant. Nearly five years and two prime ministerial resignations later, Boris Johnson has finally defined it. Set against the perils of breaking up with no trade deal, having an agreement at all merits celebration. Apart from the economic costs and reputational damage, a no-deal exit would have put a terrible strain on the already fraught union with Scotland and poisoned relations with the European Union — still Britain’s largest trading partner and the world’s largest single market. Relief, expressed repeatedly in the EU’s press conference to announce the breakthrough on Thursday, is a low bar for a free trade deal. Put in the context of the last four-plus decades, this is the most regressive trade settlement seen between modern democratic nations. Instead of enhancing cooperation and lowering barriers, it gums up most areas where business and consumers transact. It also makes Johnson the most consequential British prime minister since Margaret Thatcher, acting as a radical rather than a conservative. He campaigned in Britain’s 2019 general election by promising to “get Brexit done” in a way that reclaimed “sovereignty” over British laws, courts, borders and money. He has delivered that control. It was ultimately a bigger break — or a harder Brexit – than the one sought by his predecessor May. The UK managed to leverage its weaker negotiating position by threatening to abandon the provisions in last year’s Withdrawal Agreement to maintain a soft border in Ireland and to walk away over EU access to UK fishing waters. Unlike May’s similar threat to embrace no deal, the arch-Brexiter Johnson’s warning was credible. And, unlike her, he had a united, Brexit-supporting cabinet and an 80-seat majority to back it up. Though only a summary of the deal has been published, the main contours have been known for months. The EU has offered — as it did from the start — tariff- and quota-free access for British goods. That’s significant. Even the EU’s trade deal with Canada doesn’t get rid of all tariffs on goods trade. But it was not right to claim, as Johnson did initially in Thursday’s triumphal press conference, that “there will be no non-tariff barriers to trade.”  On the contrary, while one of the biggest eurosceptic grievances against Brussels was its red tape, Britain had better get used to quite a lot of extra rules and regulations. Businesses exporting across the Channel will need to fill out customs declarations and certify the origin of their products for export; they’ll have to submit animal products for health checks and comply with regulations. Companies will have to pay for certifications in both the UK and the EU, increasing the cost of doing business. While large companies have been preparing for a while — moving staff to the continent or hiring customs brokers and third-party consultants to help with new trade complications — most businesses have made only some preparations. Many were simply too focused on surviving lockdowns and they lacked the information to prepare for Brexit anyway. The two sides haven’t agreed on any grace period for companies to adjust.  In exchange for tariff- and quota-free access, the UK has agreed not to regress from the current standards on environmental, labour-market and other areas of the so-called “level playing field” with the EU, as well as state aid. If Britain opts to diverge in a way that clearly impacts trade, tariffs can be imposed, with a new arbitration mechanism, separate from the European Court of Justice. London has the option to go its own way but there are penalties if it hurts EU businesses by doing so. While the City of London’s finance industry has been insulated from the threat of cross-retaliation (where one sector is penalized for a breach by another), the EU still has the right to withdraw equal treatment (equivalency) for Britain’s financiers.   All of this is a long way from Johnson’s original “friends with benefits” vision of the relationship. “British people will still be able to go and work in the EU; to live; to travel; to study; to buy homes and to settle down,” he wrote in his first column for the Telegraph after the Brexit vote, citing the German business federation, the BDI, in saying “there will continue to be free trade, and access to the single market.” For Brits who do want to travel, work, live or study in the EU, there are new hoops to jump through, all costs that Johnson downplayed in his deal announcement. A Brexit-weary Britain no doubt hopes to stop talking about the topic entirely, but there are many ways in which this agreement foreshadows years of negotiations to come. While the hotly contested area of European access to British fishing waters was resolved for now with an agreement that sees the EU reduce its share by 25% over five and a half years, there will be annual negotiations after that. The deal gives both sides the flexibility to initiate a formal review of its provisions, an open door that Brexit hardliners in Johnson’s party will be tempted to push on. Opposition leader Keir Starmer’s promise to vote for the treaty, but to “build on” the relationship it establishes in the future suggests the battle lines over Europe may not so much disappear as be redrawn. Donald Tusk, the former European Council president, once lamented that Johnson and his cohort led the campaign to leave the EU without even a “sketch of a plan” for how to do it. He wasn’t wrong. “You were only supposed to blow the bloody doors off,” the journalist Sarah Vine told her husband Michael Gove on the morning after the vote, quoting Michael Caine’s character in “The Italian Job.” Instead, the Brexiters took off the roof and the walls too. But eventually, they converged on a plan that accepted the limits of the access the EU would allow within Britain’s demands for total control. The new agreement sets a floor on EU-UK relations. It will be a long, painstaking process to build a new and properly robust surrounding structure. “It’s one thing to get freedom,” Johnson said on Christmas Eve, “but it’s how we use it, make the most of it; that’s what’s going to matter now.” That’s also how he will be judged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/now-we-know-how-boris-johnsons-movie-ends-931575.html
25-12-2020||Panorama||Can Afghans agree on political adjustments?||Violence in Afghanistan remains high, though there is a hint of optimism over the peace talks in Doha between the Afghan government and the Taliban. On December 2, the two delegations took a break from discussing the ‘rules for negotiations’ to ‘consult on the agenda items.’ The government side returned to Kabul; the Taliban leadership went to Pakistan. They will now reconvene on January 5 to properly discuss the agenda. The three-month-long ‘negotiations’ to frame the rules of their engagement had got bogged down over procedural matters— specifically over the form of the Islamic law that should govern disputes and the ‘basis’ for talks. The Taliban had insisted that only the Hanafi school of Islamic jurisprudence was relevant; the Afghan government stressed the plurality of Afghan society and demanded a reference to the Jafari school that regulates the country’s 15-20% Shia minority.  The Taliban wanted only the US-Taliban accord to form the basis of talks; Kabul insisted that since it was not a signatory to that accord, the basis for talks should include UN endorsements for the peace process, commitments of the negotiating teams, and the will of the Afghan people. The breakthrough came on November 22 with the Taliban conceding on both issues. The two sides then framed a ‘three-page agreement (codifying) rules and procedures for negotiations on a political roadmap and a comprehensive ceasefire.’ They broke for consultations on the sequencing of agenda points, which are said to number around 50. When they resume, the Afghan government will prioritise the framework of a political settlement and a ceasefire while the Taliban would want the release of its cadres in Kabul’s custody to be high on the agenda. The political settlement will discuss cohabitation and, logically, the next step would revolve around framing the contours of an interim arrangement. This cohabitation is likely to see someone from the government side becoming interim head, with the Taliban having their candidate as head of an empowered council— a sort of supreme leadership council. Since the Taliban will head this council, a non-Pashtun from the government side is expected to lead the interim government which will include Taliban ministers. Decisions would need to be taken on their numbers and portfolios. The formula spoken of is in the region of 40% for the Taliban. Bonn agreement The only parallel to this process is the 2001 Bonn agreement, essentially between the Royalists and the Northern Alliance. The then arrangement was an equal number of ministers and an equitable distribution of portfolios, with the interim head chosen by King Zahir Shah. One name that figured then, as it does now, is Prof Sattar Sirat, a Tajik. Sirat was Zahir Shah’s choice but was rejected by the Northern Alliance as he was not Pashtun. For somewhat similar reasons, though in the reverse, the Taliban wants a non-Pashtun. Another name making the rounds is Abdullah Abdullah, who was until March this year Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, having formed a unity government with his rival and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. Abdullah has since headed the High Council for National Reconciliation, leading the talks with the Taliban, with the authority to handle and approve all matters related to the peace process.   The issue of a ceasefire will be contentious. Kabul would want to frontload a ceasefire as this will help mould public opinion towards accepting a compact with the Taliban. However, Taliban’s position is that a ceasefire can only be after a peace deal is concluded. After this, the next step would be an international conference to give the agreement an imprimatur of international acceptance, to secure donor assistance and to consider removing from the UN terror blacklist those from the Taliban who are on it. From Taliban’s perspective, this is vital. The US has indicated that an early ceasefire is an essential condition. Gen. Mark Milley, Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, met the Taliban on December 15 in Doha and stressed a reduction in violence. A day later, he met President Ashraf Ghani and the two “expressed their concerns over the escalation of violence” and “the immediate need for a ceasefire.” The US has also taken the position that its troop withdrawal will be “conditions-based” and it needs to be assured that the Taliban will hold up its end of the bargain and cut ties with Al-Qaeda and other international terrorists. Ceasefire, a priority A ceasefire would also be the priority for the international community. This was stressed by Deborah Lyons, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan, who told the UN Security Council last week that “violence will be a top priority when the peace talks resume in early January.” She warned that sustainable peace would only be possible if it is inclusive from the outset, with meaningful participation of women, minorities, victims of conflict, religious leaders and others. Lyons added that Afghanistan would require international support— for national security, to combat Covid-19 and other resultant challenges, including hunger and malnutrition. Pakistan has expressed support for the “Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process.” This was conveyed on December 16 by Prime Minister Imran Khan to President Ashraf Ghani. Khan gave an assurance that Pakistan will help bring down the level of violence, leading to a ceasefire. Simultaneously, Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi met a Taliban delegation led by its deputy leader Mullah Baradar, where the former reaffirmed “support for a peaceful, stable, united, sovereign and prosperous Afghanistan” and that it was “Pakistan’s belief that there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan.” The road ahead is, however, bumpy. The agenda could run into hurdles, one of which is whether Ghani will make way easily for an interim leader. He rejected it earlier on the grounds that the Taliban does not have “adequate legitimacy.” More recently, his wife weighed in saying that the Taliban is not familiar with governance, their mindset has remained unchanged, and that an interim government would be “too dangerous.” On December 1, Ghani had pressed for the talks to be held in Afghanistan. This was immediately played down by Abdullah Abdullah, who said that the venue would be determined by both sides and it shouldn’t delay talks. The Taliban expectedly opposed Ghani’s suggestion. What is unclear is the position of US President-elect Joe Biden’s incoming administration. The Trump administration’s Special Representative for Afghan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, has been pushing for a quick political settlement, but it is not clear whether he reflects the views of the incoming administration. This will be clear when a new pointsman for Afghanistan is announced. However, the fact that Gen. Milley met the Taliban and Ghani suggests that Biden’s priority would be a reduction of violence and a ceasefire. On a further reduction of troops, the US line is that it must be “conditions-based.” That is, it needs to be assured that the Taliban will sever ties with Al-Qaeda. India played an important role at Bonn, shepherding many of its ‘friends’ in the Northern Alliance to go along with the consensus. We do not carry that heft anymore and have vacillated, despite the US giving us a waiver for the Chabahar port project in Iran and Trump asking us to do more. From our perspective, the Biden administration will probably reappraise its relations with Iran, and this may see renewed interest in Chabahar. An alternate access will reduce dependency on Pakistan and could generate an altogether new momentum, particularly in areas along what is now one of the busiest roads in Afghanistan— the India-built Zaranj-Delaram road. This could provide us with an opening.   (The writer, a former Special Secretary with the R&AW, is currently with Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/can-afghans-agree-on-political-adjustments-931400.html
25-12-2020||South||General Secretary of Kamal Haasan's MNM joins BJP to support farm bills||Actor Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Friday suffered a setback when a founder-member and general secretary quit the party and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A Arunachalam, who was associated with Kamal Haasan since 2018 when he launched MNM, joined the BJP in the presence of Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. Arunachalam's exit from MNM comes five months ahead of assembly polls in Tamil Nadu for which the party has already begun its campaign. Party insiders admitted that Arunachalam's resignation from MNM will certainly be a setback as he had been working at the grassroots level. MNM projects itself as a change agent in Tamil Nadu, which has seen DMK and AIADMK ruling it alternatively since 1967. The party had earlier this week released a seven-point economic and social agenda that it would implement if it came to power. After joining the BJP, Arunachalam blamed MNM's opposition to the three farm laws as the reason for his exit from the party. “I come from a family that is rooted in agriculture. Even today, I am involved in agriculture and I know the benefits that the three bills would give to farmers. But MNM opposed the bill just for the sake of politics. I did not agree to the decision,” Arunachalam said. Arunachalam reportedly told MNM leaders that the party should not become a “miniature” of the DMK and had impressed upon the leadership to support the farm laws. He is the second senior functionary to quit the MNM and join BJP after Ra Arjunamurthy, who is now an advisor to Tamil superstar Rajinikanth's new political venture. Tamil Nadu goes to its most-crucial assembly elections in recent times in the first half of 2021 with many players vying for the hot seat at Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/general-secretary-of-kamal-haasans-mnm-joins-bjp-to-support-farm-bills-931366.html
25-12-2020||South||Gang robs Kerala-based realtor of Rs 27 lakh near Coimbatore||In a highway robbery, a five-member gang relieved a Kerala-based realtor of Rs 27 lakh and fled in his luxury car after forcing him and the driver to get down at knife-point on the city outskirts early on Friday, police said. Based on a complaint from 50-year old Abdul Kalam, who was on way to his native Malappuram, Police were investigating and searching for the gang members. The gang members, who came in a car, waylaid the vehicle of the realtor at Navakkarai around 4.30 am made him part with Rs 27 lakh cash. After threatening him and his driver and making them get down, the gang escaped in the luxury car with the cash, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gang-robs-kerala-based-realtor-of-rs-27-lakh-near-coimbatore-931423.html
25-12-2020||South||BJP targets Kerala's Christian vote bank with PM Modi's intervention||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself initiating talks with Christian factions of Kerala to address their grievances, the BJP is expecting to make inroads into the Christian vote banks of Kerala, which is quite vital for having electoral gains in Kerala. Moreover, if the Prime Minister manages to find any solution to the decades old power tussle between Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church over control on churches, that would be a major gain for BJP as the CPM and Congress led governments that had been ruling Kerala over these years could not find a solution to the tussle. Mizoram Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, who is a BJP leader from Kerala, said on Thursday that the Prime Minister would hold talks with the leaders of the Christian factions to find a solution to their grievances. Apart from addressing the decades-old power tussle between two factions over control of churches, the Prime Minister would be also looking into grievances of the Christian community over the Centre's allocation for minority welfare activities, Pillai said. Christian community constitutes nearly 20 per cent of Kerala's population, Muslims 27 per cent and Hindus 53 per cent as per the 2011 Census. Hence the support of any minority community is crucial to have electoral gains in Kerala. There is a general impression, rather a fear, among the Christian and Muslim communities, that BJP is anti-Muslim and anti-Christian. BJP's moves like elevation of Muslim leaders like A P Abdullahkutty as national vice president were considered as efforts to shed the anti-Muslim tag of BJP. Similarly, the present move to make the Prime Minister himself intervening to address the grievances of the Christian community was also considered as step to shed the anti-Christian tag of the saffron party. Senior political analyst Josukutty C A told DH that Prime Minister's intervention to settle the issues among the Christian community could be seen as a political move of BJP. For making electoral gains in Kerala, it is important for political parties to have support of any of the minority communities. BJP is trying to send a message that they were not against the minority communities and were concerned of their grievances too. Even for the saffron party, in electoral politics it is vote banks and power that matters rather than its Hindutva ideologies, he said. The Christian factions have already welcomed the Prime Minister's intervention. The power tussle between the Orthodox and Jacobite faction has been a major issue prevailing in Kerala over the last many decades. Though the Supreme Court ordered in 2017 to give control of about 1,100 churches to the Orthodox faction, the government is maintaining a dilly dallying strategy as it did not want to invite the wrath of Jacobite faction by forcefully enforcing the order. Even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself initiated talks with both the factions to find an amicable settlement, both factions were adamant on their stand. While Orthodox faction wants to implement the SC order giving them control over churches, the Jacobite faction wants to have a law mandating referendum among members of each parish to decide the control of the each church. Josukutty said that if the Prime Minister manages to find any sorts of amicable solution to it, it would be a major political advantage for the BJP. Even if the BJP takes a stand favouring one section, the party can at least gain the support of that section as it was not getting support of either sections now, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-targets-keralas-christian-vote-bank-with-pm-modis-intervention-931491.html
25-12-2020||South||Meet Arya Rajendran, electrician's daughter set to become Thiruvananthapuram city mayor, youngest in India||A 21-year-old college student is tipped to become mayor of Thiruvananthapuram city corporation and will earn the credit of being the youngest mayor of the country. Arya Rajendran, who won the elections from Mudavanmugal ward, is now zeroed-in by Kerala's CPM to fill the mayor post. She is a second-year degree student of All Saint's College in the city. Arya's father Rajendran is an electrician and mother Sreelatha is a LIC agent. CPM district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said that a final decision on the mayor candidate was yet to be taken. Arya, who has been a strong CPM worker right from her childhood, is currently state president of CPM-backed 'Balasanghom', which is considered as the world's largest children's organisation. She is also a member of SFI Kerala state committee. Arya said that being groomed by the party she was quite confident of taking up any responsibilities being assigned her by the party. Her affinity towards the CPM ideologies started right from her childhood days through her father who has been a staunch CPM worker. Citing that Arya was yet to get a formal nod from the CPM, she said that her current priority as a ward member was the development of her ward. "But, the general issue of the city was waste management and the CPM-led council's had been handling the issue well. Having personally experienced the challenges involved in online education, more focus needs to be given on improving the education requirements of the students as well," the second-year BSc Mathematics student told the media. Arya's name to the mayor post came as a surprise as the names of Jameela Sreedhar and Gayathri Babu were doing the rounds so far. In 2015 also CPM came out with a surprise by elevating young councillor V K Prasanth as mayor and it really benefitted. Prasanth was later elected to the Kerala Assembly in the by-polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meet-arya-rajendran-electricians-daughter-set-to-become-thiruvananthapuram-city-mayor-youngest-in-india-931498.html
25-12-2020||South||Cyberabad cops arrest Chinese national in app-based loan racket case; 'mastermind' Chinese man absconding||A Chinese national is among the fresh arrests made by the Telangana police in connection with the app-based money lending gangs' activities. The abusive treatment of the defaulters by agents of these companies has resulted in the death by suicide of at least three people in the state recently. Dozens of cases were registered in Telangana, especially under the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, and Rachakonda commissionerates that cover the state capital city's expanse. At least 17 people were already arrested already by the Hyderabad and Cyberabad police, following raids on call centres at Hyderabad and Gurugram, NCR run by these companies to first lure customers into taking more loans at exorbitant charges and later humiliate them for nonpayments. On Friday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that they have raided another company's call center “Cubevo Technology Private Limited” operating in Hyderabad, with head office in NCR named “Skyline Innovations Technologies India Private Limited.” The company directors Zixia Zhang, a Chinese national, and Umapati alias Ajay, of Delhi, developed 11 applications offering instant loans to individuals and collect huge repayments including high interests, processing charges, GST, default penalty charges. While the mastermind Zhang, a Chinese national and Umapati alias Ajay of Delhi are absconding, Cyberabad police nabbed Yi Bai @ Dennis, a native of Jiangxi, Shanghai, and three Indians - Satyapal Khyalia and Aniruddh Malhotra of Rajasthan, and Murathoti Richie of Kadapa. Police seized two laptops, four cell phones, and a bank account with Rs two crore. Bai is the Chief Operating Officer of Xikai Holding, a Singapore based sister concern of Skyline. He came to India on Business Visa in February and worked as the business development manager of Skyline. He and Satyapal identify new locations all over India and set up call centers. Malhotra and Murathoti manage two call centres in Hyderabad. Loan Gram, Cash Train, Cash Bus, AAA Cash, Super Cash, Mint Cash, Happy Cash, Loan Card, Repay One, Money Box, Monkey box are some of the apps developed, operated by the accused. These applications collect id proofs, PAN, KYC documents, bank account details of the customers. Following verification, small loans like Rs 2000, Rs 5000 are disbursed to applicants' accounts after debiting the processing charges and GST, interest advance etc. The loan period is in two categories of 7 and 15 days. After the due date, the customer is categorized under various buckets (S-0, S-1, S-2, S-3, M2, M3, X) and harassment increases with the duration. Sajjanar said that apart from systematic abusing, threatening of the defaulters through call centers run by them, borrowers are also blackmailed with fake legal notices sent to them and their family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyberabad-cops-arrest-chinese-national-in-app-based-loan-racket-case-mastermind-chinese-man-absconding-931505.html
25-12-2020||South||Convene special Assembly session for farm laws: Kerala Ministers urge Governor||A delegation of ministers from Kerala called on Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday to convince him for convening a special session of the Assembly to discuss the farm laws. Agriculture Minister V S Sunilkumar and Law Minister A K Balan who called on the Governor later said that the meeting was positive. Certain points made by the Governor need to be taken into consideration by the government. Governor clarified that there would not be any steps from his side affecting the government's smooth functioning. The Governor earlier declined state Cabinet's recommendation to convene a special session of the Assembly on December 23 to discuss the farm laws. The government was also planning to pass a resolution against the farm laws with the support of the opposition Congress in the session. But the Governor declined the recommendation citing that there was no emergency situation to convene a special session. The government again gave the recommendation to convene a special session on Dec 31. A decision of the Governor on it was pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/convene-special-assembly-session-for-farm-laws-kerala-ministers-urge-governor-931510.html
25-12-2020||South||Three held from Bengaluru in instant loan apps harassment case; accounts holding Rs 87 crore frozen||The Hyderabad police has arrested three people from Bengaluru for their involvement in the instant loan apps harassment case. The arrests are in continuation of the cyber crime police probe of the atrocities of the app based loan company's managers and tele-calling agents. On Monday, cops raided several call centres in Hyderabad and Gurugram functioning on behalf of four companies – Liufang Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Hotful Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Pinprint Technologies and Nabloom Technologies Pvt. Ltd., with suspected registered offices at Bengaluru. They had then arrested 11 executives. Taking the investigation to Bengaluru, the police traced two call centres in HSR Layout and apprehended K Eswar, admin of Anniu Pvt Ltd, native of Kurnool, Madhusudhan and Satish Kumar, managers at Truthigh Pvt Ltd. These two call centres, now closed down, were found to have employed nearly 350 tele-callers, while the centers at Hyderabad had 600 and Gurugram 500 callers. 42 instant loan applications are handled by the said four companies, while more such apps are operated by several other companies. 27 cases were registered till now at the Cyber Crime Police Station, Hyderabad alone, in the loan app harassment crime. “Till now, 350 virtual/bank accounts were recognized in razorpay payment gateway relating to the above mentioned companies and approximately Rs 87 crore in the said accounts is frozen,” a police official said. Telangana police is repeatedly requesting the public not to download the instant loan apps, “as they also collect customer's valuable information and misuse in future.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-held-from-bengaluru-in-instant-loan-apps-harassment-case-accounts-holding-rs-87-crore-frozen-931525.html
25-12-2020||South||Andhra CM launches 'housing for poor' scheme to benefit around 30 lakh families||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy launched his flagship welfare scheme of providing house less poor in the state with a Patta land and abode. Inaugurating Pedalandariki Illu, implemented with the central government’s PM Awas Yojana support, Reddy said that the government would be spending about Rs 51,000 crore for the construction of over 28 lakh houses, in two phases. The launch took place on Friday at a layout prepared for the purpose near Pithapuram in East Godavari district, coinciding with Christmas and Vaikunta Ekadasi. Speaking at the event, the CM said that about 30.75 lakh beneficiaries were identified across the state, to whom 28.30 lakh houses will be provided in 17,000 YSR Jagananna layouts and another 2.62 lakh flats under the Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TIDCO) scheme. “We are not constructing just ‘houses’ for the poor, we are constructing new towns,” said Reddy. The government will take up the construction of 28.30 lakh houses at a total cost of Rs 50,940 crore. In the first phase, 15.60 lakh houses will be commenced at a cost of Rs 28,000 crore, and the remaining 12.70 lakh houses will be from next year. “Our government wanted to handover registered pattas to the beneficiaries but due to court cases, the beneficiaries are now given D-form pattas. Once the legal cases are resolved, land deeds will be handed over, in the name of women beneficiaries,” the CM said. All the beneficiaries will be given 1.5 cents in rural areas and one cent in urban areas. The Chief Minister claimed that his government had acquired 68,361 acres of land worth Rs 23,535 crore for the programme, and each beneficiary will receive a land patch costing about Rs four lakh. Beneficiaries are offered options like allowing them to construct houses as per their choice, with the government supplying building material and labour charges or availing the cost of money to be released in phases. The third option is government building a model house with one bedroom, living room, kitchen, toilet and verandah, with a total plinth area of 340 sq feet and basic facilities like lights, fans, overhead tank, and water connection. Reddy said that the selection of beneficiaries was in a transparent manner, irrespective of caste, creed, and political affiliation, and covering about 1.24 crore population. Accusing the TDP, Reddy said the project would have commenced long back had the opposition leaders not moved the courts. “It was originally planned for Ugadi this year, but due to the legal hurdles created by TDP leaders, it was rescheduled to Ambedkar Jayanti, YSR Jayanti, Independence Day, Gandhi Jayanti, but finally happened today.” CM Reddy said that about 10 percent of target distribution - 3.67 lakh houses – is still stalled due to the court cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-launches-housing-for-poor-scheme-to-benefit-around-30-lakh-families-931542.html
25-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Police begins probe into gold missing from CBI custody case||Tamil Nadu Police's Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) has begun its probe into a case relating to 104 kg of gold, seized during a 2012 raid, that has gone missing from the custody of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The development comes a fortnight after the Madras High Court asked the Tamil Nadu Police to probe the case of missing gold, despite objections from the CBI, which had argued that such an investigation would hurt the agency's prestige. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Police said the probe in the case has now begun following registration of a case under Section 380 (night burglary) of the Indian Penal Code, based on a complaint filed by insolvency professional liquidator Ramasubramanian. As per the court order, the probe is being headed by an officer in the rank of Superintendent of Police (SP) and is likely to be completed in six months. The case relates to the seizure of gold bars weighing 400.5 kg during raids at premises owned by Surana Corporation Limited here in 2012 which was under the custody of the CBI. However, it came to light that 104 kg of gold has gone missing, despite safety measures, when the liquidator appointed for settlements of debts between Surana and the State Bank of India weighed the commodity. CBI officials had told the court that they handed over the keys of the safes and vaults where the seized gold was stored to the principal special court for CBI cases in Chennai. During the hearing earlier this month, the CBI had opposed handing over the investigation of the case Tamil Nadu Police on the count that it would not augur well for its esteem. However, the court came down heavily on the CBI and handed over the investigation to CB-CID and asked it to register FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-police-begins-probe-into-gold-missing-from-cbi-custody-case-931561.html
25-12-2020||South||Vaikunta Ekadasi fervour at Tirumala temple||The Tirumala hills reverberated with the chanting of Govinda nama as the Vaikunta Ekadasi celebrations were held in great splendour at the Tirumala temple on Friday. Chief justice of India S A Bobde is among the devotees who had the darshan of Lord Venkateshwara through the Vaikunta Dwaram, opened annually on the auspicious day. The procession of Sri Malayappa Swamy flanked by Sridevi and Bhudevi on his swarna ratham (golden chariot) pulled by women devotees and women employees of the TTD through the four Mada streets, has enthralled the pilgrims. Visitors were permitted in limited numbers this time because of the ongoing pandemic. The auspicious Vaikunta dwara darshana would be allowed for 10 days this time, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams said. TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said the decision to provide 10 day long Vaikunta Dwara Darshan to devotees this year was following prolonged consultations with Jeeyar swamis, agama shastra advisors and pontiffs of various mutts across the country. The temple board had faced flak for extending the entry, which according to some was in arbitrary alteration of traditions, and reducing the significance of the celestial event. TTD chairman said the Srivari darshans were resumed in June with 5000 devotees and “now nearly 35,000 devotees are begetting Lord's blessings daily.” Officials are appealing the devotees to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaikunta-ekadasi-fervour-at-tirumala-temple-931572.html
25-12-2020||South||Four more UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu||Four more returnees to Tamil Nadu from UK have tested positive for coronavirus and their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic analysis, a senior official said here on Friday. Of the four returnees, two belonged to Thanjavur and one each from here and Madurai, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. Along with these four, the total number of people to test positive for the pathogen on arrival from the UK, has increased to five. The samples of these returnees have been dispatched to the NIV for genomic analysis, he said. The four arrived in Tamil Nadu between November 28 and December 17 were traced and tested and all the five returnees are doing well in various facilities, he said, adding their contacts have tested negative. The result of the genomic analysis of the first UK returnee, the sample for which was sent earlier to NIV, is expected soon, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-931588.html
25-12-2020||South||Javadekar skips posers on NDA's CM pick for TN 2021 polls, ties with partner AIADMK||BJP leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday declined to categorically name the Chief Ministerial candidate of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in Tamil Nadu though the ruling party has already announced that K Palaniswami would be its CM face for the 2021 Assembly polls. To several questions from reporters here on BJP's ally AIADMK naming Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial candidate and whether his party endorsed it and who is the CM nominee of the NDA alliance, led in the state by the ruling party, he skipped all of them. 'Good question and good answer,' he said at a press conference and pointed to the presence of AIADMK's Rajya Sabha MP, A Navaneethakrishnan in the gathering. When scribes told him that he did not directly answer questions on AIADMK-BJP ties, those related to the Chief minister candidate, he chuckled and said 'that is the answer.' On a perception that it was the BJP which needed the AIADMK more, he said in coalition politics anywhere, one party complemented the other and parties depended on each other. To a question on AIADMK making it clear that BJP was its ally and if he would assert that the ruling party in Tamil Nadu continued to be his party's partner (since the saffron party's leadership here has been saying that the matter would be decided by the high command), he said Tamil Nadu leadership 'is correct' on the matter. In the same breath, Javadekar again referred to AIADMK leader Navaneethakrishnan's presence and said it is 'important.' The Minister's remark is seen as an indication that ties between the BJP and AIADMK are intact as of now. BJP, a junior partner in the AIADMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu, showing reluctance in immediately endorsing the candidature of Chief Minister K Palaniswami as the CM nominee of the entire coalition has led to speculations in social media, including accusations of 'arm twisting' by the saffron party. The AIADMK has already made it clear that incumbent Palaniswami would be its CM face for the upcoming 2021 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Polls are due during April-May next year. Javadekar declining to make a categorical statement comes against the backdrop of BJP leadership in Tamil Nadu maintaining that the CM pick for the alliance would be 'decided' by its top leadership. Asked about 'talk' that Rajinikanth was the 'B' team of the BJP, the Minister said, "I will not go into diversions.' On why his party leaders were showering encomiums on late AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran only recently, the Minister said such a view was not correct. Tamil Nadu icons like MGR were always being remembered by the BJP on their birth and death anniversaries and "this time you have noticed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/javadekar-skips-posers-on-ndas-cm-pick-for-tn-2021-polls-ties-with-partner-aiadmk-931596.html
25-12-2020||State||2 UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Chikkamagaluru||Two persons who had arrived in Chikkamagaluru taluk from the UK have been tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples will be sent for testing in Nimhans for further testing. Those who tested positive are in the age group of 40 and 39. Both have been admitted to designated covid hospital for treatment. A total of 18 persons had arrived in the district from UK. The samples of two have been tested positive, said DC Dr Bagadi Gautham.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chikkamagaluru-931457.html
25-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With consent, private buyers can get farmers' data in Karnataka||In a significant move, Karnataka is working with the Centre to  develop a new 'consent framework' so that farmers' data can be shared with big buyers from the private sector.  The state government is working on a new platform that will connect farmers with the private sector. This is the result of the recent amendment to the APMC Act, which frees up agricultural trading by allowing a farmer to sell produce anywhere. The amendment has kicked up a storm.  If a farmer gives consent, then the government will share his or her data such as land details, crops being grown and mobile number with bulk purchasers, according to official sources.   The platform is being developed under the supervision of the e-Governance department and is likely to be ready in about three months, timed for the Rabi crop survey.   With this project, Karnataka is looking to gain a head start in the area of data protection, even as the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill is yet to be passed in Parliament. The government is sitting on data of 72.46 lakh farmers -- name, mobile number, geographic coordinates of every individual farmland and the crops being grown on each one of them. "The PDP Bill talks about a consent framework and the Centre has notified it to ensure there is a standard. But the existing consent works on a one-to-one basis. Here, we want one-to-many as a farmer's consent will be required for his data to be shared with more than one person or entity," a senior e-Governance official involved in this project explained.  "If someone wants to buy 100 tonnes of tomato in the month of February within a 100-km radius, a query can be raised on the platform. The government will provide data of farmers who can supply this," the official said. "Consent of farmers will be taken in advance, because who knows when someone would want to purchase. We can't expect the farmer to give consent each time there is a buyer."  Farmers can give their consent via biometrics or OTP through the Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) portal. "Data of a farmer who does not give consent will not be shared," the official said.  Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said the project was in conformity with the PDP Bill. "It will be implemented only after the government’s clearance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-consent-private-buyers-can-get-farmers-data-in-karnataka-931244.html
25-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 1,005 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||Karnataka added 1,005 new Covid- 19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,14,488 and the toll to 12,044, the health department said on Friday. The day also saw 1,102 patients getting discharged after recovery and there were 13,508 active cases in the state. The state's cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,14,488, including 12,044 deaths and 8,88,917 discharges, the department said in its bulletin. A total of 13,300 patients were stable in isolation at designated hospitals, while 208 are in Intensive Care Units. As many as 578 fresh cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, which also accounted for four of the five deaths, followed by Dharwad 1. Four of the deceased had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), while the patient in Dharwad had Influenza-Like illness (ILI). Mysuru was second in the number of cases 79, Hassan 43, Kalaburgai 34, Dakshina Kannada 30, Mandya 24, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 3,85,586 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,124 and Ballari 38,790. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban was on top 3,72,479 discharges, followed by Mysuru 50,577 and Ballari 37,940. A total of over 1,35,14,362 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,568 were tested on Friday alone. Till date tests have been conducted on 1,419 UK passengers who have arrived in Karnataka, out of which 14 are positive, 744 are negative and results of 661 are awaited, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-1005-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-931573.html
25-12-2020||West||Controversy erupts after IIMA decides to demolish iconic dorms built by Louis Kahn||Controversy erupted at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) over its decision to demolish a large part of its iconic building designed by renowned American architect Louis Kahn. The institute has decided to demolish 14 of the 18 hostel blocks built by Kahn after it failed to restore and conserve the heritage building. The decision has compelled the institute's director Errol D'Souza to write to alums detailing the reasons for the demolition. In the 11-page letter, which the IIMA has confirmed, D'Souza has explained that the buildings are "unsafe for living" and that due to the 2001 earthquake, water seepage through aging and deterioration of the exposed brick walls have "resulted in large cracks in the masonry and periodical detachments of it in fragments". Built in the 1960s, these dorms can accommodate 500 students at present. The IIMA plans to replace these dorms by building a new hostel with a capacity of 800 students. D'Souza's letter, dated December 23, states despite working with international restoration consultants like Peter Inskip and Stephen Gee, their attempts failed. This is why the institute decided to do away with the 14 blocks, but the four dorms at the front will be preserved. "We have been blessed with an architectural heritage that is ethereal. Our hearts have been ripped open whilst taking the call of doing all it takes to preserve the plaza of the library, the faculty wings, and the classrooms, and the dorms on the edges of the complex so that we do not lose a gift bestowed on us. For a few of the dorms, however, there will be a new history that we will strive to have in a relationship of continuity with the surrounding buildings of Kahn rather than otherwise," D'Souza has mentioned in the letter while appealing the alums to accept the decision. The institute has already floated tenders to build 18 new dorms. A virtual meeting scheduled for December 24 was canceled at the last minute due to rising protests against the decision. The next meeting is likely to be held in the first week of January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/controversy-erupts-after-iima-decides-to-demolish-iconic-dorms-built-by-louis-kahn-931355.html
25-12-2020||West||Navi Mumbai: Local train services hit due to pantograph glitch||The movement of trains on the Thane-Vashi Trans-Harbour suburban railway line was disrupted on Friday morning after a local's pantograph got entangled with the overhead wire at a Navi Mumbai station, an official said. The pantograph of the suburban train got entangled with the overhead wire at Koparkhairane station around 10.05 am, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway (CR), Shivaji Sutar, said. "As a result, the movement of trains from Vashi to Thane and Nerul to Thane has been suspended," he said, adding that efforts were on to put the rail traffic back on track at the earliest. The trans-harbour line provides suburban train connectivity between Thane and Navi Mumbai. The CR operates suburban services between Thane-Vashiand Thane-Panvel stations on this line. Currently only essential services staff, government employees and selected categories of passengers are permitted to travel by the local trains, which resumed operations from June 15, after a few months of suspension due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navi-mumbai-local-train-services-hit-due-to-pantograph-glitch-931374.html
25-12-2020||West||Plan to impose night curfew at tourist places in Pune district||With an aim to put curbs on the New Year celebrations considering the coronavirus situation, the district administration in Pune has sent a proposal to the Maharashtra government seeking imposition of night curfew at some popular places, a senior official said on Friday. District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that the administration seeks to impose night curfew in some areas close to Pune civic limits and tourist places like Lonavala, Aambi Valley, Mulshi dam, Tahmini Ghat, Khadakwasla and Lavasa from the midnight of December 25 till January 5. "In view of the COVID-19 situation, a proposal has been sent to the state government to impose night curfew at these places, where revellers go to celebrate the New Year. We are awaiting the government's nod," he said. Night curfew has been already imposed in the city in the wake of a new coronavirus variant being detected in the UK. So far, 3,59,090 coronavirus positive cases have been reported in Pune district, where the virus has claimed the lives of 8,744 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/plan-to-impose-night-curfew-at-tourist-places-in-pune-district-931376.html
25-12-2020||West||Unnecessary action-reaction not good for Maharashtra: Chandrakant Patil||Saying that "unnecessary action-reaction" is not good for Maharashtra, state BJP President Chandrakant Patil on Friday assured that his party was ready for talks with the Maha Vikas Aghadi government so that vexed issues like Mumbai Metro carshed and Bullet Train projects can be sorted out. Patil's response came in the wake of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's appeal to opposition BJP to take lead in resolving issues and that the government will not hesitate to gave them credit. "Where is the question of credit...I don't understand that....what I can say is that unnecessary action-reaction is not good for Maharashtra," said Patil, a former Revenue Minister of the state and virtually the No 2 in erstwhile BJP-led government of which Shiv Sena was a partner. When pointed out that Shiv Sena leaders including Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde had said that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar should take lead in sorting out the problem, Patil said: "....what is stopping him...what is he waiting for?" According to him, the Aarey Milk Colony site was selected on basis of scientific studies but it was scrapped and shifted to Kanjur Marg.  "Now unnecessarily the Bullet Train project is being derailed when things are moving smooth," Patil said during an informal chat. When pointed out that three major projects Mumbai Metro carshed, Bullet Train and Wadhawan project has come into problems, he said: "Maharashtra has a tradition of being together on issues concerning the state." In the past, all-party delegations have gone to New Delhi several times on various issues and met Prime Ministers and ministers. "Why only for projects, I must say that a joint delegation must also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of Maratha reservation," he said, adding that Thackeray must take into confidence Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and initiate a channel of dialogue so that Maharashtra's interest is not affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unnecessary-action-reaction-not-good-for-maharashtra-chandrakant-patil-931422.html
25-12-2020||West||2020: The year Shiv Sena came into its own||While coronavirus forced people to stay indoors, Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi, a combine of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, was also busy keeping the BJP at bay on many issues as it battled the pandemic during the year. The ruling alliance took on the BJP over relocating the Mumbai metro car shed project from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, even as the Bombay High Court stayed allotment of land in Kanjurmarg for the integrated metro car shed project. The year also saw Shiv Sena's 'fiery Hindutva' stand mellowing down, with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray speaking of taking everyone along. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Thackeray got into an acrimonious exchange over the reopening of religious places in the state. In a letter with sarcastic overtone, Koshyari asked Thackeray if he had turned 'secular' as he denied permission to reopen the religious places. Thackeray responded, saying he did not need a Hindutva certificate from anyone. Following Koshyari's letter, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar also sent out a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi slamming the governor's approach towards the issue. "I am shocked and surprised to know that the letter of the Governor was released to the media and also the kind of language used in the letter which does not behoove well for a person who holds a constitutional position," Pawar wrote to the prime minister. While the Sena and NCP seemed to be making most of the unlikely post-poll alliance which formed the government last year, the Congress which finished fourth in the Assembly polls found itself pushed to the corner. According to a Congress leader, some in the party's state unit feel that had it sought the deputy chief minister's post instead of the Assembly Speaker's post, the MVA regime may have looked like a true three-party government. Ajit Pawar who returned to the MVA after forming a three-day government with BJP's Devendra Fadnavis last year is someone Uddhav Thackeray relies heavily on for the latter's administrative acumen, a Sena leader said. The MVA government did not get the 'honeymoon' period a newly-formed dispensation normally gets. After the full cabinet was formed on December 30 last year, the government got barely three months to settle down before the pandemic gripped the state. Even as perception grew stronger that the 'Thackeray sarkar' was handling the pandemic well by setting up 'jumbo' field hospitals, a task force of medical experts to advise on treatment, audit of Covid-19 deaths, taking over 80 per cent beds in private hospitals and covering the state population under the Mahatma Phule health scheme, came the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year. The Thackeray-led coalition government found itself in the cross-hairs of BJP as attempts were made to implicate his son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray in the deaths of Rajput and celebrity media manager Disha Salian. Mumbai police said Rajput's death was a case of suicide but egged on by social media theories, the actor's family filed a complaint against the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her relatives, accusing her of stealing his money and driving him to end his life. Actor Kangana Ranaut joined the anti-government campaign on social media by tweeting against Shiv Sena, Uddhav Thackeray and his son. At his party's Dussehra rally, Thackeray spoke about the conspiracy theories surrounding Rajput's death that targeted Aaditya Thackeray. Without naming Kangana Ranaut, he said "those crying for justice" accused Mumbai Police of being useless. "Mumbai is PoK (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir), there are drug addicts everywhere - they are painting such picture," he said. In what the BJP termed as retribution against critics of the state government, journalist Arnab Goswamiwas arrested in an abetment to suicide case, while the Sena-controlled Mumbai municipal corporation demolished Ranaut's alleged illegal construction in Bandra. The Mumbai police also unearthed a TRP ratings scam allegedly involving Republic Media Network and arrested some officials of the network. Even as some questioned the government's stability, the victory of Congress and NCP in the graduates and teachers constituencies in the Legislative Council polls brought cheer to the MVA partners who contested the polls together. The results boosted the morale of the government which spent most of the year battling coronavirus and natural calamities like cyclone, floods and heavy rains. Former BJP leaders Eknath Khadse and Jaisingrao Gaikwadjoined the NCP this year. The Maharashtra cabinet in December decided to list the Maratha community under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category. The 10 per cent EWS quota is earmarked for those who are not covered under any social reservations. The decision came after the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community under the SEBC (Socially and Economically Backward Class) category was stayed by the Supreme Court, and was challenged by the state government. The Shiv Sena versus BJP slugfest over the location of the metro car shed for the Colaba-Bandra-Seepz line is set to get uglier, with the state government now looking at land meant for Prime Minister Narendra Modis pet bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The MVA government is considering using a plot of land in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) that was set aside to be the originating point for the bullet train. "We are considering various sites. One is the BKC land earmarked for the bullet train project. The other options are Pahadi, Goregaon, and a plot of land in Kalina," an official said. The MVA government faced flak for not extending the terms of three statutory development boards which lapsed on April 30 this year. The boards Vidarbha Development Board, Marathwada Development Board and Rest of Maharashtra Development Board came into existence on May 1, 1994, with the stated objective of correcting regional imbalance in allocation of funds and resources for the development of neglected regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2020-the-year-shiv-sena-came-into-its-own-931437.html
25-12-2020||West||First time since outbreak, Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 case||For the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in the area, Dharavi - the largest slum cluster of Asia - recorded zero new cases on Friday. The first Covid-19 positive case and death was reported in Dharavi on April 1. It was once Mumbai's worst hotspot for Covid-19, but now just has a total of 12 active cases, eight of them in home isolation and four in a Covid-19 care centre. The total number of recovered cases in Dharavi stands at 3,788. Thereafter, in May-June, the cases soared - which became a major challenge for the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The way the situation was contained came to be known as the 'Dharavi model'. It also earned the praise of the World Health Organisation and the World Bank. Dharavi is sandwiched between the Central and Western suburban lines in Mumbai. Dharavi is located nearly 1.5 km away from Matoshree, the private bungalow of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Spread over 2.1 sq km, Dharavi is home over 7 to 10 lakh people who are staying and working in Mumbai. The BMC actively pursue 4 Ts - tracing, tracking, testing and treating to combat the situation. As part of the War against Virus,  the Chase the Virus was launched to break the cycle. Against every patient, 15 close contacts were quarantined. The frontline care givers were also given medicines. A new institutional quarantine facility was also opened. Senior citizen patients were shifted to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion and the King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-time-since-outbreak-dharavi-reports-no-new-covid-19-case-931509.html
25-12-2020||West||Minister Eknath Shinde suffers minor injury in car accident||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde suffered a minor injury when his car met with an accident at Vashi toll naka near Mumbai, police said. The minister was returning to Mumbai after visiting Vashi around 4.30 on Thursday afternoon when his car was dashed by another car near the toll point, said an official of Navi Mumbai traffic police. The minister suffered a minor injury to his hand, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/minister-eknath-shinde-suffers-minor-injury-in-car-accident-931521.html
