26-12-2020||Comment||Local body polls: Active Citizenship factor needed||‘Dance of democracy’, ‘Festival of democracy’ are some of the catchphrases used for elections in India which are characterised by noisy sloganeering and a festive atmosphere. However, this enthusiasm seems to be restricted to the Parliamentary elections and to a lesser extent to the state Assembly elections. In the last few weeks, Hyderabad saw a high decibel campaign leading up to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. The campaign was punctuated with mammoth rallies (amidst a pandemic) by several celebrity campaigners, making, among other promises, bizarre statements of ‘rooting out Nizam culture’ and changing the name of Hyderabad to Bhagyanagar. Notwithstanding the fact that this was not a positive campaign, could it have inadvertently put the spotlight on what should perhaps be the more important elections for the common citizenry? Electoral participation, citizens protests and claim-making are the bedrock on which modern democracies stand. How do we fare on these three aspects at the local governance level? can we introduce a fourth element, Active Citizenship, to ensure the State performs its contractual obligations towards its citizens? On the electoral participation front, the elections to the urban local bodies (ULBs) are boisterous on the ground, with reports of cash for votes and violence too. But in terms of coverage and awareness, these miss-if-you-blink events are relegated to the fringes of national newspapers or covered mostly by regional publications. Despite the high-pitched campaign, the voter turnout at the recently concluded GHMC elections stood at about 46% while the general elections of 2019 saw the highest ever 67%. Consistent awareness campaigns over the years have helped improve voter turnout at this level, but we still have some distance to go. In a modern democracy, the state is entrusted with a monopoly over violence and tax collection in return for providing some services. While we participate in electoral democracy, our first point of contact in claim-making is through the local governments. It is on this parameter that we fare the worst. The Nobel laureate Albert Hirschman once said when citizens find government services deteriorating, they ‘voice’ or ‘exit’ the system. This exit happens mostly when income increases and citizens can opt for private solutions. Journalist Shankar Aiyar in his book aptly named The Gated Republic describes in detail this phenomenon of gated communities as well as other citizens who are opting for private solutions instead of relying on the State. Water, electricity, security, education and healthcare— areas where the state should play a significant role— have been taken over by private solutions leaving citizens angry or apathetic. This is not to suggest that private solutions have no place in solving public problems. But ceding space to private solutions where there is a need for government interventions arising out of market failures will lead to greater inequalities which will manifest in other kinds of societal failures. Have you noticed that the lake management in Bengaluru has significant citizen participation? could this be because there are no private solutions to the lake issue and we will participate only when there are no private solutions? For claim-making to be effective, the urban local bodies need to have more teeth. While the 74th Amendment to the Constitution entrusts the local governments with funds, functions and functionaries to carry out local developmental work such as roads, land development, waste management, water supply and sewer, the reality on the ground tells a different story. The funding leaves a lot to be desired. As a report indicates, the total transfers to local governments or ULB have been a paltry 0.45% of GDP for the responsibilities they carry out. The ULBs themselves are plagued by inefficiencies resulting from suppression, the inability of the state government to hold elections on time and other such governance gaps. While ULBs are allowed to raise their own revenues— most of their funding comes from fiscal transfers— 63% of the revenue of the Urban Local Bodies comprise of intergovernmental fiscal transfers. Could doing away with the MPLADs scheme and channelling those funds through direct devolution solve the funds’ problem? A fourth aspect of democracy which is gaining ground is the concept of Active Citizenship. While Active Citizenship has been in existence in different forms, Stacy Abrams’ campaign in the recently concluded US presidential elections has given it more structure. Active Citizenship is premised on encouraging citizens to use their agency to make claims on the state. As this article points out, a value framework, representatives on the ground and technological infrastructure are the three pillars of Active Citizenship.   In civic life, this would involve coming up with compelling reasons for voters to be involved in day to day functioning of the ULBs. What could be the value proposition that will increase people’s involvement in laying claim to the state? If citizens internalise the fact that they are paying twice over— once in the form of taxes and secondly for the very services they pay taxes for— would it make us more demanding of the state? For example, we pay taxes yet we buy water from water tankers. Isn’t that a double whammy for citizens? Secondly, representatives on the ground play an important role. The lake rejuvenation projects around Bengaluru engage a diverse group of people from the surrounding areas. Can this be replicated to ensure a more grassroots level involvement on all civic projects— from roads to healthcare to schools? Initiatives like the ‘My city my budget’ campaign are making valuable contributions towards increasing citizen-government interactions. The Budget Bus campaign carried out just before the state budget session is indeed a laudable effort. Given the low state capacity, Active Citizenship is our best bet to make claims on the state and more importantly, to make politics work for us. Elections to the BBMP will be announced soon. Are you ready to first vote and then participate? Democracy cannot be a one-day festival - it needs to be an enduring celebration! (The writer is Programme Manager, Takshashila Institution)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/local-body-polls-active-citizenship-factor-needed-931773.html
26-12-2020||In Perspective||Raising the legal age of marriage for girls||‘If a girl has voting rights at 18 years, then why can’t she get married at 18 years? A girl from Jharkhand, who was one among the 2,500 ’Young Voices’ from 15 states, asked. The issue on increasing the legal age of marriage for girls has unleashed a spate of arguments, for and against. Now, those who are batting for tinkering with the minimum age for girl’s marriage, posited their argument on the premise that early marriage leads to ‘sub-optimal transition to adulthood with negative health consequences for both, the mother and child’. Secondly, a uniform legal age of marriage for both the sexes at 21 years is in conformity with gender equality. While many support the contention of uniformity, others favour keeping it at 18 years, as recommended by the Law Commission in 2008 while reforming family laws.  The counter-argument runs that ‘there is no substantial proof that a raise in the age of marriage could be beneficial in any way, rather, the focus should be on removing the root causes of discrimination against girls and women, which will not only delay the marriage but improve their health and educational outcomes’. While a Lancet study of 144 countries in 2014 observed that ‘existing evidence of increased risk of death during pregnancy or childbirth among adolescent girls is inconsistent and contradictory’.  Further, a group of more than 40 civil society organisations in a memorandum to the government-appointed task force set up for the purpose, asserted that ‘age is the least significant factor, and poverty has been the reason for the ill health of mothers and children’. A recent study in the wake of the spurt in under-age marriages during the lockdown in West Bengal found that many poverty-stricken families considered the marriage of a girl child ‘as a gateway to potentially fulfilling her basic needs of food, security and shelter’ and to many young girls ‘it is a way of self-exclusion from the family’s economic burden’. The widely accepted view has been that it is the ‘deeply inherent structural inequalities, rather than age, that stand in the way of improving adverse pregnancy outcomes...'. Studies also corroborate a strong link between ‘fewer years of education and the lower ages at marriage...'. Available data showed that with no education, 44.7% of women were married before 18 years, which dropped to 39.7% with primary education, 23.2% with secondary education and 2.9% with higher education. However, the National Family Health Survey’s (4) findings said that 'girls from poor families mostly dropout at the secondary level because of lack of interest in studies (24.8%), and only 7.9% for a marriage'. A field study from some high child marriage-prevalent states revealed that many girls and parents did not consider 'the existing system of education as a means to overcome inter-generational poverty or an empowering tool... And they go for marriage only as a default option'. Legal instrument Now, India does have a legal instrument to counter the under-age marriages. But, the abysmally low number of cases reported under the Prevention of Child Marriage Act (PCMA), 2006, has amply proved that the law has hardly been used. In 2016, only 326 cases were registered under the act (NCRB). Further, there is a deep flaw in the Act which makes all the under-age marriages as valid unless made voidable by the minor contracting party. Legal experts confirm that such an option has rarely been used by women once the marriage is consummated. Madhu Chopra, Executive Director, PLD, opined that ‘the current law is adequate but much depends on opportunities in food security, education and employment which will minimise dependency on early marriage.’ The present move, regarded by many as an instance of ‘punitive paternalism’, is going to affect the poor and the marginalised the most. Enakshi Ganguly, Co-founder and Advisor, Haq, feels that ‘the issue should be tackled by a combination of socio-legal actions to build up the agency of girls and punitive laws will only lead to more criminalisation and violence’. Nevertheless, India is plagued with many serious gender issues, being a land of ‘missing women’. The much flaunted “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao" programme needs to be resurrected from mere sloganeering to an intensive region-focussed people’s programme. The ambit of the Right to Education along with its nutritional back up should be stretched to include early childhood and secondary education. A transformative curriculum is also the need of the hour for equipping a young learner to meet up the future challenges. Unfortunately, the recently released National Education Policy doesn't emphasis on strengthening public education. The task force is yet to submit its final report and discussions are going on to decide on the right age of marriage for girls. While the ‘Young Voices’ in their collective outcry sought ‘safety nets for the impoverished families... Not a change in the age of marriage’ in this Covid-ravaged world. We must delve deep into the core issues, and not opt for a cosmetic change. (The writer is a retired Indian Information Service Officer and a media educator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/raising-the-legal-age-of-marriage-for-girls-931768.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fear grips Mangaluru residents after spotting leopard||Fear has gripped residents of Kodimbadi and Perne in Puttur taluk after sighting a leopard that was on the prowl. The CCTV camera installed in a house had caught the movement of a leopard at Kodimbadi. Later, the leopard was spotted in Perne. The leopard was also spotted near the house of Halanga Ramanna Gowda in Bannur. A woman too had spotted a leopard inside an arecanut plantation in Bannur and it was also spotted at Karla in Sediyapu. The residents complained that many dogs and chicken had gone missing from their homes. There are a large number of arecanut growers in Sediyapu, Bellipadi, Kodimbadi, Perne and Bannur. The spotting of leopard had forced arecanut growers to stop watering the plants and stay indoors in the evenings. The residents have urged forest department to lay a trap to catch the leopard at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-grips-mangaluru-residents-after-spotting-leopard-931644.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Video uploaded to address attrition in postal dept||Close on the heels of Department of Posts inviting applications for filling up 2,243 vacant Gramin Dak Sevak (GDS) posts, Mangaluru Division has uploaded a video on social media and YouTube to clear the doubts of job aspirants. The video, a brainchild of Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Mangaluru Division, Sriharsha N, was uploaded mainly to address attrition in the department. During the previous second online recruitment, the Department had received thousands of applications for 2,637 vacant posts. Sriharsha said in the end only 62% of the posts were filled up. "In Mangaluru division, only 16 out of 43 eligible candidates were employed," he said. Though the minimum education qualification is SSLC, many graduates and even postgraduates had applied for the job. These candidates after being selected refused to join in realising the kind of work they had to do, Sriharsha said. "In order to ensure that applicants apply with full information about the job, we made a descriptive video," Sriharsha stated in his message posted on social media. The video titled Postal department Jobs: GDS Cycle 3 recruitment-Karnataka Circle (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F3oEppLbZxo&feature=youtu.be) has already received 1,400 views by Friday evening. The video made by Chethan Kumar, an employee of the Department of Posts, clears most doubts of job aspirants by sharing information about the kind of work, location, salary and transfers. The video which begins with a brief introduction of the Department by Sriharsha ends with the statement that a career in the Department guarantees job satisfaction. The video also includes images of day-to-day duties of Branch Post Master (BPM), Assistant BPM, and pay slips. A netizen welcoming the initiative appreciated the Mangaluru division for clearing doubts in the Kannada language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/video-uploaded-to-address-attrition-in-postal-dept-931646.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Soak pits improve sanitation in colonies in Kateel GP||In the absence of a sewer system, ‘grey water’ from the bathroom and kitchen was let into roads or in the backyard of houses in Gidigere SC Colony and Jumadi Gudde Colony under Kateel Gram Panchayat limits. This was the scenario a few days ago. The wastewater now no longer flows on the roads or in the backyard of houses in these colonies. The residents by utilising facilities under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) constructed 101 soak pits at Gidigere SC Colony in Kondemoola village of Kateel GP. “As there were no UGD (underground drainage) facilities, wastewater flowing on the road had rendered the colonies unhygienic. When Centre made modifications in the MGNREGS to allow the construction of soak pits, Kateel GP under the guidance of Mangaluru Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer N G Nagaraj had planned 101 soak pits in Gidigere colony. As a result, all houses in the Colony were connected to the soak pits,” Kateel GP Panchayat Development Officer Prakash B told DH. As many as 33 SC and 9 ST families are residing in the colonies along with other families.  These houses were built on five cents of land which did not have any UGD connections. The residents took keen interest in digging the soak pits. Additional 21 soak pits were constructed at Jumadi Gudde area. The stagnating ‘grey water’ problem, that had rendered the colony unhygienic and stirred fears of spreading vector-borne diseases, has been addressed with funds from the MGNREGS. Soak pits The soak pits were constructed on 7X5 ft width near the houses. Gravels were filled up to a height of two feet to facilitate the percolation of water. With the help of pipe, the wastewater from the kitchens and bathrooms are drained into the soak pits. The construction of a soak pit incurred an expense of Rs 17,000, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/soak-pits-improve-sanitation-in-colonies-in-kateel-gp-931648.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nimhans to release genetic sequencing of UK-returnees on Monday||The speculation over transmission of the new strain of Covid virus among the 13 returnees from the UK to Karnataka will be set at rest by Monday, according to experts at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans). Currently, the lab at Nimhans is processing 12 samples, while the doctors are awaiting another sample from Mysuru. Dr V Ravi, Head of the Department, Neurovirology, Nimhans, told DH that the results of these samples will be out on Monday. “We have received 13 Covid samples including nine from Bengaluru, three from Shivamogga. One more sample from Mysuru is yet to reach us. Sequencing results of all these samples will be out on Monday.” Even though the laboratory at Nimhans is sequencing the Covid samples for now, later on, the additional samples will be sent to the laboratory at National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), according to Dr V Ravi. “We can sequence 12 samples per run and it will take about 72 hours to sequence a sample. While the run takes about 12 to 24 hours, the analysis alone will take about 48 hours. NCBS will help us in sequencing a few samples and we have requested access to their server,” he said. Prof Satyajit Mayor, Director, NCBS said, “At NCBS, we have large next-generation sequencing arrays - Illumina, but we are also trying to set up Nanopore technology which will sequence a small number of samples. We can run even one sequence in Illumina but the cost is prohibitive. But Nimhans has this technology and we can help with the analysis of the sequence.” He further clarified that the reference strain to confirm whether the sample has the UK strain of the virus - will be taken from an international repository of genome sequences: GISAID. “We will be looking for a mutation in a single amino acid which is responsible for increased transmissibility. But there are nine mutants in the variant. To determine where the variant is coming from, we have to know the entire genome sequence.” GISAID is a global science initiative and primary source that provides open-access to genomic data of influenza viruses and the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nimhans-to-release-genetic-sequencing-of-uk-returnees-on-monday-931654.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 more UK returnees test positive||Ten more UK returnees tested positive on Friday, taking the tally to 14 in the state. The samples of 13 have already been sent to Nimhans for genetic sequencing. Dr Vijayendra BK, Chief Health Officer, Public Health, BBMP, said, “Seven of these are from Bengaluru. We haven’t received the lab reports for Friday but on Thursday, four patients tested positive, on Wednesday one patient tested positive, and on Tuesday two patients tested positive. We have only been focussing on the UK returnees from the past few days and contact tracing for these patients is underway.”  Meanwhile, Karnataka added 1,005 new Covid- 19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,14,488 and the toll to 12,044, onFriday. The day also saw 1,102 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are now 13,508 active cases in the state. The recoveries have reached 8,88,917 in the state. As many as 208 patients are in intensive care units. As many as 578 fresh cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, which also accounted for four deaths, followed by (79 cases), Hassan 43, Kalaburagi 34, and Dakshina Kannada district reported 30 cases. A total of 1,35,14,362 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,568 were tested on Friday alone. Till date tests have been conducted on 1,419 UK passengers who have arrived in Karnataka, out of whom 14 are positive, 744 are negative and results of 661 areawaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-931657.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Car with sleeping child towed away in Mangaluru||Traffic cops in Mallikatte towed away a car without realising that a seven-year-old boy was asleep in the backseat, an incident which saw a lot of traction on social media. A woman had come to the market with her two children and a driver. She took her elder child to the market, leaving her younger son, who was fast asleep, with the driver. The driver locked the car and stepped away to give the woman her phone from the car, and when he returned, the car had been towed.   The police defended their decision, saying that the car was parked haphazardly and they could not see well due to the tinted windows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/car-with-sleeping-child-towed-away-in-mangaluru-931707.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Don't panic over second wave of Covid-19, says district minister||District-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary urged people not to panic regarding the second wave of Covid-19 infections but to take all precautionary measures to check the spread of the virus. He assured people that the health department has taken all measures to tackle the second wave in January and February. He added that government guidelines dictate that 2950 RT PCR tests be conducted in the district daily, advising that 3350 samples should be tested daily till February. A district war room will be set up to trace the second wave with a team of communicable disease experts. Ambulances, ICUs and ventilators will be readied to treat the patients. He said that with the help of NGOs, Covid care centres should be readied in the district. After reviewing the Covid-19 situation, a decision will be taken regarding the opening of schools. The district authorities will also draw a blueprint of the vaccine administration plan, once it becomes available in the state. Swimming pools will not be opened until February end. Religious meets, mass gathering and celebrations are restricted in the district, Poojary said. Only 200 people are allowed to take part in public programs while only 25 persons can take part in final rites, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-panic-over-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-district-minister-931711.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Selfish people behind farmer protests, says Yediyurappa||Calling those protesting the controversial farm laws  “selfish,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said that 99% of the farmers supported the reforms. Speaking at the “Farmers’ Day” event organised by the BJP to commemorate the 96th birthday of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Yediyurappa assured minimum support price (MSP) for crops in the state, adding that his government strives for farmers’ welfare. By amending the laws, Yediyurappa said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided an opportunity for farmers to sell their produce anywhere. “They can trade inside or outside an APMC, in any part of the state or country. PM Modi has provided this opportunity to farmers. However, some selfish people are protesting the legislations. But, 99 out of 100 farmers have welcomed the laws,” the CM said. Noting that the vision of the union government was to double farmers’ income, he said the state government would stand firmly behind farmers. “I assure you that the Karnataka government will wipe the tears of farmers. It will provide MSP for crops to ensure a life of dignity for farmers,” he said. Congratulating Modi, Yediyurappa said that the PM Kisan Samman Yojana on the 96th birthday of Vajpayee was a welcome move. “Government benefits are being transferred directly to farmer accounts and the scheme has curbed the menace of middlemen in providing benefits,” he said. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said that he and Agriculture Minister BC Patil would travel to all districts in the state in January and explain the benefits of new laws to the farming community. Ahead of the event, farmers were felicitated by Yediyurappa and other ministers as part of the Farmers’ Day event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/selfish-people-behind-farmer-protests-says-yediyurappa-931673.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Deve Gowda breaks silence, says JD(S) will be kept alive; party working to return to power in 2023||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda on Saturday vowed to keep the regional party alive and that it would try to come to power “on its own strength” in the 2023 Assembly elections in Karnataka. With this, Gowda said he wanted to draw the curtains on speculation that the JD(S) would get merged with the BJP. “I was a former PM. Will I take the party to somebody else’s doorsteps? Does this make any sense? Which astrologer made this prophecy,” he asked at a news conference in which he mostly attacked the Congress. “Let’s not speak so lightly about a political party. This party can’t be so easily removed. It’s not just Deve Gowda and his son, but there are other people who will keep the party afloat,” Gowda said. Asked about the 2023 elections, Gowda said the JD(S) was working towards winning a majority independently, ruling out a merger with the BJP. “Today, that question doesn’t arise. Let’s see what mandate the people are going to give. We’re working towards coming to power on our own,” he said. Gowda broke his silence on reports that the JD(S) was getting closer to the BJP, especially after the two parties came together to dislodge Legislative Council chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty. Gowda said the JD(S) had asked the Congress to cede this post in 2018, when the two parties formed a coalition to form the government. “I asked Horatti to file his papers. But he was finally forced to withdraw and this hurt him. He’s a 7-time member,” Gowda said. “With just 78 seats, the Congress made K R Ramesh Kumar as the Assembly Speaker. Would that have been possible without our support?” he said. “All this drama happened because (Congress) wanted to test my secular credentials.” Breathing fire, Gowda said the Congress also had switched sides. “Wasn’t Mamata Banerjee the railway minister in the BJP government? What happened in Bihar? And, didn’t you form the government with Shiv Sena? When the Godhra incident happened, who misled the Muslims. Let them be true to their soul,” he said and asked if the Congress had “taken the contract of Muslims” just to destroy the secularity of the JD(S). “Rahul Gandhi, a future Prime Minister, was made to say that the JD(S) was the BJP’s ‘B’ team. Who made him say this? What was the result of that? Why did you get reduced to 78 seats despite giving rice, milk and bhagyas,” he said, his anger directed at his former protege Siddaramaiah of the Congress. “The same secular party that called us the BJP’s ‘B’ team later knocked at my door.” Gowda said the JD(S) wanted to strengthen the Congress. “It wasn’t my son who went to anybody to become the CM. For his swearing-in, secular leaders from all over India came, including six CMs. That was a time when the Congress had lost its identity in 18 states. Who spoiled this,” he asked in rhetoric. He also defended the party’s decision to support the passage of the Karnataka Land Reforms Bill, which liberalises ownership of farmlands. Referring to an amendment Bill he had moved when he was the CM in the mid-1990s, Gowda said a single-window agency was created to facilitate ease of investments. “Who spoiled this? Was it Deve Gowda’s government or Congress’ government,” he asked, adding that successive governments had amended the land reforms law. Gowda has convened a mega meeting of the JD(S) on January 7, 2020, at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru. This meeting will be a litmus test of sorts. “Grassroots party workers, legislators...everyone has been called. Those who’re honest will come, those who aren’t will go. This meeting will reveal the ground reality,” Gowda said. He said he had asked his son, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, to focus on the party’s organization by forming a core committee of 8-9 senior leaders to take decisions. Regional parties, he said, had become “inevitable” for the country. “In Tamil Nadu, it’s been 50 years. NT Rama Rao’s party is still there. Biju Janata Dal has won four times. Mamata has won two terms. Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar...We didn’t do this for my family. We’ll keep this party alive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/deve-gowda-breaks-silence-says-jds-will-be-kept-alive-party-working-to-return-to-power-in-2023-931809.html
26-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Farmers should have an open mind towards farm laws: HD Kumaraswamy||JD(S) Legislature Party leader HD Kumaraswamy said that the agitating farmers should have an open mind towards the new farm laws even as he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put an end to the prolonged protests. “I personally feel that farmers should have an open mind towards ‘experimenting’ with the new legislation,” Kumaraswamy, a former chief minister, said in a series of tweets. “For quite some time there has been a strong public opinion that the Indian agricultural sector is caught in a vicious circle. It is very much necessary on our part to be ready for any experiment if it can bring about the welfare of the farm sector by rescuing it from the vicious circle,” he said. PM Modi should hold a “decisive” meeting to end the deadlock, he added. “This is inevitable in the interest of protecting the country’s dignity.” Expressing concern that the farmers’ protest could paint a bad image for India, Kumaraswamy said that Modi should also realise that “the reputation and name earned by himself after becoming the prime minister may get blemished through such protests”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/farmers-should-have-an-open-mind-towards-farm-laws-hd-kumaraswamy-931881.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Nanjangud Temple richer by Rs 1.98 cr||The popular Srikanteshwara Temple in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru district, has created a record by collecting Rs 1.98 crore, in the last 45 days. The counting of offering boxes was held on Thursday. The counting of 31 boxes was held, and in all, Rs 1,98,47,290 cash, 77 grams of gold, 5.7 kg silver and 16 foreign currencies were collected. Around 25 employees of Bank of Baroda, Nanjangud branch, and 150 women of Self Help Groups took part in the counting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/nanjangud-temple-richer-by-rs-198-cr-931616.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||GP polls: ‘Rs 2k for each vote’||With the authorities gearing up for the second phase of gram panchayat elections to be held on December 27, it is alleged that the voters are being lured with cash, in Pandavapura taluk, Mandya district. It is alleged that the candidates are distributing Rs 2,000 cash for each vote. Some leaders have taken the responsibility to ensure that their candidates win the elections and have been distributing cash, according to the villagers. Some political leaders, who have taken the GP polls as a prestige issue, are trying to attract the voters with freebies and cash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/gp-polls-rs-2k-for-each-vote-931618.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Animal adoption, blood camp mark Vajpayee’s birth anniversary fete||BJP workers and members of other organisations celebrated birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in various parts of the Mysuru on Friday. Events like animal adoption and blood donation camp were organised. Jeevadhara Blood Bank adopted a chimpanzee at Mysuru Zoo by payingRs 10,000. The authorities of the blood bank distributed pamphlets to create awareness about blood donation. Zoo Authority of Karnataka chairman L R Mahadevaswamy said Vajpayee was an animal lover and the day is special. He urged the people to adopt animals. ‘Sushasana Dina’ Members of BJP Backward Classes Morcha celebrated ‘Sushasana Day’. They took up a cleanliness drive atBalamuri Ganapati temple on Dr Rajkumar Road in Mysuru.BJP workers distributed short-term loans to street vendors at the BJP office. Mysuru city BJP president T S Srivatsa distributed Rs 10,000 loan to 28 vendors. In addition, sweaters were distributed to 100 vendors. MLA L Nagendra, BJP leaders M V Ravishankar, Somashekar Raju and Corporator Vedavathi were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/animal-adoption-blood-camp-mark-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary-fete-931619.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||MM Hill temple: fee for golden chariot seva increased by Rs 500||Male Mahadeshwara Swamy Temple Development Authority has increased the charge of the Golden Chariot Utsav by Rs 500. The devotees fulfill their vow, by pulling the chariot around the temple, by paying the charges for the seva, which is held every evening. The rate for the seva, which was Rs 2,501 has been increased to Rs 3,001, with effect from December 25 (Friday), according to Temple authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy. The procession is held every day at 7 pm. Hundreds of devotees gather to be a part of the utsav. It may be mentioned that the Authority had hiked the price of the ladu prasada by Rs 5, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mm-hill-temple-fee-for-golden-chariot-seva-increased-by-rs-500-931620.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Do not impose strict restrictions on public over Covid-19, says Pratap Simha||MP Pratap Simha, on Friday, urged the State government not to impose heavy restrictions on the public in the wake of Covid-19.    Speaking to reporters, here, he said that the people need to attend to their routine work and it is not possible to keep them inside houses for a long time. “People are under restriction since March. How many more days of restrictions can be imposed? The government must think about free distribution of Covid vaccination to the people, rather thanimposing restrictions,” he said. The MP said, “I have visited Delhi and there are rumours about a new variant of Covid-19 which is deadly and spreads very fast. But, experts’ claim that the virus may spread fast, but, it is not deadly.” “Don’t impose heavy restrictions on people in the name of Covid. Let the government make wearing mask mandatory. But, people should not be harassed in the name of masks. The authorities concerned are harassing public by stopping vehicles to check masks,” he said. Government flayed MLC A H Vishwanath welcomed the State government’s move of lifting night curfew. The MLC had criticised the government for imposing night curfew. “I would welcome the night curfew, but people are against it. They have not taken night curfew seriously,” he had said and had advised to impose curfew on December 31 and January 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/do-not-impose-strict-restrictions-on-public-over-covid-19-says-pratap-simha-931621.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru bakery to create record in baking cup cake||A Mysuru-based bakery, a division of a chain of supermarkets, is all set to create a new Guinness World Record by baking a 1,500 kg cup cake, to mark the New Year. The present record is of a cup cake weighing 1,176.6 kg by Georgetown Cupcake (USA). M Muhammed, executive director of Loyal World Group, said to bake the edible cup cake a special oven has been erected. Addressing a media conference here on Friday, he said, “The oven, which will bake the 1,500 kg cake, at a time, is also expected to create another record. The cake will be baked on Saturday at one go, for 12 hours and will be on display at the V V Mohalla branch of Loyal World, in Mysuru, on December 27 and 28. It has a shelf-life of seven days. Still, it will be distributed to people of economically backward classes and inmates of orphanages, on the second day.” Lal Othayath, head chef of Loyal World Group, said, the cake will be five feet in diameter and three ft tall. “For this, our team has built a traditional brick oven, which is seven ft wide and six ft tall. The cake might need 380 kg of wheat flour, 450 kg sugar, 450 kg white butter and 10,000 eggs,” he said. Bake with a purpose Muhammed said, “Loyal World Group has been putting its baking skills to a challenge every year, with unique creations. This time, we aspired to take up something that conveys a positive message and instills hope among people. Thus, we came up with the campaign ‘Bake with a Purpose’. Through this campaign, we wish to show that there is definitely light at the end of the tunnel.” P P Sasi, general manager, said, in view of the current situation, we are launching an online app of Aroma Bakers, available on iOS app store: https://apple.co/3qRdik8 and Android play store: https://bit.ly/3gFGmpT Discount announced “A flat 50% off will be offered on the first order on the App (promo code: FLAT50).Details can be availed on www.aromabakers.com. We pledge 10% of the revenue from the sales of the next one year to the frontline Covid workers, who have worked tirelessly to ensure our safety over their own health and family,” he said. Manager Afsar Ahmed and operations, head, Aroma Bakery, P V Sunil were present in the press meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-bakery-to-create-record-in-baking-cup-cake-931622.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||MP blames Siddaramaiah over beef row||MP Pratap Simha slammed Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah for his comments that Kodavas eat beef. The MP urged him not to make lose remarks. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Simha said that instead of apologising, Siddaramaiah has claimed that his statements were misinterpreted. "Being a senior leader, Siddaramaiah should not make such lose comments. I don't know, why he is issuing such statements?" the MP asked. He told Siddaramaiah, "It is not right to claim that all Kurubas eat beef, because you eat it. Some Kodavas known to you may eat beef, but, it is not right to say all Kodavas eat beef. Siddaramaiah may not have reverence for cows, but, lakhs of Hindus do. Hindus consider cow as second mother. Siddaramaiah should not hurt their sentiments."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mp-blames-siddaramaiah-over-beef-row-931623.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||District Administration all set for GP elections||The District Administration has geared up for the second phase of Gram Panchayat (GP) polls in Mysuru district, scheduled for December 27, Sunday, from7 am to 5 pm. The first phase of the election was held on December 22 and the counting of votes of both the phases will be on December 30, at the respective taluk headquarters. The polls will be held for a total of 102 GPs of three taluks - Mysuru, Nanjangud and T Narasipur - with 721 wards and 1,929 seats. However, the election will be held for 1,834 seats as 82 candidates have been elected unanimously and no nomination papers are received for 13 seats. A total of 5,069 candidates are in the fray. In Mysuru taluk, there are 23 GPs and the authorities have established a total of 237 polling booths. In Nanjangud, as many as 43 GPs are going to the polls and there are 386 voting centres. Likewise, in T Narasipur, there are 36 GPs and polling will be held in 307 polling stations. There are a total of 6,30,488 voters - 3,16,651 men and 3.,13,800 women - in the three taluks. In Mysuru taluk, the electorate comprises 1,63,657 people, including 81,044 women and 10 other gender. Nanjangud taluk has 2,63,214 lakh voters, including 1,30,734 women and 27 others. T Narasipur taluk has 2,03,617 lakh voters, including 1,02,022 women voters. The mustering will be held on Saturday. In Mysuru, the mustering will be held at Maharani’s Commerce and Management College on Valmiki Road.     The District Aadministration has deputed a total of 4,092 staff for election purpose. The authorities have allotted 152 KSRTC buses, 13 mini buses or maxi cabs and 15 jeeps for election duty. Covid-19 An officer said in the wake of Covid-19 crisis, adequate precautions have been taken as per the directions of the State Election Commission. Anganwadi and Asha workers are deputed for poll duty. Thermal screening and hand sanitisers will be made mandatory in polling booths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/district-administration-all-set-for-gp-elections-931624.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Take measures to prevent spread of new Corona variant: CS||State Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, in a video conference, told the officials to take all precautionary measures, to prevent the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, in Hassan district. The meeting was attended by Deputy Commissioner R Girish, SP R Srinivas Gowda and officials of the Health department and medical college. Vijayabhaskar directed the officials to increase RT-PCR tests and also to identify the primary contacts of the infected. Asymptomatic patients should be kept under home isolation and those in need of medical help should be treated in hospitals, he stressed. The list of those who have returned from Britain after December 2, have been sent to the respective districts. All travelers should be identified and subject to tests. They should be kept under isolation till the results are available. The samples should be sent to NIMHANS, in Bengaluru, for further tests, he said. Health department additional chief secretary Jaffar Akthar said as per the experts’ report, the new variant of coronavirus is not very dangerous. But, as its transmission is very high, all steps should be taken to prevent its spread. ZP CEO D Bharathi, Additional SP B N Nandini and Additional DC Kavitha Rajaram were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/take-measures-to-prevent-spread-of-new-corona-variant-cs-931626.html
26-12-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: UK returnee tests positive for Covid-19||A man who returned from the UK to Mysuru on December 13 has tested positive for Covid-19. It is yet to be confirmed whether he is infected with the new variant of the coronavirus which sent Britain into strict lockdowns and cut off its air-ties with countries across the world. According to sources, the person returned from the UK and underwent tests. His samples have been sent to a lab in Bengaluru to test for the new strain. The person is under institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-uk-returnee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-931804.html
26-12-2020||National||8 UK-returned people test Covid-19 positive during Delhi govt's door-to-door drive||In the ongoing door-to-door contact drive being conducted by the Delhi government to test UK-returned persons for the prevalence of Covid-19, eight have so far been found infected with the coronavirus, officials said on Friday. A total of 19 passengers out of over 13,000 who landed from the UK at the IGI airport here between November 25 and December 21 have been found positive for the virus.  Eleven were tested positive at the airport while eight others were found positive during the door to door contact and testing drive being carried out in all the districts of the city, said a top Delhi government source. "All the 19 positive patients have been admitted to the special facility set up at LNJP hospital where they will undergo genome testing to determine whether they are infected by the super spreader strain of the coronavirus that has been reported in the United Kingdom," the source said. So far, one person each in the south-east and south-west districts of Delhi who returned from the UK in recent weeks were reported positive for the virus. The remaining positive persons were residents of other districts. A person from Dwarka in south-west Delhi who had returned from the UK on December 19 has been diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. The father of that person has also tested positive but he is asymptomatic, an official said. The whole family has been quarantined in an institutional facility, the official said. In New Delhi district, the UK-returned passengers are being tested through RTPCR tests. No one has tested positive so far, they said. The door to door contact and monitoring is also underway to keep watch on the persons who returned from the UK in the last few weeks. Among them, those showing even the slightest symptoms are being RTPCR tested, they said. Out of the over 13,000 passengers who landed at IGI airport from the UK, around 1400 have been identified as Delhi residents, officials said. The list of passengers provided by the Bureau of Civil Aviation is being sorted and all the Delhi residents who returned from the UK are being contacted, they said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that tracing and testing of all those who travelled to Delhi from the UK in the past two weeks will be ensured. “Delhi Government is aware, and all the people who have travelled from the UK to Delhi in the past two weeks will be traced, tested and advised quarantine," he had said in a statement. The authorities have enhanced monitoring of city residents who returned in the past few weeks from the UK to prevent any violation of home isolation, Delhi government officials said on Wednesday. Teams of health department and civil defence volunteers have been deployed at the district level to keep watch on those persons who returned from the UK between November 25 and December 23 and tested negative but have to undergo home isolation. The government has set up a separate facility at the LNJP hospital for those passengers from the UK who were found corona positive in RT-PCR tests conducted at IGI airport, for their treatment and genomic testing, officials said. Besides, a five-star hotel in Aerocity near the airport has been earmarked as a paid quarantine facility, while a Covid care centre in south Delhi will serve as a free institutional isolation facility for passengers from flights in which positive cases are detected, they said. Those passengers who have returned from the UK in the past few weeks and are found negative will undergo two weeks home isolation followed by another two weeks period under observation, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-uk-returned-people-test-covid-19-positive-during-delhi-govts-door-to-door-drive-931615.html
26-12-2020||National||4-year-old Odisha girl tests Covid-positive after returning from UK||A four-year-old girl, who had returned from the United Kingdom along with her parents, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in Bhubaneswar, an official said. The girl and her parents had returned to Bhubaneswar on December 20. However, the parents tested negative for Covid-19, said Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation's Additional Commissioner Suvendu Sahu. The couple will again undergo the Covid-19 test on Saturday in order to further confirm their status. All the family members are in institutional quarantine as per the guideline, he said. Earlier, a 34-year-old man who returned from the UK had tested positive for Covid-19. His sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for confirmation if he has the new strain of the virus that spreads faster. Ganjam district collector VA Kulange said that at least three persons have returned to Berhampur from the UK recently. "One of the three returnees has been traced and is in-home quarantine. We have also conducted the RT-PCR test twice and the results were found negative. Contact tracing for the other two is underway," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-year-old-odisha-girl-tests-covid-positive-after-returning-from-uk-931617.html
26-12-2020||National||970 passengers arrive at Mumbai International Airport, 489 quarantined||As many as 970 passengers landed at the Mumbai international airport from different parts of the world including Europe and the Middle-East on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Of them, 489 were quarantined in the city. The passengers arrived by eight international flights during the day. Since the detection of a new variant of coronavirus in the UK, institutional quarantine has been made mandatory for all arrivals from Europe and the Middle-East. Three out of eight flights arrived from Europe and Middle East countries, carrying a total of 120 passengers. Of them, 32 were kept in institutional quarantine in Mumbai. Six passengers were exempted, said municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. "Two people were above 80 years of age, two were pregnant ladies and two others were exempted on account of medical emergency," he said. The rest were allowed to travel to other states. Flights from the UK have already been suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/970-passengers-arrive-at-mumbai-international-airport-489-quarantined-931625.html
26-12-2020||National||Not farmers but 'farm-grabbers' may lose land: Jitendra Singh on new farm laws||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Friday said "farm-grabbers" may lose land that has been illegitimately taken away from farmers and not that of the agriculturists. He refuted the false rumours that the farmers will lose ownership of their land under the new farm laws. Participating in a special programme of PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi digitally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Nagrota panchayat in Barnoti block, the minister said misgivings were sought to be spread even in Kathua district that the ownership and registry papers of farmers will be cancelled as per the new law. “These misgivings and lies are being spread, precisely, by those who have over the years illegally or forcibly taken away the land from innocent farmers and built their mansions or commercial establishments on it,” said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. Instead of there being any threat to farmer's land, he clarified that on the contrary, action has been initiated to retrieve the agricultural land that is occupied by "non-farmers" in an unauthorised manner so that it could be restored back for agricultural purposes. The action initiated against the Roshni scam and other land scams recently is actually meant to restore back to the farmers the land ownership rights, the minister said. "Not the farmers but the farm grabbers may lose land which has been illegitimately taken away from the farmer," Singh told PTI. He recalled that ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took over in 2014, the central government has, one after the other, taken a series of path-breaking decisions for the benefit of farmers. The minister described the new farm laws as democratisation of the agricultural sector and living up to the concept of one nation-one agriculture market. The young modern agricultural technocrat will now have the freedom to choose the buyer for his produce from wherever he wants and at the same time go for the best price available from wherever it is, Singh pointed out. “Jammu & Kashmir is known for its progressive agriculture sector. There is no arrangement of mandis here but even in other parts of the country, the existing APMC mandis are not going to be abolished as is being rumoured in certain quarters,” Singh further said. The recently concluded District Development Council elections in which farmers living in the panchayats across Jammu and Kashmir participated have also endorsed the pro-farmer policies of PM Modi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-farmers-but-farm-grabbers-may-lose-land-jitendra-singh-on-new-farm-laws-931642.html
26-12-2020||National||DH Toon | Farmers' protest: 'Never. Never fall for their words!'||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws as an "experiment" for a year or two and in case they are found not beneficial for the farming community, the government will do all necessary amendments. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on Delhi borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws enacted in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-protest-never-never-fall-for-their-words-931696.html
26-12-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on December 26||India crossed the 1-crore mark for coronavirus infections as the country witnessed a substantial drop in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  10,186,137 as of December 26 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,47,575 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 97,17,834  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-december-26-931697.html
26-12-2020||National||India log daily deaths below 300 after over 6 months, 22,273 new cases reported||India's daily new Covid-19 fatality count was reported below 300 after over six months, taking the death toll to 1,47,343, while the infection tally rose to 1,01,69,118, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. A total of 251 more deaths and 22,273 new infections were reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,40,108, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.78 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 2,81,667 active coronavirus infections in the country, constituting 2.77 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,71,59,289 samples have been tested up to December 25, including 8,53,527 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-log-daily-deaths-below-300-after-over-6-months-22273-new-cases-reported-931745.html
26-12-2020||National||India, UAE witness soaring relations in 2020||The traditionally harmonious relationship between the UAE and India was further cemented in the year 2020 with their top leadership holding regular parleys to enhance cooperation on bilateral, regional and multilateral fronts in the post-Covid era, including the welfare of the vast Indian community in the Gulf kingdom. The growing strategic relations between the two countries were reflected in two high-level visits from India – External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in November and Chief of Army Staff Gen. M M Naravane in December. Jaishankar met the UAE’s top leadership, focussing on enhancing cooperation on various facets of their comprehensive strategic partnership including trade, investment, infrastructure, energy, food security and defence. He held high-level meetings with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Ruler of Dubai who is also the Prime Minister and Vice President of UAE Sheikh Mohamed bin Rashid Al Maktoum. The two sides also discussed prospects for economic cooperation between India and the UAE in the post-Covid-19 era and the situation in the neighbourhood of both countries. India’s concern for the welfare of 3.3 million Indians living in the UAE, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, was one of the main points during the deliberations. Jaishankar thanked Sheikh Mohammed for taking care of the Indian community, underlining that India had been a reliable partner to the UAE in all respects during this difficult period. He also assured the diaspora of the Indian government's responsiveness on issues pertaining to post-Covid normalcy. Naravane’s visit to the UAE was historic as it was the first-ever by the head of the Indian Army to the country. He met Commander of the UAE’s Land Forces and Staff Major General Saleh Mohammed Saleh Al Ameri and discussed key issues of mutual interest and defence cooperation. The visit is expected to further open up new avenues for cooperation in the defence and security sphere. Indians constitute roughly 30 per cent of the country's population. Earlier in March, the Crown Prince assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the health and safety of the Indian community during the pandemic as the two leaders exchanged information and views on the Covid-19 pandemic, the situation in their respective countries, as well as the steps being taken by their governments to deal with the situation. Jaishankar, who has taken a special interest in the India-UAE bilateral relationship, said: "It is a relationship where the highest leadership of both countries have invested goodwill and energy. As a result, you can see the transformation during the last five years." The ties between India and the UAE are on an upswing in the last few years and the leaders of the two countries have been holding regular parleys this year to strengthen them further in the post-Covid era, especially on the economic front. With the robust flow of bilateral investments and an annual bilateral trade of about $60 billion, the UAE is India's third-largest trade partner. The influential Gulf nation is also a major exporter of crude oil to India. India has also invited further investments from the UAE in key sectors of the Indian economy such as infrastructure including logistics, food parks, highways, ports, airports, renewable energy and defence. In September, the Consulate General of India, Dubai, and Tea Board India co-organised a virtual B2B Meet to promote Indian tea in the UAE. As the pandemic wreaked havoc across the world, it provided an opportunity for the two countries to come closer and extend a helping hand to each other to sail through the crisis. In May, the UAE sent seven metric tonnes of medical supplies to India to bolster its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "UAE assistance to India comes in recognition of the profound and brotherly ties our two countries have shared throughout the years," the UAE's Ambassador to India Ahmed Abdul Rahman AlBanna had said. India repatriated its 84,497 citizens from the UAE under the Vande Bharat Mission, the country’s biggest-ever repatriation exercise to bring back its citizens stranded abroad amidst the international travel lockdown over the pandemic. The UAE is also one of the countries with which India has formed an air bubble arrangement to operate flights amid the pandemic. India also welcomed the "full normalisation" of ties between the UAE and Israel, its key strategic allies, under a historic peace deal brokered by the US, asserting that it has consistently supported peace, stability and development in West Asia. From an Indian perspective, the normalisation of the UAE-Israel ties has started bearing fruit. On December 14, it was announced that the International Federation of the Indo-Israel Chambers of Commerce (IFIICC) has been launched in the UAE to broaden the relationship between the Indian diaspora and Israel. At the event, it was agreed that scientific research, IT, AgriTech and food security, health care and sustainability are areas of natural synergy among India, Israel and the UAE. As India looked for a venue to conduct the Indian Premier League owing to the Covid-19 situation, the strong relations between the two countries were once again highlighted with UAE playing host to the popular cricket season with eight star-studded teams playing 60 matches for nearly two months in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uae-witness-soaring-relations-in-2020-931752.html
26-12-2020||National||8 UK returnees to Kerala test positive for Covid-19; samples sent to NIV, Pune||Eight people who recently returned from the UK to Kerala, have tested positive for coronavirus and their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic analysis. Health Minister K K Shailaja said on Saturday that samples of eight returnees were found positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent to NIV for further tests. Following this development, it has been decided to subject the returnees to more tests, she added. Surveillance at the four international airports in the state has been further strengthened. After the recently held local body polls, it was feared that there would be a massive surge in cases. However, that did not occur. The death rate did not go up in the state as the government had taken precautionary steps in this regard, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-uk-returnees-to-kerala-test-positive-for-covid-19-samples-sent-to-niv-pune-931767.html
26-12-2020||National||Biting cold persists in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar reels at 2.2 degrees Celsius||Biting cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday, with Hisar reeling at a low of 2.2 degrees Celsius. Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place in the state, while Narnaul too experienced a cold night at 3 degrees Celsius, Meteorological department officials here said. Among other places in the state, Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak, Ambala and Bhiwani recorded their respective minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius, 5.3 degrees Celsius and 5.6 degrees Celsius, they said. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also braved a cold weather, registering a low of 4.2 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Adampur recorded a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius. Pathankot, Halwara and Bathinda too braved intense chill, registering respective minimums of 3.5 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius. Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala were also under the grip of biting cold, recording respective minimums of 4.2 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees Celsius and 4.8 degrees Celsius, the weather office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biting-cold-persists-in-haryana-punjab-hisar-reels-at-22-degrees-celsius-931770.html
26-12-2020||National||PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat scheme to extend health insurance to Jammu and Kashmir residents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme via video-conferencing to extend health insurance coverage to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The Prime Minister's Office said the scheme will ensure universal health coverage and focus on providing financial risk protection and ensuring quality and affordable essential health services to all individuals and communities. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the Union Territory's Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha, also spoke on the occasion. The scheme will provide free-of-cost insurance cover to all residents of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, the PMO said, adding that it will extend financial cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis to all residents of the UT. There is provision for operational extension of the 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana' (PM-JAY) to approximately 15 lakh additional families, the PMO statement said, adding that the scheme will operate on insurance mode in convergence with PM-JAY. The benefits of the scheme will be portable across the country. The hospitals empanelled under the PM-JAY scheme shall provide services under this scheme as well, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-ayushman-bharat-scheme-to-extend-health-insurance-to-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-931772.html
26-12-2020||National||Congress has turned feeble, disintegrated: Shiv Sena||The Congress, which is in the opposition at the national level, has turned "feeble and disintegrated", Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said on Saturday, and suggested that all anti-BJP parties, including the Sena, should come together under the UPA banner to provide a formidable alternative. It said that those in power at the Centre were indifferent towards the ongoing farmers' protest, and "ineffective" opposition is the most prominent reason behind the government's apathy. The 'Saamana' also said that instead of blaming the central government, the main opposition party should introspect about its leadership issue. "Farmers are protesting on the national capital borders. But the rulers in Delhi are completely indifferent towards this agitation. Disintegrated and feeble opposition party is the main reason behind the government's indifference. Ineffective opposition is leading to this disintegration of democracy," it said. "Instead of blaming the government, the opposition party should introspect. There has to be a mass appeal to the opposition leadership. But on this front, that party is standing on the brink," it said. "Rahul Gandhi individually is putting up a strong fight, but something is lacking...The present condition of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) is like an NGO. Even the UPA constituents do not seem to have taken the farmers' protest seriously. There is no clarity about what these constituents exactly do," the Marathi daily said. "NCP chief Sharad Pawar is an independent personality at the national level. In West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is waging a lonely battle. The country's opposition party should stand by her at this time. Mamata Banerjee has contacted only Pawar and he is going to Bengal. But this should have been done under the leadership of the Congress," it said. "Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Akhilesh Yadav, Jaganmohan Reddy's YSR Congress, K Chandrasekhar Rao from Telangana, Odisha's Naveen Patnaik, Karnataka's H D Kumaraswamy are all against the BJP, but they are not part of the Congress-led UPA. Unless all of them join the UPA, the opposition cannot provide a formidable alternative," it added. "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested in Delhi (during a protest march over farm laws); Rahul Gandhi was publicly ridiculed by the BJP; the Thackeray government in Maharashtra is not allowed to function; BJP leaders are on record saying that the prime minister was instrumental in toppling the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. All this is not good for democracy," it said. The onus of ensuring that the situation does not deteriorate further is on the Congress party, 'Saamana' said. "Senior Congress leaders like Ahmed Patel, Motilal Vora are no more. There is no clarity on who will lead the Congress and what the future of the UPA is. Just like there is no party other than the BJP in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), there is no one else in the UPA. But the BJP is in complete power and they have powerful leadership in Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. The UPA has none," it said. "Alarm bells are ringing that if the Congress does not give a serious thought to these issues, then future looks difficult for everyone," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-has-turned-feeble-disintegrated-shiv-sena-931775.html
26-12-2020||National||WW2-era's greetings card shows sender invoking 'Kalki' to bring victory for Allies||Christmas and New Year's cards in 1930s had a different artistic appeal, but World War II that broke out in 1939 impacted the way people exchanged greetings in India during the holiday season. World War II took place from September 1939 to September 1945, meaning six times, Christmas and New Year were celebrated under the shadow of the deadly warfare that altered the course of history. A family, resident of the old Patna, has found in its archives some rare season's greeting cards of that period. Perhaps, the most unique card among the collection is the one sent by the then ruler of erstwhile Burdwan Raj, Maharajadhiraja Bahadur Bijay Chand Mahtab, said Aditya Jalan, the current scion of the Jalan family of the legendary Quila House in Patna City. "May Kalki bring Victory to the Allies, and Peace and Goodwill on earth, is the Christmas and New Year's wish to you from Maharajadhiraja Bahadur of Burdwan," reads the 1939 card sent to Rai Bahadur Radha Krishna Jalan, great grandfather of Aditya Jalan. On the greetings page's bottom left corner is printed, "Bijay Manzil Calcutta 1939/40". Bijay Manzil or Burdwan House is an exquisite mansion, built by the royal family as a residence in Calcutta (now Kolkata). The cover of the card carries a sketch of 'Kalki' -- tenth avatar of Lord Vishnu -- riding a winged horse sitting on planet Earth and brandishing a sword with a halo over his head. 'Kalki Avatar' is written on a band across the planet. Warplanes circle around him as he charges forward in the high heavens, as depicted on the cover. The Allied Powers eventually won the war which came to an end soon after the dropping of atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Other season's greetings cards in the archives, include those sent to R K Jalan by Maharaja of Cochin from Tripunittura Hill Palace in Cochin, Hathwa Raj of Bihar, Raja of Kollengode in Thrissur, all from 1937. From the World War II era is another 1939 Christmas greetings card sent by Raja of Kanika in Orissa (now Odisha). A large black and white photo of an Art Deco building is printed on the left side of card, with a caption, 'Kanika House - Hardinge Avenue, New Delhi'. There is one sent by the Maharaja of Travancore with a sepia-toned photo of Kovalam beach on the facing side of the card. Another interesting season's greetings card is of 1938 sent by R K Jalan to a couple in Sussex, England, which was "returned to the sender". "We are lucky to see this rare card, as it was returned. It has not only Christmas and New Year's greetings but also a whole collage of photos of the new Quila House, whose construction was completed the same year, spread over two pages," Aditya said. Maharaja Fateh Singh Museum, Baroda has shared a photo of a rare vintage Christmas and New Year's greetings card of pre-1939 period from its collection related to the erstwhile royal family of the Gaikwads in Baroda, on its Instagram page to mark the holidays season. "This specially commissioned stationary by Smythson, London bares a delicate wreath of mistletoe, the Yuvraj's monogram of a famous aigrette and the Yuvrani's initials of 'SG' on mother of pearl. The art of this mother of pearl embossing is now mystery even to Smythson," reads a note attached to the post. The card, on the page facing the printed greetings sent by the Yuvrani, has a sepia-toned photograph of the iconic Pratap Vilas Palace in Baroda (now Vadodara). Aditya Jalan, 43, of the Quila House family says, specimens of rare artistic telegrams themed on Diwali, including a richly colourful one from 1930s, bearing the image of British coat of arms flanked by two women holding a plateful of 'diya' and sitting next to a ceremonial Indian lamp, embossed on the top portion, are also part of his collection. "We had earlier found rare Durga Puja greetings cards from 1930s. These cards, printed for different festivities, and other archive material give us a different window to the era gone by," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ww2-eras-greetings-card-shows-sender-invoking-kalki-to-bring-victory-for-allies-931787.html
26-12-2020||National||Surge in Covid-19 recoveries has reduced active caseload, says Union Health Ministry||The exponential rise in Covid-19 recoveries in tandem with lower daily infections has resulted in a consistent decline in India's active caseload, which presently stands at 2,81,667, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The active cases comprise 2.77 per cent of the country's total infections, it said. India's total number of recovered cases is nearing 97.5 lakh (97,40,108) and the cumulative Covid-19 recoveries are the highest in the world, the ministry said. The recovery rate has crossed 90 per cent in all states and union territories, it added. Since the last 29 days, the daily recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases. A total of 22,274 people recovered and were discharged the previous day, the ministry said. It said 73.56 per cent of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Among these, Kerala reported the highest number of single-day recoveries at 4,506, followed by 1,954 in West Bengal and 1,427 in Maharashtra. Kerala also reported the highest number of fresh cases at 5,397, followed by 3,431 in Maharashtra and 1,541 in West Bengal. As many as 251 case fatalities were reported in the country the previous day, the ministry said. Ten states and UTs account for 85.26 per cent of the new deaths. Of these, Maharashtra recorded the highest number of fatalities at 71, followed by 31 in West Bengal and 30 in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surge-in-covid-19-recoveries-has-reduced-active-caseload-says-union-health-ministry-931800.html
26-12-2020||National||Northeast has emerged as country's growth engine under leadership of PM Modi, says Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday asserted that the northeast has emerged as the growth engine of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said Modi considers the northeast as the focal point for the nation's development, and has visited the region "30 times in the last six years and each time, he has come with some gifts". Speaking at a programme to launch various projects, Shah said Assam has embarked on a journey of peace and development under Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. "Assam was earlier known for agitations and violence, but Sonowal and Sarma have unified the people of the state and the region with the rest of the country by upholding and promoting heritage and traditions," he said. Shah said NDA's triumph in the just-concluded Bodoland Territorial Council polls was like a semifinal before the assembly elections in which it will emerge winners with huge majority. The home minister said all militant organisations in the state have surrendered and returned to the mainstream. He also urged farmers agitating against the new agriculture laws to resolve their issues through discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/northeast-has-emerged-as-countrys-growth-engine-under-leadership-of-pm-modi-says-union-home-minister-amit-shah-931810.html
26-12-2020||National||Centre proposes to set up University of Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Sciences||The government has proposed to set up a "first of its kind" university covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment. In a public notice issued on December 24, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, has invited comments from stakeholders on a draft bill to set up the university.  In this regard, the DEPwD said, a draft bill namely the University of Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Sciences Bill, 2021 for establishing the proposed university has been prepared. The DEPwD said it intends to set up a University of Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Sciences, Kamrup district, Assam through a separate act of Parliament. "The proposed university, the first of its kind, will be a unique multidisciplinary academic institution conducting research, programmes and courses from bachelor's level onwards to cater to various disciplines covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment," the DEPwD said. The proposed university will have eight departments viz. disability studies; rehabilitation sciences; audiology and speech language pathology; special education; psychology; nursing; orthotics and prosthetics and assistive technology; and inclusive and universal design. "The proposed university's programmes will adopt a credit and grading system. The proposed university will offer affiliation to other institutions in disabilities and rehabilitation sciences in the country," it said. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities hereby invites comments from the public on the draft University of Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Sciences Bill, 2021 by January 3, 2021. Prominent disabled rights body National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled, however, called it another "ill-conceived idea", which denied adequate time or space for stakeholders to respond. "In this case, a mere nine days have been given to elicit response to a 131-page document," NPRD said in a statement.  "All the more unacceptable is the fact that this university would be 'self-sustaining', in tune with the thrust of the New Education Policy 2020. With finances being generated from tuition fees, affiliation fees etc. students from the marginalised sections will stand deprived," it said. "Rather than wasting huge amounts of money on self-sustaining segregated centres of learning, it would do auger well if the government adheres to the guiding principles of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of equality and non-discrimination and adopts and promotes an inclusive, multidisciplinary approach," the NPRD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-proposes-to-set-up-university-of-disability-studies-and-rehabilitation-sciences-931818.html
26-12-2020||National||More Punjab farmers head towards protest sites near Delhi||Carrying ration and other essential items with them, several batches of farmers from Punjab headed towards Delhi borders on Saturday to join the peasants protesting against the Centre's new agriculture-related laws for a month now. According to farmer union leaders, peasants from various places including Sangrur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Bathinda districts were headed towards Singhu and Tikri borders. They began their journey despite fog and biting cold wave conditions in many parts of Punjab on Saturday. Tractor trollies, cars and other vehicles carrying farmers, including elderly and women, were seen on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway, proceeding towards the borders with the national capital. It seemed the farmers were prepared for a long haul as they carried their ration and other essentials in their trollies. "We will rest only when the Modi government repeals the farm laws," said an elderly farmer headed from Amritsar to the protest site near Singhu border. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab's largest farmer organisations protesting against the recent laws, claimed that thousands of farmers will march from the Khanauri and Dabwali borders towards protest sites near the national capital. The outfit's General Secretary Sukhdev Singh said that many women are also part of the fresh batches of farmers. On Friday too, several batches of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) headed for the protest sites from Amritsar and other places. Meanwhile, for a second day on Saturday toll collection was halted at several highway points in Haryana -- including in Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts -- by the farmers protesting against the new agriculture-related laws. Responding to a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmers had on Friday halted toll collection on most highways in Haryana. Officials said toll collection remained halted at several toll points on Saturday too. A few days ago, the BKU had announced that toll booths in Haryana would not be allowed to collect charges between December 25 and 27. However, operations were normal at various toll plazas in Gurugram and Palwal districts. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been protesting for the past nearly a month near various border points of the national capital, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, which the ruling party has claimed are for farmers' benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-punjab-farmers-head-towards-protest-sites-near-delhi-931821.html
26-12-2020||National||ISRO developing green propulsion for human space mission Gaganyaan: K Sivan||Indian Space Research Organisation Chairman K Sivan on Saturday said the space agency was developing 'green propulsion' for its ambitious human space flight mission, 'Gaganyaan'. He also said it may be adopted for use in every stage of a rocket. He was speaking at the 16th convocation of SRM Institute of Science and Technology. Sivan, also the Secretary, Department of Space, advised the new graduates to take up 'calculated risk' in their life as it may safeguard them from 'absolute failure'. "As India continues to focus on economic growth, it needs to ensure that environmental damage is limited by adopting green technologies. ISRO has made space grade lithium-ion batteries and this technology is useful for mass adoption of electric vehicles", he noted. On the green propellant, Sivan said, "Even in the rocket propulsion, ISRO is developing green propulsion for its human space flight mission. In future, all the propulsion stages may adopt green propulsion," he said. According to ISRO, polar satellite launch vehicle (PSLV), a trusted workhorse of the space scientists -- is a four stage rocket filled with fuel which pushes the rocket to ensure that the satellite it carries is placed in the intended orbit. GSLV or a geo-stationery launch vehicle (GSLV) is a three stage rocket with a cryogenic upper stage. The Bengaluru-headquartered space agency had planned to launch its maiden human space flight mission 'Gaganyaan' by December 2021. But early this month, ISRO indicated that it is likely to be delayed by one year due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing students through virtual platform, the ISRO chief encouraged them to take up calculated risk as it would safeguard them from 'absolute failure.' "You may fail, but each failure would provide a valuable lesson. I can say with great confidence that India's space programme has been built on spectacular failures and each failure has resulted in improvements in our system", he said. Asking the students to innovate, Sivan said, innovation was not just having great idea on paper. "Innovation comes with a high risk of failure. You may be called crazy. Initial outcome of innovation may be imperfect. You must realize that if you are not failing, it means you are not trying anything hard", he said. Referring to the space sector reforms announced by the Centre in June, he said, "the government has already announced space sector reforms for greater participation of non- governmental entities in space activity". "Our next PSLV (polar satellite launch vehicle) launch will have satellite from start-up agencies which will be the first product of this reform." he said. On the SRM Satellite 'SRMSAT' launched by ISRO in 2011, he said it was in 'healthy condition' and urged the university to come forward and make use of the space sector reform as announced by the government of India. "ISRO is very much open to you all. I request SRM to come forward with their innovative idea of making space activities as required by the Government of India. I am sure that SRM will do this work", he said. The Digital India initiative by the Centre was a key area to leverage and ISRO has already initiated reforms to make digital assets available easily to industry as well as for startups for making innovative applications in navigation, earth observation as well as disaster management, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-developing-green-propulsion-for-human-space-mission-gaganyaan-k-sivan-931826.html
26-12-2020||National||RJD dares Nitish to snap ties with BJP over Arunachal Pradesh defections||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Saturday hinted at the possibility of a fresh alignment in Bihar if Chief Minister Nitish Kumar chose to snap ties with the BJP following the "humiliation" in Arunachal Pradesh. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary, however, made it clear that the ball lies in the court of the JD(U) boss who needed to realise that the development in the northeastern state, where his party MLAs defected en masse to the BJP, was aimed at "settling old scores". Tiwary recalled the incident of about a decade ago when Kumar had cancelled a dinner organised for visiting BJP leaders who were in Patna to take part in the party's national executive. "Nitish Kumar had then made it amply clear that while he was okay with the BJP, he was very much averse to Narendra Modi, his then Gujarat counterpart. Now, Modi is not a man who is going to forgive and forget the slight", Tiwary said. The veteran RJD leader, who has also been with the JD(U) for some time, insisted that the development in Arunachal Pradesh was "part of the chain of events that began with Chirag Paswans rebellion". Paswan, the LJP president, had pulled out of the NDA ahead of the Bihar assembly polls vowing to dislodge Kumar from power. The LJP came a cropper in the elections though it succeeded in cutting into JD(U)s votes, with BJP rebels fighting on its tickets in many seats. "The BJPs strategy was, firstly, to cut Nitish Kumar to size which it did successfully in the assembly polls. Now it has begun to humiliate him. What else could explain poaching of six JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh where the BJP was already enjoying a very comfortable majority", Tiwary asked. Tiwary, who had on the previous day sought to welcome any bold step by Kumar, said when asked to elaborate, "if he leaves the NDA, it cannot be that we will join hands with the BJP to run Nitish Kumar down. We have been consistent in opposing the BJP and he joined us for some time but switched sides because of reasons best known to him". Kumar had joined hands with his arch rival Lalu Prasad, the RJD supremo, ahead of the assembly polls in 2015. The Grand Alliance that came into being with the two parties, and the Congress, coming together, won the elections handsomely and Kumar returned as Chief Minister with Tejashwi Yadav as his deputy. However, Tiwary also hinted that power equations could undergo a change this time, with the RJD still going strong but the JD(U) a pale shadow of its past self. "Nitish has to take a tough decision as to what matters more to him his own dignity or the trappings of power", said Tiwary who has known Kumar closely for five decades. RJD MLA and chief state spokesman Bhai Virendra, a Tejashwi Yadav loyalist, was even more blunt. "We have a standing offer to Nitish Kumar - give up your chair and help Tejashwi Yadav in forming a new government in the state. That would help him retain a bit of respectability. Else, his party would suffer the same fate here as it has in Arunachal Pradesh," said Bhai Virendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-dares-nitish-to-snap-ties-with-bjp-over-arunachal-pradesh-defections-931828.html
26-12-2020||National||2020 was of struggle, innovation for teachers||From turning walls of mud houses into blackboards to taking classes through loudspeakers on moving carts, from 'mohalla' classes to using public announcement system of panchayat bhawans, 2020 was full of struggle and innovation for teachers to ensure learning was not disrupted as schools remained closed due to Covid-19. The over 10-month-long shutdown inspired creative ways to teach thousands of students who could not log on to online classes because they did not have access to smartphones and computers in several villages across the country. Government school teachers in Dumka's Dumarthar village in Jharkhand found a new way to impart education to students who do not have access to smartphones. They created blackboards on the walls of students' houses to teach them while maintaining social distancing. "We started with an initiative called 'shiksha aapke dwaar' (education at your doorstep) to provide education to children who did not have access to smartphones and internet. More than 100 blackboards have been created on walls to teach students at their houses," said Tapan Kumar, a teacher in Dumarthar. Every day, Indra Mukhi Chhetri, a maths and science teacher in Sikkim's Ravangala, visited homes of several students she identified and reached out to around 40 students in a week from class 1 to 5. "Even if I take online classes, these students either do not have devices or Internet connectivity. Some of them may have access but then how do I maintain equality, others might feel left out. So I used to spend about 20 minutes with each student in a week. "I collected their notebooks and write lessons for them, which they have to finish over the course of the week. I also brief the parents on what needs to be done," she said. Ghanshyambhai, a teacher in Gujarat's Janan village, used the public announcement system of the village panchayat to share stories, songs, guidelines for parents on how to deal with children during the lockdown period, importance of exercising and much more. "I also announced when I will be at Panchayat Bhawan so students or parents who want to clear any doubts or to interact can see me there, while maintaining social distancing," he added. Teachers in Chhattisgarh conducted Mohalla (neighbourhood) classes in areas with low infection rates. "We set up mini classrooms, with small groups of students, in community spaces. The teachers spent a couple of hours in each room, engaging with all students at least twice a week," one of the teachers said. Another teacher in Chhattisgarh, Rudra Rana, used his motorcycle to conduct classes. "The children were not able to go to study as schools were closed. So I thought why not bring the school to them. Even though schools continue to be shut, online classes are not viable for most rural students. I used a portable umbrella and a chalk board to take classes when I went to the village," he said. In Haryana's Kanwarsika village, the morning bell announcing the start of a teaching session used to ring, not in the local school, but from a van equipped with a loudspeaker. "Students settled down inside homes and in courtyards facing the street. First they recited a prayer following the teacher on loudspeaker and then they attended lessons of one subject each day," Noor Bano, a teacher with the government school in Nuh district, said. In a newly-acquired daily practice, students in Haryana's Jhamri village opened their textbooks at the sight of the cart that arrived near their homes, filling the vacuum left by closure of schools due to the lockdown and lack of digital infrastructure such as feeble internet connectivity. "I arranged for a loudspeaker system on a cart. The teachers were asked to turn-wise go with the cart and park it at a feasible location and impart lessons from there. It doesn't match up to the classroom learning levels but will at least ensure that students' don't drop out," said Satyanarayan Sharma, who runs a school in the village in Jhajjar district. The lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities and exposed the existing digital divide in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-was-of-struggle-innovation-for-teachers-931829.html
26-12-2020||National||Farmer unions agree to talk to Centre on Dec 29; Demand repeal of farm laws on agenda||Farmers’ unions on Saturday said they would resume their dialogue with the Centre on December 29, with modalities for the repeal of the farm laws top on the agenda. But agitating farmers also had a warning, as they threatened to step up protests and “take big decisions” on January 1 if the Modi government didn't relent in the month-long face-off on Delhi's borders.  Forty farmers’ unions conveyed the date for the sixth round of formal talks but stuck to their original demands: repeal of the farm laws, statutory cover for minimum support price (MSP) and changes in the Electricity Amendment Bill to protect interests of farmers. “We have consistently demanded repeal of the three central farm acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking amendments to these Acts,” leaders of the 40 farmers organisations said in a letter to Vivek Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Agriculture Ministry. “If there is no positive outcome in this meeting, farmers, along with tractor trolleys, will march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway,” the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leader Abhimanyu Kohar said in a statement. The farmers have also called on citizens to beat plates and utensils during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday. Meanwhile, farmers’ unions claimed that more than 20,000 farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have joined the protests at the UP-Delhi Ghazipur border. Earlier this week, the farmers had started a relay hunger strike, with 11 representatives observing fast for 24 hours to put pressure on the government to repeal the farm laws. On Friday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had appealed to the farmers to allow the farm laws to be implemented for a year or two with the option to amend them if not found beneficial for farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-agree-to-talk-to-centre-on-dec-29-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-on-agenda-931835.html
26-12-2020||National||Oxford Covid-19 vaccine may become the first to get Indian regulator's nod for emergency use||With preparations underway for a possible vaccine rollout by January, the Indian drug regulator is looking at the UK, which sources believe may give its nod to the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine next week, before deciding on giving emergency use authorisation to the Serum Institute that is manufacturing the shots here. Once the UK drug regulator gives its approval to the Oxford vaccine, the expert committee on Covid-19 at the CDSCO will hold its meeting and thoroughly review the safety and immunogenicity data from the clinical evaluations conducted abroad and in India before granting any emergency authorisation for the vaccine here, official sources said. The process of granting emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' may take time as its phase 3 trials are still underway, while Pfizer is yet to make a presentation. "Going by this, Oxford vaccine 'Covishield' is likely to be the first to be rolled out in India," a source said. Serum Institute of India (SII) last week also had submitted some additional data required by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the sources said. Amid fears about the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, government officials recently said that it will have no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines that are being developed in India and other countries. Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines early this month. The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on December 9 had sought additional safety and efficacy data for Covid-19 vaccines of SII and Bharat Biotech after deliberating upon their applications. The application by the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer was not taken up for deliberation as the company had sought more time for making a presentation before the committee. The Pfizer vaccine has already been approved by several countries including the UK, the US, and Bahrain. While considering SII's application, the SEC had recommended that the firm should submit an updated safety data of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials in the country, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India, along with the outcome of the assessment of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) for grant of EUA. As for Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, "after detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial in the country for further consideration", the SEC had said. The Pune-based SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has made a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. The SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from the DCGI, officials recently had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxford-covid-19-vaccine-may-become-the-first-to-get-indian-regulators-nod-for-emergency-use-931837.html
26-12-2020||National||New book on Gandhi to be unveiled by RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat on January 1||Mahatma Gandhi's 1909 work "Hind Swaraj" is grounded in 'dharma' which is often but inadequately translated as religion, says a new book on the father of the nation scheduled to be launched on January 1 by RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat. Authors J K Bajaj and M D Srinivas say their book "Making of a Hindu Patriot: Background of Gandhiji's Hind Swaraj" has evolved out of their earlier effort to prepare an authentic edition of "Hind Swaraj" based on Gandhi's handwritten manuscript of 1909 in Gujarati and his English translation of the text published from Phoenix in 1910. They say they have tried to tell the story of the evolution of "Hind Swaraj" as a text of religious patriotism and of Gandhi as a Hindu patriot, perhaps the greatest, Deshbhakta Mahatma, of our times. "We tell this story largely in his own words," say Bajaj, founder-director of Centre for Policy Studies, and its founder-chairman Srinivas. Gandhi always perceived himself as a Hindu, perhaps a better Hindu than most others, and that is how his contemporaries saw him, they say. They argue that Gandhi's early contact with the people of a different civilisation made him to "think consciously about the faith and ways of the ordinary small-town Hindu that he had imbibed and taken for granted since his early childhood". "In South Africa, under pressure to convert from some of his Christian and Muslim well-wishers, he began a serious exploration into his own religion, and also Islam and Christianity, to discover for himself the meaning and responsibility of being a Hindu," says the over 1,000-page book, published by Har-Anand Publications. "At the same time, faced with the extreme prejudice against Indians, to which he was personally exposed within the first few weeks of his arrival there (South Africa), he began to study and mediate on the difference between the Indian and the modern Western civilisation," it says. According to the authors, "Hind Swaraj" is best read as a text of religious patriotism. "Leading and engaging in this (Satyagraha) struggle for establishing and preserving the dignity of India and the Indian people were thus a religious duty. It was also a patriotic duty. The two for him had become the same. He could say with conviction, as he did often, that patriotism for him was an aspect of his religion," they say. They had published an 'authentic edition' of "Hind Swaraj" in 2011. It was released by Bhagwat and Narendra Modi, who was then chief minister of Gujarat. On New Year's Day, "Making of a Hindu Patriot" will be launched by Bhagwat at Gandhi Darshan, Rajghat. "Some of the top leaders of the RSS and the BJP have been invited for the launch. This is perhaps the first physical book launch in the pandemic and we are ensuring all COVID-19 norms are in place," says Narendra Kumar, founder-chairman of Har-Anand Publications. In February, Bhagwat had unveiled another book on Gandhi at the Gandhi Smriti memorial. He had then termed Gandhi as a "hardcore Sanatani Hindu" who stuck to his faith and respected other faiths as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-book-on-gandhi-to-be-unveiled-by-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-on-january-1-931842.html
26-12-2020||National||PIL in SC for panel to review media's legal framework||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for setting up an independent high-powered committee headed by a former chief justice of India or apex court judge to review the entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines for it. Filmmaker Nilesh Navalakha and civil engineer Nitin Memane, in a joint plea, also asked the court to set up a media tribunal to adjudicate upon complaints against media, channels and networks, saying media, particularly the electronic one, has become like an unruly horse, which needs to be tamed. The petition, filed through advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai, maintained that the plea is not to curb the fundamental rights of the media business, but only to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy, etc. "The media is simply a business, albeit one which is one of the most powerful structures of power in itself, and thus, the same must be regulated by constitutional norms and principles," the plea said. The petitioners sought to lay down guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, that is broadcasters and electronic media, can exercise their rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution, so as to judicially regulate them. "The whole self-regulatory process makes the electronic media broadcaster a judge in his own case...since its role has changed, from service to business, and from mission to profession, in such circumstances, it cannot mechanically be referred to as the fourth pillar, to avert all judicial attempts at regulating it," they added. The establishment of an independent, regulatory tribunal or judicial-body, can make hearing and expeditious adjudication upon complaint petitions against the media businesses filed by the viewers/citizens possible. The tribunal can bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality, they said. The petitioners raised several legal issues, including if Article 21 of the Constitution envisaged the right of the citizens to free, fair and proportionate media reporting. "The restrictions on the electronic media must be placed at a higher footing as over the past few years media trials have become the order of the day. These trials not only have a prejudicial effect on the rights of the accused but also its very concept is an anathema to the administration of justice," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-for-panel-to-review-medias-legal-framework-931846.html
26-12-2020||National||Lord Jagannath Temple reopens for Puri residents, Biraja Temple to welcome devotees from Dec 29||The Biraja Temple, one of the major 'shakti peeths' in Odisha, will reopen for devotees from December 29 while the residents of Puri town were allowed inside the Lord Jagannath Temple from Saturday, officials said. The Biraja Temple will reopen following a decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Jajpur, District Collector Chakravarti Singh Rathore said. Rathore said that devotees will be allowed entry to the temple between 6 am and 5 pm every day. "A standard operating procedure (SOP) for strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols will be issued very soon for the visitors as well as the temple servitors," the collector said. The 13th-century temple will remain closed from January 1-2 to avoid large congregation of devotees on New Year, he said. Meanwhile, the district administration of Puri implemented the second phase of entry to the Lord Jagannath Temple from Saturday morning for residents of the pilgrim town in strict compliance to health norms, the officials said. In the first phase that started on December 23, only servitors and their family members were allowed entry to the shrine. A total of eight kiosks have been set up to assist devotees and 18 platoons of police personnel deployed to monitor the law and order situation. The Lord Jagannath Temple will also remain shut for two days from January 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lord-jagannath-temple-reopens-for-puri-residents-biraja-temple-to-welcome-devotees-from-dec-29-931847.html
26-12-2020||National||Around 150 Army personnel test positive for Covid-19||Around 150 Army personnel who arrived in the national capital from various locations in the last few weeks to participate in the Republic Day and Army Day parades have tested positive for Covid-19, official sources said. The infection was detected during a mandatory testing for Covid-19 under a strict protocol formulated to insulate all the personnel taking part in the two parades from the Covid-19 infection, they said. Over 2,000 Army personnel have arrived in Delhi since late November for the Republic Day and Army Day parades using various modes of transport and all of them had to undergo the Covid-19 test before they were put into a "safe bubble", the sources said. Those who have tested negative are being put into the "safe bubble" that has been created to accommodate all the personnel who will be part of the marching contingents, they said. The "safe bubble", created in the Cantonment area, comprises a large number of camps and those selected to stay in them will have almost "zero connectivity" from the outside world till the Republic Day celebrations on January 26, the sources said. The Army Day is celebrated on January 15. The sources said the 150 personnel who have tested positive for Covid-19 are "asymptomatic" and may be able to go to the "safe bubble" once they recover from the infection. "We are following a very strict Covid-19 protocol for the participants of the Republic Day and Army Day parades. The safe bubbles were established as part of a larger strategy of force preservation in view of the pandemic," said an official on the condition of anonymity. The Army has set up "safe bubbles" in Ladakh as well as in certain formations along the Line of Control. The troops who have tested positive for the infection have been quarantined and are under medical observation, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-150-army-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-931872.html
26-12-2020||National||Avoid drinking, says IMD as north India braces for 'severe' cold wave||It is going to get very cold in north India, and drinking alcohol at home or year-end parties won't be a good idea, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In its latest impact-based advisory, the IMD said "severe" cold wave is expected over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and northern Rajasthan from December 28 and there is increased likelihood of various illnesses like flu, running nose or nosebleed which usually set in or get aggravated due to prolonged exposure to cold. "Don't drink alcohol. It reduces your body temperature," the advisory read. "Get indoors. Eat vitamin-C-rich fruits and moisturize your skin regularly to counter the effects of severe cold," it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the mercury will increase slightly on Sunday and Monday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas, but the relief will be short-lived. The Western Disturbance will lead to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. After the wind system withdraws, cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas will bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius, the IMD said. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, UP and north Rajasthan from December 28-29. Ground frost and dense fog is likely in isolated pockets in the region," it said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. On Sunday last, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-drinking-says-imd-as-north-india-braces-for-severe-cold-wave-931873.html
26-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Madhya Pradesh approves 'Love Jihad' Bill; Omar accuses BJP of horse-trading||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Omar hits out at BJP, accuses the saffron party of horse-trading; Prime Minister Modi slams Congress over local polls in Puducherry; Madhya Pradesh Cabinet approves law against ‘Love Jihad’ and Britain publishes Brexit text.  Here are the top news of December 26, 2020: Accusing the BJP of horse-trading and pressurising DDC candidates to switch sides, regional National Conference (NC) leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, on Saturday alleged that official machinery is being used for the purpose. “The winning DDC candidates are being forcefully made to join the BJP or Apni Party. One of the candidates from the NC was forcefully made to join the Apni Party,” he alleged in a hurriedly called press conference, at his Gupkar residence.   The DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir have written a new chapter in the region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Saturday and cited the transparent election process and enthusiastic participation of voters to say it is a "moment of pride" for India. Launching a scheme via video-conference to extend the benefits of Ayushman Bharat to all residents of the union territory, Modi also hit out at the Congress for offering him lessons in democracy while "not carrying out panchayat and municipal polls" in Puducherry, a UT where the opposition party is in power.   The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Religious Freedom Bill 2020, which provides for prison term of up to 10 years and fine of Rs 1 lakh for conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. Madhya Pradesh follows in the footsteps of Uttar Pradesh, the first state was to approve a Bill against forced conversion, in proposing a law against what nationalist leaders refer to as 'Love Jihad'.   Britain on Saturday published the text of its narrow trade agreement with the European Union just five days before it exits one of the world's biggest trading blocs in its most significant global shift since the loss of empire. The text includes a 1,246-page trade document, as well as agreements on nuclear energy, exchanging classified information, civil nuclear energy and a series of joint declarations. The treaty explicitly recognises that trade and investment require conditions for "a level playing field for open and fair competition."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-madhya-pradesh-approves-love-jihad-bill-omar-accuses-bjp-of-horse-trading-931874.html
26-12-2020||National||Fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unit in Delhi's Mayapuri; one dead||A 45-year-old man died in a fire at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri Saturday morning, a Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said. A call about the fire was received around 3.50 am, and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said. A case was registered against the factory owner and he was later arrested, police said, adding that short circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the incident. DFS director Atul Garg said fire officials broke down the door of the factory and rescued three people, one of whom was unconscious. The man was taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where he was declared brought dead, he said, adding that he was identified as Jugal Kishor. The fire broke out on the third floor of the factory where machines and raw materials were kept, Garg said. According to fire department, the factory did not have adequate fire safety measures in place nor did it have a No Objection Certificate from fire authorities. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Subodh Kumar said a case was registered under IPC sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 304 A (causing death by negligence). The owner of the factory identified as Rakesh Khanna, a resident of Paschim Vihar, was arrested in connection with the incident, he said. The deceased was a resident of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh and had been working at the factory as a tailor for many years. He usually slept inside the factory after work, the officer said. Kumar said the man was sleeping inside the factory when the fire broke out. It is suspected that he died due to suffocation after inhaling smoke. The garment manufacturing unit had been operating since the last six years. It was shut briefly amid the Covid-19 outbreak, but resumed work with four workers and started manufacturing masks, the police officer added. The two people rescued were identified as Aman Ansari (18) and Feroj Ansari (24), officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-mask-manufacturing-unit-in-delhis-mayapuri-one-dead-931883.html
26-12-2020||National||Accused who went to surrender held from jail compound; Delhi court calls it misadventure||In a bizarre case, Delhi police personnel were found to have allegedly impounded a murder accused from Tihar jail compound here when he came to surrender after taking permission from the court. A Delhi court has taken a serious view of the police personnel for violating "procedural safeguards of arrest" and physical liberty of the accused for failing to disclose their identity. "It is a clear case of misadventure on the part of investigating agency. The power of arrest with the police authority is given with responsibility as well as a sense of duty on their part. The power of arrest cannot in any manner be used as a force for threatening the accused," Tihar Court Complex duty magistrate Raghav Sharma said. The court said while there is no doubt that the power of arrest is very much necessary for proper investigation of the case, but it has to be used with proper reasons and with proper adherence to the procedure established by law. An application was filed by murder accused Karthik alias Madhav through advocate Anwar Ahmed Khan before Rohini court, which allowed him to go before the jail court, as the hearing was taking place through video conferencing due to Covid-19 pandemic. On the filing of such an application, the jail magistrate asked the investigating officer of the case to be present on December 25, along with the report regarding the FIR. However, on December 25, an application was filed on behalf of the accused by his counsel that two-three police personnel attacked him when he was coming to surrender before the jail court and not only manhandled him but also took him away in a car. The court directed the DCP concerned "to sensitise the staff regarding the D K Basu judgement as well as the procedural requirements of arrest". On Saturday, the court sent the accused in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accused-who-went-to-surrender-held-from-jail-compound-delhi-court-calls-it-misadventure-931888.html
26-12-2020||National||'Lukoskin' developer Hemant Kumar Pandey gets DRDO's 'Scientist of the Year' award||Senior scientist Hemant Kumar Pandey has been honoured with DRDO's 'Scientist of the Year Award' for his contribution in developing several herbal medicines, including the popular drug Lukoskin meant for treatment of leucoderma. A recipient of several prestigious awards for his contribution in the field of herbal medicine, Pandey has been undertaking research at the Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) lab Defence Institute of Bio-Energy Research (DIBER) at Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand for the past 25 years. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had recently facilitated the scientist at an event here with the prestigious award that comprises a certificate and cash prize of Rs 2 lakh. "Dr Hemant Kumar Pandey, Scientist 'E', Defence Institute of Bio-Energy Research (DIBER), Haldwani has significantly contributed in the development of five herbal products and filed seven patents. ToT of three products has been done with Aimil Pharmaceuticals, New Delhi, which has launched anti-leucoderma product into the market by trade name Lukoskin. "In recognition of his invaluable contribution, the Scientist of the Year Award-2018 is conferred on Dr Hemant Kumar Pandey," the citation accompanying the award stated. Though the scientist has developed six herbal drugs so far, Lukoskin used for treating leucoderma or Vitiligo, a condition in which white patches get developed on the skin, has been most widely appreciated and found huge acceptance in the market. A formulation of around eight herbs found in Himalayan region, Lukoskin helps in treating white patches and is marketed by Delhi-based Aimil Pharmaceuticals. Leucoderma is an auto-immune disorder and over 5 crore people are under its grip in India. It is neither contagious nor life-threatening. The incidence of leucoderma is 1-2 per cent of the population worldwide. Apart from Lukoskin, Pandey has developed drugs for treatment of eczema and toothache as well as an anti-radiation cream, most of which are already being sold in the market following transfer of technology (ToT).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lukoskin-developer-hemant-kumar-pandey-gets-drdos-scientist-of-the-year-award-931890.html
26-12-2020||National||Time has come to expand scope of Congress-led UPA: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday called for expanding the scope of the Congress-led UPA bloc, saying the Opposition should unite against the "dictatorial attitude" of the Centre and provide a "formidable alternative" to the Narendra Modi government. Speaking to reporters here, Raut also said that Sonia Gandhi effectively led the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) all these years and now the time has come to expand its scope by inducting more allies. Responding to a query on a speculation that NCP chief Sharad Pawar may head the UPA, Raut said there was no dearth of leaders in the country. "What is important is the support of people. Apart from Sonia Gandhi,Sharad Pawar has support from a cross-section of people," he said. "All Opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the Central government. A weak opposition is bad for democracy," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Calling the UPA and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which Shiv Sena was part earlier, as the "empty match boxes", Raut said nobody knows which party is part of which bloc. Queried on who should lead the UPA, Raut said, " Congress interim president) Sonia Gandhi had led the UPA very ably all these years. Now the time has come to widen the UPA's scope". He said many regional parties in different states had fought against the BJP but are still not members of the UPA. "All Opposition parties should come under one umbrella to provide a formidable alternative to BJP and PM Narendra Modi, which is strong enough," he said. The Sena chief spokesperson said non-BJP governments in various states are facing a lot of challenges like non- cooperation from the Central government in carrying out developmental works. "You all know what happened to Metro car shed (in Mumbai)," he said. The Shiv Sena heads the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, of which the NCP and the Congress are also constituents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-has-come-to-expand-scope-of-congress-led-upa-sanjay-raut-931894.html
26-12-2020||National||Railway will meet its expenditure from its earning: Yadav||Despite railway operations hit severely due to nationwide lockdown to prevent Covid-19, the Indian Railways is confident of meeting its operating expenses from its earnings. "Indian Railways has so far incurred 87 per cent loss in passenger revenue, down from Rs 53,000 crore last year to just Rs 4,600 crore, owing to the Covid pandemic," Railway Board chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. Though the revenue from the passenger segment came down drastically, earnings from freight loading increased due to enhanced transportation of non-traditional commodities like food grains and fertilisers. This year freight loading and its revenue would increase compared to last year. "We are confident that the railways will meet its expenditure from its own earnings," he said. Cutdown in expenditure and increased freight loading helped the railways to overcome some losses, he added. Giving details of the 508 km Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed rail popularly known as the bullet train project, Yadav said that the Maharashtra government has assured the Railways that the remaining land will be provided for the bullet train project in the next four months. He said that to date, 68 per cent land has been acquired for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-will-meet-its-expenditure-from-its-earning-yadav-931895.html
26-12-2020||National||Need to plug loopholes in anti-defection law: M Venkaiah Naidu||Underlining the need to make the anti-defection law more stringent, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said if loopholes in it are not plugged, "we will be making a mockery of democracy". He also cautioned that people will lose faith in the political class unless urgent and collective action is taken towards cleansing the system and promoting clean politics. Delivering the 3rd Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture organised by the India Foundation in Hyderabad, Naidu lamented that the absence of value-based politics, lack of ideology, hunger for power, muscle and money power and the entry of people with a criminal background into politics were leading to violence in the political arena. "Unless these undesirable trends are checked, the situation will further deteriorate and cause irreparable damage to the country's polity," he cautioned according to the text of his speech. Drawing attention to the manner in which the anti-defection law has been rendered ineffective, Naidu emphasised the need to make it more stringent and effective. Noting that defection matters cannot remain undecided for long periods, he suggested making it mandatory for the presiding officers to dispose defection matters within three months. "We will be making a mockery of democracy if we fail to plug the loopholes in anti-defection laws," Naidu, also the chairperson of Rajya Sabha, observed. According to PRS Legislative Research, the anti-defection law seeks to prevent political defections which may be due to reward of office or other similar considerations. The Tenth Schedule was inserted in the Constitution in 1985. It lays down the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the presiding officer of a legislature based on a petition by any other member of the House. The vice president felt that all political parties should put an end to "politics of convenience" and practice the "politics of conviction" and "politics of consensus" as demonstrated by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He also called upon the political parties to shun populism and accord priority to long-term development. Expressing dismay over the sway of 4Cs -- cash, caste, criminality and community -- in Indian politics, he appealed to the people to elect their representatives on the basis of other 4Cs -- character, conduct, calibre and capacity. Naidu emphasised that it is the duty of all political parties to ensure that their members, including legislators, maintain ethical conduct at all times and at all places. He also appealed to the legislators to raise the level of debates, follow standards, avoid unruly behaviour and always adhere to 3Ds -- discuss, debate and decide -- avoid the "4th D" -- disrupt. Speaking on the theme of this year's lecture, "Building democratic consensus - The Vajpayee way", Naidu said for Vajpayee, consensus was not an expedient political tool rather it was a core element of his convictions. His consensual approach made him widely acceptable across the social and political spectrum, the vice president added. This consensual approach enabled him to successfully lead a large coalition to its full term in an era of unstable coalition governments. Naidu described Vajpayee as the "father of coalition practices" in India. However, Vajpayee's ability to forge consensus did not necessarily mean compromise all the time, Naidu said. He cited the example of Vajpayee's second stint as the prime minister in 1999 when he refused to budge under the pressure of a coalition partner and sacrificed his government. Calling Vajpayee as 'vikas purush', Naidu said that despite heading a coalition government, he successfully overcame all hurdles and paved the way of socio-economic transformation of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-plug-loopholes-in-anti-defection-law-m-venkaiah-naidu-931898.html
26-12-2020||National||Ex-MP Harinder Singh Khalsa quits BJP over farmers' issue||Former MP Harinder Singh Khalsa on Saturday quit the BJP accusing its leadership of having an indifferent attitude towards farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws. Khalsa (73) had won Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha seat in 2014 as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate but had been suspended from the AAP for his alleged anti-party activities. He had joined the BJP in 2019. Accusing the BJP leadership of being insensitive towards agitation farmers, Khalsa on Saturday said that he decided to resign from it due to its leadership's indifferent attitude towards the farmers. Thousands of farmers are camping at various border points of Delhi borders for a month now, demanding the repeal of three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-mp-harinder-singh-khalsa-quits-bjp-over-farmers-issue-931899.html
26-12-2020||National||Govt procures paddy worth Rs 84,928 crore this kharif season so far||Paddy procurement has increased by 25 per cent in this kharif marketing season so far to 449.83 lakh tonnes at the minimum support price (MSP), valued at Rs 84,928.10 crore. "In the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21, Government continues to procure Kharif 2020-21 crops at its MSP from farmers as per its existing MSP Schemes," an official statement said. Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other state agencies have procured 449.83 lakh tonnes of paddy till December 25 as against 360.09 lakh tonnes in the corresponding period of the previous year. "About 55.49 lakh farmers have already been benefited from the ongoing KMS procurement Operations with MSP value of Rs 84,928.10 crore," the statement said. Of the total purchase of 449.83 lakh tonnes, Punjab has contributed 202.77 lakh tonnes. Paddy procurement for Kharif 2020-21 is continuing smoothly in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pardesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-procures-paddy-worth-rs-84928-crore-this-kharif-season-so-far-931900.html
26-12-2020||National||PM Modi to flag off 100th Kisan Rail on December 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the 100th "Kisan Rail" from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal on December 28 via video-conferencing, his office said on Saturday. The multi-commodity train service will carry vegetables such as cauliflower, capsicum, cabbage, drumstick, chilli and onion as well as fruits like grape, orange, pomegranate, banana and custard apple, it added. Loading and unloading of perishable commodities will be permitted at all stoppages en route with no bar on the size of consignment, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said, adding that the Centre has extended a 50-per cent subsidy on the transportation of fruits and vegetables. It may be noted that the first Kisan Rail was introduced from Devlali to Danapur on August 7, which was further extended up to Muzaffarpur. As a result of a good response from farmers, its frequency was increased from a weekly service to three days in a week, the PMO said. "Kisan Rail has been a game changer in ensuring fast transportation of agriculture produce across the nation. It provides a seamless supply chain of perishable produce," it said. The launch of the train by Modi comes amid protests by a section of farmers against three farm laws near Delhi's borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-flag-off-100th-kisan-rail-on-december-28-931904.html
26-12-2020||National||Date for CBSE board exams to be announced on December 31||The dates of the CBSE examinations would be announced on December 31, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Saturday. Nishank took to Twitter to state that he would announce the CBSE exam schedule on December 31 at 6:00 p.m. Earlier, the minister had said that the CBSE examinations for Class 10 & 12 will be held after February next year. Usually, practical examinations for Class 10 & 12 are conducted in January and February and the theory examinations are held in February-March. “Based on the present conditions, holding the examination in January or February is not possible. That has been decided. We will hold consultations after this and make a decision,” the minister had said on Tuesday during a virtual interaction with teachers. He had noted that the practical examinations for Class 10 and 12 are conducted by the respective schools and colleges. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools partially reopened in some states from October 15, but few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/date-for-cbse-board-exams-to-be-announced-on-december-31-931910.html
26-12-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre forms genomic surveillance consortium; task force says no change in treatment protocol||The National Task Force on Covid-19 on Saturday decided there would be no change in the treatment protocol for the infectious disease, but decided to step up genomic surveillance to detect the mutant virus, specially in passengers coming from the UK. The National Task Force (NTF) has also recommended whole genome sequencing of 5% of the positive cases from all states and union territories to identify the mutant virus that has been reported in the UK. “A genomic surveillance consortium, INSACOG, has been formed under the leadership of NCDC, New Delhi, for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country,” an official statement said. The Health Ministry said more than 50 samples of returnees from the UK were currently undergoing whole genome sequencing at designated laboratories across the country. The genome sequencing would determine if the Covid-19 positive patients were carrying the existing strain of SARS-CoV-2 or the mutant strain discovered in the UK. The Centre has also stepped up community surveillance by tracking all the passengers who have arrived from the UK between November 25 and December 20 with directions to send all positive samples for whole genome sequencing. “List of all UK arrivals during the last 28 days has been shared by the Bureau of Immigration with the concerned states,” it said. However, it said that like all RNA viruses, the SARS-CoV-2 would continue to mutate and the new variant can be contained by measures such as social distancing, hand hygiene, wearing masks and also by effective vaccine, as and when available. The NTF also concluded that there was no need to change the existing treatment protocol in view of the mutations emerging in the strain. Since the ICMR has always advocated the use of two or more gene assays for testing SARS-CoV-2, it is unlikely to miss infected cases using the current testing strategy, the ministry said. The NTF noted that the new variant strain has 14 non-synonymous (amino acid altering) mutations, six synonymous (non amino-acid altering), and three deletions. Eight mutations were present in the Spike (S) gene which carries the binding site (Receptor Binding Domain) of the ACE2 receptors, which are the point of entry of the virus into the human respiratory cells.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-forms-genomic-surveillance-consortium-task-force-says-no-change-in-treatment-protocol-931921.html
26-12-2020||National||Delhi Police to send SMS to personnel about date, time of Covid-19 vaccination||Delhi Police will inform its personnel through SMS about the date, time and place of vaccination as the force gears up for the Covid-19 inoculation drive, officials said Saturday. The date, time and place of vaccination for each police personnel will be intimated to him/her on their mobile number, according to an official order issued by Special Commissioner of Police, Operations and Licensing, Dr Muktesh Chander to senior officers. "It is important that the mobile number of all police personnel is entered/updated in the PIS system on IntraDP system. All district/Unit heads should get this exercise completed by January 3, 2021, positively so that no one is left out from the vaccination programme," the order said. "A list of personnel whose mobile numbers are not available in PIS system will be intimated by DCP/IT through e-mail to all," it said. When contacted, Additional PRO (Delhi Police) PRO said, "We are simply updating our record".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-to-send-sms-to-personnel-about-date-time-of-covid-19-vaccination-931932.html
26-12-2020||National||Amartya Sen lashes out at Visva-Bharati VC 'empowered' by Centre||At the centre of a raging row over his family being in "illegal" possession of land at Visva Bharati, a livid Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has accused its vice chancellor of acting at the behest of the Centre "with its growing control over Bengal". Sen was born in 1933 at Santiniketan, which is home to Visva-Bharati, the university founded by Rabindranath Tagore, another Nobel prize recipient and a literary giant from Bengal. Sen, in a media statement late Friday, said the entire land occupied by him on the hallowed campus was registered on a long term lease that was nowhere close to expiry. "I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the V.C., empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi with its growing control over Bengal," Sen wrote. A huge controversy had erupted on Thursday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, when media reported that the university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties including Sen. These people had set up restaurants, schools and other businesses on its land, the varsity said, according to the reports. Referring to the reports, Sen said Visva-Bharati authorities had never complained to him or his family about any irregularity in holding the land. The Nobel laureate asserted that the Visva Bharati land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. "Additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul," he said. A freehold land is a land parcel over which the owner has complete control for perpetuity. "I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist. For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others," he said. Abanindranath was a nephew of Rabindranath Tagore and a famed painter of the Bengal School of Art. Amartya Sen's maternal grandfather Kshitimohan Sen was a pupil at Santiniketan that evolved into a university over time, and was honoured with 'Deshikottam', a coveted award, in 1952. Kshitimohan Sen was the award's first recipient. On media reports about the VC's claim to the faculty that Sen had called him up deprecating eviction of hawkers who sell their wares in front of his house 'Pratichi', Sen said "He would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with me introducing myself as 'Bharat Ratna' something that no one has ever heard me do". Taking a swipe at Chakrabarty, Sen called him "an inventive artist". Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had reacted angrily to the media reports on Thursday, saying, "Because of his ideological anti-BJP stance, Amartyada has been subjected to such vicious attack by the present authorities of university. "I respect Amartya da. Do you believe Amartya Sen has occupied land? I am offering apology to Amartya da on behalf of Bengal," Banerjee said. She also wrote a letter to Sen and asked him to consider her a "sister and friend" in his war against "intolerance and totalitarianism". BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh had Friday cautioned Sen against being "used" by people with political interests. "We may disagree with him ideologically but we have respect for him. We urge him not to be used by anti- development political forces in West Bengal," Ghosh said. The US-based economist, an icon of Bengali achievement on world stage, has often been critical of the Narendra Modi government's economic policies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amartya-sen-lashes-out-at-visva-bharati-vc-empowered-by-centre-931961.html
26-12-2020||National||Jaishankar on two-day visit to Qatar from December 27||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will undertake a two-day visit to Qatar beginning Sunday during which he will hold talks with Qatari Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani and other important dignitaries. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) made an announcement about Jaishankar's visit to the Gulf nation. "S Jaishankar's visit to Qatar will be his first visit to the country as external affairs minister. During the visit, he will hold talks with his counterpart on bilateral issues as well as regional and international issues of mutual interest," the MEA said. It said the minister will convey "special gratitude" to Qatar for taking care of Indians during the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the visit, he is scheduled to meet the Qatari Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani. He will also call on other important dignitaries of the State of Qatar," the MEA said. India and Qatar have maintained close high-level contacts during the pandemic. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Amir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani have spoken thrice on telephone in the past few months. External Affairs Minister and other cabinet ministers have also spoken with their Qatari counterparts," the MEA said. Qatar is home to over seven lakh Indians. The bilateral trade was USD 10.95 billion in 2019-20, according to official data. "Both sides remain committed to intensify bilateral cooperation in various fields including energy and investments. India and Qatar have also worked together to face the COVID-19 pandemic and coordinated smooth operation of flights under an air bubble arrangement," the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-on-two-day-visit-to-qatar-from-december-27-931964.html
26-12-2020||National||Virtual courts are here to stay: Justice Patel||Virtual courts are going to stay and there is a need to develop specialised software so that online hearings can be conducted securely, Justice Gautam Patel of the Bombay High Court said on Saturday. Courts in Maharashtra switched to virtual mode of hearing after the coronavirus pandemic began. Physical hearings have resumed to some extent now. "Virtual courts are here to stay and we cannot make it go away," Justice Patel said at an online seminar `A Vision for Virtual Courts'. "Let me, however, make it clear that I am not suggesting that virtual court should be replacing physical hearing altogether," he said. "I am saying video conferencing as an option is here to stay and it should remain an option," he added. Dedicated software for the Indian judiciary was needed for conducting "safe and secured virtual hearing", Justice Patel added. "The pandemic is here to stay....the virtual courts are here to stay. We will have to adapt ourselves for it," he added. Justice (retd) R C Chavan said the need of the hour is paperless court hearings. "Courts should urge for e-filings and digitally scanned copies instead of hard copies. We should all pray for and work towards virtual courts," he said. Justice Patel said the best thing that came out of the COVID-19 pandemic was virtual hearing. "This (virtual hearing) kicked in the 21st century of the court," he said. Since he began hearing cases virtually, his court has heard 1,948 matters of which 940 have been disposed of, and this would not have been possible in physical courts, Justice Patel said. The seminar had been organised by NGOs Forum for Fast Justice, Public Concern for Governance Trust and National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-courts-are-here-to-stay-justice-patel-931967.html
26-12-2020||National||Agitating farmers from western UP stay put in Noida at night||Braving the biting cold, scores of farmers stayed put at the Delhi-Noida border near Chilla on Saturday night in protest against the three recent farm laws of the Centre even as other agitating farmers returned home for night stay. During the day, farmers' groups from various Western Uttar Pradesh districts visit the border, join demonstrations and then return by evening, leaving local protestors and those from nearby districts at the site for an overnight stay, said Yogesh Pratap Singh, the UP unit chief of the BKU (Bhanu). Around 50 BKU (Bhanu) members, some of them belonging to Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, were at Chilla border on Saturday night, while 11 members observed fast during the day. “Eleven protestors observe fast during the day till 5 pm. It has been about a week since this hunger strike was started to protest against the government's decision,” said Singh. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) members are camping at the Chilla border since December 1 while those belonging to the BKU (Lok Shakti) have been staying put at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal. The demonstrations continued even as Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks. On the next round of talks with the Centre, Singh, the son of BKU (Bhanu) chief Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, said, “Whenever the talks happen between the farmer unions and the government, it must be ensured that the three new laws are repealed and a new law ensuring MSP is discussed.” Over a dozen protestors belonging to the BKU (Lok Shakti) stayed put at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal, the faction’s home since December 2, for the overnight stay. “The protest is continuing and future of the protests would be decided after the next round of talks,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. Meanwhile, traffic remained disrupted at the Chilla border due to the stir where only one carriageway (Delhi to Noida) was open for commuters, a Noida Traffic Police official said. The other routes – Kalindi Kunj and DND – were open and had normal traffic movement throughout the day, the official added. Thousands of farmers are currently camping at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitating-farmers-from-western-up-stay-put-in-noida-at-night-931975.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||No confidence in what Central govt says on farm issues: Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Friday said there is "no confidence" in the words of the BJP-led government, even as the Centre promised that talks with farmers on the three contentious farm laws would continue. Yechury's remarks came in reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement at an event on Friday in which he said the government was ready for discussions on all issues with farmers with an open mind. "There is no confidence in Modi government’s assurances for discussions with farmers since these bills were passed without any prior discussion and by preventing a vote in the House. No confidence in whatever they say. PM claimed today that some monies had been released. But this is part of a pre-poll ongoing scheme!" Yechury said in a tweet. Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the government's talks with the protesting farmers and said genuine apprehensions about the MSP guarantee have got overshadowed by unrelated issues such as the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. While putting up a strong defence of the three new farm laws, Modi said that the Centre was willing to resume the dialogue on all farmer-related issues, even with those staunchly opposed to his government as long as the talks are based on "issues, facts, and logic". In an apparent attack on the Left parties, Modi said, "Parties which are missing APMC-mandis nowadays, but repeatedly forget that there are no APMC-mandis in Kerala. And these people never agitate in Kerala". "PM asking why no protests in Kerala! But there are big protests in Kerala. The state government’s decision to call a special session of the assembly to reject these bills is not being permitted by the governor. This is blatantly unconstitutional. "PM claimed that they are implementing an MSP 50% over input costs - a complete untruth. Swaminathan Commission recommended C2 + 50% as MSP, government at best gives A2 + 50%, at least 30% less!" Yechury said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-confidence-in-what-central-govt-says-on-farm-issues-yechury-931645.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||West Bengal Governor Dhankar backs PM Modi's attack on Mamata over PM-Kisan scheme||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said that he has repeatedly approached Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee regarding the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. In an interview to ANI, Dhankar echoed PM Modi's attack on Mamata Banerjee and alleged that none of his letters to the Chief Minister were answered.  While addressing an event in Kolkata on December 25, he said, “It's a matter of concern for me that farmers of West Bengal could not benefit from Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. As Governor, I've repeatedly approached the Chief Minister regarding this issue but none of my letters were answered.”   Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a strong attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying her government has destroyed the state and denied its over 70 lakh farmers money transfer from the central government due to political reasons. Hitting back, Banerjee accused the Prime Minister of trying to mislead the people with half-truths and distorted facts over non-implementation of the money transfer scheme. In a statement, the Trinamool Congress chief said the Prime Minister showed his apparent concern for the farmers through a televised address, instead of proactively working to resolve their issues. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the new farm legislation and are camping on the borders of Delhi. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-governor-dhankar-backs-pm-modis-attack-on-mamata-over-pm-kisan-scheme-931727.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Soon JD(U) will be wiped out from Bihar too: Tej Pratap Yadav on Arunachal Pradesh row||Attacking the Janata Dal (United) after six of its MLAs joined the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav said that the party has started to break into pieces. "Soon they Janata Dal (United) will be wiped out from Bihar too. The party has started to break into pieces," he told news agency ANI.   Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar yesterday sought to downplay the split suffered by the JD(U) in Arunachal Pradesh and dismissed the matter with a bitter laugh. JD(U) won seven seats in the Assembly polls held last year and become the main opposition group while the BJP, his coalition partner in Bihar, came to power. "We are focusing on our proposed meeting. They have gone their own way", Kumar said. The JD(U) has been contesting Assembly polls in a number of states without having a truck with the BJP, insisting that its tie-up with the saffron party is "confined to Bihar". The success in Arunachal Pradesh had helped the JD(U) gain recognition as a state party there, a development which was hailed by its rank and file as evidence of its growing footprint under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/soon-jdu-will-be-wiped-out-from-bihar-too-tej-pratap-yadav-on-arunachal-pradesh-row-931740.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Modi launches PM-SEHAT for J&K, taunts those giving him lessons in democracy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme via a video-conference to extend health insurance benefits to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir days after the completion of DDC polls, which he hailed as  "moment of pride" for India and hit back at Rahul Gandhi for giving him "lessons in democracy". Asserting that the three-tier panchayat system has fully taken shape in Jammu Kashmir and has strengthened the roots of democracy, PM Modi spoke about realisation of Mahatma Gandhi's dream of village self-rule. The prime minister, accompanied by a host of Union Ministers, said that under this scheme, treatment facilities for people would not be limited to government and private hospitals in Jammu and Kashmir only but would be extended to all empanelled hospitals in the country. At the event attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister Jitendra Singh and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, Modi also had interaction with beneficiaries from the region and told them that under Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY SEHAT scheme, 21 lakh families of Jammu and Kashmir will get free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh, which is a substantial raise from the about six lakh families, which are getting the benefit right now. Modi also used the occasion to take a dig at Mamata Banerjee's government in poll-bound West Bengal saying that they, however, cannot avail this benefit in a state like West Bengal as the Trinamool Congress government had not joined the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Modi, whose government had taken away the special status from Jammu and Kashmir by revoking Article 370 last year, recalled former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's dictum of ‘insaniyat, jamhuriyat and Kashmiriyat’, stressing it will always be there to guide us. Holding that DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir showed the strength of democracy in our country, Modi cited the contrast saying despite the Supreme Court's order, panchayat and municipal elections are not being held in Puducherry even as the tenure of those elected there ended in 2011. "There are people in Delhi, who always hurl abuses at me. They want to teach me lessons in democracy but see their duplicity and hollowness. I want to show them the mirror today. The party that rules Puducherry has not conducted local bodies elections despite the Supreme Court's order whereas Jammu and Kashmir has held Panchayat level elections within one year after becoming a UT," Modi said in a jibe at Rahul Gandhi, who had recently alleged that there is no democracy in India. Home Minister Amit Shah claimed the PM  has a special attachment and love for the people of J&K. and said that after August 5 last year, there is a visible change (in J&K) in every field, whether related to unfinished projects, implementation of centrally sponsored schemes, infrastructure development and security situation.  Earlier Modi reeled out steps like LPG, toilet, piped water supply, setting up of IIT and IIM  besides setting up of two AIIMS and two cancer institutes in Jammu and Kashmir as examples of how the Centre has undertaken an all-round development of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-launches-pm-sehat-for-jk-taunts-those-giving-him-lessons-in-democracy-931774.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Will clear Arvind Kejriwal's doubts on farm laws: Manoj Tiwari||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday invited Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to his residence, offering to clear his "doubts" and explain to him the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Kejriwal, who is Aam Aadmi Party's convenor, on Friday claimed the new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and will do a lot of harm. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Tiwari said Kejriwal does not allow anyone to enter his house and refrains from meeting public representatives or extending invitations. Recently, three mayors and other leaders of BJP-ruled municipal corporations sat on a dharna outside the chief minister's residence for 13 days but he did not meet them. Tiwari tweeted to Kejriwal, inviting the AAP convenor to his official residence on Mother Teresa Crescent in Lutyens Delhi on Sunday 3 pm to explain the benefits of farm laws before mediapersons. "Lets do constructive politics for farmers' benefit," Tiwari said in his tweet. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, the chief minister had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government "The BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Friday. BJP का कहना है इन क़ानूनों से किसानों का कोई नुक़सान नहीं होगा पर फ़ायदा क्या होगा? ये कहते हैं अब किसान मंडी के बाहर कहीं भी फसल बेच पाएगा।पर मंडी के बाहर तो आधे दाम में फसल बिकती है? ये “फ़ायदा” कैसे हुआ? सच्चाई ये है कि इन क़ानूनों से ढेरों नुक़सान हैं और एक भी फ़ायदा नहीं Tiwari, former Delhi BJP president, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday explained benefits of farm laws and senior leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and national president JP Nadda have repeatedly assured that MSP and Mandis will continue as well. "Still, if Arvind Kejriwal cannot find any benefits in the three farm laws and has some doubts he may accept my invitation. I will be happy to help him see the benefits of the farm laws," Tiwari said. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-clear-arvind-kejriwals-doubts-on-farm-laws-manoj-tiwari-931799.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Omar Abdullah accuses BJP of pressurising DDC candidates to switch sides||Accusing the BJP of horse-trading and pressurising DDC candidates to switch sides, regional National Conference (NC) leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, on Saturday alleged that official machinery is being used for the purpose. “The winning DDC candidates are being forcefully made to join the BJP or Apni Party. One of the candidates from the NC was forcefully made to join the Apni Party,” he alleged in a hurriedly called press conference, at his Gupkar residence. Corroborating his statement, the former CM played a call recording to prove that the husband of a winning woman candidate from south Kashmir’s Shopian district was allegedly forced to make his wife join the Apni Party in lieu of getting her husband released from the detention. The newly floated Apni Party, believed to be a proxy of the BJP, won only 12 out of 240 seats in the just concluded district development council elections in J&K. “I don’t know on whose command this all is being done. Winning candidates of the PAGD are being threatened, humiliated and coerced to join Apni Party which is a B-team of the BJP,” visibly upset Omar claimed. The PAGD is an alliance of arch rivals and regional heavyweights – NC and PDP - besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech earlier in the day in which he said Jammu and Kashmir voted to strengthen the democracy as people came out in large numbers to vote, the NC leader said, “On one hand the Prime Minister boast on DDC polls and claim victory of democracy, but on the other hand, democracy is being discredited in J&K.” “If the BJP leaders are beating drums that democracy has won in J&K through DDC polls, why the same democracy is being discredited by the administration which is using police to force the winning candidates to switch sides,” he asked. Elaborating further, Omar said, “Perhaps this all is being done to change the verdict of the DDC elections. This way the democracy is being murdered. If the Parliament and assemblies have anti-defection laws, why the same is not being implemented and those switching sides are disqualified?” the former CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/omar-abdullah-accuses-bjp-of-pressurising-ddc-candidates-to-switch-sides-931832.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||BJP to hold 25 webinars to push idea of 'one nation, one election'||A month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a renewed pitch for simultaneous elections, BJP has come out with plans to organise more than two dozen webinars over the issue of "one nation, one election",  seeking to drum up public support over the issue, which has been summarily rejected by the Opposition. BJP will deploy Union Ministers and its senior functionaries from the organisation in these online seminars, which will be attended by members of the intelligentsia, academia, and legal fraternity. Addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference in Kevadia in Gujarat via video conference, Modi had on November 26 made a fresh pitch for  'One Nation, One Election' and urged for efforts to ensure that only one voter list is used for all types of elections in Lok Sabha, Assembly and Panchayats.  Holding that one nation-one election is "not simply a subject of discussion", the Prime Minister had underlined the "need for deep study and deliberation on the issue of one nation one election." Modi has consistently pursued the plan of simultaneous elections ever since he became Prime Minister in 2014 even as it was criticised by many. Former Vice President and former Rajya Sabha Chairman Hamid Ansari had in 2018 strongly disapproved of the idea of holding Lok Sabha and Assembly polls together. The idea had also not found favour with a number of political parties, who skipped an all-party meeting called on the issue in 2019.  Most of the Opposition party feel that the BJP has grown in size and influence since 2014, is trying to monopolise the country's politics and holding simultaneous elections is kind of a precursor to moving towards some sort of a personality-oriented election, which is to their disadvantage. Recent election trends have shown while BJP led by Modi at Centre easily won the Lok Sabha polls, the trends in elections for Assemblies held in the corresponding period did not now show equally strong for the BJP.  BJP's argument has been that if all elections are held together, this will orient various elected bodies fully towards development as the current cycle of frequent polls across the country hampers work. They have also been citing how the Law Commission under Justice BS Chauhan had also a few years ago recommended holding simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money. The Law Ministry, which was asked to submit a draft, had pointed out that holding simultaneous elections is not possible within the existing framework of the Constitution and had recommended amendment to the Constitution and electoral laws.  One of the suggestions of NITI Aayog was to synchronise two-phase Lok Sabha and Assembly polls from 2024 to ensure minimum campaign-mode disruption to governance. However, the issue has not reached finality. BJP's efforts to give a fresh impetus to the idea in the last week of 2020, is an indication that in his second tenure, the Modi government is quite serious to pursue this issue, which did not get enough political support during his first tenure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-hold-25-webinars-to-push-idea-of-one-nation-one-election-931849.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||RLP convenor Hanuman Beniwal announces split from NDA over farm laws||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convenor and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday announced a split from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the Centre's new farm laws. "I am not stuck with Fevicol with the NDA. Today, I separate myself from the NDA," Beniwal said while addressing a farmers' rally in Shahjahanpur in Alwar district.  On Friday, Beniwal had announced a march to Delhi in support of farmers organisations holding a protest against the contentious laws.  Farmers from Rajasthan have been protesting in Shahjhanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rlp-convenor-hanuman-beniwal-announces-split-from-nda-over-farm-laws-931850.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Congress wants to convert peaceful farmers’ protest into bloodshed: BJP||The BJP Saturday alleged the Congress wants to convert peaceful farmers' protest into "bloodshed", and accused the Punjab government of orchestrating an attack on BJP workers in the state during an event to celebrate former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birthday. BJP general secretary Dushyant Gautam said Congress' Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said in a media statement that the ongoing farmers' protest will not end ‘and to achieve our objective we can even pile up bodies, shed blood and go to any extent'. "If there is any bloodshed or loss (of life) in the coming days, then the Congress and the left parties will be responsible," Gautam told a press conference here. He also said BJP workers, general public and farmers were attacked during the Friday event at Bathinda to celebrate Vajpayee's birthday, leaving several party workers injured. They were listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address, when the "Punjab government, with the help of the local police, attacked them with iron road batons. Due to this, many suffered serious injuries," he said. He said the state police acted as a "Congress police". "Nobody was stopped, the tent at the event venue was uprooted and people gathered there were told to get out through the rear gate," Gautam alleged. The Punjab Police had Friday said that a group of farmers ransacked the venue of the event organised by the BJP. However, some farmers at the venue claimed "antisocial elements" and not peasants were behind the incident. Some people were listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address at the venue on Amrik Singh Road when a group of farmers reached there shouting slogans and ransacked the place. They broke chairs and the LED system, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-wants-to-convert-peaceful-farmers-protest-into-bloodshed-bjp-931875.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||All anti-BJP parties should unite under UPA: Shiv Sena||Saying that the Congress is not providing effective oppostiion to the BJP, Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Saturday said all anti-BJP parties including the Sena should come together under the banner of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). Time has come for expanding the UPA, Sena's chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut told reporters later in the day. The Congress in Maharashtra, which is part of the Sena-led ruling alliance, however, said the Uddhav Thackeray- led party is not part of the UPA and hence should not comment on it. "Farmers are protesting on the national capital borders. But the rulers in Delhi are completely indifferent to this agitation. Disintegrated and feeble opposition party is the main reason behind the government's indifference. Ineffective opposition is leading to this disintegration of democracy," the Saamana said in the editorial. "Instead of blaming the government, the opposition party should introspect. There has to be a mass appeal to the opposition leadership. But on this front, that party is standing on the brink," it said. "Rahul Gandhi individually is putting up a strong fight, but something is lacking...The present condition of the Congress-led UPA is like an NG0. Even the UPA constituents do not seem to have taken the farmers' protest seriously," the Marathi daily said. "NCP chief Sharad Pawar is an independent personality at the national level. In West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is waging a lonely battle. The country's opposition party should stand by her at this time. Mamata Banerjee has contacted only Pawar and he is going to Bengal. But this should have been done under the leadership of the Congress," it said. Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party, YSR Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Janata Dal (Secular), Biju Janata Dal are against the BJP, and they should join the UPA to provide a formidable alternative, the newspaper said. "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested in Delhi (during a protest march over farm laws); Rahul Gandhi was publicly ridiculed by the BJP; the Thackeray government in Maharashtra is not allowed to function; BJP leaders are on record saying that the prime minister was instrumental in toppling the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. All this is not good for democracy," it said. The BJP has a powerful leadership in the form of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah while "the UPA has none," it said. Speaking to reporters later, Raut, executive editor of Saamana, said the UPA needs to expand to take on the "dictatorial" Union government. Asked who should lead the UPA, Raut said cryptically, "Sonia Gandhi led the UPA very ably all these years. Now the time has come to widen the UPA's scope". On speculation that NCP chief Sharad Pawar could replace Sonia Gandhi as UPA head, Raut said besides Sonia Gandhi,Pawar has support from a cross-section of society. "All opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the Central government. A weak opposition is bad for democracy," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Reacting to the Saamana editorial, state Congress leader Naseem Khan said parties which have faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and which are against the BJP's ideology are welcome to join the UPA. Khan, however, said he disagreed with the newspaper's view that opposition parties haven not taken the protests against the farm laws seriously. "Right from day one,the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi have supported farmers' demand of repealing the new laws and stood by them," he said. "Shiv Sena is not part of the UPA. So it should not comment on the UPA," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-anti-bjp-parties-should-unite-under-upa-shiv-sena-931920.html
26-12-2020||National Politics||Arunachal development won't affect tie-up with JD(U) in Bihar, says BJP||The BJP on Saturday asserted that it had "not poached" MLAs of the JD(U), headed by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in Arunachal Pradesh and underscored that the disgruntled legislators had switched sides of their own accord. Renu Devi, one of the Deputy CMs in Bihar and a former BJP national vice-president, called Kumar the "guardian" of the ruling coalition and expressed confidence that the development in the north-eastern state will not cast its shadow here. "We had not poached them (JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh). What could our party have done if some legislators voluntarily expressed desire to join us", said Renu Devi in reply to queries from journalists. Notably, the split in Arunachal Pradesh has reduced the strength of the JD(U) from seven to just one in the assembly of the BJP-ruled north-eastern state where it had been the principal opposition party. The development has come close on the heels of reports of acrimony between the JD(U) and BJP having caused a delay in expansion of the Bihar cabinet. The JD(U), which has been squarely blaming Chirag Paswan's LJP for its own poor show in Bihar assembly polls, has reportedly been insistent on "equal" representation in the state cabinet which is said to have riled the BJP since it helped Kumar retain the Chief Ministers post despite having a much higher tally than that of his party. BJP won 74 seats in the October-November Bihar polls to catapult the NDA to power compensating the loss of JD(U) numbers from 71 to 43. Meanwhile, a chastened JD(U) sought to make light of the en masse defection of its legislators in Arunachal Pradesh. The party's national general secretary Afaque Ahmed said the party was focused on its national council and national executive meetings scheduled for Sunday, the agenda for which was decided at a meeting of party office-bearers chaired by Kumar here in the evening. "Our state unit there (in Arunachal) saw it coming. Some of the defectors had already been suspended and issued show cause for indulging in anti-party activities", Ahmed said. State BJP president and chief whip in the Lok Sabha Sanjay Jaiswal replied with a cryptic smile when asked whether the party, which is also in power at the Centre, had attempted to checkmate the JD(U)s attempts to assert itself. "As the state unit president I can only say that my party, along with the JD(U) and smaller allies HAM and VIP is running a fine government in Bihar", Jaiswal said waving away at journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arunachal-development-wont-affect-tie-up-with-jdu-in-bihar-says-bjp-931959.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Militant killed, 2 security personnel injured in Shopian encounter||An unidentified militant was killed while two soldiers were injured during an encounter between security forces and ultras in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Kanigam area of Shopian in south Kashmir following information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting the searches, the militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, resulting in an encounter, the official said. In the exchange of firing, a militant was killed, the official said. He said the identity and group affiliation of the slain militant was being ascertained. Two soldiers were injured in the gunfight and were taken to a medical facility, the official added. When the last reports came in, the operation was going on and further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-2-security-personnel-injured-in-shopian-encounter-931632.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Tried to reach out to PM but he didn't listen to us: AAP MP||AAP's Punjab MP Bhagwant Mann claimed on Friday that his party legislators tried to reach out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi after a function in Parliament but he did not listen to them. Prime Minister Modi, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and parliamentarians on Friday paid floral tributes to Madan Mohan Malaviya and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the Central Hall of Parliament on their birth anniversary. Prime Minister Modi also released a book, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee: A Commemorative Volume", to mark the occasion. Soon after the book release, as the prime minister was about to leave the venue, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members Sanjay Singh and Mann raised slogans, demanding the repeal of the Centre’s contentious farm laws. Modi was speaking with the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and the leader of the Congress Party in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, at that moment. Addressing a press conference, Mann said AAP MPs raised slogans in front of Prime Minister Modi, demanding immediate rollback of the anti-farmer laws but he did not listen to them. "We wanted to reach out to the Prime Minister and tell him about the demands of farmers. AAP MP Shri Sanjay Singh and I raised slogans, demanding MSP law, the rollback of these black laws, and others. We were also carrying posters on these demands made by farmers," Mann said. "We wanted to apprise the BJP-led central government of the demands of farmers. We wanted to tell the Union government that they must listen to the demands of these farmers who are sitting at the borders of Delhi for the past several days. When the Aam Aadmi Party MPs started raising slogans, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi left the venue before finishing his scheduled programme," Mann said. Mann further claimed that there is a nexus between the Congress and the BJP as the opposition party is protesting only to show off. That's why Congress leaders present in the Central Hall did not raise their issues, he claimed. "We always say that there is a setting between the Congress and the BJP. Today when we were raising our demands in front of the prime minister, then the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Gulam Nabi Azad, and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chaudhury were also present but they did not utter a word," he said. "If the Congress was concerned about farmers, then they would have joined us today. The Congress is only pretending to be farmer-friendly,” he said. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. They have repeatedly rejected a government offer to amend the farm laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the MSP system and stuck to their demand for the repeal of the legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tried-to-reach-out-to-pm-but-he-didnt-listen-to-us-aap-mp-931651.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Two terrorists affiliated to LeT shadow group 'The Resistance Force' arrested in Jammu||Two terrorists affiliated with 'The Resistance Force' (TRF) have been arrested here and arms and ammunition seized, police said on Saturday. Raees Ahmad Dar of Churath, Qazigund, and Subzar Ahmad Sheikh of Ashmuji, Kulgam, were on their way to Srinagar in a car when they were intercepted and arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the local police at the Narwal bypass on Friday evening, they said. A police spokesperson said the SOG had set up a special checkpoint in the area after getting a reliable input regarding the movement of terrorists with automatic weapons. "At about 5.30 pm (Friday) when the SOG team was conducting vehicle checking in the area, one Alto car tried to escape the checkpoint. Observing the suspicious movement, the SOG team immediately chased the vehicle and apprehended the two suspects along with a bag," he said. The official said the bag, which was with Dar, contained an AK assault rifle with two magazines and 60 rounds, and a pistol along with two magazines and 15 rounds. A case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act has been registered, the spokesperson said. With the arrest, he said, the police has busted a TRF module. TRF is believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Taiba. "Dar has a history of involvement in terror activities and has four cases registered against him. Initial investigation reveals that he is working for TRF. The role of his associate is also being ascertained," the official said. He said Jammu Police was investigating the case to unearth the network of associates providing support to terror activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-terrorists-affiliated-to-let-shadow-group-the-resistance-force-arrested-in-jammu-931716.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along IB in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua||Pakistani Rangers violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing at forward posts along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. Firing from across the IB in the Satpal Border Outpost area of Hiranagar sector started around 9.35 pm on Friday, prompting strong retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), they said. The officials said cross-border firing between the two sides continued till 2.45 am on Saturday, but there was no immediate report of any damage on the Indian side. The latest ceasefire violation comes a day after two Army porters – Altaf Hussain and Mohammad Zaif – were injured in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control at Dalhan in Poonch district. The porters, both residents of Noorkote village, were moving towards a forward post when they were fired upon by Pakistani troops from across the border, causing serious injuries to them, the officials said, adding both were hospitalised and their condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-ib-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kathua-931721.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||JCO, soldier killed in wall collapse in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua||Two Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed and another was injured when a wall of their barrack collapsed in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. A wall of the barrack collapsed in Machhedi camp in Billawar area Friday evening, trapping three soldiers under the debris, they said. The officials said a rescue operation was immediately launched and the trapped soldiers were evacuated to civil hospital in a serious condition. Two of them, JCO S N Singh (45) of Sonipat in Haryana and Naik Pervez Kumar (39) of Samba in Jammu and Kashmir, were declared brought dead, they said. Soldier Mangal Singh (46) of Panipat in Haryana, who was seriously injured, was referred to Military Hospital, Pathankot for specialised treatment, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jco-soldier-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kathua-931729.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Sub-five degree Celsius temperature persists in Delhi; AQI 'very poor'||Cold conditions persisted in the national capital as the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. "Shallow" fog reduced visibility to 1000 meters at Safdarjung and 800 meters in the Palam area, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said.  According to the weather department, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 meters, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow".   The mercury is likely to increase slightly on Sunday and Monday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Moderate fog is likely during this period, Srivastava said. Cold wave conditions will return December 29 onwards, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. Delhi's air quality improved slightly but it was still "very poor". The city's air quality index (AQI) was 324 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday, 433 on Wednesday and 418 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". A marginal improvement is predicted by Sunday as wind speed picks up under the influence of the WD, Srivastava said. However, he said, the air quality will dip again, starting Monday, due to predicted high humidity, low wind speed and temperatures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sub-five-degree-celsius-temperature-persists-in-delhi-aqi-very-poor-931732.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cabinet clears bill against 'Love Jihad'||After Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved a stringent Religious Freedom Bill with provisions for a jail term of up to 10 years and a fine of Rs 1 lakh for conversion through marriage or by any forceful means. The Madhya Pradesh Religious Freedom Bill also puts the onus on the priest carrying out religious conversion to give a 60-day prior notice to district authorities failing which he could face a minimum three-year jail term and penalty of Rs 50,000. The Bill also considers the conversion of two or more persons at one time as “mass conversion” and any violation would attract a five-10 year jail term and a minimum fine of Rs one lakh. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra claimed that once enforced, this will be the most stringent law in the country against religious conversion carried out by fraudulent means, allurement, or threat. “This bill will replace the Religious Freedom Act of 1968 (after the approval by the state Assembly),” Mishra said. Any marriage solemnised only for the purpose of converting a person will be considered null and void under the provisions of this proposed legislation, he added. Under the proposed law, a person who is converted to another religion or his parents or siblings can report the alleged crime at the nearest police station. After appropriate orders from a court, the legal guardian or custodian of the person converted can also register a complaint. The crimes registered under this proposed law would be cognizable and non-bailable and the cases would be heard in a sessions court. Cases registered under this law would be investigated by a police officer of a rank not lower than a sub-inspector at the local police station and the burden of proving innocence would be on the accused. Any marriage in contravention of the law would stand annulled, but a child born out of such wedlock would have a right to the father’s property. Both the woman and the child will also be entitled to receive maintenance from the father even after the annulment of the marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-clears-bill-against-love-jihad-931742.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police to avoid placing barricades in peak hours to prevent traffic jams||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava has instructed his force to avoid setting up non-permanent police pickets using barricades during peak hours as it leads to traffic jams and hampers movement of emergency vehicles. According to an official order dated December 25, the setting up of barricades on roads by the police for the purpose of checking at times, results in huge traffic jams. This causes inconvenience to commuters and even hampers the movement of emergency vehicles. "In the interest of public at large, it is desired that putting of non-permanent police pickets, with barricades, during peak hours should be avoided, unless under specific instructions from senior officers," the order from office of the Commissioner of Police stated. "Whenever such pickets are under operation and the police officials on picket duty observe that their checking has caused a traffic jam, then, in such a situation the picket should be immediately loosened to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. Generally speaking the jam should not exceed 6-7 metres," it further stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-to-avoid-placing-barricades-in-peak-hours-to-prevent-traffic-jams-931750.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Kashmir shivers in frigid 'Chillai-Kalan'||There was no let-up in cold wave conditions in Kashmir on Saturday as the minimum temperature stayed below the freezing point, even as the meteorological department said the valley is likely to receive light rain and snow over the next few days. The weather across Kashmir has remained dry and cold since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, MeT department officials said. The officials said Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 3.7 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night's minus 4.3 degrees Celsius. In the south Kashmir tourist resort of Pahalgam, the mercury settled at minus 4.5 degrees Celsius, up from minus 5.9 degrees Celsius the previous night. The famous ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir was the coldest place in the valley at minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 5.6 degrees Celsius the previous night, according to the officials. Qazigund recorded a minimum temperature of minus 4 degrees Celsius, Kupwara minus 3.6 degrees Celsius and Kokernag minus 4.0 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai Kalan' -- a 40-day period of harshest winter when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. The 'Chillai-Kalan', which began on December 21, will end on January 31. However, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold). The weather department said there is a possibility of light rain and snowfall in the valley for the next few days starting Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-shivers-in-frigid-chillai-kalan-931751.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Himachal HC had struck down marriage clause in anti-conversion law in 2012||The newly enacted Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019 requires a person to inform the authorities before they change their faith and outlaws religious conversion solely for marriage, something the Himachal High Court had termed unconstitutional and in violation of fundamental rights in 2012. The northern state's High Court had struck down a law which sought to monitor (and penalise) the intention behind converting. At the time, a two-judge bench comprising Chief Justice Deepak Gupta and Justice Rajiv Sharma noted that the provision violated an individual's fundamental rights. They questioned why they must disclose their religious identity and why the authorities needed to be intimated regarding the same. The law in its present form states that an individual held guilty of violating it will be sentenced to jail for a period of three months to one year, and the priest officiating the conversion will be sentenced for a period of six months to two years.  Those charged under the new law cannot seek bail as a right but can do so while appealing to a magistrate. It also states that police can launch an investigation or make an arrest without a court-issued warrant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-hc-had-struck-down-marriage-clause-in-anti-conversion-law-in-2012-931760.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||About 35 arrests, dozen FIRs as UP 'love jihad' law completes one month||Going full steam, the Uttar Pradesh police have made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. Nearly a dozen FIRs have been lodged since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 27. Eight arrests were made from Etah, seven from Sitapur, four from Greater Noida, three each from Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh, two each from Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Kannauj and one each from Bareilly and Hardoi, officials said here. The first case was registered in Bareilly just a day after the legislation came into force. The police cracked the whip following a complaint of Tikaram Rathore, the father of a 20-year-girl and resident of Sharif Nagar village in Bareilly. He alleged that Uwaish Ahmad (22) had become friends with his daughter and was trying to "coax, coerce and lure" her to convert. An FIR was lodged at Deorania police station in Bareilly district and the accused was arrested on December 3. Acting swiftly after being tipped off about interfaith marriages, the Lucknow Police stopped a ceremony in the state capital, asking the couple to meet the legal requirements first. In Muzaffarnagar district, one Nadeem and an accomplice were arrested on December 6 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Nadeem, however, got reprieve when the Allahabad High Court directed the police not to take any coercive action against him. Likewise, in Moradabad, two brothers, arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, were released on an order of a CJM court. Rashid and Salim were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar's office in Moradabad to record Rashid's marriage to a Hindu woman whose family had filed the complaint. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38), who is married, was picked up in Mau district on December 3 and 13 of his accomplices booked for allegedly abducting a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with an intent to change her religion. An FIR was lodged at Tambor police station in Sitapur district and 22-year-old Zubrail along with five of his family members and two locals was accused of kidnapping a 19-year-old girl and converting her. All, barring Zubrail, were arrested on December 5. In Bijnor, 22-year-old labourer Afzal was arrested on December 13 for allegedly kidnapping a girl from her home. A 19-year-old woman lodged an FIR with Shahabad police station in Hardoi district on December 11 alleging that she was raped on the pretext of marriage and also pressured to convert by one Mohammed Azad. She also alleged that she was being sold by Azad in Delhi.  Azad was booked for rape, for flouting UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020 and for human trafficking. He was arrested on December 16. Rashid Ali (22) and Saleem Ali (25) were arrested under the new law in Moradabad district on similar charges. A man was sent to jail in Bijnor on December 16 for 'love jihad', a term coined by BJP leaders and right-wing activists to describe the crime against which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also spoken out. Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of 'Ram Naam Satya Hai' to threaten those who do not respect daughters and sisters. Amid a hue and cry over the law, social activist Shantanu Sharma said, "We have no problems with the new law but its enforcement should not cause harassment to people. It should be ensured that it is not misused." "Making a new law doesn't mean that forcible conversions will be checked easily. Ultimately, it will be the police which will enforce it. It's too early to predict whether it will succeed in its purpose or not, but it should be used carefully," he said. Former UP Director General of Police Yashpal Singh said that when a girl flees, there is pressure for her recovery. "It (law) is good as per the social structure and with this there will be not exploitation. However, as per modern social outlook, people can feel stripped off their freedom." High court lawyer Sandeep Chowdhury said, "The law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. It militates against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution." He pointed out that a PIL has already been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the law and now it is for the court to decide. The high court has asked the state government to respond to a petition which contended that the new law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. The ordinance aimed at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, got the assent of UP Governor Anandiben Patel just within days of the state cabinet approving its draft.  The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/about-35-arrests-dozen-firs-as-up-love-jihad-law-completes-one-month-931765.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||75 political leaders detained in Kashmir after DDC elections||At least 75 Kashmiri political leaders and activists have been detained to forestall political unrest after the DDC polls, leaders and a police official said on Saturday. The District Council elections, concluded early this week, was the first such exercise since Article 370 was revoked last year. The new detentions, including separatist leaders and members of the banned Jamat-e-Islami group, were for preventive custody, said a senior police official, who asked not to be identified in line with official policy. "The detentions undermine the verdict of the people," said Imran Nabi Dar, spokesman for the National Conference, a regional party and a key member of the PAGD alliance. "The alliance's victory shows that Kashmiris have not accepted Modi's decision to end Kashmir's special status," said Omar Abdullah, a former chief minister and head of the National Conference. After their release from lengthy detention, Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, chief of the Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party, announced the alliance in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/75-political-leaders-detained-in-kashmir-after-ddc-elections-931766.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||An unidentified militant was killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, taking the death toll of ultras in the operation to two, police said on Saturday. "One more militant has been killed in fresh exchange of fire with security forces in Shopian today. The number of terrorists killed in the operation now stands at two," a police official said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Kanigam area on Friday following information about the presence of militants in the area, the official said. He said as the forces were conducting the searches, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, resulting in an encounter, the official said. In the exchange of fire, one militant was killed last night, the official said, adding two soldiers were also injured in the gunbattle. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-931780.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||UP minister Anil Rajbhar slams SBSP chief for joining hands with Owaisi||Uttar Pradesh minister Anil Rajbhar has said SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar is a "samaj ka dushman" (enemy of society) for joining hands with the Asaddudin Owaisi-led AIMIM for the 2022 state assembly polls. Buoyed by the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen's (AIMIM) good showing in the recent Bihar Assembly polls, Owaisi met Om Prakash Rajbhar, a former BJP ally, in Lucknow earlier this month. After the meeting, Om Prakash Rajbhar, referring to the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, had said that they will contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections together. The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha is a front of smaller parties in the state formed about a year ago. "Om Prakash Rajbhar is a 'samaj ka dushman' and has betrayed Maharaja Suheldev after whom he formed his party," Anil Rajbhar told reporters in Kamtaila village here on Friday night. "He (Om Prakash Rajbhar) has nothing to do with either the society or Maharaja Suheldev's honour and dignity. Earlier too, he had joined hands with the children of Syed Salar Ghazi, Mukhtar Ansari and Afzal Ansari, for his politics and now he has joined hands with Owaisi," he said. "He wants to mislead the Rajbhars but now he stands fully exposed," the Divyangjan Empowerment minister added. Maharaja Suheldev, an 11th century king, is said to have defeated Syed Salar Ghazi in a battle. Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar was sacked from the Uttar Pradesh council of ministers in May this year for his outbursts against senior NDA partner BJP. On Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia comparing the schools in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in terms of progress made by the respective governments in improving infrastructure, Anil Rajbhar asked him, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh to visit schools in Varanasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-anil-rajbhar-slams-sbsp-chief-for-joining-hands-with-owaisi-931783.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Central Vista revamp: Members of Parliament's offices to come up in place of two buildings||The Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan in Lutyens' Delhi will be the first two buildings to be razed to pave the way for the construction of chambers of Members of Parliament there as part of Central Vista redevelopment project. An official from HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, which has prepared the master plan of the ambitious project, said that MP offices will come up where Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan are currently located on Rafi Marg and Sansad Marg respectively. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building where the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The National Emblem will crown the new Parliament building. According to the plan, a tunnel would be constructed to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex. "The new Parliament will have six committee rooms to conduct business," the HCP official said. The government has identified around four locations -- in Gole Market, K G Marg, near Africa Avenue and near Talkatora Stadium -- in central Delhi for the temporary shifting of offices of various ministries. Government sources said that the demolition of buildings will be carried out in phases to ensure smooth functioning of various ministry offices. To construct Common Central Secretariat for ministry offices, several buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan among others are likely to be demolished. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. According to the CPWD's latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista, the prime minister's new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. The prime minister's new residence will be built on a 15-acre plot and it will have 10 buildings and they will have ground plus three floors, the CPWD said in its proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-revamp-members-of-parliaments-offices-to-come-up-in-place-of-two-buildings-931785.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers from Maharashtra reach Delhi border: All India Kisan Sabha||A group of farmers from Maharashtra on Saturday joined protesters at one of the borders of Delhi, an All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leader said and added that tillers have expressed willingness to discuss issues with the government but wanted ceretain clauses from the three agri laws removed. On Monday, thousands of farmers from Maharashtra had left for Delhi from Nashik in vehicles to join the ongoing agitation seeking the repeal of the legislations. "We received a rousing welcome at a New Delhi border. Farmers sitting on protests here welcomed us and thanked us for joining them," All India Kisan Sabha secretary, Maharashtra, Ajit Navle, said in a statement. He said that farmers have expressed willingness to discuss their issues with the government, "but we want some clauses in the recenty-passed laws, which do not protect the interests of farmers, removed". The farmers from Maharashtra, who started off in private vehicles from Nashik on Monday, were led by leaders of the Kisan Sabha. According to the Kisan Sabha, cultivators from 21 districts in Maharashtra had joined the "vehicle march" to Delhi. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers. Multiple rounds of talks held between the government and the protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have failed to break the ongoing impasse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-from-maharashtra-reach-delhi-border-all-india-kisan-sabha-931798.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Initiative to revive Henwal river paying off, discharge level improving: Officials||A holistic approach based on the springshed and aquifer recharge method to revive the Henwal river – a tributary of the Ganga with which it merges here – has begun to pay off and its discharge level has improved, officials said on Saturday. The Henwal river flows from near the revered Surkanda Devi temple in Tehri district to Shivpuri area of Rishikesh, where it merges with the Ganga. Efforts to revive the Henwal were launched about a year ago by the Narendra Nagar Forest Division after concerns were raised in a Central Water Board report in 2018 over the declining discharge level of the tributary, DFO Dharma Singh Meena said. Even the NITI Aayog, in a report in 2018, had said 50 per cent of the water resources in the Himalayan states, including Uttarakhand, were drying up, Meena added. Excessive exploitation of natural resources in the area, unplanned construction of roads and climate change are the factors that have contributed to the declining discharge level of the Henwal river, Meena said. The official said the first step taken by his team to revive the river was identifying 15 streams and 40 water springs from Surkanda to Bemunda that fed it. Efforts were made to increase their water tables using the springshed and aquifer recharge method, he said, adding that check dams were created at a number of places in the surrounding forests, and afforestation was done over nearly 100 hectares of forest land. The Henwal river is spread over an area of 16,500 hectares from Surkanda to Bemunda. The Henwal revival plan was of Rs 11 crore, and the department found it hard to afford, Meena said. But money was saved from other less important projects and spent on it to revive the river, he added. Integrated efforts to revive the river have begun to pay off with its discharge level improving from 35 litres per minute to 40 litres per minute, Meena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/initiative-to-revive-henwal-river-paying-off-discharge-level-improving-officials-931803.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||UP Congress chief, over 50 party workers arrested for taking out 'padyatra' without permission: Police||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and over 50 party workers were arrested here on Saturday after they tried to take out the 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao' march without permission, police said. However, district Congress President Balwant Singh Rajput, who was among those arrested, claimed around 200 party workers were arrested. He also alleged that about two dozen party workers were injured as the police used force against them. The Congress had announced it will take out the 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao' march in different districts of Bundelkhand to highlight the alleged mismanagement in cow shelters under the state government. "About 50 to 60 workers, state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and district unit chief Balwant Singh Rajput were arrested from Dailwara township while trying to take out the march without permission. They have all been taken to police lines," ASP Brijesh Kumar Singh said. The Congress' six-day march was to start from Saujana Gaushala here and culminate at Mandakini river in Chitrakoot district, where the party planned to perform 'tarpan' (religious rites) for the cows that died due to the state government's "mismanagement". Speaking to PTI on phone, Rajput said, "About 150 to 200 workers were arrested by the police, who also used force, when they tried to take out the march led by the state Congress chief. About two dozen workers were injured." He alleged that the BJP has no concern for cows or farmers. Cows in Saujana and Amjhara cow shelters are dying of starvation and the Yogi government is arresting Congress workers and UPCC chief to hide its "sins", he added. On Friday, the Congress had claimed its senior leaders including national secretary Rohit Choudhary and former MP Pradeep Jain Aditya had been put under house arrest in Jhansi ahead of the march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-congress-chief-over-50-party-workers-arrested-for-taking-out-padyatra-without-permission-police-931816.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Enemies of peace being neutralised in Jammu and Kashmir: Dilbag Singh||Stating that the participation and enthusiasm of voters in the just concluded DDC polls indicates that the sense of fear has come down, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh on Saturday said “enemies of peace are being neutralised.” “People participated in the DDC elections in large numbers without any sense of fear. We have not seen that kind of enthusiasm among the voters and the candidates for the last many years, which indicates that the sense of fear has come down,” he told reporters on the sidelines of an official function, here. “Sense of enthusiasm, sense of participation in the government activities, democratic process strengthens our faith further that we will be able to bring a better environment for the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” the police chief said. “Peace is further getting stabilised and enemies of peace are getting neutralised.” On the Shopian gunfight, Dilbagh Singh said that the operation was still on while two militants affiliated with Al-Badr have been killed. “The operation was launched last (Friday) night in Kanigam village of Shopian in south Kashmir where initially two soldiers were injured who were shifted to the hospital for treatment,” he said. “The lights were installed and late at night two militants were killed. I am told they belong to Al-Badr,” the police chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enemies-of-peace-being-neutralised-in-jammu-and-kashmir-dilbag-singh-931834.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Bhupinder Singh Hooda demands special session of Haryana Assembly, says Congress wants to move no-confidence motion||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday again demanded convening of a special session of the Assembly and said his Congress party will move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government. "The government has lost the support of the people and many MLAs backing it," the Leader of Opposition in Haryana said in a statement here. Hooda said that he has requested the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly "as the government is not wanting a session of the House because it wants to avoid facing a no-confidence motion". He claimed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier said there was no need to call a special session of the Assembly and that the Opposition did not have any specific issue to raise. Hooda said "today the farmers of the state are protesting on roads all over Haryana and at Delhi borders. Every day one of the agitators sitting under the open sky is dying due to the bitter cold. In such a situation, we ask if the state government does not consider such a big agitation of farmers as an issue?" "Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government,” he asked. Hooda reiterated his stand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly, saying "many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support from the government". Two Independent MLAs -- Sombir Sangwan and Balraj Kundu -- have withdrawn support to the state government, while many of the 10 legislators of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) have openly come out in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. "In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only support from the public, but also the confidence of its own legislators," Hooda said.  "If a motion of no confidence comes in the legislative Assembly, then their allies in the government itself will vote against the government. That is why we have demanded a special session from the Governor. The government fears that many legislators will vote against it if a motion of no confidence comes and is avoiding a special session,” he claimed. Recently, Hooda had claimed that some MLAs were playing a “double role” -- making statements against the government but are continuing to support the government. "This will make it clear who stands with the farmers,” he had said, referring to the planned no-trust motion. At present, the Khattar government enjoys a comfortable majority in the 90-member State Assembly. The BJP has 40 MLAs and its ally JJP 10. There are 31 Congress MLAs and one each from the Indian National Lok Dal and Haryana Lokhit Party. Seven members are Independents, out of whom five, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, support the ruling combine. Thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi's borders for a month now, demanding repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhupinder-singh-hooda-demands-special-session-of-haryana-assembly-says-congress-wants-to-move-no-confidence-motion-931841.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Acts of 'tourists from outside Bengal' hurting Tagore's followers: TMC||Without naming any BJP leader, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) Saturday claimed some "tourists" from outside West Bengal are visiting places associated with Rabindranath Tagore and committing acts that are hurting the sentiments of the bard's followers. At a press meet at the party headquarters here, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, TMC MP from Barasat, said that the party would launch a strong protest against such acts by BJP heavyweights. "Some tourists having no idea of Bengal's culture are visiting the state and places like Visva-Bharati. Recently, one such personality even sat on the chair used by Tagore during his visit to Rabindra Bhavan where articles used by the Nobel laureate are kept. They have no respect for history, heritage and traditions. They have little respect for the icon," Ghosh Dastidar said. Countering the accusation, BJP national general secretary Anupam Hazra told PTI, the tourist and outsider theory have been invented by Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress has forgotten the role of Syama Prasad Mookerjee in shaping the path of Bengal. Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah had visited Visva-Bharati last week and went to iconic buildings on the campus, including Rabindra Bhavan and Upasana Griho (prayer hall). There were reports on social media that the Ghanta Ghar (bell tower) was pulled down for the Union minister's visit to Santiniketan and that Shah had sat on Tagore's chair. However, it was not confirmed by the university authorities. The TMC MP claimed that the bell tower, used for conducting classes, was razed to the ground during the visit of "one such heavyweight from Delhi" and authorities of the central university did not take any corrective action in this regard. "One must keep in mind that he cannot become Rabindranath Tagore by sitting on the poet's chair. We will launch strong protest against such conduct," Ghosh Dastidar said. The MP said, the TMC also protested against "targeting Nobel laureate Amartya Sen for his stance against the divisive ideology of BJP" by the varsity authorities and BJP leaders. Recently, a controversy has erupted over reports that Sen is in the central university's list of illegal plot holders. Accusing the BJP government of doing little to address grievances of farmers and withdraw the "anti-people farm bill", Ghosh Dastidar alleged that 45 farmers have died in the country in recent times. Claiming that the allegations of the BJP about worsening security for women in the state was "highly exaggerated", Ghosh Dastidar said, 48 women run police stations have been set up recently. "Any stray incident is being picked up by the BJP. Even women leaders of the BJP from the state, who have no political background, are joining the chorus. Women are safe and secure here," she said. Alleging that there are incidents of atrocities on women and dalits in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the TMC MP said, the saffron party is silent on it. The BJP national general secretary said, while the TMC is going hammer and tongs over the saffron party being disrespectful of Bengal's icons which is "blatantly false", it owes an explanation why Mamata Banerjee's picture is placed side by side with luminaries like Rabindranath Tagore and Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar in state government posters. A BJP Mahila Morcha leader said, Ghosh Dastidar is hiding the real situation in Bengal where attacks on women are "taking place every day with many going unreported".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/acts-of-tourists-from-outside-bengal-hurting-tagores-followers-tmc-931853.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||4 of family killed in Uttar Pradesh house fire||Four members of a family, including three children, died after their house caught fire in Duben ka Purva village in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Saturday. The villagers saw smoke emanating from the house of Sangeeta Yadav (28) in the morning. Subsequently, the charred bodies of Yadav, her two daughters aged two and eight years and a six-year-old son were recovered, ASP Mahendra Pratap Singh Chauhan said. The house caught fire during the night, he said, adding that the cause of the blaze was not immediately known. Senior administrative and police officials visited the site, the ASP said, adding that the bodies were sent for post-mortem and a probe was launched. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the tragic incident and extended his condolences to the bereaved family, an official spokesperson said in Lucknow, adding that he has also prayed for peace for the departed souls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-of-family-killed-in-uttar-pradesh-house-fire-931856.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Shopian fake encounter: Army captain found culpable of killing 3 labourers||An Army officer of the rank of a captain and two others have been found culpable in the killing of three labourers from Rajouri district, who the army initially had claimed were terrorists, in Shopian district of south Kashmir in July this year. A special investigation team (SIT) of J&K police, constituted to probe the incident, on Saturday produced challan against captain Bupinder of Army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Tabish Ahmad and Bilal Ahmad, both locals. The SIT headed by deputy superintendent of J&K police, Wajahat Hussian, produced a 300-page challan against the accused trio before the Principal and Sessions Judge, Shopian.  The three laborers, one of them a 16-year-old, had gone to Kashmir from their hometown Rajouri in Jammu, looking for work. They were killed in Amshipora village in Shopian on July 18. On July 19, the army announced that three “terrorists” had been killed in the encounter, which had taken place following a cordon-and-search operation in Amshipora. The Army gave a detailed account saying the security forces had been fired upon, that there was an exchange of fire, and during the recovery of bodies, they had found arms, ammunition, and IED material at the hideout. However, the incident came under the scanner when families from Rajouri claimed that their kin, who went to Shopian, had gone missing. Following these claims, the Army and the Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. The DNA samples of the families were lifted on August 13 and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and comparison with the “three unidentified slain militants.” On September 25, the DNA sample reports of the three slain persons matched with their parents. On December 24, the Army said that the ‘summary of evidence’ proceedings into the 18 July Amshipora, ‘encounter’ case has been completed. “Indian Army is committed to the ethical conduct of operations. Further details will be shared in a manner so as not to prejudice the proceedings under Army law,” a defence spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopian-fake-encounter-army-captain-found-culpable-of-killing-3-labourers-931886.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Around 1,000-1,500 unidentified people booked for creating ruckus in Uttarakhand||Police have registered an FIR against around 1,000-1,500 unidentified people in Uttarakhand's Udham Singh Nagar district for allegedly creating a ruckus at Swar border and clashing with police while marching to Delhi in protest against the new farm laws. The FIR was registered under different sections of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 7 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1934, at the Bajpur police station on Friday. According to the FIR, 1,000-1,500 people, along with farmers' associations of Bajpur, tried to proceed to Delhi by breaking the police barricades put up at the border. They also clashed with the police personnel on duty when stopped from removing the barricades, the FIR said. The tractor trolleys did not have registration numbers, it said, adding that the ruckus lasted for an hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-around-1000-1500-unidentified-people-booked-for-creating-ruckus-in-uttarakhand-931901.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||BCI condemns police attack on advocate in UP, urges CJI to take action against guilty||The Bar Council of India, the country's apex bar body, Saturday condemned an incident in which the Uttar Pradesh Police allegedly assaulted an advocate after dragging him out of his house in Etah, and urged the CJI and Allahabad High Court Chief Justice to take action against guilty. The BCI said the UP police had "crossed all limits of atrocities" and that it was worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal. A video clip, purportedly of the incident, showing police personnel breaking open the door of a house, dragging a man in advocate’s dress out and assaulting him mercilessly, has gone viral. "The UP police has crossed all limits of atrocities and similar incidents were witnessed in West Bengal, Bihar and from other parts of the country. "Such action of the police is rather worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal," the BCI said. It said, "The act of police of Uttar Pradesh is shocking, it cannot be expected from the protectors of Law and Order." "The brutality clearly shows that the police personnel of Etah were acting with some planning with some ulterior motive. "The Council, thus, resolves to request Chief Justice of India and Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court to take immediate steps to find out the guilty police personnel and issue a direction to UP government to immediately put them under suspension, transfer them and remove them from service," it said in a press release. It said that such incidents cannot be tolerated anymore and if the judiciary and the government ignore such atrocities on lawyers, or even on common man, "the Bar will have no option except to come on roads". The BCI said it has also resolved to write to the Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take suitable action in the matter and make suitable laws for providing protection to lawyers. "The Bar Council of India has resolved and stated that the entire Legal Fraternity is in support of Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh and Lawyers of Uttar Pradesh on this issue. "The Council is going to convene a joint meeting of representatives of all the State Bar Councils through Video-Conferencing to decide the future course of action within 3-4 days," it said. It said the joint meeting shall also consider the "inaction" of Union and state governments who have failed to provide any financial assistance to lawyers during the tough time of pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bci-condemns-police-attack-on-advocate-in-up-urges-cji-to-take-action-against-guilty-931927.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Vaccination preparations going very well in Rajasthan, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Saturday said the preparations for launching a vaccination drive against coronavirus are going very well in the state. The Centre has authorised no vaccine yet to be rolled out in India, but three candidates are under consideration. Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) early this month, seeking emergency use authorisation for their COVID-19 vaccines in India. The subject expert committee (SEC) on COVID-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on December 9 had sought additional safety and efficacy data for COVID-19 vaccines of SII. Gehlot said in a tweet, "Vaccination preparations are going very well in Rajasthan to prevent coronavirus. According to the instructions of the government of India and the protocols, we have made complete preparations in the state." Gehlot also said, "Meanwhile, our former minister Mahendrajit Singh Malaviya and now senior IAS officer Dr. Prithviraj have been vaccinated under the trial of corona vaccine." The Chief Minister said that this will increase the confidence among people and the government will be able to complete the vaccination campaign with great success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-preparations-going-very-well-in-rajasthan-says-cm-ashok-gehlot-931940.html
26-12-2020||North and Central||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait receives threatening call; FIR registered||An FIR was registered on Saturday on a complaint alleging that Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been participating in the agitation against the farm laws, received a death threat on his phone, a senior police officer said. City Superintendent of Police (II) Gyanendra Singh said that Tikait's personal assistant Arjun Baliyan lodged the complaint that an unidentified caller had threatened to kill the farmer leader. The phone number mentioned in the complaint is under surveillance and efforts are on to identify the caller, he told PTI. The call was received on Saturday evening. An FIR has been registered at Kaushambi police station under section 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the SP said. Police force was already deployed in adequate strength at the Gazipur border protest site, the officer said. The farmers associated with the BKU are protesting at Gazipur since November 28 to press for the repeal of the three new agri laws, joining thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, who are on a sit-in at other sites on the borders of the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-receives-threatening-call-fir-registered-931965.html
26-12-2020||Right in the Middle||Ow is that, Monsieur!||I have come to realize that my connection with the French goes beyond the gust of wind and the burst of fire, the proverbial reference to the deadly Mirage and the destructive Rafale. Perhaps, fashion and wines have a better claim to the country’s identity than its controversial defence deals. Even the heroin smuggling from Turkey to Canada via France from 1930s through 70s dubbed ‘The French Connection’ has long been consigned to history. The country is now more proud of its perfumes and the Eiffel. For me, it doesn’t end at just that. The stubble I support on my chin is called a French Cut, the widely accepted facial definition of being a suave man. It is one generic stuff that one can improvise to trim stubble to suit different face cuts for getting a dapper dude look. What’s more, the French have been generous enough not to draw any patents on it. That the cut will inspire lingerie makers to invent French-cut panties is not easy for me to fathom. Not sure if they invented it but there is no denial by the French on it as yet! What surprises me most is the fact that quite a few things attributed to being ‘French’ have no French connection whatsoever. My order for a plate of French fries in a cafe in downtown Montpellier in south France had many eyebrows raised. ‘There is no such thing as French fries’. Perhaps an attribution to the potatoes they didn’t ever fry, I imagine! The story goes that stationed in Belgium during World War I, the American soldiers named it so after finding the French-speaking Belgian soldiers savouring it. As you rightly guessed, next on my checklist was to look around for a French toast. Surprisingly, it remained as elusive as the French-fries though back home roadside eateries whip it out in a flash. I’m not done yet on my French connections. The cricket we play today is an English creation, but I can’t forget having played French cricket as a child. Using one’s legs as wickets and to protect them with a bat remains a fascinating challenge to fend every ball thrown at you from a number of players encircling the batter. Although historical records do indicate that a primitive form of ‘criquet’ did originate in France, the French are not making any serious claims on it. I wonder why aren’t they claiming what is genuinely theirs? Why should they, when everything else is coming their way, anyway? Curiously, the etymology of the sensual oral technique is grounded in English but it is known the world over as ‘French kiss’. ‘Is that genuinely French?’ I queried a French. When it comes to passionate romantic matters, the French are no shrinking violets. They seem to own every second of that deep-mouth exploration. Who else but the French alone could introduce such a sexually adventurous act to the world! ‘Ow is that, Monsieur!’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/ow-is-that-monsieur-931771.html
26-12-2020||Second Edit||Address woes of teachers, schools||Teachers of private and unaided schools in Karnataka who have not been paid salaries during the pandemic are staring at a bleak future and the government’s failure to extend a helping hand may lead to the collapse of the education system itself in the state. While some prestigious private institutions may be flush with funds, ‘budget schools’ are struggling to meet day-to-day expenses including payment of salaries to teachers and even electricity bills, besides servicing loans. The ban on collecting school fees may have come as a relief to parents, with many going through job or salary cuts, but the government’s complete lack of concern towards teachers and private schools is both appalling and deplorable. According to the Karnataka Private Schools Association, over 55,000 teachers have lost their jobs while about a lakh are paid less than 50% of their salaries. While many teachers have shifted to other vocations like farming and some have been reduced to domestic helps, unable to make both ends meet, over 18,000 budget schools with no source of income may be forced to shut down. It is unfortunate that the government which has announced a stimulus to revive the economy and a package for virtually every other section of the society, has left teachers high and dry. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has virtually washed his hands off and has expressed helplessness over the finance department’s refusal to approve a Rs 300 crore package for teachers and schools in distress. What the teachers need now is not the minister’s lip sympathy, but concrete action to alleviate their suffering. When the government has funds to set up boards for the development of various communities with an eye on the elections, it can surely find resources to come to the aid of educationists. Rs 300 crore is peanuts when compared to the state’s budget size of around Rs 2.4 lakh crore. Clearly, the will is lacking because teachers do not constitute a strong vote bank. The government has adopted a short-sighted approach to the entire issue by failing to comprehend the impact this would have on the education system if thousands of budget private schools shut down or if teachers who have ventured into other vocations fail to return. There could be a situation where children will have no schools to go to, leading to a huge dropout rate, because the capacity at government-run institutions is woefully inadequate. Children represent the future of the country and if the government has just one last rupee to spare, it should be invested on the education sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/address-woes-of-teachers-schools-931769.html
26-12-2020||South||Youth murdered in Kerala in suspected honour killing||In a suspected case of honour killing, a youth was murdered on Friday at Palakkad district in Kerala. Relatives of the deceased alleged that it was a case of honour killing executed by relatives of his wife. The deceased was identified as Aneesh alias Appu, 27, son of Aarumugham of Ilamandam near Thenkurussi, about 15 kilometres from Palakkad town. The police nabbed his wife's father Prabhukumar and uncle Suresh in this connection. Aneesh got married to Haritha three months back. Haritha's family was opposed to their love affair since school days allegedly since Aneesh belonged to a lower caste. Aneesh, who belonged to the blacksmith community, married Haritha, who belonged to Pillai community, at a sub-registrar office three months back. Aneesh's family was also financially very weak, while Haritha hailed from a middle class family. Aneesh's relatives alleged that Haritha's relatives had threatened of killing him. On Friday, while Aneesh was riding on a two-wheeler, two persons, alleged to be Haritha's father Prabhukumar and uncle Suresh, blocked Aneesh and hacked him to death at Manamkulambu near Thenkurussi. Palakkad district police chief Sujithdas S told DH that though the allegations of honour killed seemed to be prima faice true, further clarification would be available only once the girl's statement was recorded. Since the girl was now emotionally down, it may require some time to record her statement. The two accused were nabbed by Friday night and were being interrogated. Haritha later told a section of media that her father and uncle had been frequently threatening after she married Aneesh in September. They even said that Aneesh would be killed in three months. She also alleged ineffective action of police even as they complained of the threats. Police officials said that earlier also a complaint regarding the threats against Aneesh was received and the accused were warned. The Kerala Youth Commission also suo moto registered a case in connection with the incident and sought a report from the district police chief. Kerala had witnessed honour killings earlier also. The killing of Kevin P Joseph of Kottayam district in 2018 by a gang involving his wife's brother had rocked the state. Accused in the case were sentenced to life term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-murdered-in-kerala-in-suspected-honour-killing-931734.html
26-12-2020||South||4 killed in road accident in Telangana||Four people died and one sustained serious injuries on Friday after they were hit by a truck while waiting to board an autorickshaw at Mominpet in Vikarabad district, police said. "Four people died on the spot. One woman was seriously injured and she was admitted to hospital," a police official said. The victims were about to board the autorickshaw parked on Mominpet-Tandur road, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-killed-in-road-accident-in-telangana-931743.html
26-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth progressing well, but blood pressure still on higher side: Hospital||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, who was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on Friday, was “progressing well” on Saturday though his blood pressure is still on the higher side. The actor had an “uneventful night” at the hospital and a call on discharge will be taken by Saturday evening. Rajinikanth, who is in Hyderabad for shooting for his latest movie Annatthe, was admitted to the hospital on Friday morning following “severe fluctuations” in his blood pressure. The actor had, on December 22, tested negative for Covid-19 after he underwent a test following four crew members testing positive for the novel Coronavirus. “Mr. Rajnikanth who was admitted in the hospital yesterday is progressing well. He has had an uneventful night and his blood pressure is still on the higher side although under better control the yesterday. His investigations have not revealed anything alarming so far. He is scheduled for a further set of Investigations today, reports of which will be available by the evening,” an update from Apollo Hospitals on Saturday said. “His blood pressure medications are being titrated carefully and he will continue to be under close monitoring. He has been advised complete rest in view of his labile blood pressure and visitors are not being allowed to meet him. Based on his investigations and control of blood pressure, a decision on his discharge will be taken by the evening,” the update added. Rajinikanth, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016 and had confined himself to his Poes Garden residence in Chennai for about eight months before he decided to complete the shooting, remained isolation since Tuesday after some crew from the film tested positive for the virus. The actor, who arrived in Hyderabad on December 13 along with his elder daughter Aishwarya, was shooting for Annatthe inside the sprawling Ramoji Studios till four members of the crew contracted coronavirus. Doctors had advised Rajinikanth not to be among people as he is vulnerable to catching the Covid-19 infection due to his low immunity levels owing to the renal transplant. The producers of the film, Sun Pictures, had made elaborate arrangements, including creating a bio-bubble environment inside the hotel where the Annatthe crew was staying, to minimise the risk of catching Covid-19. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami spoke to Rajinikanth over the phone on Saturday and enquired about his health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-progressing-well-but-blood-pressure-still-on-higher-side-hospital-931753.html
26-12-2020||South||Anil P Nedumangad died hours after remembering filmmaker Sachy on Facebook||Hours before his own tragic death, Malayalam actor Anil P Nedumangad, who drowned in a dam at Idukki district in Kerala on Christmas day, had put up a commemorative post on his Facebook page for filmmaker Sachy who died recently. Anil, who died at the age of 48, received much appreciation for his role as circle inspector Satheesh Kumar in Sachy's Malayalam film 'Ayyappanum Koshiyum'. Nedumangad had said in his post that till he dies, his Facebook page will have Sachy's picture as cover photo. It was Sachy's birthday on December 25.Anil had acted in about 20 films and portrayed strong characters. Anil went to Malankara dam for a film shoot and drowned. He was immediately rushed to hospital life but could not be saved. After his studies at School of Drama in Thrissur, Anil began his career through the mini-screen as anchor and producer. He made his debut on the big screen through the Malayalam film 'Njan Steve Lopez'. He was from Thiruvananthapuram. Actors like Prithviraj Sukumaran, Biju Menon and Dulquer Salmaan offered their condolences to Anil's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anil-p-nedumangad-died-hours-after-remembering-filmmaker-sachy-on-facebook-931801.html
26-12-2020||South||Kerala: Husband suspected to have killed wife by inflicting electric shock||A 51-year old woman who died in suspicious circumstances in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday was suspected to be inflicted electric shock by her 28-year old husband. Sakhakumari of Karakonam in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram died in her house on Saturday. Her husband Arun took her to a nearby hospital and stated that she suffered an electric shock. She was dead by that time. Police became suspicious of the death after bloodstains were spotted in the house. An electric wire was also spotted. There were also contradictions in Arun's statements. The Vellarada police investigating the case said that Arun was kept in custody. The exact cause of death would be known only after postmortem examination. Local people said that both of them got married about two months back following a love affair. However, they used to quarrel very frequently. This strengthened the suspicions against Arun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-husband-suspected-to-have-killed-wife-by-inflicting-electric-shock-931879.html
26-12-2020||South||200 booked for flouting Covid-19 norms for Christmas party in Kerala||Paying scant regard to the Covid-19 health protocol, hundreds of people gathered at nearby Pozhiyoor beach for a Christmas party on the night of December 25, following which a case was registered against 200 people, police said. The DJ party was organised by some locals. Though no permission was granted, they went ahead and conducted the event which lasted from 9.30 pm to 1 am on Saturday, they said. A case has been registered against the organisers and some of the participants under the Kerala Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 regulation. The video of the event, which has gone viral, shows several men and women dancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/200-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-for-christmas-party-in-kerala-931897.html
26-12-2020||South||Congress revamp talks in Kerala set to begin||Congress leaders in Kerala are keeping fingers crossed as the AICC will be initiating a series of deliberations with the party leaders in the state from Sunday in the backdrop of the setback faced by the party in the recent local body elections and strong demand for leadership change ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar, will be holding talks with leaders of Congress as well as coalition party leaders in the coming days. Three AICC secretaries recently appointed for assisting Tariq would be also attending the meetings - P Viswanathan, Ivan D'Souza, and P V Mohan. The Congress-led United Democratic Front had failed to take advantage of a favourbale political climate in Kerala during the local body polls. Despite the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front facing series of serious allegations, the Congress leadership failed to cash in on the opportunity as it even failed to retain many of the local body seats they were holding. Following this, many prominent leaders in the Congress, as well as coalition parties, had come out in open against the Congress leadership. Congress leaders and Lok Sabha MPs K Muraleedharan and K Sudhakaran had even openly stressed the need for a revamp at the leadership, while Indian Union Muslim League, which is a key coalition partner, stressed the need for strengthening the confidence among the people. Sources in the party said that a section in the party, as well as some coalition partners, were suggesting that either former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy should be again brought to the forefront to face the Assembly election considering his popularity and connect among the people or some young leaders should be brought to the forefront, especially since the CPM is now giving more prominence to the youngsters and even making a 21-year old girl mayor of Thiruvananthapuram city. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who is hospitalised due to Covid-19, would be joining the deliberations online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-revamp-talks-in-kerala-set-to-begin-931902.html
26-12-2020||South||6 out of 1,214 UK returnees to Andhra test Covid-19 positive||Six out of 1,214 people who returned from the UK to Andhra Pradesh in recent days tested positive for coronavirus but it has not yet been established whether or not they contracted the new strain that was detected in that country. State Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said in a release on Saturday that two persons in Guntur and one each in East Godavari, Krishna, Anantapuramu and SPS Nellore districts tested positive for Covid-19 upon their return from the UK. "Till date, 1,214 persons returned to the state and we have so far traced 1,158 of them. Another 56 remain to be traced," Bhaskar said. Of those traced, 1,101 were sent into quarantine, the Commissioner said. "We are waiting for the test results from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, to determine if the six positive persons contracted the new strain or not," Bhaskar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-out-of-1214-uk-returnees-to-andhra-test-covid-19-positive-931906.html
26-12-2020||South||India's youngest mayor probable flooded with congratulatory calls||Twenty-one year old Arya Rajendran, who is tipped to be the youngest mayor in the country, was flooded with congratulatory calls. Actor Mohanlal, a native of Mudavanmugal ward in Thiruvananthapuram city that Arya represents, rang her up and congratulated her for the achievement. He offered support for the development of his native place. Youth leaders of the opposite political parties were also learnt to have offered support to Arya.  Even as the CPM is yet to officially announce Arya as Mayor candidate of Thiruvananthapuram city, party sources said that the district committee of the party already took the decision and was just awaiting a formal nod of the state leadership of the party. The election of the mayor to the city corporation is scheduled for Monday. CPM-led Left Democratic Front is having a comfortable majority of 52 seats in the 100 seat council, while BJP-led NDA is having 35 seats and Congress-led UDF is having 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-youngest-mayor-probable-flooded-with-congratulatory-calls-931908.html
26-12-2020||South||Eight from UK test positive for Covid-19 in Kerala||As many as eight persons who reached Kerala from UK recently were so far found to be positive for Covid-19. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the samples of the eight were sent to NIV, Pune for further tests to check whether they were infected by the new Covid variant. She also said that researches done at Kozhikode had also found certain genetic changes in the virus. The state was maintaining a high vigil and all those who came down from UK recently are being screened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kerala-931923.html
26-12-2020||South||Sabarimala records fall in revenue by Rs 146 crore||As the first phase of the Sabarimala pilgrimage ended with 'Mandala pooja' on Saturday, the temple recorded a fall in revenue by around Rs 146 core. According to sources, while the revenue during the first phase of the pilgrimage last year was Rs 156 crore, this year it was only Rs 9.09 crore. The temple required up to Rs 50 lakh for the daily expenses and hence the fall in revenue had badly affected the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that manages the temple. TDB president N Vasu said that after the Kerala High Court enhanced the daily limit of pilgrims to 5,000, there was a slight increase in temple revenue. On Friday the daily revenue was close to Rs 50 lakh.  As many as 71,706 pilgrims visited the temple during the first phase of pilgrimage that began on November 16. A total of 390 persons were tested Covid-19 positive of which 289 were employees of various departments. The daily number of pilgrims allowed at Sabarimala was initially fixed at 1,000 for weekdays and 2,000 for weekends. It was later increased to 2,000 and 3,000 respectively considering the plea of the TDB that manages the temple citing the steep fall in revenue from the temple. The Kerala High Court recently ordered that up to 5,000 pilgrims may be allowed darshan at the temple. RTPCR test is also made mandatory for pilgrims. But the Kerala government had moved Supreme Court against it. The temple will reopen for the Makaravilaku pilgrimage on January 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-records-fall-in-revenue-by-rs-146-crore-931926.html
26-12-2020||South||Puducherry CM pins blame on Lt Guv for not holding civic polls||Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's barb that without holding civic polls in Puducherry, the Congress was preaching him democracy, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday alleged Lt Governor Kiran Bedi was blocking initiatives aimed at elections. "The Prime Minister cannot make such comments as all democratic rights of elected government in Puducherry were blocked by Lt Governor Kiran Bedi," he told reporters here. The rights and privileges of the elected government to revive democracy at the grassroots level have been grabbed by Bedi, he alleged. The matter relating to the holding of civic polls, particularly the appointment of State Election Commissioner for Puducherry, was now pending disposal before the court, he said. When the government appointed retired IAS officer, T M Balakrishnan as SEC, the Lt Governor rejected it and appointed Roy P Thomas, a retired IFS officer, as SEC following Centre's clearance, he said. The government challenged the Lt Governor's powers to appoint the SEC and the matter was now pending disposal in the Supreme Court, Narayanasamy told PTI. The Chief Minister alleged "the powers and authority of the elected government are blocked and grabbed by Lt Governor". He said under the circumstances, the Prime Minister could not accuse the territorial Congress government of not holding the polls. Bedi, on her twitter handle, said "it is a fact that denial of local body elections in Union Territory of Puducherry for a decade has deprived rural areas (here) of development funds besides suffering inadequate sanitation, poor water table management, desilting, school education and more". The last civic polls were held in Puducherry in 2006 and the five year term of the elected bodies ended in 2011. According to the government, attempts in the past several years to hold local body polls did not fructify. In the Union Territory, there are five municipalities, two in Puducherry and one each in Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam, and 10 commune panchayats (five each in Puducherry and Karaikal) and 98 village panchayats in total and together there are more than 800 wards. PM Modi, launching the Ayushman Bharat scheme earlier in the day to extend health insurance benefits to Jammu and Kashmir residents, said the three-tier panchayat system has fully taken shape there. He launched the scheme via a video link. "Some people in Delhi curse Modi day in and day out and hurl abuses. They regularly offer me lessons in democracy. I want to show them the mirror today," he said, blasting the Congress for not conducting local body polls in Puducherry. "The party of those teaching me democracy is in power in Puducherry," the prime minister said, without naming the Congress, which has been ruling the UT since 2016. Noting that local body polls were last held in 2006 in Puducherry, he said its term ended in 2011 but new elections were not held. "You will be surprised to know that the Supreme Court had given an order in this regard in 2018, but the government there has been delaying it," the prime minister said. The district development council polls in Jammu and Kashmir have written a new chapter in the troubled region and have strengthened democracy, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-pins-blame-on-lt-guv-for-not-holding-civic-polls-931928.html
26-12-2020||South||Farm laws: Kerala Assembly session likely to be held on Dec 31||Decks appearto have been cleared for the one-day session of the Kerala assembly on December 31 to discuss and pass a resolution against the three contentious farm laws of the Centre against which farmers are protesting in Delhi. Raj Bhavan sources said the clarification sought by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has been given by the government and Khan could give his assent for the session by Monday. The governor had earlier turned down the plea of the LDF government to convene a special session on December 23 to discuss the new laws, saying Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had not addressed the question raised by him on the nature of emergency warranating the very brief session. In a letter to Vijayan, he had also stated that the government wanted the special session to "discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution". Vijayan had shot off a letter to Khan on Tuesday describing as regrettable his decision while asserting that the governor was bound by the advice of the Council of Ministers and that moving resolutions and conducting discussions in the assembly "cannot be regulated by gubernatorial powers". Kerala Law Minister A K Balan and Agricultural Minister V S Sunil Kumar had met the governor on Friday after the state government decided afresh to convene a one-day session to discuss and pass a resolution against the farm laws. They had later said the interactionwas "positive". Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan met the governor at Raj Bhavan on Saturday to invite him for the customary policy address for the budget session beginning on January 8. On the sidelines of the meeting, the governor and the speaker also discussed the December 31 session recommendation of the state cabinet to which Khan assured that an "appropriate decision" would be taken, assembly sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-laws-kerala-assembly-session-likely-to-be-held-on-dec-31-931936.html
26-12-2020||State||Elephants chase away safari vehicle in Mysuru||A video of elephant herd chasing away a safari vehicle at Kabini backwaters, in H D Kote Taluk went viral. Sources identified that initially an elephant started to chase the vehicle and later a the others in the herd joined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/elephants-chase-away-safari-vehicle-in-mysuru-931790.html
26-12-2020||State||Karnataka airports: Heralding progress or netas' flights of fancy?||Over the past year, Karnataka got two new regional airports at Kalaburagi and Bidar.  At least seven more airports are in the pipeline in what has inevitably become a political style statement to get them sanctioned by elected representatives, with little forethought on the benefit-cost ratio.  Airport works are currently underway at Shivamogga, Vijayapura, and Karwar. There are proposals to develop airports at Ballari, Raichur, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru.  While Ballari and Raichur are about 160 km apart, the distance between Hassan and Chikkamagaluru is just some 70 km, which begs the question: Do they need airports?  The state government hopes that these airports will cut travel time and boost economic activity, apart from reassuring inclusiveness for regions. Elected representatives in Raichur feel their district is neglected. They pushed for a proposal for an airport. The district administration has proposed to make use of Rs 50 crore under the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board’s (KKRDB) macro funds.  “The Rs 50-crore fund will help us start the project,” Raichur MLA Shivaraj Patil says. Earlier, when the Kalaburagi airport was proposed, Congress leader Mallikarjuna Kharge was instrumental in pushing for it. Likewise, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is bullish on the Shivamogga airport in his home district.  Development and politics are inextricably linked and several public representatives DH spoke to emphasised the need for regional airports. At the same time, they feared that the sustainability of airports was at stake without the government making concrete efforts to draw investments and generate employment in these regions.  Kalyana Karnataka Horata Samithi member Laxman Dasti puts it in perspective thus: “We demanded an airport for Kalaburagi in the hope that it will enhance business and employment and that this will give people an option to work locally, instead of going in search of labour to neighbouring Maharashtra. However, the state government is not making concrete efforts to woo investors to the region. Without this, the airport will remain exclusive to politicians using it for their convenience. The lack of political will in drawing investments is disappointing.” The Shivamogga airport, for instance, was proposed way back in 2008. “Shivamogga needs an airport. But the government has to actively open up to industries, to ensure its sustainability. Tourism cannot be developed with an airport alone. Road infrastructure needs improvement. Instead of announcing airport projects under political pressure, the government should first ensure adequate infrastructure,” former Congress minister Kimmane Ratnakar said.   Transport expert Sanjeev Dyamannavar has a different view. “There is no need to develop airports within a 400-km distance from another major airport. When you match the total investment, total land acquired and the cost of maintenance to the volume of passengers who will travel by air, it’s not practical,” he said, citing the example of the Mysuru airport. “Also, airports are always outside the city and as a result, the turnaround travel time is more,” he said, urging the government to focus on high-speed rail connectivity and improving road conditions. According to principal secretary (infrastructure development) Kapil Mohan, the success of an airport should be measured by the continuity of operations in the first five years. “The state government gives free power, free security and free fire services to operate these airports. There are no landing charges for the planes for the first five years. Hence, there is no question of airports getting any income,” he said. “After this period, we hope that the traffic will pick up and airports become profitable. This is the nature of all big infrastructure projects.” A year after its launch, the Kalaburagi airport has become one of India’s fastest-growing regional airports, now operating 124 flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-airports-heralding-progress-or-netas-flights-of-fancy-931953.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Degree certificate delay leaves 75K KSOU students in lurch||Dragging its feet over the distribution of graduation certificates to students of the 2012-13 and 2013-14 batches of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), the state government has left 75,000 students, including BJP national General Secretary C T Ravi, former minister Umashree and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, in a fix. The government’s silence over the distribution of the certificates despite direction from the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of the Universities, in June 2020 has jeopardised the students’ job prospects. Governor Vajubhai Vala in his letter to the higher education department, a copy of which is with the DH, said, “The proposal of KSOU, Mysuru, requesting one-time permission to award degrees to students of non-technical courses for the year 2012-13 and 2013-14 has been considered and approved subject to the condition that the state government shall issue specific orders in this regard.” Surprisingly, seven months after the communication from the Raj Bhavan, the higher education department is yet to comply with the direction. The University Grants Commission (UGC) had canceled the affiliation of the university for 2012-13 to 2014-15 batches citing violation of jurisdiction and territory in granting permission to open study centres. The inquiry conducted by the Governor had proved misappropriation in setting up of study centres and the inquiry committee recommended criminal action against the then vice-chancellor and others. According to data obtained from the university, there are about 95,000 students belonging to these batches and have been waiting for almost eight years for the course completion certificates. In most cases, government departments and private firms have refused offers to candidates due to the absence of degree certificates. Though according to the report by then Chief Secretary K Rathna Prabha, marks cards were issued, students said they had little value without a degree certificate. In fact, the issue was echoed in the recent winter session of the state legislature with MLC Marithibbe Gowda raising the issue and appealing to the higher education minister to permit the issue of convocation certificates to the students. Speaking to DH, a senior KSOU officer said, “While many including staff and others who were involved in the scam are leading normal lives, students are punished for no fault oftheirs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/degree-certificate-delay-leaves-75k-ksou-students-in-lurch-931637.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Another company files complaint against hacker Shriki ||One more complaint has been registered against hacker Shri Krishna, 25, at the Cyber Crime police station for hacking two websites of an online gaming company. Currently, he is in the custody of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police.   A director of a gaming company, in his complaint filed on Wednesday, has stated that the data from the websites was stolen and the incident came to light recently. Balakrishna told police that he is among the five owners of the company which runs online gaming. The company has two gaming websites, at the beginning of this year, the business of the company was not doing well.  On verifying they learnt that someone had hacked the websites and stolen money from them causing loss to the company. The director got to know about the arrest of Krishna through the newspapers and approached the police.  The officers had found that it was Krishna who had hacked the websites of the company. The case has been registered under the Information Technology Act and Cheating. Basavaraj Angadi, deputy commissioner of police (Crime-2) said: "Krishna is in our custody till Monday in one of the cases registered against him. There are many cases registered against him, the investigation in the cases are under progress."  Krishna, a resident of Jayanagar, is a software engineer. He was arrested by CCB in November for sourcing drugs through Darknet using bitcoins. After hacking websites and stealing data and money he used to convert it into bitcoins. He was also demanding money from the company owners to unlock their websites. He has hacked government websites too.  He was in contact with Hemanth and Suneesh Hegde friends of former minister Rudrappa Lamani's son Darshan Lamani who have been arrested in a drug peddling case. Krishna used to source the hydro ganja and other contrabands for Suneesh and others.  A senior officer said there are cases registered against Krishna in Jayanagar, Tilak Nagar and other police stations and the investigation is being carried by them. "Once Krishna custody in our cases is going to end they may take him into custody," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/another-company-files-complaint-against-hacker-shriki-931653.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||10 more UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka||more UK returnees tested positive on Friday, taking the tally to 14 in the state. The samples of 13 have already been sent to Nimhans for genetic sequencing. Dr Vijayendra BK, Chief Health Officer, Public Health, BBMP, said, “Seven of these are from Bengaluru. We haven’t received the lab reports for Friday but on Thursday, four patients tested positive, on Wednesday one patient tested positive, and on Tuesday two patients tested positive. We have only been focussing on the UK returnees from the past few days and contact tracing for these patients is underway.”  Meanwhile, Karnataka added 1,005 new Covid- 19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,14,488 and the toll to 12,044, on Friday. The day also saw 1,102 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are now 13,508 active cases in the state. The recoveries have reached 8,88,917 in the state. As many as 208 patients are in intensive care units. As many as 578 fresh cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, which also accounted for four deaths, followed by (79 cases), Hassan 43, Kalaburagi 34, and Dakshina Kannada district reported 30 cases. A total of 1,35,14,362 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,568 were tested on Friday alone. Till date tests have been conducted on 1,419 UK passengers who have arrived in Karnataka, out of whom 14 are positive, 744 are negative and results of 661 are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-more-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka-931663.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bihar poll model in TN, Puducherry too: Election officer||Election Commission of India is making preparations to conduct Legislative Assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on the lines of Bihar Legislative Assembly polls which concluded recently.  H R Srinivas, who hails from Chitradurga, conducted the Bihar Assembly polls amid the Covid-19 successfully as the state chief election officer, told DH in an interaction, “Bihar is different from other states in the country. It has a history of violence over the last several decades. Paramilitary forces were deployed at each polling booth.” “More than 1.2 lakh para-military forces, 80,000 police personnel were deployed for free and fair assembly polls. Now, it has become a role model for other states,” Srinivas, who is in his hometown to spend holidays, said.  “Bihar has 7.3 crore voters. Earlier, there were only 72, 723 polling booths. Following the Covid-19, the number went up to 1.06 lakh. Each voter was given hand gloves, sanitisers and all voters were screened before they entered the polling booths. The electoral officials discharged their duties effectively by wearing personal protective equipment,” heexplained. He also made it clear that electoral malpractices could be protected by banning the sale of liquor. The Election Commission of India hailed the efforts of Srinivas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bihar-poll-model-in-tn-puducherry-too-election-officer-931666.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KPCL engineers challenge quota in promotion under Article 371J||A petition has been filed before the Karnataka High Court challenging the validity of Article 371 (J) (2) (b) of the Constitution insofar as the concept of the backlog in promotional posts, consequential seniority, and retrospective promotions. The promotions were executed by the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) to employees from Hyderabad-Karnataka (HK) region. The petitioners, around 119 engineers of KPCL, contended that Article 371 (J) (2) (b) cannot pass the test of basic structure doctrine and required to be struck down as it is opposed to Articles 14, 15, 16 and 21 of the Constitution. Justice R Devdas ordered a notice to the respondents and said the promotions, already granted to 110 engineers based on KPCL’s order, will be subject to the final order of the court. The petition is filed by C K Justus and others. The petitioners were appointed to the posts of assistant engineers before the amendment (2013) and are working in different cadres in the KPCL. They said that the state government has passed an order extending the reservation in promotions.  Subsequently, the government directed the KPCL to create a separate local cadre. The KPCL constituted a high-level committee to decide staffing patterns and a report was submitted in May 2017. The report identified vacancies in each cadre based on which the KPCL promoted the respondents this year (2020). All these employees belong to the HK region and are juniors in service to the petitioners. The petitioners claimed that the seniority has been altered to their disadvantage by creating a local cadre. This was done on the ground of place of birth and domicile which is opposed to Article 15, they said. The petitioners also said that steps are being taken to provide reservation from retrospective effect in the promotional cadres to fill up backlog vacancies. Apart from the prayer to strike down Article 371 (J) (2) (b), the petition also prayed to strike down the Karnataka Public Employment (Reservation in Appointment For Hyderabad Karnataka Region) Order 2013, insofar as identification and reservation of posts or classes of posts in KPCL in favour of persons from the HK region in the promotion.   Article 371 (J) was inserted through the 98th Amendment in 2013 with the object of the development of the region (HK) through a special provision and also reservation in favour of the people from the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpcl-engineers-challenge-quota-in-promotion-under-article-371j-931668.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Council ruckus escalated too soon: Secretary||The ruckus in the Legislative Council on December 15 was “unexpected” and it “escalated too soon to be mitigated”, Legislative Council secretary K R Mahalakshmi has said in her response to a show-cause notice against her. Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty had given her the notice asking for a detailed report on the turn of events in the Upper House on that day, which led to sine die adjournment. In the notice, Shetty had also questioned as to why she failed to intervene and stop the deputy chairperson from occupying the chairperson’s seat in his absence.  Responding to the notice, Mahalakshmi has said the actions of the deputy chairperson Dharmegowda were unexpected and in spite of her trying to intervene, things went out of hand too quickly. “I had photocopies of Article 184 of the Indian Constitution and Section 10 (A) of the Council regulations which I wanted to hand over to the Deputy Chairman. However, he suddenly went and occupied the chairperson’s seat. This was unexpected for me. Even as I was approaching the seat to hand over the copy of the regulations, he was engaged in getting files from his PA. I kept the regulations on his table and came back. By then (Congress leader) B K Hariprasad approached the chair saying the bell was still ringing and that the deputy chairperson’s actions were against parliamentary procedures. To which, MLA Y A Narayanswamy replied that there was a no-trust motion against the chairperson. Following this, a ruckus erupted,” she stated, according to an excerpt from her response. She has further stated that she had no role to play in Dharmegowda occupying Shetty’s chair. “I refute allegations against me for instigating these events.”  On December 15, the ruling party MLCs staged a coup in the Legislative Council, by allowing JD(S) MLC and Deputy Chairperson Dharmegowda to occupy Shetty’s seat, to move a no-confidence motion against the chairperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/council-ruckus-escalated-too-soon-secretary-931670.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Colonies in Kateel use MGNREGS to construct soak pits and improve sanitation||The residents of Gidigere SC Colony and Jumadi Gudde Colony in Kateel Panchayat limits utilised facilities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to construct 101 soak pits to keep sewage water out of the residential areas. Due to the absence of a sewer system, ‘grey water’ from the houses' bathrooms and kitchens was let into roads or in the backyards. But with the soak pits, the villagers have been able to solve this problem. “As there were no UGD (underground drainage) facilities, wastewater flowing on the road had rendered the colonies unhygienic. When Centre made modifications in the MGNREGS to allow the construction of soak pits, Kateel GP under the guidance of Mangaluru Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer N G Nagaraj had planned 101 soak pits in Gidigere colony. As a result, all houses in the colony were connected to the soak pits,” Kateel GP Panchayat Development Officer Prakash B told DH. As many as 33 SC and 9 ST families reside in the colonies along with other families. These houses were built on five cents of land which did not have any UGD connections. The residents took a keen interest in digging the soak pits. Additional 21 soak pits were constructed at Jumadi Gudde area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/colonies-in-kateel-use-mgnregs-to-construct-soak-pits-and-improve-sanitation-931705.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Guidelines to prevent and contain spread of new variant of coronavirus soon: Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said his department will discuss with the Home Department on prevention and containment of a new variant of coronavirus and come up with guidelines soon. A release from the Minister's office, quoting him, said there will be new guidelines for New Year celebrations and that he will hold a meeting with the Home Department regarding this soon. Regarding vaccine trials, Sudhakar said third stage trials are being conducted in various states including Karnataka. "Anyone can volunteer to take the vaccine at this stage.I have personally appealed to many frontline warriors, especially medical students to volunteer for trials," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/guidelines-to-prevent-and-contain-spread-of-new-variant-of-coronavirus-soon-karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-931896.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 857 new Covid-19 cases and 7 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 857 new cases of Covid-19 and 7 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,15,345 and the death toll to 12,051. The day also saw 964 patients getting discharged after recovery. A total of over 1,36,09,914 samples have been tested so far, out of which 95,552 were tested on Saturday alone, and 5,167 among them were rapid antigen tests. Till date tests have been conducted on 1,434 UK passengers who have come to the state, and out of them 23 are positive, 908 are negative and results of 503 are awaited. Out of 857 fresh cases reported today, 471 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of December 26 evening, cumulatively 9,15,345 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,051 deaths and 8,89,881 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 13,394 active cases,13,189 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 205 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 4 out of the total 7 deaths reported today are from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Ballari, Bengaluru Rural and Kalaburagi (1). The dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 471, Mysuru 62, Dakshina Kannada 34, Tumakuru 32, Shivamogga 31, Chikkaballapura 25, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,86,057 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,186 and Ballari 38,797. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 3,72,970 discharges, followed by Mysuru 50,630 and Ballari 37,963.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-857-new-covid-19-cases-and-7-deaths-931905.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gram panchayat polls: Over 1.40 crore rural citizens to vote Sunday||Over 1.40 crore citizens in rural areas will vote on Sunday in the second phase of polls for 2,709 gram panchayats. The first phase in which a total of 3,019 gram panchayats across the state went to polls on December 22, saw a good voter turnout of over 80% in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the State Election Commission, there are 1.05 lakh contestants vying for 39,378 seats in the second phase. Some 3,697 candidates have been elected unopposed in the second phase, akin to the first phase that saw 4,377 candidates win without any fight. Authorities have taken a strong view on this and are verifying each case to see if there was any auctioning of seats, which is illegal. Also, 34,115 candidates withdrew their nomination for the second phase. This figure was 40,352 in the first phase. The votes polled in both phases of the gram panchayat elections will be counted on December 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-over-140-crore-rural-citizens-to-vote-sunday-931911.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop considering credit scores for farm loans: Karnataka govt to banks||In a bid to assuage farmers’ anger to some extent, the  Yediyurappa-led BJP government has mounted pressure on banks to stop considering credit scores while approving agricultural loans.  The Finance department has taken a serious view of complaints from farmers that banks reject loans due to low CIBIL (Credit Information Bureau India Limited) scores.  The CIBIL score is a summary of a consumer’s credit history based on past credit behaviour, such as borrowing and repayment habits shared regularly by banks and lenders.  “Since the farmers in the state are facing either famine or flood continuously for the last five years and loans are being restructured/rephased, it may not be appropriate to decline proposals of farmers for renewals or additional loans based on CIBIL or such scores,” finance secretary (fiscal reforms) Manju Prasannan Pillai said in a letter to the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). The government has asked banks to “adopt a common farmer-friendly and fair approach in the matter and extend succor to the farming community.”  The SLBC is expected to take a decision on this at its next meeting.  Karnataka, a drought-prone state, has suffered consecutive flooding in 2019 and 2020 that led to crop loss in 20.59 lakh hectares.  The Finance department’s letter to SLBC was prompted by a petition signed by 16 farmers of Marikatte village, Bailhongal taluk in Belagavi. They gave the petition to Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, which finally reached the Finance department.  “When it comes to repayment of loans, farmers face trouble due to flood or drought. Like this, every year, farmers become defaulters,” read the petition signed by farmer Somanagouda Shivanagouda Patil and 15 others. “Then, the farmer ends up repaying the loan under the pressure of the bank and with a one-time settlement. Next, when he goes to another bank for a loan, he gets turned away based on his CIBIL report. He grows tired of approaching commercial banks and is left with just one option: suicide,” the petition stated.  Till September 2020, banks in Karnataka have disbursed agricultural loans worth Rs 55,746 crore. The state government offers 1% interest subvention in crop loans up to Rs 1 lakh for farmers who are prompt in repayment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-considering-credit-scores-for-farm-loans-karnataka-govt-to-banks-931942.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nine more UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka, 23 so far||Nine more returnees from the UK tested positive on Saturday taking the total number to 23. The state government has so far tested 1,434 passengers out of whom reports of 503 are awaited and 908 have tested positive, as per the daily Covid bulletin. However, as per Health Minister K Sudhakar, 1,638 have been tested out of 2,500 passengers who have returned to the state since November 25.  Karnataka added 857 new Covid- 19 cases and seven related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,15,345 and the toll to 12,051, on Saturday. The day also saw 964 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are now 13,394 active cases in the state. The recoveries have reached 8,89,881 in the state. As many as 205 patients are in intensive care units. As many as 471 fresh cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, which also accounted for four deaths. Mysuru was second in the number of cases with 62 cases reported, Dakshina Kannada 34, Tumakuru 32, and Shivamogga 31, followed by others. A total of 1,36,09,914 samples have been tested so far, out of which 95,552 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nine-more-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka-23-so-far-931946.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Just belonging not enough to invoke provisions of SC/ST Act in offence: HC||The High Court has held that to invoke the provisions under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, along with the offence under IPC (against anyone), the offence must have been committed on the ground that such a person is a member of the SC/ST. Just the fact that the victim or the deceased belonged to SC/ST would not be enough to invoke the provisions of section 3 (2) (v) of the SC and ST (POA) Act, the court said. A division bench, comprising Justice B Veerappa and Justice K Natarajan, made this observation while passing the order in criminal appeals. The petitioners in the appeals were convicted and sentenced in a case of murder for life imprisonment for the offences under IPC and also under section 3 (2) (v) of the SC and ST (POA) Act. While the court converted the order sentencing the main accused to life imprisonment for murder into culpable homicide not amounting to murder, it set aside the order sentencing the accused and co-accused to life imprisonment by invoking the provision of SC and ST (POA) Act. The court said that there was no whisper about assaulting by the accused persons knowing that the victim or the deceased is a member of SC/ST, in the entire evidence of the prosecution witnesses and the material documents. There is no evidence to show that the offence committed only on the ground that the victim or the deceased was a member of the SC/ST. “In the absence of the same, and in peculiar circumstances, the impugned judgment and order of conviction passed by the trial Court in so far as convicting accused Nos. 1 to 5 under Section 3 (2) (v) of SC & ST (POA) Act cannot be sustained and the same is liable to be set aside,” the court said. The court also observed that it is high time the investigating agencies ensure that there is no violation of Fundamental Rights while invoking section 149 of IPC along with the other provisions of IPC. Section 149 says that every member of the unlawful assembly is guilty of the offence committed in the prosecution of common objects. The court said the investigating agency shall confirm after investigation as to whether such persons really committed an offence along with the other co-accused. Moreover, in the instant case, the trial court has acquitted all the accused under section 120 (b), for conspiracy, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/just-belonging-not-enough-to-invoke-provisions-of-sc/st-act-in-offence-hc-931950.html
26-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Vandalisation of actor Vishnuvardhan’s statue triggers protest||Angry fans of Kannada actor Vishnuvardhan held a protest on Saturday against the alleged vandalisation of a bust of the late actor near the Magadi Road Toll Gate in West Bengaluru on Friday midnight.  The incident came to light around 4.30 am on Saturday. Soon, hundreds of Vishnuvardhan fans gathered at the spot and staged a protest demanding the police to immediately arrest the people who had vandalised the bust.  The fans told the media persons that it is a mischievous act and an insult to Vishnuvardhan. Some protesters said the bust was intact at 11 pm on Friday and it was found vandalised when they came for a walk around 4.30 am. They expressed anger over the incident and said that the bust was newly installed and was inaugurated by Housing Minister V Somanna after the previous one was stolen some time ago. Meanwhile, a statement on the incident by Sommanna created confusion among the fans.  Somanna told reporters that decades ago, it was decided to name the circle as Sri Balagangadharanatha Swamiji Circle and erect his bust. So it was decided to shift Vishnuvardhan’s bust to a park or government hospital premises nearby. “It is not an act of miscreants, we discussed shifting the bust with the residents and family members of Vishnuvardhan,” he added.  However, Vishnvardhan’s fans were not ready to accept Somanna’s view. “If they had to shift the bust why did they vandalise it in the midnight without anyone’s notice?” some of them questioned. Actor and Vishnuvardhan’s son-in-law Anirudh condemned the incident and told reporters that it was an unfortunate incident and he is not aware of shifting the bust. The police rushed to the spot and cleared the crowd. A case has been registered at Vijayanagar police station and the investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vandalisation-of-actor-vishnuvardhan-s-statue-triggers-protest-931951.html
26-12-2020||West||Goa empty beach shacks, cancelled chartered flights mark a year||Coronavirus cast a long shadow over the tourism in Goa as the coastal state normally bustling with domestic and foreign tourists tried to cope with effects of the pandemic. Goa witnessed perhaps the worst tourist season with international chartered flights cancelled, beach shacks wearing empty looks and local businesses like taxi and bike rentals, dependent on this industry, suffering a body blow. The coronavirus-induced has cost the state's tourism industry Rs 1,000 crore in earnings, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry said. A report by the state tourism department and a private consultancy firm said Goa's tourism industry may have suffered loss of between Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,200 crore and job losses in the range of 35 per cent to 58 per cent due to the pandemic. The annual Feast of St. Francis Xavier, a ceremony which used to attract thousands of people each year, was organised in a muted way in Old Goa in December, as public gatherings were not allowed in view of the pandemic, which has claimed over 700 lives since March. While people formed long queues in the morning outside the campus of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, measures were taken to ensure there was no crowding at the place, and the event was telecast live online as well, said a priest. The Basilica of Bom Jesus is the area where the relics of the 16th-century Spanish saint are preserved. A team from the Archaeological Survey of India is undertaking restoration work on the four-century-old casket containing the remains of St Francis Xavier, church officials said. Consumption of liquor in public was not allowed during the famous Goa Carnival float parades organised by the state tourism department in February, days before the countrywide lockdown was announced. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant spoke of huge job losses due to the pandemic situation. The state government has offered 10,000 jobs in its departments in early 2021. In the recently-concluded zilla panchayat polls, BJP won 19 of the 25 seats in North Goa and 14 of the 24 seats of the South Goa zilla panchayat, with election to one seat being countermanded following the death of a Congress candidate. A candidate of the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Admi Party won a zilla panchayat seat, boosting his party's bid to make space for itself in the coastal state. Three infrastructure projects -- the expansion of a railway track and highway, and a new power line -- came in for flak from residents believing they will harm Goa's pristine forests and pollute its picturesque towns with coal dust. The projects cut through the Mollem National Park and the Bhagwan Mahavir Sanctuary, a biodiversity hotspot. Projects involving widening of National Highway 4A connecting Goa and Karnataka and the double-tracking of a railway line from Mormugao to Karnataka are meant to carry increased coal imports. This year's monsoon was the wettest since 1961 for Goa, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The state witnessed 412 cm rainfall from the south-west monsoons in 2020, which is 41 per cent higher than the normal value of rainfall in the state. The highest seasonal rainfall previously recorded was 408 cm in 1961. Following protests by students unions, Goa University postponed the offline examination of final year students. This was after students unions held protests demanding postponement of the examination and holding them online. The 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI), scheduled to be held in Goa from November 20-28, was postponed to January next year and will be held in a hybrid format that will be both virtual and physical. Information and Broadcasting Ministry officials said the decision was taken keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation. The military standoff between India and China in Ladakh this year led to Goa government considering dropping a Chinese consultancy firm from its team building Rs 1,400 crore eight-lane bridge across the Zuari river in South Goa, thereby delaying the construction work. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court cleared the decks for an international airport in Goa at Mopa, 43 km from state capital Panaji, by lifting the suspension of environmental clearance on its construction. The order came on a petition filed by environmentalists who had challenged the airports construction, citing threat to green cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-empty-beach-shacks-cancelled-chartered-flights-mark-a-year-931718.html
26-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 claimed 312 cops, infected 28,500||A poignant video that went viral in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic summed up the year for the police force in Mumbai and Maharashtra. It showed a child pleading with his policeman father, who is leaving the house for duty, to stay at home because "there is corona out there". As the police faced an unenviable task of keeping people off the streets during the lockdown, the virus took a heavy toll on them - 312 police personnel died and around 28,500 were infected across the state. The Mumbai police also found themselves caught in the crossfire in the political slugfest over actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide. "This year will be remembered for the sacrifices made by police officials in the fight against Covid-19, which claimed 98 police officers and constables. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten," Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh told PTI. "Working relentlessly during the pandemic was our biggest task, but my force rose to the challenge," Singh said. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, huge protests in the city against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens kept the police busy. Hundreds of students and others thronged the Gateway of India on the night of January 6 after a brutal attack by goons on students of Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi. There were also echoes of Shaheen Bagh agitation in Delhi as Morland Road in Mumbai turned into the venue of a 'Mumbai Bagh' protest. It ended 56 days later with the coronavirus outbreak. An incident where 23-year-old poet Bappaditya Sarkar was taken to a police station in Mumbai by an Uber driver after overhearing his phone conversation about the anti-CAA protest in the first week of February raised questions about the polarised atmosphere and paranoia over the protests. After the lockdown was imposed in March, lakhs of migrant workers from other parts of the country were stranded in Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra. The police were instrumental in providing them food and taking care of their safety. The pandemic, which saw a drop in the crime rate, also unleashed a flood of rumours on social media. Maharashtra Cyber, the cybercrime wing of the police, cracked down on these rumor-mongers. Police in Palghar district came in for criticism when two Jain monks and their driver were lynched in April in the presence of local police personnel on the suspicion of being thieves and part of a gang of child-lifters. The probe in the case was handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) which has arrested 186 persons so far. Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14 shocked the country and there were allegations that he was a victim of nepotism and cliques within the film industry. Bandra police recorded the statements of Rajput's girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty and several members of the industry including a film critic. In July, the actor's father lodged a complaint in Patna against Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting the suicide. In August, the Supreme Court upheld the Bihar government's recommendation to transfer the FIR to the CBI. The Enforcement Directorate started a separate probe into Rajputs and Chakraborty's financial transactions. The ED stumbled upon mobile phone chats that suggested drug use. The Narcotics Control Bureau began a probe and arrested Chakraborty and her brother along with a few others for allegedly supplying drugs to Rajput. Chakraborty and her brother later got bail. The NCB soon widened the scope of its probe to cover the alleged rampant drug use in the film industry and questioned some prominent stars including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, and Sara Ali Khan. The Sushant Singh case got embroiled in politics, with the BJP questioning the probe by Mumbai police and the Shiv Sena-led state government defending the police. Justice for Sushant became an election slogan ahead of Assembly polls in Rajput's home state Bihar. The medical board of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Delhi concluded in October that Rajput died by suicide and it was not murder as many conspiracy theories claimed. In October, Mumbai police claimed to have unearthed a Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging racket, allegedly involving some TV channels. Police arrested 14 persons, including two senior officials of Republic TV, which alleged that it was a witch hunt. On November 4, Alibaug police arrested Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others for allegedly abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik who killed himself over pending dues from the accused's firms. After spending eight days in jail Goswami was released when the Supreme Court granted him bail. He alleged his arrest was vendetta as the Uddhav Thackeray-led government reopened the case closed last year for lack of evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-claimed-312-cops-infected-28500-931724.html
26-12-2020||West||UK returnee tests Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||A woman, who had returned to Aurangabad in Maharashtra from the UK in the last few weeks, has tested coronavirus positive, officials said on Saturday. The woman is among the 44 persons who arrived in the district from the UK after November 25, they said. "Eleven of these UK returnees underwent RT-PCR test, in which the woman was found infected with Covid-19. She is asymptomatic," Aurangabad Municipal Corporation's (AMC) health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar said. "Her sample has been sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) for analysis. It will clear whether the patient contracted the infection in England or after her arrival in Aurangabad," she said. The authorities have received a list of total 44 passengers, who returned to Aurangabad from the UK, a district official said in a statement issued late on Friday night. "Of these 44 passengers, 13 are yet to be traced and their details are shared with the police department. Five of the passengers belong to other districts," the official said. Out of the 11 UK returnees, who underwent the RT-PCR test, nine have tested negative for the infection, while report of another one is awaited, the official added. After a new variant of coronavirus was detected in the UK, the Union government had instructed the authorities to trace the passengers who arrived in India from that country between November 25 and December 23. The new strain of coronavirus found in Britain is reportedly spreading fast and is said to be highly infectious. Till Friday night, a total of 45,289 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Aurangabad district, where the death toll has reached 1,196, officials said. So far, 43,552 patients have recovered from the infection and there are 541 active cases in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uk-returnee-tests-covid-19-positive-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-931747.html
26-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Eight shanties gutted in major fire at Bhiwandi, nobody hurt||At least eight shanties were gutted in a major fire that broke out in a slum at Bhiwandi in Maharashtra's Thane district early on Saturday, an official said. Nobody was injured in the incident, he said. "The blaze erupted in Fatima Nagar slum locality around 3 am. It started in one of the tin sheds and soon spread to some of the adjoining shanties," said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). "At least eight shanties were gutted in the fire, although nobody was injured in it. On being alerted, two fire engines were rushed to the spot and the blaze was doused in about two hours," he said. The cause of the fire is being ascertained, Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-eight-shanties-gutted-in-major-fire-at-bhiwandi-nobody-hurt-931763.html
26-12-2020||West||Ahmedabad starts online Covid-19 vaccine registration||The civic body in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city has launched an online facility for people from priority groups to register for the Covid-19 vaccine, an official said on Saturday. The civic body has begun the registration process for healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above the age of 50 and those under 50 who are suffering from comorbid conditions, an official release stated. People from these priority groups who have not yet registered themselves with health workers can approach their nearest UHCs carrying their identity cards such as driving licence, PAN card, or voters' ID etc, it was stated. "They can also get themselves registered on the AMC website www.ahmedabadcity.gov.in. This facility is only for citizens who have yet registered themselves with health workers or at UHCs," the release said. The Gujarat government had earlier said it has already identified around 3.9 lakh healthcare workers as the first priority group for Covid-19 vaccination, which includes 2.71 government doctors, nurses, lab technicians and Class 3 and 4 employees. The list also includes 1.25 doctors, nurses, lab technicians and employees of private hospitals engaged in Covid-19 duty. The police, home guards and others engaged indirectly in Covid-19 treatment and services will be given the second priority, state Health Minister Nitin Patel had said earlier. A survey has been undertaken to identify priority groups comprising people above the age of 50 and those below 50 years suffering from various diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-starts-online-covid-19-vaccine-registration-931777.html
26-12-2020||West||Meet the former deputy mayor from Kolhapur who cycles every morning to greet his ward residents||The greatest inspiration you can ever get is to know that you are an inspiration to others. This is the motto of Sanjay Mohite, a former Deputy Mayor of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Mohite, currently a Congress corporator, cycles every morning solving civic issues of people, spreading not only the message of his fitness but also illustrating how a people’s representative can interact with people. Mohite represents the Sykes Extension Ward in the KMC and leads when it comes to resolving issues plaguing his ward. “I have arranged funds to the tune of Rs 3 crore in the past five years to carry out developmental works in the ward. This includes repairing roads, improving the drainage systems, establishing a community hall, opening a gymnasium and setting up a walking track,” he said. Mohite has been striving to make his ward an ideal one where people live with satisfaction, tranquillity, unity, and peace. He has been working incessantly for the betterment of the ward for 10 years. His commitment to the residents is such that he rides on his bicycle every morning to remain in contact with each and every resident of the ward. He says this helps him remain fit and in touch with every individual. Not a single day has passed when Mohite has not paddled around his ward in the morning and interacted with the people. An established cricketer, Mohite has been inculcating a sense of discipline among the residents and trying to provide facilities for people to maintain their health. Besides cricket, he is a big fan of megastar Amitabh Bachchan. According to the residents of the ward, they feel proud when a tall leader like him moves around the ward unabatedly and interacts with the residents. He not only understands the issues faced by the people but takes them as a ‘personal challenge’ to resolve the same and make his ward the best place to live in for the young and the old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/meet-the-former-deputy-mayor-from-kolhapur-who-cycles-every-morning-to-greet-his-ward-residents-931782.html
26-12-2020||West||33 injured as van overturns in Maharashtra's Palghar district||At least 33 members of a marriage party were injured, some of them seriously, when the pick-up van they were travelling in overturned in Dahanu tehsil in Palghar district of Maharashtra, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday evening near Sarani Road, a Kasa police station officer said, adding that the injured included women and children. A medical officer at Kasa public health centre (PHC) said at least half a dozen injured persons, including children, were shifted to Thane civil hospital and to a hospital at Vapi city in neighbouring Gujarat. The driver of the van is on the run, the police officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/33-injured-as-van-overturns-in-maharashtras-palghar-district-931824.html
26-12-2020||West||Nitin Gadkari credits `sanskar' of RSS stalwarts for his success||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said the "sanskar" and lessons learnt from stalwart leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) helped him succeed in his political life. He was writing a book on the value system of the RSS and its "karya-paddhati" (working methodology) and how it can impact corporate and management sectors, the senior BJP leader said. Gadkari was speaking at the Yeshwantrao Kelkar Yuva Award program at the 66th national convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the RSS' student wing, here. Journalists in India and abroad ask him how he was able to execute big infrastructure projects successfully, the Union road transport minister said. "I am neither engineer and techno savvy nor was I a genius or brilliant student. I ask them (journalists) do you know the RSS, its ideology, its style of functioning?" he said. He got the opportunity to work closely with Sangh leaders of the past such as Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras, Gadkari said, describing them as geniuses. "The success I achieved is certainly due to the sanskar (lessons on values) received from the ABVP and RSS and these leaders," he said. "For the last few months, I am trying to put into book the sanskar and working methodology learned from Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras. (On) How can this working methodology can impact the working in corporate and management sectors," the Union minister said. Manish Kumar, who is working on organic farming, received the Kelkar award at Gadkari's hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nitin-gadkari-credits-sanskar-of-rss-stalwarts-for-his-success-931833.html
26-12-2020||West||Goa bustles with tourists but Covid-19 pandemic may play party-pooper||New Year celebrations and parties in Goa might take a hit this time in view of the pandemic protocol and apprehensions over a new coronavirus strain in England, which has affected flight schedules. While thousands of revellers have arrived in Goa to ring in 2021, unlike every year, the state will miss foreign guests due to curbs on flying. Goa usually witnesses a heavy footfall of foreign travellers who throng the state to soak up the sun at beaches, especially during the holiday season. However, this year would be an exception, as chartered flights from other countries are yet to resume, while scheduled flights from destinations like the UK have been kept on hold due to the new strain of coronavirus in that country. According to stake-holders in the hotel industry, the occupancy in establishments have remained satisfactory despite the pandemic. "As per the state Tourism department's record, of the 46,000 rooms, only 27,000 rooms have been opened up for tourists," said Nilesh Shah, president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG). While small hotels have registered 80 per cent occupancy during Christmas and New Year time, four and five-star establishments are fully occupied, Shah said. In a bid to attract guests, hotels have slashed their room rates by 20 to 30 per cent, compared to the corresponding period in the year 2019, he said. Although the mutated coronavirus variant reported in England has worried travellers, the state government has refused to impose any night curbs in a bid to attract more guests in the state. "The state government's consistent efforts to boost tourism has helped the tourism industry to gradually return to normalcy," Shah added. Shah said there will be no foreign tourists this time as the chartered flight season, which begins mid-October and ends in March, is yet to take off. On an average, five lakh foreign tourists arrive by chartered and scheduled international flights in the state, he said. "There have been times when the state has received more than 1,000 chartered flights," Shah recalled. Meanwhile, state director of tourism Menino D'Souza said Goa received a good response from tourists during Christmas and things are likely to get better for New Year. The department has been providing all necessary assistance to hoteliers to ensure that they receive maximum number of tourists, the official said. As beaches drew crowds during Christmas, beach shack owners are now back in business at Baga, Calangute, Sinquerim, Morjim (North Goa), Colva, Sernabhatim, Benaulim, Palolem, Patnem, Rajbag and others in South Goa. "Shack owners are trying their luck as there is crowd on the beaches. We have lost majority of the season, but we will try to compensate for the loss during the New Year festivities," said Manuel Cardoso president of Traditional Shack Owners Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bustles-with-tourists-but-covid-19-pandemic-may-play-party-pooper-931836.html
26-12-2020||West||35,000 cops to man Mumbai streets on New Year's Eve||Around 35,000 police personnel will be deployed on the streets of Mumbai to maintain law and order and prevent any untoward incidents on New Year's Eve, an official said on Saturday. The Maharashtra government has already placed restrictions in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and imposed a night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am till January 5. Around 35,000 personnel of Mumbai police will be on the streets to maintain strict vigil on New Year's Eve, joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said. In view of the night curfew, New Year celebrations can be held before 11 pm, but after that strict action will be taken against people who violate the prohibitory orders, the official said. Hotels, restaurants and other recreational establishments have been asked to down their shutters at 11 pm sharp and action will be taken against owners who violate the norm, he said. "As per the night curfew orders, gathering of more than five persons is prohibited. We don't have any problem if people step out with their families or in groups of four or less," Nangre Patil said. Despite these restrictions, people may gather at Gateway of India, Marine Drive, Girgaum Chowpatty, Juhu, Gorai and Madh Island areas in small groups of less than four persons from evening onwards, but the police will not allow crowding at these places, he said. Adequate police security will be in place at these locations, he said, adding that parties on boats and terraces are also not permitted. Moreover, anti-eve teasing squads will be present at various locations to prevent incidents of harassment, the official said. The police have also taken anti-sabotage measures considering terror threat to the financial capital, he said. Like every year, the traffic police will also conduct a drive against drunk and rash drivers, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/35000-cops-to-man-mumbai-streets-on-new-years-eve-931854.html
26-12-2020||West||ED summons former BJP leader Eknath Khadse in land scam case||In a development much on expected lines, the Enforcement Directorate has summoned veteran politician Eknath Khadse in an old alleged land scam case. Khadse (68) had recently left the BJP, a party with which he had been associated for close to four decades, and joined the Sharad Pawar-led NCP. The senior politician from Maharashtra’s Khandesh region has blamed Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis for his leaving the BJP. “I have not done anything wrong and I am not at all worried,” Khadse said, confirming the ED notice. Khadse has been asked to appear before the ED office in Mumbai on December 30. In fact, in October, the day Khadse said that he was sure that the BJP would target him with ED. “Let me tell you if they have ED, I have the CD,” Khadse had said without going into the details. Khadse, who was the Revenue Minister in the Fadnavis-government, had to resign in the wake of his name being dragged in a land scam. In his complaint to the Bund Garden police station in Pune on May 30, 2016, builder and real estate developer Hemant Gawande had alleged that Khadse misused his power as a minister and purchased land in Bhosari area, owned by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), in the name of his wife and son-in-law at the cost of Rs 3.75 crore, as against the market price of Rs 40 crore. The state government had initiated a probe by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Besides, he had also faced a probe by Justice MD Zoning, a retired Bombay High Court judge. Khadse had got a clean chit in both inquiries.  Meanwhile, NCP and Shiv Sena have reacted sharply against the development. “We are not at all surprised…this was to happen,” senior NCP leader and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal said. “This (BJP-led) Central government always targets political opponents with central agencies,” NCP leader Nawab Malik said. In the past too NCP leaders have been targeted by the Centre, he said, referring to the ED notices against NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and former Civil Aviation Minister Praful Patel. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the Centre was targeting political opponents through central agencies. It needs to be mentioned that Khadse's exit from the BJP has strengthened the tri-party alliance Maha Vikas Aghadi. Khadse's name, along with 11 others were sent to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for a nomination to the state's Council. However, the names from the Governor's quota are yet to be cleared by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-former-bjp-leader-eknath-khadse-in-land-scam-case-931912.html
26-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Naxal hideout busted in Gondia, rods, detonators seized||A huge cache of materials and electronic detonators to carry out explosions was found on Saturday from a Naxal hideout in a joint operation by police, C-60 commandos and a bomb disposal and detection team in Salekasa area of Maharashtra's Gondia district, an official said. Gondia Superintendent of Police Vishwa Pansare said the recovery of a steel box of 20-kilogram capacity, 150 rods to make explosives and 27 electronic detonators from the forests of Genduzhariya Hills was made after he got a tip-off. A case has been registered under sections of the UAPA and Explosives Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-naxal-hideout-busted-in-gondia-rods-detonators-seized-931960.html
