27-12-2020||Comment||What should Congress do?||Every nation secures precisely as good a government as it merits. If you, the picked men, the most highly educated of the nation, cannot, scorning personal ease and selfish objects, make a resolute struggle to secure greater freedom for yourselves and your country, a more impartial administration, a larger share in the management of your own affairs…  hopes of progress are at an end, and India truly neither desires nor deserves any better government than she enjoys at present.” This 1883 letter by retired British civil servant Allan Octavian Hume resulted in the founding of the Indian National Congress, with the permission of Viceroy Lord Ripon, on December 28, 1885, at Mumbai’s Gokuldas Tejpal Sanskrit College, attended by 72 delegates including two Scottish men - William Wedderburn and Justice John Jardin. Hume assumed office as general secretary and Womesh Chundra Bonnerjee as president. Perhaps the British administration realised that for successful governance of India, the co-operation of the natives is very much essential following the 1857 sepoy revolution. Looting India began with barbarians like Timur, Genghis Khan etc, who plundered Hindu temples as well as Muslim mosques for wealth followed by the British businessmen/empire taking over India and making it its subsidiary. The kings, beginning with the Mughals, be a Hindu or a Muslim, did not transfer Indian wealth overseas although they exploited their own populace, with the exception of Shivaji and Ibrahim Adil Shahi. In the early days of INC, it limited itself to petitioning the Viceroys for reservation in employment. All of us know the history of the INC beginning with Dadabhay Naoroji  becoming the first Indian member of the British Parliament and later Lal, Bal, Pal  - Lala Lajpat Rai, Balagangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal – vigorously taking up the cause of Independence. The seed of total independence was sown with the war cry of Tilak’s “freedom is my birthright”, roaring in the court hall, and ending up with Mahatma Gandhi – the rebellious pacificist - raising his voice in 1942, “Quit India”, “Do or Die”, “Sampoorna Swarajya”, reverberating across the nook and corner of the country, touching the chords of every Indian heart. The sun “who never sank in the British empire” eclipsed. Not only our motherland became independent but colonisation of all types ended in the world. The INC can proudly proclaim that it was the vehicle of this great world movement. It is not surprising that when India was vivisected into two, Pakistan called itself an Islamic nation though proclaiming in its Constitution that all are equal irrespective of creed and faith. But it proved within a few months that this theocratical state considered minorities like Hindus, Sikhs and Christians and even Ahmadiyas as second class citizens living at the mercy and charity of the majority. Here, we should be proud that the INC resisted with all its might the pulls and pressures in becoming a Hindu Rashtra though the atmosphere to become so was conducive then. But India, due to true Hinduism absorbing within itself the best of Christianity and Islam, proudly declared itself a secular state. Millions of Muslims remained in India accepting it as their motherland and live harmoniously. We should be grateful always to eminent Congressmen like Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Babu Rajendra Prasad, Govind Vallabh Pant, C Rajagopalachari, JB Kripalani, Jayaprakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia and the towering guiding force Mahatma Gandhi. True Bharatiyata The Ambedkar-led Constitution - “we the people of India” - remained as a secular state thanks to the then all-powerful and all-inclusive INC representing the true Bharatiyata and its consciousness and conducting itself accordingly. Spiritualism became the foundation of politics and economics. In 70 years of Independence, Ganga has become much more polluted reflecting the disease set in our society. Politics has become divisive, abusive, the safeguarding institutions meekly surrendered, media started screaming, and hate has found its movement of grandeur. At this juncture, when INC is losing its sheen and the country is moving towards a monolithic, one-man party structure what should it do? In spite of many hurdles, it is apt to remember what then prime minister Manmohan Singh told US President Barack Obama: “In uncertain times, the call of religious and ethnic solidarity can be intoxicating, and it is not so hard for politicians to exploit the situation..” In an atmosphere of illiberalism and unabashed lie-mongering, regional parties are becoming state/individual-family centric with a limited outlook, BJP in its no-holds-barred aggressive mode of converting the entire country into misuse of a great religion like Hinduism in all spheres. Economics, political science, jurisprudence, culture, history, culture… all become subservient to this agenda. The INC, however meek it may look, is pan-Indian and present everywhere. In such a dismal Covid-19 situation, INC should quickly re-energise itself by following what Sam Pitroda, the architect of Indian communication systems, said, “Follow Gandhi.” Former party president Rahul Gandhi famously said “the power of truth should rule over the truth of power”.  Congressmen should forget they are born only to rule and think elections and political power are secondary and they are the great inheritors of Gandhi, Nehru, Patel and Ambedkar. They should stop “the play and pay politics” and take up the cause of aam aadmi and fight all types of exploitation in the Gandhian way of non-violence and satyagraha steering clear of personal corruption and vested interests. When the BJP governance is going berserk, the Congressmen would be expected to not to indulge in any election-related malpractices. They are expected to realise within themselves the history, the philosophy, and the culture of Congress and its leaders should become role models. Money power, muscle and lies can be countered only by honesty, moral courage and truth. If the country gets balkanised and unstable, INC should not blame BJP but itself for failing in its duty. (The writer is former Principal, Seshadripuram College, Bengaluru, and ex-vice president, KPCC; Opinion personal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-should-congress-do-932290.html
27-12-2020||First Edit||PM Modi struck right notes, welcome message||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the students, alumni, and faculty of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of the university struck many right notes and has sent out a welcome message. Normally, a prime minister’s address to a university should be judged on the basis of what he says. But Modi’s address was important for the message that the act of address itself conveyed. It was the first time that a prime minister was talking to an AMU gathering after Lal Bahadur Shastri spoke at the campus in 1964. It is not without significance that after many decades a prime minister belonging to the BJP spoke to the students, and the symbolism becomes more meaningful when it is Narendra Modi who does that. That is because of the notion that the persona of Modi and the Idea of AMU do not gel very well. Modi tried to break that with his praise of the university and description that it is a mini-India in itself where students from everywhere study. He pointed out how the diversity of the campus, where there is the place for Urdu and Sanskrit, and the Quran and the Ramayan, strengthened not only the university but also the nation. Quoting the founder of AMU, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, he said that the growth of the country should be above the caste and religion of the people. He also highlighted the need for all citizens to get equal opportunities and assured that no citizen would be left behind because of their religion. He said politics can wait but development cannot and that every citizen is assured of his or her constitutional rights. This was an affirmation of the idea of an inclusive and accommodative India that has been in retreat in the country under his own watch. Extreme Hindutva groups have always targeted AMU as an abode of anti-nationals. That is why the prime minister’s virtual visit there and his words are important. While his assertions and assurances are welcome, they should also be reflected in the policies and actions of the government. Many of the government’s decisions and policies have not stood the test of the best principles of governance which the prime minister enunciated in his speech. As the head of government and the supreme leader of his party, it is in his power to guide governance and politics in the ways that he described them to the students. In fact, the ideas and sentiments that he expressed in AMU would better be directed at his followers than the assemblage at the university. They are relevant at a time of increasing discrimination and polarisation, notably in the very state where AMU is located.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-modi-struck-right-notes-welcome-message-932292.html
27-12-2020||In Perspective||Mental illness and a ‘good enough mother’||Seema was found by the police near the Bengaluru railway station, clutching her small infant, dishevelled, confused, and scared. Seema could not remember her name and spoke a dialect of Bengali and Assamese which we did not understand.  The infant had to be placed under protection by the Child Welfare Committee till her mental illness was treated and she would be able to look after him. It took three months of medication and rehabilitation for us to be able to have a coherent conversation with her.  Yet, through it all, the one thing she remembered and talked about was her little baby. It was nearly five months before she was well enough to be reunited with little Ankur, an adorable little infant who was the darling of all at the Shishu Vihar. Should she give up the baby for adoption? How would she take care of the baby? She had no address, no money, and no identification. What was our responsibility to the infant and to the mother? These were some ethical questions that our team grappled with. The joy when she was reunited with her infant was palpable. Seema was all smiles, she did not need language to convey her emotions and the infant cradled comfortably in her arms, resumed feeding at her breast as if the three months of separation did not matter at all. There was not a single dry eye in the team that day.  There are several such stories of mothers with mental illness and their young children and the value of reunification. The recent incident of a woman with mental illness whose child was taken away and put into foster care when she was symptomatic, without considering her choices or rights, is an example of what happens when contexts are not considered when the agency is denied, and when the system finds a short cut for child care.  Often a mother is asked by the court to provide evidence about her parenting competence. This is a hard question to answer for any mother – with or without mental illness. It is important for mental health and childcare services to work together in identifying skill deficits and providing training before a mother is asked to prove her parenting competency.  The only issue which should be considered for the cessation of parental rights (temporary or permanent) is the child’s safety. Even then, the infant or child must be kept safe till the mother becomes capable of managing the baby. Unfortunately, many other aspects seem to influence decision-making regarding parental rights, and not just mental illness including the fact that women with mental illness are more often separated or single, have poor housing, low income and may lack family support. Informed choice There have been many mother-infant dyads like Seema and Ankur who have been helped at the specialised `Mother-Baby’ unit at Nimhans, Bengaluru. Of the 277 mothers admitted in the service in the last four years, only one mother wanted to give up her baby for adoption, and that too after a lot of support and discussions by the mental health and child welfare teams, helping her to make an informed choice. Using systematic assessments and interventions for maternal sensitivity and skills training, mothers with mental illness are helped in understanding the infant’s cues and responses are gradually shaped by modelling and suggestions. The majority of mothers with mental illness, though initially disturbed and possibly even aggressive towards their infants, respond to treatment and become caring mothers. Globally, there is a movement to preserve families and to focus on alternatives to parent-child separation. Organisations like the International Marce Society for perinatal psychiatry and the Global Alliance for Maternal Mental Health act as advocates for mothers and enhance research and services in this neglected area. In India, the Mental Health Care Act, 2017 requires that mothers and children below three years not be separated in inpatient and rehabilitation facilities unless the mother poses a risk to the child. In 2011, I was a member of an expert group convened by the World Psychiatric Association which developed guidance on the protection and promotion of mental health in children of persons with severe mental disorders and emphasised the need for parenting support. The impact of separation on mothers’ mental health can be enormous and most mothers with mental health conditions are unable to cope with the trauma of having a child taken into care against their wishes. While good quality mental health care is important, it is not sufficient. It has been shown that the denser a woman’s social networks, the less likely that her child will be taken into care. A new concept of `wrap-around services’ that involves a strengths-based philosophy of care and support in `good enough’ mothering is now recommended.  An important tenet of the wrap-around approach is the role of all sectors and social services helping the mother-infant dyad and not placing the responsibility of parenting on the mother alone. (The writer is Professor of Psychiatry and In Charge, Perinatal Psychiatry Services, NIMHANS, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/mental-illness-and-a-good-enough-mother-932291.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Asha worker assaulted in Kadaba taluk||An Asha worker was allegedly assaulted by the wife of a Covid-19 infected person at Kutrupady village in Kadaba taluk. Rajeevi B S was assaulted with a broom by the wife of an infected person on December 21. Dakshina Kannada District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that a case was registered against the wife in the jurisdictional police station. Asha worker had visited the house of an infected person to collect details about the primary and secondary contacts. When she noticed many relatives visiting the house of the infected person, she advised family members not to allow visitors. Enraged over her advice, the infected person’s wife assaulted her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-asha-worker-assaulted-in-kadaba-taluk-932043.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Voting suspended in Siddaiahnapura||The gram panchayat elections at Siddaiahnapura in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district was stopped due to confusion. The elections are scheduled for four posts, two SC and two general seats. As there was confusion in voting the polls suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-voting-suspended-in-siddaiahnapura-932044.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Khader lashes out at Karnataka govt over night curfew confusion||MLA UT Khader lashed out at the state government for changing its decision three times within 48 hours on the imposition of night curfew in Karnataka and creating confusion among people. Owing to pressure from bar and restaurant owners, the government withdrew its decision on night curfew aimed to check the spread of coronavirus in the state, Khader said at a press conference in Eden Club on Saturday. "The government should also come out with clarity on the reopening of schools. Did the government conduct a study on loopholes while resuming classes for final-year degree students so that mistakes could be avoided while opening schools? The government has been insisting college managements offer both online and offline classes,” he said and questioned the logic behind such a decision. Further, he urged the government to come out with guidelines to check the spread of a possible second wave of Covid-19. He advised the government to learn from its mistakes in the initial phases of coronavirus. "The government had spent crores of rupees to procure Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits which were later rejected." Khader said the state government has not taken any steps to promote research on Covid-19 mutation yet. He stated that a new strain of the Covid-19 virus need not come from foreign countries alone, but can occur at any place. In spite of warnings on the new strain of the virus in the UK, no precautionary measures have been taken at international airports like Mangaluru, Khader said, adding that the deputy commissioner should monitor measures taken at the airport. He urged Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to present a vaccination plan for the state. The government should explain whether the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved the state to commence vaccination, the cost of vaccines and its maker, and the detailed distribution plans. "Make public if the government has plans to distribute vaccine free for all,” Khader said. He urged the government to re-introduce treatment for Covid-19 under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, which provides free treatment only for ICU cases at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/khader-lashes-out-at-karnataka-govt-over-night-curfew-confusion-932056.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gudavi bird sanctuary facing threats from multiple fronts: Biodiversity Board||Karnataka's largest bird sanctuary at Gudavi in Shivamogga is facing threat due to deterioration of wetland, absence of supervision overuse of pesticides in the surrounding areas while the lack of basic infrastructure has kept officials away. The Karnataka Biodiversity Board has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa stating that the fence, mesh and other protective barriers erected around the 182.06 acre sanctuary have fallen in disrepair, requiring an urgent plan for a complete restoration. The sanctuary hosts 15,000 birds during the monsoon-winter period some of which fly from other countries. Birds belonging to 217 subspecies have been recognised in the sanctuary. However, the rich biodiversity is being eroded, the memorandum said. The memorandum noted that the sanctuary, initially notified in 1989, also requires its wetlands. The increase in the use of pesticides is threatening the sanctuary, it said and also expressed concern over the monkey menace disturbing birds. Chairman of the board Anant Hegde Ashisar said that one of the first steps needed to improve the condition was to ensure necessary payments and facilities to the lower-rung staff working in the sanctuary. He also sought basic infrastructure to encourage tourism activities. "Information centre, canteen, toilet and other necessary infrastructure should be build while guarding against unnecessary concretisation. Activities like boating, which affect movement of the birds, should not be allowed," he stated. The memorandum said a study needs to be taken up to assess the quality of water flowing into the sanctuary as well as the silt formed in its lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gudavi-bird-sanctuary-facing-threats-from-multiple-fronts-biodiversity-board-932158.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gram Panchayat poll candidate gives birth on polling day eve||A pregnant woman who contested for Gram Panchayat polls delivered a baby girl at around 11 pm on the eve of polling day at the government community hospital in Wadi town. Manjula Guduba is the candidate for Ward No 4 at Ingalagi village in Chittapur taluk. Both mother and baby are in fine fettle. Interestingly, the both new mother and her mother-in-law are in fray. While the mother-in-law contested from Ward No 3, the daughter-in-law is a candidate from Ward No 4. Manjula was admitted to the hospital in Wadi after she experienced labour pain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-poll-candidate-gives-birth-on-polling-day-eve-932189.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||A turn for good with tweaked rules at Kalyana Karnataka region's schools||The government’s move to amend the cadre and recruitment (C&R) rules to allow engineering graduates to teach science and mathematics from the sixth standard to eight standards has come as a blessing in disguise for six districts in the Kalyana Karnataka region. The region has been facing a huge shortage of science and mathematics teachers to teach at the primary and high school levels. Quality of education has been hit severely due to this reason.  According to sources in the Commissionerate of Public Instruction, Kalaburagi, the department had conducted Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) coaching for about 5,000 candidates last year in association with Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board. Nonetheless, a disappointing number of candidates got qualified in the centralised mock test conducted by the department in the region. An official told DH that the gap between vacancies and recruitment of teachers was widening with each passing year due to the unavailability of maths, science and English teachers. The education department had issued a notification to fill up a total of 5,030 vacant graduate primary school teachers’ posts in the region. But only 837 posts were filled up in 2019-20, he explained. If engineering graduates are appointed, a shortage of teachers to teach mathematics and science can be reduced considerably. Hopefully, in two-three years, the department is able to absorb about 20,000 such teachers in the region, he told. Welcoming the government’s decision, Sangeetha Kattimani, a PU college lecturer, said though a large number of engineering graduates were passing out every year, only 20% of skilled and qualified graduates were securing jobs. Covid-19 pandemic has created massive unemployment and lay-offs. The National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) has relaxed norms and allowed engineering graduates to teach at the primary level. Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu are recruiting such candidates, she explained. Baburao Sherikar, professor at PDA College of Engineering, said unemployed engineering graduates were ready to take up teaching as a profession at the cost of their ‘self-esteem’. At present, no private company is paying attractive salaries. Engineering graduates will be happy as they will be in government service, he said. However, they can’t directly be appointed as teachers. Like others, they will have to pass the BEd course, TET , and CET exams to be appointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-turn-for-good-with-tweaked-rules-at-kalyana-karnataka-regions-schools-932284.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Instill confidence among oppressed women: DCP Prakash Gowda||Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) A N Prakash Gowda called the people to instill confidence among the oppressed women.  The DCP was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the workshop ‘Prevention of Violence against Women and Women Empowerment’, organised by Devaraja Police, here. The DCP suggested resolving minor family disputes rather than making it a big issue. “Dowry harassment case and the criminal case are not only the solution for family disputes. The husband and wife must try to resolve the issues,” he suggested. The DCP said, women are facing harassment in the workplace too and the authorities of the Women and Child Development Department must educate women about the laws implemented to protect them, he said. Advocate Mahadev, Women and Child Development Deputy Director Padma were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/instill-confidence-among-oppressed-women-dcp-prakash-gowda-932296.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gram Panchayat polls largely peaceful in Mysuru region||Except for minor issues, the second phase of gram panchayat elections were largely peaceful in the Mysuru region, comprising, Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts, held on Sunday. The first phase was held on December 22 and the counting of votes will be on December 30. In Mysuru, the polls were held for a total of 102 GPs of three taluks - Mysuru, Nanjangud and T Narasipur - with 721 wards and 1,929 seats. The district recorded 81.17% polling. In Mandya, elections were held for a total of 230 GPs from four taluks - Pandavapura, Srirangapatna, KR Pet and Nagamangala. While 545 members are unanimously elected, the election was held for 3,249 sets of 3,797. As many as 8,012 candidates were in the fray from four taluks. Hassan district recorded 83.72% polling. The elections were held for 120 gram panchayats in four taluks-Arasikere, Belur, Alur and Holenarasipur. The elections were scheduled to elect 1,468 members. A total of 178 members were elected unanimously. A total of 4,041 candidates were in the fray. In Chamarajanagar district, the polls were held for the GP of three taluks - Yelandur, Kollegal and Hanur. Boycott The villagers of Padasalanatta village coming under Male Mahadeshwara Hill boycott the polls demanding the government to issue immediate compensation for the family of a deceased, who died in a bid to escape from a wild elephant attack. A man died after falling into a trench on Saturday. Despite the election officials, forest department authorities visit to the village and the voters denied to vote. As many as 270 voters did not exercise their franchise. In another case, the voters of Siddaianapura village ward-1 denied casting votes demanding for four votes. However, the officials managed to convince the villagers. In the ward, there are four seats-two general and two SC. While no one filed papers for the general category, 11 candidates filed papers from SC category. The villagers argued that the election officials had said that each voter has four votes but, now only two votes were allowed. However, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi managed to convince the voters and the voting commenced at 12.45 pm. Protest The voters staged a protest in front of a polling station in Srirangapatna in the Mandya district for denying voting power for a few voters due to mistake in voter list. A few voters’ details were misinterpreted and thus the officials denied voting right for them. More than 50 voters of Maggigepur village were deprived of voting power due to the mistake of the officials. The voters staged protest for more than an hour. 200 names missing As many as 200 voters deprived of voting power as their names were missing from the voters' list. The names of 200 voters of Agadallu ward coming under Kalleri GP of Belur taluk in Hassan district, were missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-polls-largely-peaceful-in-mysuru-region-932298.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||What’s wrong if RSS is behind Kurubas agitation, asks AHV||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath criticised opposition party leader Siddaramaiah, also Kuruba, for claiming RSS is behind the campaign demanding Schedule Tribe tag for Kuruba community and asked what is wrong if RSS is behind the protest.  In a press conference, here, on Sunday, Vishwanath, also Kuruba, said, RSS is not banned in the country and everyone must remember it. The agitation is not prestigious either for me or Minister K S Eshwarappa, who is also a Kuruba. Let Siddaramaiah lead the campaign, he said, adding, Siddaramaiah has no opposition for the agitation. Siddaramaiah had claimed that RSS is trying to split the Kuruba community and targeting his leadership. Vishwanath sought support from all political parties, including the Congress, and other communities. A meeting of the community leaders from Hassan, Mandya, Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar, has been convened on December 29 at Kanaka Bhavan in the city. Somashekar blames KSE, AHV On the other hand, former MLA M K Somashekar also Kuruba, criticising the agitation claimed RSS is trying to divide Kurubas. “K S Eshwarappa and Vishwanath must clear against whom the agitation is? BJP is in power in both state and union. Sangolli Rayanna Brigade, led by Eshwarappa, is a closed chapter now and he will drop the campaign in between,” Somanna ridiculed. Kuruba community, which is under the 2A category, is getting 15% reservation and if the community included into ST list, then the community will get only 3% reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/what-s-wrong-if-rss-is-behind-kurubas-agitation-asks-ahv-932300.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Empty fuel tanker catches fire; major mishap averted||A petrol tanker caught fire after ramming against the road median, on Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway, near Nagamangala, in Mandya district, recently. However, a major mishap was averted as the petrol tanker was empty. The accident occurred near Tirumalapura Gate, in Bellur hobli, in Ngamangala taluk. The tanker was returning to Mangaluru, after unloading petrol, when it accidentally hit against the road divider and caught fire. The tyres of the vehicle were gutted.  The locals alerted the Fire and Emergency Services personnel, who rushed to the spot and doused the flames.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/empty-fuel-tanker-catches-fire-major-mishap-averted-932302.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Paddy harvesting machine boon for farmers||When the farmers of the region are facing problems like labour shortage during the harvest season and increasing daily wages, paddy harvesting machines have come to the rescue of the farming community. The Agriculture department has come in support of farmers by lending paddy harvesting machines at nominal prices. With the gram panchayat elections, the farmers are finding it difficult to find labourers as majority of them are busy involved in election campaign. Making use of the situation, the other labourers are demanding more wages. The Agriculture Department has let out ten paddy harvesting machines on hourly basis. While Rs 2,300 will be charged per hour for the chain model, Rs 1,500 will be charged for tyre model machine. Besides, a private organisation also has 20 machines for paddy harvesting, that would be given on rent to the farmers. The rent was fixed in a meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. The machines will be available for rent at Krishi Yantra Dhare centres. Anand, a farmer of K R Nagar, who has cultivated paddy on his five-acre land said that for the first time, he harvested paddy using a machine due to unavailability of labour. “I was following traditional farming method, but due to unavailability of labourers and high wages, I used machines. Though the manual harvesting is better, it is inevitable to go with the machines as it is cheaper and consumes less time,” he said. According to Agriculture department Joint Director M Mahanteshappa, the use of machinery will be a boon for the farmers during such times. The farmers have cultivated paddy on 1.02 lakh hectare in the district and harvesting has begun. Nearly, 50% of the harvest has been completed in K R Nagar taluk. However, harvesting has just commenced in other taluks, he said. Paddy procurement The registration of farmers for paddy procurement has commenced from November 30 and will continue till December 20. The farmers can drop paddy at the centres. The government has fixed a Minimum Support Price of Rs 1,868 for ordinary paddy and Rs 1,888 for grade ‘A’, for the year 2020-21. The officer said that a maximum of 40 quintals can be procured from each farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/paddy-harvesting-machine-boon-for-farmers-932303.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) hopes talks of ‘realignment’ with BJP will help it remain relevant||If there’s one regional party in India that specialises in the art of playing “kingmaker” it would have to be the Janata Dal (Secular). Despite being nowhere close to a majority on its own, the party has found a way of facilitating governments of other parties as well enjoying power several times – with the Congress in 2004, with the BJP in 2006 and with the Congress again in 2018. Now there is talk of it getting close to the BJP  – TV channels even predicted a merger between the two outfits recently, something denied by both sides immediately.  While the idea that the JD (S) will merge with the BJP appears too far-fetched at present, yet, nobody in the state’s political circles will deny that the two have been cosying up. And from all evidence, it is the JD (S) that is keen on a ‘realignment’ of sorts. So, what could be propelling the JD (S) into the Saffron party’s orbit and what implications will it have? To cut a long story short, it’s the good old survival instincts of the HD Deve Gowda family that seem to have resurfaced to ensure that the JD (S) remains in the game. Given that talk of an ‘understanding’ between the two sides cannot be confirmed or denied with certainty any time soon – the polls are still a good two years away – the buzz around this prospect is exactly what the doctor ordered for an ailing JD(S).  “Today, that question doesn’t arise,” JD (S) supremo HD Deve Gowda said when asked about talks of an alliance with the BJP for the 2023 polls. “Let’s see what mandate the people are going to give. We’re working towards coming to power on our own.” The former prime minister ruled out “taking his party to somebody else’s doorsteps.” The party has been losing electoral ground over the years – from having won 58 seats in 2004 state polls, the party now has a strength of 33. Then it is said that HD Kumaraswamy is wary of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar’s Vokkaliga ‘machismo’, which could decimate the JD (S) in the Vokkaliga-dominated Old Mysuru region.  With the rise of Shivakumar on the one hand and the BJP’s unwavering campaign to become a pan-Karnataka party on the other hand, there is a very real chance that the regional party could get squeezed out of the picture completely. What the JD (S) is facing now is nothing short of an existential threat and that is what its current moves are meant to address. The JD (S) is positioning its moves to befriend the BJP as something that will be mutually beneficial to both sides. JD (S) sources said talks have been held between the BJP central leadership and Deve Gowda around an ‘understanding’ between the two parties keeping the 2023 state polls in mind. “There are several constituencies where the JD (S) stood second [to the Congress] in the 2018 polls. The talks are about having an understanding of these constituencies to benefit us.” Other JD(S) leaders who spoke to DH said such an understanding would benefit the BJP as well. In the 2018 Assembly polls, the BJP and the JD(S) are said to have had an ‘understanding’ in over two dozen constituencies, including Chamundeshwari, where Siddaramaiah, the incumbent chief minister, tasted defeat.  The combined vote share of the BJP and the JD(S) in the 2018 polls was 57%, of which the regional party accounted for 20%. In the event of an alliance in 2023, a mutual transfer of votes – both wishful and debatable – is what the JD(S) would want to defeat the Congress, the common enemy.  But the talk of ‘mutual benefit’ may be hard to sell beyond a point.  “The JD(S) needs this alliance more than the BJP does,” says former MLC Ramesh Babu, who quit the JD(S) earlier this year after a four-decade-long association to join the Congress. “Over many years, the JD(S) has lost the basic characteristics a political party should have: Office-bearers, committees, and so on. Simple thing: Was there a JD(S) manifesto for the Lok Sabha polls last year?”  It amuses Babu that some JD(S) leaders are not averse to having truck with the BJP. “The JD(S) was formed in 1999 expressly to fight the BJP,” he says. “Gowda became PM in 1996 and JH Patel became the CM here. A conflict started as Ramakrishna Hegde floated the Lok Shakti party and Patel wanted to go with the BJP. To stop this, Gowda and Siddaramaiah started the JD(S). Today, if you’re looking for an alliance with the BJP, isn’t that opportunistic politics?” he asks.  Some also say that the talk of ‘realignment’ towards the BJP is ‘confusion’ created by Kumaraswamy to stop the exit of some MLAs who are planning to join either the Congress or the BJP.  What goes in the JD (S)’ favour is that for Yediyurappa, who is fighting his own battles within the BJP,  its gambit can turn into an advantage. He can let the BJP central leadership know that he would have enough numbers to cause a split if he is unceremoniously removed as chief minister.  Three-way fight helps BJP For now, the BJP is happy to get help from the JD(S) in passing key Bills inside the House and dislodge the Legislative Council chairperson. But electorally, the BJP might actually lose out, according to political strategist, Anand V.  “A weakened JD(S) is detrimental to the BJP in getting a majority. The BJP thrives on a 3-way fight and this so-called realignment is out of the question and will be a non-starter,” he says. Political analyst Muzaffar Assadi agrees. According to him, it is the BJP, and not Shivakumar, that’s a bigger threat for the JD (S) because the BJP is encroaching upon the regional party’s social constituency among the Vokkaligas. “The JD(S) can somehow survive with DK Shivakumar because there’s ethnic affinity. There’s no such affinity with the BJP.”  If there is a BJP-JD(S) coalition for the 2023 elections, Assadi says the JD(S) will lose. “The Congress will be at an advantage by winning more seats and Shivakumar may even become the CM,” he says.  In all this, the Congress is playing by the old script. “That’s why we said the JD(S) is the BJP’s ‘B’ team….The BJP wants secular votes to get divided. To counter this and reduce its damage for us, we’ll tell people what the both of them are up to,”  KPCC Working President, Saleem Ahmed, says.  Assadi points out the danger in store for Kumaraswamy: “If shown a finger, the BJP will eat the hand. Kumaraswamy runs the risk of becoming another SM Krishna – someone without an identity.”  (Additional reporting by Shruthi HM Sastry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-hopes-talks-of-realignment-with-bjp-will-help-it-remain-relevant-932017.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||CFI protests outside BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel's office||Members of Campus Front of India (CFI) on Saturday attempted to lay siege on the office of Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, who is also the state BJP president, condemning the arrest of CFI's National General Secretary Rauf Shareef by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Activists gathered near the office raised slogans against the government and the police took some leaders into custody. These protests were a part of the CFI's 'MP Office March'. CFI is the student wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI). “We are gheraoing the office of MP all over to condemn the arrest of our leader. The MP should come to the protesters and listen to our grievances,” the CFI leaders said. The placards held up by the activists read ‘ED stop being RSS tool,’ ‘India against UAPA,’ ‘Release Shareef,’ ‘we reject NRC, CAA’ and so on.   BJP spokesperson Capt Ganesh Karnik has condemned the protests of the CFI and urged the state government to initiate steps on banning PFI. Karnik added that strict action should be initiated against the protesters. He also alleged that PFI was directly involved in a series of riots that took place in the name of CAA and NRC in the country. He stressed the need to ban PFI, saying that it is engaged in anti-national activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cfi-protests-outside-bjp-state-president-nalin-kumar-kateels-office-932049.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Former ministers cast vote in gram panchayat elections||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah and former minister G T Devegowda cast their vote for gram panchayat elections, on Sunday. While Siddaramaiah cast his vote at his native village Siddaramanahundi, near Varuna, Devegowda exercises his franchise at Gungral chatra. Siddaramaiah, who came from Bengaluru, directly visited the voting centre and cast vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-ministers-cast-vote-in-gram-panchayat-elections-932102.html
27-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Didn’t prevent Kharge from becoming CM: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday has said that he did not prevent Congress veteran Mallikarjuna Kharge from becoming chief minister. He was reacting to JD(S) supremo Deve Gowda's recent charges in this regard. "Let Deve Gowda disclose the name of the person who opposed CM post to Kharge. I never opposed CM post to Kharge,” Siddaramaiah told reporters here on Sunday. Taking exception against Deve Gowda for claiming that Siddaramaiah did not make any contribution to JD(S), Siddaramaiah said, “I served as JD(S) state president for six years and did my efforts go waste?" he sought to know. Siddaramaiah cast his vote in the Gram Panchayat elections at his native village Siddaramanahundi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/didn-t-prevent-kharge-from-becoming-cm-siddaramaiah-932275.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru designer’s creation in Safai Mitra Challenge||If the design submitted by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is approved by the Union government, all civic workers of the country will wear the uniform designed by a Mysuru-based designer. The MCC, which has been introducing several new concepts, took up the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge - 2021’, by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, and submitted a design as per the speculations. It may be mentioned that the MCC had recently launched ‘One Corporation One Number’, said to be the first-of-its-kind in India. In its initiative to create awareness and to appreciate the Safaimitras (pourakarmikas) in the country, the Union Ministry recently held a contest, asking the cities to design uniform for Safaimitras. The uniform should have the logo of Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge. The Centre has also earmarked a special fund of Rs 12 crore for the Urban Local Body, whose design bags the first prize. Mysuru is among the 242 cities of India, that has taken up the challenge. The MCC took up the opportunity and announced a contest of designing uniform for Mysureans. Six people from the city submitted their design. A committee, headed by MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, selected the best design, submitted by Asha Jayakrishnan, principal of Queens School of Design, in Mysuru. She bagged a cash prize of Rs 10,000. While Mysuru is the only city in Karnataka, that has taken part in the competition, it is said that only seven cities have taken part in the national-level. Speaking to DH, Asha Jayakrishnan said she is happy to be a part of the initiative and win the ‘One Nation One Uniform’ contest held by the MCC. “If the uniform is selected in the national-level, it will be another feather in the cap of the heritage city of Mysuru. It will be a proud moment for Mysureans. The civic workers from across the country will wear the same uniform, designed at the heritage city,” she said. Blue and orange colour scheme Asha said, “As per the prerequisites, I chose the colour scheme of Blue and Orange for the uniform. As blue is the colour of the year 2020, I chose dark blue along with bright orange. These colours were chosen to give motivation and to enhance the mood of the civic workers, who are usually seen wearing Khakhi uniforms since decades.” “Moreover, they would look smartly dressed, in this uniform. The attire will have Kangaroo pockets to keep the tools. The pockets also have divisions to accommodate different lengths of tools. The shirt has three pockets and one pocket in the trousers. The colour orange has been reinforced at the knee, on the trousers, which prevents tearing and also provides cushioning. There are reflect stripes in neon green, which serves as a protection, during night times,” she said. While the Safaimitra logo will be printed on the back of the shirt, the right hand of the shirt will have the Swachch Bharat logo and the MCC logo will be on the chest pocket, both embroidered. There is also a belt to hold extra tools and a pouch. The design, specification sheets and patterns have been submitted, awaiting results, she said. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, launched the challenge with theme ‘Manhole to Machine-hole Transformation’ last month, to encourage more number of cities and towns to adopt mechanised cleaning of sewers and septic tanks, and to motivate smaller cities to emulate.  However, Mysuru City Corporation has banned manual scavenging in 2011, according to an officer. The results would be announced on August 15 by the Union Ministry on the occasion of the Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-designer-s-creation-in-safai-mitra-challenge-931976.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||Second phase of Gram Panchayat elections today||The officials have geared up for the second phase of Gram Panchayat (GP) polls in Mysuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Mandya districts, scheduled for December 27, Sunday, from 7 am to 5 pm. The first phase of the election was held on December 22 and the counting of the votes of both the phases will be on December 30. The polling officials, along with booths, have shifted to their respective voting centres. In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, adequate precautions have been taken as per the directions from the State Election Commission. Anganwadi and Asha workers are deputed for poll duty. Thermal screening and hand sanitisers will be made mandatory in the polling booths. In Mysuru, the polls will be held for a total of 102 GPs of three taluks - Mysuru, Nanjangud and T Narasipur - with 721 wards and 1,929 seats. In Mandya, a total of 230 GPs from four taluks - Pandavapura, Srirangapatna, KR Pet and Nagamangala - will go for polls. While 545 members are unanimously elected, the election will be held for 3,249 seats of 3,797. As many as 8,012 candidates are in the fray from four taluks. In Hassan, GPs in Beluru, Arasikere, Alur and Holenarasipur taluks are going for polls in the second phase. The elections will be held for 120 GPs and 4,041 candidates are in the fray. Out of 1,648 seats, 178 posts are unanimously elected and no nominations received for two seats. The authorities have identified 76 Covid-19 positive patients from four taluks and special arrangements have been made for them. There are a total of 4,92,536 voters from four taluks. Three taluks - Yelandur, Kollegal and Hanur - in Chamarajanagar district will go for polls. There are a total of 3,02,889 voters in three taluks. While 1,52,694 are men, 1,50,178 are women voters. As many as 12 GPs in Yelandur, 16 GPs in Kollegal and 24 GPs in Hanur taluk will go for elections. Elections will be held for 872 posts and 2,450 candidates are in the fray. However, 35 members are unanimously elected and no nominations are filed for nine seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/second-phase-of-gram-panchayat-elections-today-931978.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Zoo open on Dec 29||Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens and Karanji Nature Park, in Mysuru, will remain open for the public on December 29 (Tuesday), on account of New Year, according to a press release issued by the executive director, Mysuru Zoo. Otherwise, Tuesday is a weekly holiday for the menagerie.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-open-on-dec-29-931979.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||Revanna alleges misuse of SCP, TSP funds||JD(S) MLA H D Revanna alleged misuse of grants earmarked under Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) for Scheduled Castes and Tribes. The MLA urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to conduct a thorough investigation in this regard. In a press conference, here, on Saturday, Revanna said, the government has earmarked Rs 1,000 crore under the SCP and the TSP. But the funds are being misused and the benefits do not reach the real beneficiaries. Revanna alleged that the tender process is not transparent and a private person is controlling the system. No small contractor is allowed to participate in the tender. 10% commission should be given to engineers and other officials, he said. The government should take the issue seriously and conduct a thorough investigation in this regard, he demanded.  Revanna also slammed the BJP government saying that after the BJP came to power, no development activities are taking place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/revanna-alleges-misuse-of-scp-tsp-funds-931980.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||DH-PV Navo-Pramati free workshop for UPSC, KPSC aspirants||Deccan Herald and its sister publication Prajavani, in association with Navodaya Foundation and Navo-Pramati School of Civil Services, have organised a free workshop for aspirants of UPSC and KPSC exams on January 5, Tuesday, at Kalamandira, on Vinobha Road, in Mysuru. S R Ravi, general secretary of Navodaya Foundation, said IPS officer Ravi D Channannavar, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and MUDA chairman H V Rajeev will participate in the inaugural session. UPSC master trainer Sandeep Mahajan, retired additional secretary to Union government C V Gopinath and other experts will conduct sessions of the workshop as resource persons. The registration will be held at the Kalamanidra, before the workshop, from 8.30 am to 9.30 am. The workshop will be held, by following all Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. Wearing of masks, use of sanitizers and social distancing is compulsory. Due to the prevailing situation, only 400 participants will be allowed, on first-come-first serve basis. Call: S R Ravi on 96860 72224, T L Sandeep on 96069 12170 or T N Basavaraj on 96069 12160.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dh-pv-navo-pramati-free-workshop-for-upsc-kpsc-aspirants-931981.html
27-12-2020||Mysuru||Seven water bodies to be desilted for NHAI works||Seven water bodies in Mysuru taluk will be desilted with no cost to the government. The authorities of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and a private contractor have planned to extract soil, to be used for the works on the 10-laning of the Mysuru-Bengaluru national highway. The authorities of Dilip Buildcon Limited, which is working on the highway, has submitted a memorandum to Tahsildar Rakshith to permit extraction of soil and has also agreed to pay royalty. MP Pratap Simha asked the tahsildar to permit to extract soil from ponds. The ponds, Shettynayakanahalli, Nagavalakere, Huyilalukere, Bommenahallikere, Jettihundi Kere, Huyilalu Kere and K Hemmanahalli Kere, will be desilted.   According to the authorities of Dilip Buildcon Limited, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) permits desilting of ponds for NH works and the initiative is the best way for water conservation. A large quantum of soil is needed for the highway project, said an officer of Dilip Buildcon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/seven-water-bodies-to-be-desilted-for-nhai-works-931988.html
27-12-2020||National||Digital campaign against Centre's farmer policy got huge response: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday claimed that its digital media campaign against the Narendra Modi government's policy towards the farming community has got a huge response on Twitter. The #ModiAgainstFarmers, the hashtag with which the party aims at highlighting "the rising crimes against farmers" of the country, has trended on Twitter, the TMC said in a statement. "Currently, #ModiAgainstFarmers has been trending at number 3 in India. It is unfortunate that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the farmers of the country are witnessing a government that is truly anti-farmer," it said. TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke to farmers protesting near Delhi against three new farm laws of the Centre and assured them that her party stands by them, a TMC leader said. The ruling party in West Bengal had also sent a five-member delegation to interact with the agitating farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-campaign-against-centres-farmer-policy-got-huge-response-tmc-931991.html
27-12-2020||National||Nepalese woman gang-raped in Haryana||A Nepalese woman was allegedly raped by five men in front of her husband in a village here, police said on Saturday. According to police, the accused entered the victim's rented house Thursday night. They beat up the woman's husband, a farm labourer, and tied him with ropes. The accused then took turns to rape her. The woman, in her complaint, said the accused escaped after committing the crime. The police have started investigation after registering a case under relevant provisions of the law against the five accused, Somvati, SHO, women police station, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepalese-woman-gang-raped-in-haryana-932018.html
27-12-2020||National||DH Toon | West Bengal Polls: Amit Shah vows 'Sonar Bangla'||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that the BJP would give West Bengal a son of the soil as its next chief minister. He challenged the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee that a son of the soil would face and fight against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-west-bengal-polls-amit-shah-vows-sonar-bangla-932045.html
27-12-2020||National||DH Toon | Political intrigue in Nepal||A day after Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal, a.k.a Prachanda, merged on May 17, 2018, China welcomed the amalgamation and the birth of the new Nepal Communist Party (NCP). “As a good neighbour and friend, China supports Nepal’s independent choice for the social system and development path that suits its own national conditions and we welcome the merging of the two parties,” Lu Kang, a spokesperson of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in Beijing, vowing to continue “mutual cooperation for the benefit of both the countries and people”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-political-intrigue-in-nepal-932046.html
27-12-2020||National||India sees lowest single-day spike in 6 months with 18,732 new Covid-19 cases||India registered 18,732 fresh cases of Covid-19, the lowest in nearly six months, while 97,61,538 people have recuperated so far from the disease pushing the national recovery rate to 95.82 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 1,47,622 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 279 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 18,732 daily new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours. The number of new daily cases last reported a dip on July 1 when 18,653 cases were registered. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was registered at 1.44 per cent. There are 2,78,690 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.73 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 16,81,02,657 samples have been tested up to December 26 with 9,43,368 samples being tested on Saturday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 279 new fatalities include 60 from Maharashtra,  23 from Delhi, 33 from West Bengal, 21 from Kerala, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 13 from Uttarakhand and 12 each from Punjab and Chattisgarh. A total of 1,47,622 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,189 from Maharashtra followed by 12051 from Karnataka, 12,059 from Tamil Nadu, 10,437 from Delhi, 9,569 from West Bengal, 8,293 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,092 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,281 from Punjab and 4,275 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-lowest-single-day-spike-in-6-months-with-18732-new-covid-19-cases-932051.html
27-12-2020||National||Nothing alarming in medical reports of Rajinikanth, says hospital||There is nothing alarming in the medical reports of superstar Rajinikanth, being treated for blood pressure fluctuation and a team of doctors will evaluate him later in the day and make a decision on his discharge, Apollo Hospitals said here on Sunday. "All the investigation reports have come in and there is nothing alarming in the reports," a medical bulletin from the hospital said, providing an update on the 70-year-old actor's health. The team of doctors will evaluate him this afternoon and make a decision on his discharge, it added. Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo Hospitals here on Friday for severe blood pressure fluctuation. He is in the Telangana capital since December 13 to shoot for Tamil film, Annaatthe, a Sun Pictures production. The actor isolated himself after four of the crew members tested Covid-19 positive days ago. The superstar, however, tested negative. The actor is set to launch his own political party next month ahead of the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-alarming-in-medical-reports-of-rajinikanth-says-hospital-932066.html
27-12-2020||National||Virus, vaccines and volatility: Stock market takes a wild ride in 2020||From the depths of despair to an adrenaline-pumping ascent, equity investors traversed the whole gamut of emotions in 2020 as a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic followed by equally unprecedented stimulus measures whiplashed global stock markets, upended conventional wisdom and blurred the lines between investing and speculation. Dalal Street witnessed gut-churning fluctuations, with the BSE Sensex swinging between historic losses and eye-popping gains, sometimes in the same session, and confounded veterans and rookies alike. No one had anticipated that the Sensex and Nifty would be bludgeoned in late March, or that they will stage a remarkable recovery almost immediately and soar to all-time highs by the end of the year. But, 2020 has been a year full of events outside the realm of imagination. The year started off on an ominous note for financial markets when on January 3 top Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani was killed in a US drone strike in Iraq, ratcheting up tensions in the Middle East. The Sensex tumbled more than 900 points over two sessions but resumed its upward march to hit life highs later that month. Equities largely shrugged off initial reports of a coronavirus outbreak in China, in tandem with the global bourses, and looked ahead to the Budget. However, the Sensex logged one of its biggest single-day declines on February 1 after the Union Budget failed to live up to market expectations of growth-boosting measures and fiscal discipline. The real test, alas, was ahead. From mid-February, world stocks started getting skittish as it became clear that the Covid-19 crisis would not be limited to China. To add to the woes, Yes Bank was placed under a moratorium in a rare move, triggering a crisis of confidence in the domestic banking sector. The explosive cocktail of a global market meltdown and domestic troubles proved too much to take for Dalal Street. Four of the biggest single-day declines in the history of BSE Sensex came in March 2020, leaving participants shell-shocked. Its biggest-ever plunge (in absolute terms) was on March 23, when the benchmark crashed 3,934.72 points or 13.15 per cent. Astonishingly, March also saw some of the index's biggest up-moves amid the RBI stepping in with emergency liquidity support. The Sensex's largest-ever single-session gain came a little later on April 7, when it zoomed 2,476.26 points as investors wagered on more stimulus measures from the government to battle the economic fallout of the pandemic. The turbulence on the domestic bourses also mirrored global market turmoil. The Dow Jones suffered its worst fall, emerging market assets were routed and in a mind-boggling moment, US oil futures turned negative for the first time in history. For a while, the world stopped making any sense. With the world economy comatose and governments overwhelmed by a cataclysmic health crisis, the task of propping up the financial markets and restoring investor confidence fell to the global central banks. "2020 will probably go down in history as a year when global central bankers injected close to $11 trillion as stimuli to combat the Covid pandemic,” said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The massive money printing by the US Federal Reserve and its peers sparked a breathtaking turnaround in global stock markets. Never bet against the Fed, as the saying goes. Flush with funds, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) poured in billions of dollars into emerging markets, with India topping the chart in Asia. FPI net inflows into Indian equity markets have crossed Rs 1.5 lakh crore (over $20 billion) this year -- a lifetime peak. The Sensex erased its 2020 losses on November 5, while global investors monitored the results of the tightly-contested US elections. The next booster dose for world markets came over the following few days as companies like Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca began announcing positive results from their Covid-19 vaccine trials. Human innovation once again triumphed against all odds, setting off a record-shattering relief rally in equities. From November 9 to December 18, the Sensex hit fresh record highs in 22 out of the 29 sessions. For the calendar year (till December 24), the Sensex has gained 13.86 per cent, while the Nifty has delivered returns of 12.99 per cent. Compared to the March lows, both the indices are up by a hefty 80 per cent. Benchmarks had another engine propelling them higher this year – Reliance Industries (RIL), which became the first Indian company to reach a market capitalisation of Rs 15 lakh crore ($200 billion) in September. Beginning April, the Mukesh Ambani-led conglomerate announced a slew of deals to sell minority stakes in its telecom and retail arms to marquee investors like Facebook, Google, Silver Lake, KKR, Mubadala, and Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia. The company has raised around $25 billion so far this year as it seeks to ramp up its consumer-facing businesses. For a good part of the year, RIL almost single-handedly drove the domestic benchmarks higher in the absence of any buying triggers. The Covid-19 crisis also forced investors to take a relook at their sectoral allocations. "From the lows, markets started stabilising and pandemic sectors like FMCG, IT, pharma and chemicals benefitted. As the economy further opened up, growth and cyclical sectors reversed positively," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, while stocks seem to have found their animal spirits back, there are also some murmurs of discontent. Analysts say world stock markets have developed a dangerous addiction to endless money printing by central banks, and show withdrawal symptoms of a junkie at the slightest indication of a moderation in monetary stimulus. Back home too, around half of the government's Rs 20.97 lakh crore economic stimulus package comprised RBI's liquidity measures. This glut of global liquidity has pushed markets so far ahead of economic fundamentals that some are beginning to question whether the real economy matters in equity investing at all. For example, no one would be able to tell looking at the Sensex chart that the Indian economy shrank 23.9 per cent in the first three months of FY21, and 7.5 per cent the next quarter. Globally too, markets have been on a manic upswing even as millions have lost their jobs, small businesses are battling for survival and entire industries have been decimated. While the real economy has been ravaged by the pandemic, most financial market indicators are ruling at stratospheric levels. The BSE Sensex is currently trading at a price-to-earnings (PE) ratio of 32.89, the highest on record. To put it differently, investors are paying Rs 32.89 for every rupee of future earnings of the 30 Sensex firms, compared to the previous 20-year average of around Rs 19. Global market capitalisation – the value of all the listed stocks in the world – topped $100 trillion for the first time ever in December. And in a classic sign of market mania, there's a rush of first-time investors eager to make a quick buck. A record 68 lakh new dematerialised (or Demat) accounts were opened in India between April and October 2020, compared to nearly 49 lakh in the entire FY20, which was the highest in a decade. Experts attribute this trend to factors like increased time at home due to the lockdown, efforts to make up for lost jobs or incomes, and also FOMO, or the fear of missing out on this rally. This is also reflected in the growing popularity of discount broking apps like Zerodha and Upstox, which have dislodged traditional broking houses in terms of active clients. Like the Robinhood app in the US, such platforms have attracted the tech-savvy crowd with their slick interface and mobile-first approach which has 'gamified' the once-stodgy field of stock market investing. With Fed and FOMO playing in tandem, many questioned technicalities like PE and PB ratios. But, some analysts also maintain that 2020 was an outlier in terms of corporate earnings and hence valuation metrics like PE ratios this year are not strictly comparable to historical averages. However, even they agree that every segment of the economy would have to stage a synchronous and sensational comeback to catch up with the market projections. And if that comes to pass, 2021 would be an even more incredible year for the bourses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virus-vaccines-and-volatility-stock-market-takes-a-wild-ride-in-2020-932074.html
27-12-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi urges manufacturers to produce world-class products in India during 'Mann ki Baat'||In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast of the year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that people have supported 'vocal for local' campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. The outgoing year saw the spirit of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' echo in society, he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, he asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolves for the new year. Modi also asked people to use Kashmiri saffron and said that his government is working to make it a "globally popular brand". The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. "We pay tributes to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-urges-manufacturers-to-produce-world-class-products-in-india-during-mann-ki-baat-932079.html
27-12-2020||National||India-Taiwan trade prospects look promising in 2021: TAITRA||The prospects for India-Taiwan bilateral trade, which was hit hard this year due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, look promising in 2021, according to the Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA).  The overall restructuring of supply chains will give India a very unique place and attract many Taiwanese companies to invest in the country, TAITRA chairman James CF Huang said.  "Given the current context of the US-China trade war and disruption of the pandemic through global supply chains, we have to take into consideration not just cost but also the resilience of supply chains, national security as well as health of the people," Huang told PTI.  Expressing optimism about the prospects of India-Taiwan bilateral trade in 2021, he said: "I believe we will be able to resume at least to the 2019 level, which is USD 5.7 billion". The TAITRA chief said this year's bilateral trade figure would be smaller than last year due to the impact of the pandemic witnessed in a slowdown of businesses globally.  "We have seen quite a few major Taiwanese companies bring in new investments to India in the past couple of months and I am sure this trend will continue," Huang said.  The Bureau of Foreign Trade and TAITRA organised the third edition of 'Taiwan Expo' virtually earlier this month.  The Expo hosted over 650 meetings to connect 270 companies including 150 from India and 120 from Taiwan to explore future business opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-taiwan-trade-prospects-look-promising-in-2021-taitra-932082.html
27-12-2020||National||Protesting farmers stay put at Delhi borders amid harsh winter||Thousands of farmers agitating against the three new Central agriculture laws stayed put at their agitations venues near Delhi, which is going through a harsh spell of winter, unrelenting in their demand of withdrawal of the three farm laws. The farmers had reached Singhu border over a month ago. The protesting farmer unions had on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre, and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks. They had also decided that a tractor march will be held on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway on December 30. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri where the farmers have been camping. The protests have also led to traffic congestion forcing police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Sunday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. “The Chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44,” it tweeted. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-stay-put-at-delhi-borders-amid-harsh-winter-932088.html
27-12-2020||National||Indo-Tibetan Border Police starts online liquor distribution system for troops||A first-of-its-kind Internet-based liquor distribution system has been launched for the serving and retired personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force guarding the LAC with China. The paramilitary force launched the centralised liquor management system (CLMS) sometime back as a solution to the problem of non-availability of the desired liquor brands to its personnel and veterans residing in remote locations. Paramilitary forces like the ITBP are authorised to get liquor under government rules and this is the first time such an online system has been introduced among these forces that includes the CRPF, BSF, CISF and SSB and other central forces like the NDRF and the NSG. "There was a long-standing demand of the ITBP personnel that good quality liquor should be made available to them in the vicinity of their native places." "Till now, the system allowed jawans and officers to purchase authorised liquor only from canteens of the formations/units where they are posted and there was no system which could enable them to take the liquor from the canteens of other units of the force even if that was based near their native place or home town," a senior officer of the force explained. ITBP chief S S Deswal recently launched the CLMS whose link is available at the official website of the mountain-warfare trained force. The portal link allows a serving or retired official to create an account, choose the unit nearest to their home base and check the inventory of brands and varieties of liquor for purchase on payment. "The new facility is a fully transparent and is a centralised digital system. This system also enables jawans to easily view the online approved selling price of any variety of liquor or brands, and their personalised prior purchase history," the officer said. "With this system, availability of quality liquor is being ensured to the force personnel," the officer added. The online system has about 85 liquor brands on the shelf at present and a serving or retired personnel of the force is authorised to purchase about 8 liquor bottles and six beer cans in a month. "Based on requirement and feedback, number of available liquor brands can be increase in the future," the officer said. The about 90,000-personnel strong force is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from being deployed for a variety of internal security duties across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-tibetan-border-police-starts-online-liquor-distribution-system-for-troops-932091.html
27-12-2020||National||2020: The year Indian science and scientists took a great leap forward||India reported its first case of Covid-19 in the last week of January and scientists have been on the research treadmill ever since, deftly moving from what they were doing to focus on the trajectory and evolution of the fast spreading disease, diagnostics and vaccine development. While many modified their research to suit Covid-19, others started afresh to cater to the more pressing and immediate demand – beating the pandemic. One year on, their efforts have paid off with Indian scientists at the forefront of the global fight against the disease despite the constraints of limited funding and available resources.   Even before the first case of the novel coronavirus was reported in India, Debojyoti Chakraborty, for instance, had anticipated that scientists had their work cut out and it was only a matter of time before the virus would cut a wide swathe across the country and leave no one unscathed. In January, Chakraborty and his team at New Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology were working on a prototype for the diagnosis of sickle cell anaemia based on gene-editing technology CRISPR. “Once the information about the pandemic came to light, we started reorienting our platform for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, gathering all the intelligence and reagents along the way,” Chakraborty told PTI. And so in January itself, the team started working on a CRISPR-based Covid-19 test -- ‘FELUDA’ is billed as a cheaper, faster and simpler alternative to the standard RT-PCR diagnosis. Named after Satyajit Ray's famed detective, the test is priced at an affordable Rs 500 and can deliver a result in 45 minutes. It is able to differentiate SARS-CoV-2 from other coronaviruses even if genetic variations between them are minute. The FELUDA test is just one of the several accomplishments. From developing computer models to predict the trajectory of the disease and creating diagnostics to designing masks and aiding vaccine research, India’s scientists have made remarkable contributions in multiple fields.   Like Chakraborty, Rajneesh Bhardwaj and Amit Agrawal from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay were busy in their line of research -- understanding the physics of evaporation of droplets for applications in spray cooling and inkjet printing and several other topical problems from the domain of thermal and fluid engineering.   However, as the Covid-19 pandemic unfolded, they turned their attention to applying their knowledge to understanding the evaporation of respiratory droplets on surfaces and the spread of cough clouds -- the main cause of airborne transmission of the novel coronavirus.   “We were among the first scientists worldwide to start working on these scientifically and socially relevant problems. For example, the second paper and subsequently three more papers in the special issue on Covid in the prestigious journal Physics of Fluids came from our group,” Bhardwaj told PTI.   “Our plans were to continue in the domain of thermal and fluid engineering. However, the pandemic came as an opportunity in our research plan. We thought of extending and applying our knowledge to several unanswered questions in the context of Covid,” Agrawal added.   The year saw several research groups in India trying to get to the root of Covid-19 by understanding the different aspects of the viral disease, including the way it spreads, the role of masks and developing diagnostic tests.   “The medical community has also reported clinical data and development of vaccines in an unprecedented way,” says Bhardwaj.   A special issue on “Technologies for fighting Covid-19” published in the journal Transactions of Indian National Academy of Engineering  summarised these efforts and highlighted 49 accepted papers published by Indian researchers.   “It is a difficult task to develop new technologies within a short span but many of the existing technologies can be deployed with subtle changes to meet the immediate needs challenged by Covid-19,” the authors of the special issue said.   Before the pandemic struck, Murali Dharan Bashyam and his team at the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Hyderabad, were on the verge of completing two major projects -- one on pancreatic cancer, and the other on colorectal cancer, a result of work done for more than 10 years.   “It was very disconcerting for my group when the lockdown was implemented. However, we realised that we needed to wait. By June 2020, we thought it was our duty to contribute to Covid-19 research,” the scientist told PTI.    After intense discussions between researchers at several national institutions and the Department of Biotechnology, the government identified four major areas of Covid-19 research -- viral genomics, diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccine development.   “My group decided to contribute in the area of viral genomics since that was our area of expertise,” Bashyam added.   The team’s work on evolutionary genomics of the viral strains infecting the Telangana state appeared in the preprint repository MedRxiv and is expected to be published in a peer reviewed journal soon.   “In addition, we are one of the three leading groups coordinating a pan-India viral genome sequence consortium,” he said. The project was undertaken to sequence 1,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes from samples to understand the evolving behaviour of the coronavirus.    There are several others devoting their knowhow, time and efforts towards understanding Covid-19, which has infected almost 80 million people globally with the US topping the list with 18.7 million cases and India number two with more than 10 million cases. Gyaneshwar Chaubey deals with the phylogeny, or evolutionary history of various organisms in his routine work. In 2020, the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) zoologist had planned to map the Lakshadweep Islands, several Bangladeshi and many Northeast Indian populations.   “However, Covid-19 changed everything,” the scientist told PTI.   Chaubey shifted his work towards analysing the mutations in the human gene responsible for the expression of the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2), a protein on the surface of cells which is believed to act as a gateway for the novel coronavirus into the human body.   By October, his team published a paper which described a variation in a genetic mutation among Indians that may be the main reason behind the difference in the death rates due to Covid-19 across various states of the country.   “We were sure that 'nature' is so smart that whenever any such event happens, it doesn't destroy the whole humanity. Because we are so diverse and diversity always provides immunity to some people against diseases,” Chaubey added.   Bashyam noted that Indian scientists have responded very well to the pandemic with cutting edge research in the four areas of research.   “Several national-level collaborations were established and the rapid and specific response from several national laboratories are now bearing fruit. This definitely has been one of the fastest and efficiently managed responses from Indian scientists,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-the-year-indian-science-and-scientists-took-a-great-leap-forward-932093.html
27-12-2020||National||India to play vital role in equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines around the world: Pharma industry||With vaccine rollout beginning in some countries, the world ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic is looking to India for the large-scale production and supply of coronavirus vaccines as it enters 2021. As the pandemic hit the world in 2020, Indian pharma industry rose to the occasion and was able to manufacture and maintain supply chains even during the lockout period, and exported medicines such as HCQ and paracetamol to more than 150 countries, keeping its image of 'Reliable Pharmacy of the World'. The world is again looking at India as a beacon of hope to manufacture and supply the huge number of vaccines needed to tackle the pandemic. "India contributes 60 per cent of the vaccine production to the world. India is going to play a vital role in the equitable distribution of vaccines around the world," Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA) Secretary General Sudarshan Jain told PTI. While Indian companies such as Zydus, Bharat Biotech and Gennova are developing indigenous vaccines, other domestic companies are collaborating with global companies such as Serum Institute with AstraZeneca, Dr Reddys with Sputnik and Biological E with J&J, he added. "India will also be a benchmark in vaccine distribution and will be using technology to ensure targeted and phased distribution. India has always believed that global cooperation and coordination is fundamental to meet the Covid situation," Jain said. Currently, three Covid-19 vaccines candidates of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer are under active consideration of India's drug regulator and there is hope that early licensure is possible for all or any of them, according to the Union health ministry. Indian Drug Manufacturers' Association (IDMA) Executive Director Ashok Kumar Madan said, "we are sure with all the attention given by the government, vaccines will too be available for use from January 2021 onwards. These vaccines are being approved by our Drugs Controller as per the stringent international norms. We take pride that almost 70 per cent of the WHO vaccine procurements are from India". Indian firms have used different platforms to produce the vaccines. Scientists in these firms have the capability to produce the vaccine to counter the mutated forms in a short time, he added. On the availability of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla told PTI that based on the trial results in India and the UK, and if approvals from regulatory bodies are in place in time, "then we can expect the vaccine to be available in India by January 2021 (only if it is proven immunogenic and efficacious)". As part of various partnerships and collaborations for vaccine candidates, SII will keep aside 50 per cent of whatever quantity of the vaccine candidates are produced for India and the remaining quantity will go to low and middle-income countries, he noted. "So far, under at-risk manufacturing, we have already stockpiled 50 million doses. Currently, our capacity is 60-70 million doses per month, which will increase further up to 100 million doses of the vaccine per month by February 2021. However, we will progress to mass production only after it is proven efficacious and immunogenic for mass use," Poonawalla said. About the price of the vaccine, he said, "we want the vaccine to be affordable and accessible to all. The Government of India will receive it at a far more affordable price of USD 3-4, since they will be buying in a larger volume. The priority is going to be India and the GAVI countries, after which only, the private market will open up where the pricing would be USD 6-8 per dose". Stating that Covishield is an extremely viable and vital vaccine for India and other low-and-middle-income countries, Poonawalla said its efficacy in terms of affordability and composition makes it easier to transport and store for long periods at 2-8°C i.e. normal refrigerator temperatures. For countries with warm climates, this will help to ensure equitable distribution and sustainable affordability. "Add to that, we have a long-standing relationship with the Jenner Institute at the University of Oxford for our various other vaccine initiatives and are hopeful that it will be an efficacious and immunogenic vaccine viable for mass use," he added. Zydus Group Chairman Pankaj R Patel said, "we are committed to offering a safe and efficacious vaccine to fight the pandemic and our researchers have been working tirelessly to make this happen". The outcomes for the Phase I/II clinical trials of ZyCoV-D vaccine have been submitted to the DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) and the company hopes to start the Phase III trials, which will be conducted on 30,000 volunteers across the country, he added. "We have the capabilities to manufacture over 120 million doses to start with and shall ramp up depending on the demand. Our focus right through the year has been to support patients with access to critical medicines, diagnostics and other medical essentials in an affordable way to fight Covid-19 and this will continue to be a key factor in our vaccine launch as well," Patel said. In September, billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates said that India's willingness to play a 'big role' in manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine and to supply to other developing countries will be a critical part in containing the pandemic globally. Recently, Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said that people who are infected should also take a vaccine, and India is well prepared regarding the logistics for the vaccine distribution as it has a very robust immunisation system. Another domestic pharma firm Aurobindo Pharma has entered the vaccine fray by inking an exclusive licence agreement with US-based company COVAXX, to develop, commercialise and manufacture a vaccine to fight Covid-19 for India and UNICEF. Joining hands in efforts to help with the availability of the vaccine, Wockhardt, in early December, said it is in discussions with a number of global Covid-19 vaccine developers to offer drug substance as well as fill and finish manufacturing facilities to them. "2021 will be a year of transformative measures that have been set into motion across the industry. Resilience-strengthening efforts through aspects like digital transformation, securing manufacturing and supply chains, will continue," Cipla President and Global CFO Kedar Upadhye said. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the first human cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, subsequently named SARS-CoV-2 were first reported by officials in Wuhan City in China, in December 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-play-vital-role-in-equitable-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccines-around-the-world-pharma-industry-932097.html
27-12-2020||National||Dance historian Sunil Kothari dies of cardiac arrest||Padma Shri dance historian and critic Sunil Kothari passed away Sunday morning at a Delhi hospital after suffering a cardiac arrest. He was 85. "He had tested positive for Covid-19 almost a month back and was not in a good condition," Vidha Lal, a family friend and herself a dancer, told PTI. Kothari was recovering at home in Asian Games Village but was rushed to a hospital after suffering a cardiac arrest this morning, she added. Born on December 20, 1933, in Mumbai, Kothari qualified as a Chartered Accountant before turning to the study of Indian dance forms. Kothari authored more than 20 books on the subject of Indian dance forms including "Sattriya Dances of Assam", "New Directions in Indian Dance", and also on Bharatanatayam, Odissi, Chhau, Kathak, Kuchipudi, and Photo Biographies of Uday Shankar and Rukmini Devi Arundale. The dance scholar held the Uday Shankar Chair in Rabindra Bharati University and taught in the Dance Department of New York University as a Fulbright Professor. Kothari received numerous titles and awards for his contribution to Indian dance forms including the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award (1995); the Gaurav Puraskar conferred by the Gujarat Sangeet Natak Akademi (2000); the Padma Shri bestowed by the Government of India (2001); and the Life Time Achievement Award of the Dance Critics Association, New York, USA (2011). He was also an elected Fellow of Sangeet Natak Akademi for his contribution to Indian dance as a scholar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dance-historian-sunil-kothari-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-932098.html
27-12-2020||National||Pakistan may raise tensions along LoC to divert attention from internal issues: Top Indian Army commander||With the onset of winter, the likelihood of Pakistan making desperate attempts to raise tensions along the Line of Control to divert attention from its internal issues can't be ruled out, according to a top Army commander here. In an interaction, Lt Gen B S Raju, who heads the strategically-located XV Corps of the Army that is responsible for maintaining vigil along the LoC and tackling militancy in the hinterland, said there are continued reports of 200-250 terrorists in launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) looking for a chance to infiltrate. The top Army officer also spoke about the just-concluded District Development Council elections and said he was happy that the polls were held peacefully and the people got to vote to invigorate grassroots democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. "It is now time for the elected representatives to work for the people and for the people to seek delivery in terms of development activity," he said. On winter posturing along the LoC wherein infiltration is more likely through lower heights, he said there are continued reports of 200-250 terrorists in launch pads in PoK looking for a chance to infiltrate. "They will try to exploit bad weather to infiltrate, but the security forces are focusing on both direct infiltration into Kashmir through the LoC and those attempted through the south of Pir Panjal. The deployment on the LoC is robust and supported by layers of surveillance devices," he said. In order to divert "the attention of its people from internal issues, Pakistan may like to escalate tensions along the border by pushing in terrorists even during peak of winter or resorting to ceasefire violations. In both eventualities, we are ready and will give a befitting response to any such misadventure," the Army commander said. By internal political unrest in Pakistan, the top Army officer was referring to the threat given to the Imran Khan government by an alliance of 11 political parties -- the Pakistan Democratic Movement -- to resign by January 31 next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-may-raise-tensions-along-loc-to-divert-attention-from-internal-issues-top-indian-army-commander-932124.html
27-12-2020||National||Avoid stress, any activity that increases risk of contracting Covid-19: Doctors to Rajinikanth||After spending two days at a private hospital in Hyderabad, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was on Sunday discharged after getting his blood pressure stabilised, with doctors advising him to avoid any activity that “increases the risk of contracting Covid-19.” Rajinikanth, accompanied by his elder daughter Aishwarya Dhanush, left the Apollo Hospital in a car a little after 4.30 pm and will be in complete bed rest for a week as advised by doctors. At around 6.10 pm, the actor landed in Chennai after taking a chartered flight from Hyderabad and drove straight to his Poes Garden residence. In an update, the hospital said Rajinikanth has been advised to complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure, minimal physical activity, and avoid stress, in view of the actor's post-transplant status, labile hypertension, and age. “In view of the above conditions he has also been counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting Covid-19,” the hospital statement said. The statement assumes significance as it comes just a few days before the actor is scheduled to announce the date of launch of his political party on December 31. This is not the first time that doctors have advised Rajinikanth against being among the people. The actor had indirectly admitted in October that his physicians had advised him that he should avoid crowds as he is vulnerable to catching the Covid-19 infection due to his low immunity levels owing to the renal transplant he underwent in 2016. “Mr. Rajnikanth was admitted to the hospital on 25 December 2020 with severe hypertension and exhaustion. He was kept under close medical supervision and treated by a team of doctors. His blood pressure has been stabilized and he is feeling much better,” the hospital said. “Mr Rajnikanth was admitted to the hospital on 25 December 2020 with severe hypertension and exhaustion. He was kept under close medical supervision and treated by a team of doctors. His blood pressure has been stabilized and he is feeling much better. In view of his improved medicals, he has been discharged from the hospital today,” the hospital said. With doctors advising him bed rest and not to indulge in any public activity, it is unclear whether the actor will announce the date of the launch of his party as scheduled. The superstar had earlier this month ended decades of speculation by announcing that he would launch his political party in January 2021 and contest the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due in the first half of the year. The actor tested negative for Covid-19 on December 22 after he was subjected to an RT-PCR test following four crew members of Annatthe testing positive. Rajinikanth is camping in Hyderabad since December 13 for the shooting. Rajinikanth camped in Hyderabad from December 13 for the shooting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-stress-any-activity-that-increases-risk-of-contracting-covid-19-doctors-to-rajinikanth-932133.html
27-12-2020||National||Lingaraj Temple reopens for devotees after nine months||Shree Lingaraj Temple here reopened for devotees on Sunday after remaining closed for almost nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. Servitors and their family members were allowed entry into the oldest shrine of the state capital on the first day. They will be allowed to pray inside the temple till December 31, while the general public from outside the state capital will be allowed from January 6. The residents of Bhubaneswar can have the darshan of the Lord from January 3. The 11th century Shree Lingaraj temple is a unique place in India where both Lord Shiva and Lord Vishnu are worshipped together, making it a "Hari-Har" peeth. The officials said the temple was sanitised a day before allowing the devotees to offer prayer in the shine. The temple will remain closed for devotees on January 1 and 2 due to possible big congregation due to the New Year. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, which has made arrangement for adherence of the Covid-19 guidelines, has meanwhile, clarified that the devotees having Covid-19 negative report will only be allowed to enter the temple. The BMC has put up temporary test camps near the temple to enable the devotees to get their Covid-19 tests before getting entry into the shrine. The authorities have also put up barricades outside the temple to ensure smooth darshan and proper implementation of the Covid-19 norms. Meanwhile, the Puri district administration announced its decision to allow the people who live in the pilgrim town, to enter Lord Jagannath Temple on December 31. Puri District Magistrate-cum-Collector Balwant Singh said the special arrangements will be made for the purpose of allowing the local people to enter the 12th century shrine. Shree Jagannath temple was opened for devotees on December 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lingaraj-temple-reopens-for-devotees-after-nine-months-932135.html
27-12-2020||National||Bid to mislead farmers will not succeed: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Sunday said that attempts to "mislead" farmers on the recent agriculture laws will not succeed. Addressing a state-level function to mark the third anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in Himachal Pradesh, he said the new laws will raise the income of farmers, but the Congress was misleading them. Whenever a reform is effected it takes a few years before it starts showing positive results, Singh said in his virtual address. Be it the 1991 economic reforms brought in by the then finance minister Manmohan Singh or other ones enacted during the Vajpayee government, it took four-five years to see their positive results, he added. "Similarly, if we can't wait for four-five years, we can wait for at least two years to witness positive results of the agriculture reforms carried out by the Narendra Modi government," the defence minister added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at different borer points of Delhi against the three laws enacted in September. They have been claiming that new legislations will destroy the mandi system and end the Minimum Support Price mechanism, apprehensions the government has insisted are misplaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bid-to-mislead-farmers-will-not-succeed-rajnath-singh-932137.html
27-12-2020||National||Implementation of coronavirus lockdown, reopening of livelihood kept MHA busy in 2020||With normal life going haywire due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the home ministry was busy almost the entire 2020 in formulating strategies for strict implementation of nationwide lockdown measures, subsequent reopening of livelihood and economic activities and providing relief to those hit by the restrictions like migrant workers. The year also saw Union Home Minister Amit Shah personally taking charge to improve Delhi's healthcare facilities and curb the spread of coronavirus - not once but twice - when the national capital saw an alarming rise in positive cases. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) got involved in a slugfest with Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal over the state's law-and-order situation in the wake of an attack on the convoy of BJP president J P Nadda in the state. The MHA also provided help to several states which were struck by cyclones and gave crucial inputs that ensured that Pakistan remain in "Grey" list of global terror funding and money laundering watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown on March 24 in a bid to tackle the pandemic, its strict implementation became the responsibility of the MHA under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The act empowers the Union Home Secretary to issue all orders for the lockdown and reopening as he officiates as the chairperson of the National Executive Committee under the law. Scores of lockdown orders, guidelines were issued since then, taking into account the spread of the virus, people's needs, giving opportunities for livelihood and other issues. The central government, however, received flak for the sudden announcement of the lockdown, which drove lakhs of migrant workers to leave their places of work even on foot, thus creating a humanitarian situation. Soon, the Centre allowed state governments and Union Territory administrations to utilise the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), to which Rs 29,000 crore had been allocated for the next fiscal, for providing food and shelter to migrant workers hit by the lockdown. The MHA also allowed the Indian Railways to run special trains to transport the migrant workers from various places to different destinations. The unlock process in the country began on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. Since the issuance of the first order on lockdown measures by the home ministry on March 24, almost all activities have been gradually opened up in areas outside the containment zones. While most of the activities have been permitted, some involving large numbers of people are being allowed with few restrictions and subject to SOPs being followed regarding health and safety precautions. When Delhi witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in June and in November, the Union Home Minister swung into action to handle the situation as reports came in about non-availability of beds, limited testing facilities and shortage of medicos. On both the occasions, he ensured improved facilities by increasing the numbers of daily testing, hospital beds, ICUs, setting up temporary hospitals and COVID care centres and even flew in doctors and paramedics of paramilitary forces for deployment in Delhi. A committee set up by Shah also fixed the rates for testing, beds in private hospitals, ICUs and isolation beds. In the fag end of the year, the MHA was also involved in a bitter fight with the West Bengal government after an attack on the convoy of the BJP chief during his visit to the state on December 9-10. First, the MHA summoned the state's chief secretary and the DGP to Delhi to discuss the law-and- order situation in West Bengal, which they refused to oblige. After Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar gave a report on the situation in the state, the MHA summoned three senior IPS to serve in central deputation. The MHA said the three police officers were responsible for the security during Nadda's visit. However, the West Bengal government refused to relieve the three officers citing shortage of manpower. The MHA again summoned the state's chief secretary and DGP for a meeting. The two top civil and police officers again said that they were not in a position to travel to Delhi but offered to attend the meeting through video conference. When the video conference was held, the MHA demanded that the three IPS officers be relieved forthwith, citing a clause of the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 which say that in case of any disagreement between the central and state governments, the state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government. Meanwhile, the West Bengal chief minister tweeted: "This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's unconstitutional & completely unacceptable!" "GoI's (Government of India) order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State's objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954," she added. During 2020, the country has faced at least four major cyclones - Amphan, Nisarga, Nivar and Burevi - which together affected at least seven states and union territories. The MHA was in the forefront in providing help in the way of rescue men, materials and funds. During the year, the MHA has also announced the creation of a new grassroot elected body in Jammu and Kashmir - the District Development Council (DDC). The DDC elections for the 280 constituencies - 14 each in 20 districts - were held recently without much violence. At the beginning of the year, a peace accord was signed with one of the dreaded insurgent groups of Assam - NDFB - providing political and economic bonanza, sans a separate state or Union Territory. The All Bodo Students' Union (ABSU), which spearheaded a movement for a Bodoland state since 1972, and another group called United Bodo People's Organisation were also signatories to the accord. The tripartite agreement was signed in presence of union home minister, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal besides others. The home minister described the agreement as "historic" and it will bring permanent solution to the decades old problems of the Bodo. "This agreement will facilitate all round development of the Bodo areas, their language and culture will be protected without compromising the territorial integrity of Assam," he said. The home minister said due to the violence perpetrated by the Bodo militants, over 4,000 people lost their lives in the last few decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/implementation-of-coronavirus-lockdown-reopening-of-livelihood-kept-mha-busy-in-2020-932139.html
27-12-2020||National||Party will lead the alliance in Tamil Nadu: AIADMK's message to BJP||Affirming that the legacy of M G Ramachandran rests solely with it, Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Sunday asserted that Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the Chief Ministerial face of the alliance for the 2021 assembly elections, while making it clear to its allies, including BJP, that there was no chance of a coalition government. At the launch of the AIADMK's campaign for the assembly elections due in the first half of 2021, AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy launched a veiled attack on the BJP by alleging that a few national parties were trying to “discredit” the 50-year rule by Dravidian parties, after the death of veterans M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. Speakers at the three-hour-long rally invoked the name of AIADMK founder MGR and his legacy, sending out a clear message to BJP, actors Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth who claim to establish “MGR rule” in Tamil Nadu. While Palaniswami and his deputy Panneerselvam refrained from talking about the alliance or using strong words against “national parties”, Munusamy went full-throttle against BJP which is toying with the idea of a coalition government in Tamil Nadu. “We will have to work hard to achieve victory in 2021 assembly elections. If we come to power for a third straight term in 2021, the next 50 years would only witness AIADMK rule in Tamil Nadu. There is no need or talk of a coalition government. Parties, be it national or regional, who come to us with the thought of a coalition government, please think,” Munusamy said, with OPS and EPS in rapt attention. He also asserted that the alliance will be led by AIADMK and its Chief Ministerial face will be Palaniswami as announced in October. The comments by Munusamy, also a Rajya Sabha MP, assumes significance in the wake of the BJP maintaining that the Chief Ministerial face of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in which AIADMK is the major partner in Tamil Nadu will only be announced by the national leadership. The BJP's refusal to acknowledge Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the alliance had led to friction within the AIADMK alliance. During a government function attended by Amit Shah in Chennai last month, EPS and OPS had announced that the alliance with BJP will continue for 2021 elections. In their speech, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam tore into the Opposition DMK and accused it of “spreading lies” against the AIADMK government. Palaniswami said that AIADMK was the only “democratic party” in India where even an ordinary cadre can assume the post of Chief Minister. “Today, I am the Chief Minister and it could be OPS. Tomorrow, it could be you (pointing to the crowd). AIADMK is the only party where even a cadre can become Chief Minister. We are not heirs. In fact, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa do not have any heirs. The people of Tamil Nadu are their heirs,” Palaniswami said. Palaniswami asked AIADMK cadre to “bust” the DMK's “misinformation campaign” and take to them the achievements of the party-led government. On his part, Panneerselvam said the AIADMK was “friendly” with the BJP only for the betterment of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/party-will-lead-the-alliance-in-tamil-nadu-aiadmks-message-to-bjp-932144.html
27-12-2020||National||Centre extends validity of motor vehicle documents like DL, RC, permits till March 31||The union transport ministry on Sunday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till March 31, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020 and August 24, 2020 in connection with extension of validity of documents related to Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. "The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has extended the validity of vehicular documents like DLs, RCs, permits etc till March 31, 2021 in the light of need to prevent spread of Covid-19. Ministry has today issued a directory to the states and Union Territory administrations in the regard," a MoRTH statement said. Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till December 31, 2020. The latest advisory says, "Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it is further advised that the validity of all of the above referred documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021. This covers all documents whose validity has expired since 1st February, 2020 or would expire by March 31, 2021." Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents valid till March 31, 2021, the MoRTH said, adding that "this will help out citizens in availing transport related services, while maintaining social distancing". "All the states and union territories have been requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, the transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficult time during the Covid-19 pandemic may not get harassed or face difficulties," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-like-dl-rc-permits-till-march-31-932149.html
27-12-2020||National||India will break like Russia if states are destabilised: Sanjay Raut||In a statement that is snowballing into a major issue, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that India will break like Russia if the Centre keeps on destabilizing state governments. “If those who are in power at the Centre don't realise that they are doing people of the country a disservice by indulging in politicking, there would be break up of states in the country like how Russia had disintegrated,” Raut said in his weekly column ‘Rokhthok’, that appeared in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana. Raut went on to add that the Centre-states relations vis-à-vis non-BJP ruled states were not at its best. “The fact that states that have non-BJP governments belong to the country is being forgotten,” he said. Raut is the executive editor of Saamana and a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The BJP has lashed out at Shiv Sena and Raut for the column that appeared as a 2020 year-ender. BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam wanted to know if Congress president Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul Gandhi and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar – who are partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government – agree to what Raut has said. “What Raut is saying about the breaking up of states is an insult to martyrs,” Kadam said. Senior BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said that Shiv Sena is in alliance with Congress which supports the ‘tukde-tukde gang’. “The country is totally united under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said, adding that a case of sedition must be lodged against Raut. In the article, Raut has criticised the BJP and lashed out at Modi on various issues.  “The Prime Minister is of the entire country…but Prime Minister (Modi) takes keen interest in toppling state governments,” he said. Raut alleged that the government went all out to save Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and Republic Media Network’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. “The Mumbai metro carshed has been blocked because of (BJP’s) ego,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-break-like-russia-if-states-are-destabilised-sanjay-raut-932152.html
27-12-2020||National||Don't let leaders supporting farm laws enter your villages: SP's Ram Govind Chaudhary to farmers in UP||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on Sunday called on farmers in his constituency Bansdih here not to allow political leaders who are supporting the Centre's agricultural reforms to enter their villages. The leader of opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly was speaking at a programme organised in Bisuali village. Thousands of farmers from different states, including Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for a month now to demand the repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The Samajwadi Party has come out in support of agitating farmers. It held demonstrations in various parts of Uttar Pradesh earlier this month to back the farmers' demand. Chaudhary said political leaders who are supporting the new farm laws should not be greeted with 'Ram-Ram', 'pranaam' and 'dua-salaam'. "Giving them water and hookah should also be stopped. They should be stopped from entering the villages," he told the gathering. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-let-leaders-supporting-farm-laws-enter-your-villages-sps-ram-govind-chaudhary-to-farmers-in-up-932153.html
27-12-2020||National||Four eclipses in 2021, two to be visible in India||There will four eclipses in 2021, including one total solar eclipse and one total lunar eclipse, but only two will be visible from India, Ujjain-based Jiwaji Observatory's Superintendent Dr Rajendraprakash Gupt said on Sunday. He told PTI that the first of these events will be on May 26, and will be seen in parts of West Bengal, coastal Odisha and in the north-eastern states, except Sikkim, as the moon is visible earlier in these places than other parts of the country. "The earth will cover the moon by 101.6 per cent during this astronomical event," he said. A total lunar eclipse occurs when the earth comes between the sun and the moon. Gupt said the annular solar eclipse on June 10 will not be visible in India, and in this event, the moon will come between the sun and earth, leading to the sun getting covered 94.3 per cent and being seen as a 'ring of fire'. He said the partial lunar eclipse, on November 19, can be seen from Arunachal Pradesh and some parts of Assam for a very short period. "At the peak of this event, 97.9 per cent of the moon will be seen covered by the earth's shadow. The total solar eclipse on December 4, the last of 2021, will, however, not be visible from India," he added. This year, there were two solar and four lunar eclipses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-eclipses-in-2021-two-to-be-visible-in-india-932154.html
27-12-2020||National||Smriti Irani targets Congress over farmers' welfare and cow protection||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday hit out at the Congress over the issues of farmers' welfare and cow protection. Irani's attack on the Congress came days after the Opposition party had decided to take out 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao (save cow, save farmers)' marches in different districts of Bundelkhand region to highlight alleged mismanagement in 'gaushalas' (cow shelters). "Those who had themselves grabbed land of farmers and have still not vacated, those who through their office-bearers had killed cows in a gruesome manner in Kerala and publicised it, do you think the people of Uttar Pradesh are confused and will forgive these people," Irani told reporters here. She said the people of UP know how much work her Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has done on the protection of cows. "The people of UP also know how Congress office-bearers in Kerala had organised a festival of killing cows. I am saying with full responsibility that after killing cows, these people got encouragement from the Congress high command. The people very well know the truth of the Congress party," she said in an apparent reference to the Congress's youth wing workers slaughtering a cow and serving its meat to people in Kerala to protest against the Centre's ban on purchase of cattle from animal markets for slaughter. The minister, who represents Amethi in Lok Sabha, on Sunday heard the 'Mann ki Baat' radio address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Hajipur village. She also interacted with women, listened to their grievances, and assured them of addressing their problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-targets-congress-over-farmers-welfare-and-cow-protection-932157.html
27-12-2020||National||Centre pushed back Chinese investments, not China soldiers: Sena MP Sanjay Raut in 'Saamana'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the Modi government may have pushed back Chinese investments, but it hasn't been able to push back Chinese soldiers who intruded into Indian territory. The BJP rubbished the Rajya Sabha member's claim, published in his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana. "It is their single-point agenda to target the Modi government," Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said. "We were unable to push back Chinese soldiers, but we pushed back Chinese investments," Raut's article said. "Instead of shutting investments, we should have pushed back Chinese soldiers from Ladakh," the Sena MP said. Upadhye said he was yet to come across an article by Raut where he does not cast aspersions on the Modi government. "Anyway the public doesn't take such claims seriously," he added. Raut also wrote that the relationship between states and the Centre is getting sour. "If those in power at the Centre don't realise that they are doing disservice to the people by indulging in politicking, there would be a break-up of states the way USSR disintegrated," he said. "The fact that states, where the BJP is not in power, are also part of the country is being forgotten," Raut said. Claiming that the US government's coronavirus relief package provides Rs 85,000 per month for each citizen, Raut bemoaned that such a relief package was missing in India. "The Centre doesn't have money, but has funds to win elections, topple governments and form new ones. The country's debt burden amount is more than the national revenue. If our prime minister can sleep peacefully in such a situation, he should be praised," the Rajya Sabha member said. "People lost their lives due to the pandemic, but the Parliament lost its soul. Farmers are protesting against three agriculture laws, but the government ignored their sentiments and instead raised emotional issues like the Ram temple in Ayodhya," he said. The future of India's parliamentary democracy came under threat this year, he said. Prominent personalities have informed Modi that instead of building a new Parliament complex at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore, that money should be spent on improving the healthcare facilities, he added. "Funds are being collected from people for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. If a similar crowd-funding activity is carried out for the new Parliament complex, even Rs one lakh would not be collected as such buildings have become useless for people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-pushed-back-chinese-investments-not-china-soldiers-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-in-saamana-932161.html
27-12-2020||National||Protesting farmers in Punjab, Haryana beat 'thalis' during PM's 'Mann Ki Baat'||Agitating farmers on Sunday banged utensils and raised slogans against the BJP government during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address to protest his “indifferent” approach to their demand for repealing the farm sector laws. Farmers gathered at the three protest sites in the national capital—Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur—and also Congress MPs in a sit-in demonstration at Jantar Mantar for the past three weeks, raised slogans dubbing the Modi government as ‘anti-farmer’. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri where the farmers have been camping for the past 32 days. Meanwhile, the agitating farmers have said they will hold a tractor march from Singhu border on Wednesday if the government does not agree to repeal the farm laws during proposed talks on Tuesday. The farmers’ organisations have conveyed to the Centre that they would come for the 6th round of talks on December 29. The protesting farmers have held five rounds of talks with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, but stuck to their demand for the repeal of the three laws. The farmers’ groups had also held an informal round of talks with Home Minister Amit Shah, which too was inconclusive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-beat-thalis-during-pms-mann-ki-baat-932172.html
27-12-2020||National||Martyrdom of Sikh saints gave new lessons to entire humanity; kept India intact: PM Narendra Modi||Ahead of the talks with farmers on farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid rich tributes to the martyrdom of Sikh saints that gave new lessons to entire humanity In his 30-minute ‘Mann ki Baat’ address, Modi also sought to drive home the message of ‘self-reliance’ urging citizens to make a New Year Resolution to substitute foreign-made products with indigenous goods for the sake of the country. The Prime Minister also asked domestic manufacturers to adopt the ‘zero effect, zero defect’ policy to ensure that the quality of their products matched global standards. As farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, protested against the farm laws on Delhi’s borders, the Prime Minister recalled the sacrifices of two sons of Guru Gobind Singh – Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh – who were immured alive by “tyrants and tormentors”. “This martyrdom served as a new beacon of learning for the entire humanity; for the country. ... Several such sacrifices have preserved the present fabric of India, keeping it intact,” the prime minister said. He noted that this was also the month in which martyrdom days of Guru Tegh Bahadur and Mata Gurjari, the mother of Guru Gobind Singh. The prime minister’s continued outreach to the Sikh community comes at a time when the farmers’ agitation has entered the 32nd day and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was gearing up to meet farmer leaders on Tuesday to address their concerns on the farm laws. To drive home the point of self-reliant India, Modi appealed to the citizens to make a list of daily use products and identify which were made abroad and substitute the same with ‘Made in India’ goods. “Let us find out substitutes made in India and decide that henceforth we shall use products made with the hard work and sweat of the people of India,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/martyrdom-of-sikh-saints-gave-new-lessons-to-entire-humanity-kept-india-intact-pm-narendra-modi-932173.html
27-12-2020||National||Narasimha Rao did not get due recognition: Vice President Naidu||Paying tributes to the late P V Narasimha Rao, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said bold economic reforms initiated by the former prime minister have helped accelerate the country's development. Describing him as a multi-faceted personality, Naidu said Rao was a great scholar, litterateur and multi-linguist. He, however, did not get due recognition, Naidu said, according to an official statement. Releasing a Telugu book titled "Viplava Tapasvi: PV" written by journalist A Krishna Rao in Hyderabad, Naidu said the country was facing severe economic crisis and political uncertainty when Rao took over as the prime minister. Rao, however, exceeded the expectations of many political pundits and effectively steered the country through many challenges during his tenure, Naidu said, according to the statement. Rao was the prime minister between June 1991 and May 1996. Born on June 28 1921, Rao passed away on December 23, 2004. Naidu said Rao was an astute administrator. "Although, one may not agree with some of the policies implemented by him, some of the broader initiatives taken by him were in the larger interest of the country. He facilitated the entry of India into World Trade Organisation," the statement said, quoting Naidu. The vice president said Narasimha Rao, among others, removed license raj, took up banking reforms, electricity privatisation, telecom modernisation and took steps for boosting exports and attracting foreign investment. He also launched reforms in the agriculture sector and removed restrictions on transportation of food grains, the vice president observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narasimha-rao-did-not-get-due-recognition-vice-president-naidu-932174.html
27-12-2020||National||BCCI President Sourav Ganguly calls on Bengal governor Dhankar||BCCI President and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly on Sunday held an hour-long meeting with West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, which sources at Raj Bhavan described as a "courtesy call" and said there is nothing political about it. However, with Assembly elections in the state due in April-May next year, there has been speculation that he may join politics. While Ganguly did not take questions on the reason for his visit, Dhankhar said that they had discussion on "varied issues". The governor also said that he accepted the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president's invitation to visit the Eden Gardens stadium here. Raj Bhavan sources said that Ganguly's meeting with Dhankhar has nothing to do with political developments in the state. "Had interaction with 'Dada' @SGanguly99 President @BCCI at Raj Bhawan today at 4.30 PM on varied issues. Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864," the governor tweeted. Ganguly reached Raj Bhavan at around 4.30 pm and the meeting lasted an hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcci-president-sourav-ganguly-calls-on-bengal-governor-dhankar-932176.html
27-12-2020||National||Fact-check: Photo of Sikh activist on hunger strike in 2015 falsely linked to farmers’ protest||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-photo-of-sikh-activist-on-hunger-strike-in-2015-falsely-linked-to-farmers-protest-932191.html
27-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rajinikanth discharged from hospital; Nitish Kumar resigns as JD(U) national president||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Rajinikanth discharged from the hospital; Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar resigns as JD(U) national president; Bengaluru city police are considering clamping Section 144 during New Year's eve across Bengaluru and next round of negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government will be held in Qatar from January.  Here are the top stories of December 27, 2020: After spending two days at a private hospital in Hyderabad, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth was on Sunday discharged after getting his blood pressure stabilised, with doctors advising him to avoid any activity that “increases the risk of contracting Covid-19.” Rajinikanth, accompanied by his elder daughter Aishwarya Dhanush, left the Apollo Hospital in a car a little after 4.30 pm and will be in complete bed rest for a week as advised by doctors. In an update, the hospital said Rajinikanth has been advised to complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure, minimal physical activity, and avoid stress, in view of the actor's post-transplant status, labile hypertension, and age. Two days after the BJP served a jolt to Nitish Kumar after six Janata Dal (United) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh joined the saffron camp, the Bihar Chief Minister on Sunday resigned as JD(U) national president. “It’s not proper for me to carry on with both the responsibilities – Bihar Chief Minister as well as the JD(U) national president,” said Nitish, who was re-elected as JD(U) chief in 2019 for three years. Speaking at the two-day national executive meeting here in the state capital, Nitish then proposed the name of his confidant RCP Singh, the Rajya Sabha member, who is also the leader of the party in the Upper House, as the new president of the JD(U). The proposal was unanimously approved. The union transport ministry on Sunday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till March 31, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, and August 24, 2020, in connection with the extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. Bengaluru city police are considering clamping Section 144 during New Year's eve across Bengaluru to prevent public revelry and, with it, the threat of a possible second wave of Covid-19, particularly in the wake of the emergence of the new strain of the virus. Senior officials in the Bengaluru city police confirmed to DH that prohibitory orders will be imposed all over the city starting December 30 evening till the early hours of January 1, 2021.  The next round of negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government will be held in Qatar from next month, a top official said Sunday, despite President Ashraf Ghani's recent calls for them to be moved home. Peace talks began on September 12 at a luxury hotel in Doha, but negotiations are currently on a break until January 5. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajinikanth-discharged-from-hospital-nitish-kumar-resigns-as-jdu-national-president-932194.html
27-12-2020||National||Farmers camping at Delhi borders not for holiday, but to seek answers from govt: Hannan Mollah||Farmers camping at various Delhi borders are here not for a "holiday" but to seek answers from the Centre to their grievances, farmer leader Hannan Mollah said on Sunday as he criticised the government for a lack of response to their proposal for talks on December 29. Farmer groups protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have proposed a meeting with the government at 11 am on December 29, but they are yet to receive any response from the government, he claimed. Previously, five rounds of talks between the farmer unions and the government have failed to break the deadlock. "Thousands of farmers who are bearing the winter chill and have gathered at the borders are not here for a holiday. The government till now said that we did not want a meeting, now that we have specifically told them when, where and what of the meeting, there is no response from them. Now, it is for the people to decide who are liars. We acknowledge that there cannot be a resolution without a dialogue with the government," the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary said. Mollah said the farmer unions have proposed four specific talking points for the December 29 meeting -- the government stating the procedure for repealing three farm laws, procedure to make minimum support price (MSP) for crops a legal right, release of Punjab farmers arrested in pollution-related cases, and repeal of the Electricity Amendment Bill. "While there is no response from the government, they are busy pushing an agenda on the movement which was never ours to start with. Out of the 500 organisations which are part of the farmer struggle, around 10-11 would be Left-leaning. They want the people to believe that crores of people are responding to the call of the Left parties? If this were true, then we would have a revolution," the 76-year-old leader, who is also a CPI(M) politburo member, told PTI. Mollah was an eight-term MP from West Bengal's Uluberia constituency. However, despite his political links, he has a reputation of reviving and aiding farmer protests and movements across the country and has been part of the protests against the land acquisition law and the farmers' stir in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh. He has now emerged as one of the most prominent faces of the farmer agitation against the three controversial agri-marketing legislations. While the government has attacked the Left parties for supporting and misusing the farmer protests for their own agenda, Mollah and the other farmer leaders have strongly refuted the charge. Mollah alleged that these lies were being spread by the government to isolate the movement and said that no political party was ever part of the farmer protests, nor were they ever consulted over it. "The government is talking like the grandson of Goebbels (Joseph Goebbels was a German Nazi politician and Reich Minister of Propaganda of Nazi Germany).... Quote me on this. We have repeatedly said that we have not allowed any political party to drive our protest. No political party was consulted when we launched the movement.This is just a way to isolate the Kisan movement in front of the people," he said. Asked if after months of struggle there is a sense of hopelessness and inertia creeping in among the protesting farmers and their leaders, Mollah said that the movement was driven by the common farmers and the leaders were following them, not the other way round. "The farmers have come ready to sit here for the next six months. If any leader even asked them to move, he will probably be lynched. They have decided to go home after achieving what they want. However, at the end of the day, we are fighting a government machinery and the poor can only fight, they can't do anything else," he said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states have been protesting at various border points of Delhi against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-camping-at-delhi-borders-not-for-holiday-but-to-seek-answers-from-govt-hannan-mollah-932195.html
27-12-2020||National||I appeal with folded hands to Centre to repeal farm laws: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to the Centre to repeal the new farm laws and said farmers are protesting for their survival. In his second visit to the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers are protesting against the laws since November last week, Kejriwal said, "I challenge any Union minister to have an open debate with the farmers and it will be clear how beneficial or harmful these laws are." Kejriwal, who had first visited Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border on December 7, was accompanied by his deputy Manish Sisodia. "Farmers are protesting for their survival. These laws will snatch away their land. I appeal with folded hands to the Centre to please repeal the three agri laws," he said. Sisodia told the protesting farmers, "We are closely watching all the arrangements and we are ensuring that the pain you (farmers) endure is minimum." During his first visit, Kejriwal had checked the arrangements made for farmers by the Delhi government. Kejriwal and his party AAP have strongly come out in favour of the farmers protesting against the new agri laws. Besides Singhu, farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are also protesting at various other border points of Delhi against the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-appeal-with-folded-hands-to-centre-to-repeal-farm-laws-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-932196.html
27-12-2020||National||Mamata Benerjee's nephew equates Suvendu Adhikari with asymptomatic Covid-19 patient||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday equated party turncoats who recently joined the BJP with asymptomatic COVID-19 patients who had "betrayed" the ruling party in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and were "sabotaging" it from inside. The TMC youth wing chief, who is also Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew, without naming anyone, said some people have performed a political somersault to join the BJP to stop getting hounded by the CBI and the ED. "There were some people in the party who were like asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. We tracked their activities and identified them. We are happy to get rid of such viruses who had betrayed the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and had been sabotaging the party since the past few months," the Diamond Harbour MP said, while addressing a rally in his constituency. Former state minister Suvendu Adhikari along with nine MLAs, five of them from the TMC, and a party MP joined the BJP during Union Home Minister Amit Shah's rally at Medinipur on December 19. "Those wishing to leave the TMC for selfish reasons are free to do so. If you have the courage, float your own party like Mamata Banerjee did in 1998. She had not joined the BJP or the CPI (M)," he said. In response to Adhikari's branding him as an extortionist, Banerjee said that while his name has never cropped up in the Narada sting or other scams, but it was the accuser who should hold a mirror to himself. Without taking Adhikari's name, he said, "You have raised the slogan to remove extortionist 'bhaipo' (nephew). Whose name figured in Narada sting operation? I am not involved in either Narada sting or Saradha scam. You took a sudden political somersault to save yourself from central agencies like CBI and ED." "If you can prove that I had ever been involved in extortion activities, I will accept any punishment in the court of the people. If you have guts, deploy CBI or ED after me," he said. Denying the BJP's allegations that some senior TMC leaders are involved in coal and cattle smuggling, Banerjee said, "Cattle smuggling is related to the international border manned by the BSF under the Union Home Ministry. Preventing the smuggling of coal from mines is the Coal Ministry's responsibility. Both are under the BJP. Why are they levelling false allegations against us?" Referring to charges that Mamata Banerjee had facilitated the BJP's entry to West Bengal, the young parliamentarian said, "When she had ties with the BJP, its party flag was not stained with blood. That was a different BJP led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee." He branded the turncoats as people who betrayed the soil of West Bengal by joining hands with "forces that vandalised the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar" in Kolkata during last year's Lok Sabha elections. A bust of the iconic social reformer was desecrated in a college in Kolkata during the then BJP chief Amit Shah's rally. The TMC alleged that the BJP activists were behind the incident. In an apparent jibe at Adhikari, Banerjee said, "You have failed to bloom the lotus in your own house. How can you make the lotus bloom in the entire state?" Suvendu Adhikari's father and Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari, brother and Kanthi MP Soumendu Adhikari and younger brother and Kanthi Municipality Chairman Soumendu Adhikari are still with the TMC. Banerjee sarcastically commented, "If you call Amit Shah as your new elder brother, is his son your nephew?" Referring to the attack on BJP chief J P Nadda's convoy on December 10, Banerjee said, "Maybe someone hurled a single brick due to frustration over anti-people policies of the BJP government at the Centre. I would request people not to vent their ire by throwing stones, instead through the EVM." He claimed "not more than 450 people" attended Nadda's rally in Diamond Harbour. "This shows that the BJP has no support base in the state and survives only through media hype," he said. Banerjee said BJP leaders like the party's state chief Dilip Ghosh are issuing threats to break hands and limbs, which are more befitting for goons. "Actually, they are spineless for lacking support of the people," he said. Taking a jibe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for having lunch at poor people's houses during his visits to the state, Banerjee said, "It seems he likes to have lunch with TV cameras reporting every bite. What about visiting the agitating farmers on the Delhi-Haryana border? Why doesn't he go there to have lunch? Because he doesn't have that courage." He claimed that the Centre has stopped the allocation of Rs 5 crore for the development of his constituency under the MPLADS funds since March last year. "If you are really pro-people, don't withhold that amount citing COVID-19 situation. Instead, you stop the monthly salary of MPs for that period. The BJP government never thinks twice before buying planes but blocks money meant for common people," Banerjee added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-benerjees-nephew-equates-suvendu-adhikari-with-asymptomatic-covid-19-patient-932198.html
27-12-2020||National||Indians may put off travel plans amid spread of new coronavirus strain, possible flight bans: Survey||Many people may put off their international travel plans due to concerns over the spread of new variant of coronavirus in some countries and possibility of flight bans by nations like Dubai, France and Singapore, a survey has revealed. The survey, which is based on over 15,000 responses from over 10,000 people from across 204 cities and conducted by online platform LocalCircles, also revealed that as many as 42 per cent of the respondents did not have any travel plan for domestic travel at all. Post lockdown, the government hasn’t yet allowed regular operation of international flights, instead it operates transport bubbles with 23 countries, including the UK via the Vande Bharat Mission. However, India imposed a temporary on flights from and to the UK from December 23 till December 31 following the detection of the new variant of the virus in the UK. LocalCircles has conducted a survey to understand the impact of this new strain of coronavirus on international travel plans of Indians in the next three months. The platform has observed an increase in citizens’ posts suggesting that many may hold back on their travel plans to any international countries as fear and anxiety of getting infected by this new strain as well as the possibility of flight bans from other airline hubs like Dubai, Singapore, Paris, etc. has increased, LocalCirles said in a release. The survey also tried to understand people’s plan to undertake domestic travel in the next three  months as with reducing case-loads and Covid fatigue setting in, many more have started to travel since October, it said. Consumers were asked about their situation in regard to undertaking international travel in the next three months, according to the online platform. "Local circle received 7,820 response, of which as many as 71 per cent consumers said that they have no plans to undertake international travel in the next 3 months. while 2 per cent said they have bookings and will likely travel, and another 2  per cent saying that have bookings but may cancel based on Covid situation," it said. Also, as many as 16 per cent said they had plans but may not travel due to Covid, while 7 per cent said they might travel based on coronavirus situation. "The aggregate feedback of consumers suggests that the new virus strain that was recently detected in the UK and related flight bans, the majority planning international travel in the next 3 months are likely to hold back," the survey revealed. When only the consumers considering international travel were surveyed – while keeping the 71 per cent consumers who had no plans to undertake international travels in the next three months out of scope, it appears that of the 100 per cent  consumers who were considering international travel, 59 per cent of them who had “plans but no bookings” will likely not travel, and 7 per cent who had bookings will cancel those bookings and not travel, as per the survey. Eight per cent who have international travel bookings already will likely travel and another 26 per cent who do not have bookings will likely plan their international travel in the next three months based on how the Covid situation develops, it said. Overall, the survey indicates that the mutant coronavirus and related flight bans have led to 66 per cent of consumers planning international travel in the next 3 months to hold back. However, if India is able to contain the spread of Covid and the new virus mutations, domestic travel is likely to be strong. And if that happens, it seems likely that many might cancel their trip to Switzerland in favour of Dalhousie or Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-may-put-off-travel-plans-amid-spread-of-new-coronavirus-strain-possible-flight-bans-survey-932199.html
27-12-2020||National||Harassment by instant loan apps firms: Chinese national among 3 arrested by Telangana police||In continuing crackdown on instant app-based lenders, the Telangana police on Sunday said it has busted a Pune-based call centre allegedly used for harassing borrowers of online app firms for recovery and arrested three people, including a Chinese woman. The trio was arrested based on a complaint by a city-based person that he was harassed by the online loan app firms over repayment with higher rate of interest, police said. The action comes close on the heels of the arrest of four people, including a Chinese national, here on Friday for allegedly using coercive methods to recover dues from defaulters who had used 11 instant loan apps developed by them and availed loans. The crackdown against instant money lending apps firms was launched after three cases of suicides, including that of a software engineer, due to harassment by such companies were reported in Telangana in the last one month. Those arrested in the latest action were the Director of the call centre in Pune, his wife a Chinese national, who is assisting him in running the company affairs, besides an HR Manager, Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat said. Presently around 650 employees were working in the call centre who are instructed to use their personal mobile numbers to call the borrowers, their relatives, friends and insisting on repayment along with interest, police said. According to police, the lending companies through instant loan apps offered loans to individuals and levied huge interest and processing charges among others and resorted to systematic abusing, harassing, threatening of the defaulters through the call centres. They even blackmail the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members. Cases have been registered in various police stations in the state based on several complaints that these firms allegedly obtained sensitive data such as contacts, photographs from the mobile phones of the customers and using them to defame or blackmail to get the loan repayment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harassment-by-instant-loan-apps-firms-chinese-national-among-3-arrested-by-telangana-police-932200.html
27-12-2020||National||Kejriwal ignores Manoj Tiwari invite on farm laws; BJP leaders repeat request||The BJP Sunday sought to corner Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for opposing the new farm laws with the party leaders Adesh Gupta and Manoj Tiwari asking the AAP chief to fix a date and place of his choice where the "benefits of the legislations" could be explained to him. This comes after Kejriwal ignored Tiwari's Saturday's invite to his residence on Mother Teresa Crescent Road to clear his "doubts" on the laws. Tiwari said he was waiting for the chief minister at his residence at 3 pm on Sunday. After the chief minister did not come, Tiwari told the media the AAP leader should either stop "misleading people" on the farm laws or accept his invitation. Gupta, who was also with Tiwari at his residence, said since the Delhi Chief Minister could not come at the BJP MP's residence, he may select any place and time where the benefits of the three legislations could be explained to him. Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre's new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. "The BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal had said in a tweet. Tiwari said he had invited Kejriwal to his residence as he did not meet opposition leaders and also refrained from meeting even public representatives sitting outside his residence. Recently, the three mayors and leaders of BJP ruled municipal corporations sat on a dharna outside Chief Minister's residence for 13 days but he did not meet them. "If Arvind Kejriwal has any genuine doubts about the farm laws or he really fails to understand benefits of the same, we are ready to help him. He should stop misleading people about the farm laws or accept our offer," Tiwari told the media Sunday. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of the farmers protesting against the new laws. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made by the city government for farmers. Tiwari, a former Delhi BJP president, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has explained the benefits of the new laws and senior BJP leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and national president JP Nadda have repeatedly assured that the MSP regime and the Mandi system will continue. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-ignores-manoj-tiwari-invite-on-farm-laws-bjp-leaders-repeat-request-932204.html
27-12-2020||National||Consumer Commission orders Big Bazaar to stop charging for carry bags without notice||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered Future Retail Ltd, running supermarket store 'Big Bazaar', to "forthwith discontinue its unfair trade practice of arbitrarily and highhandedly imposing additional cost of carry bags on the consumer at the time of making payment, without prominent prior notice and information".  The Commission refused to intervene into the State Commission's order which upheld Chandigarh district forum's decision directing for payment of compensation to a group of buyers. "As a matter of consumer rights, the consumer has the right to know that there will be an additional cost for carry bags before he exercises his choice of patronising a particular retail outlet and before he makes his selection of goods for purchase from the said retail outlet," Presiding member Dinesh Singh. The apex consumer body dismissed a plea by the Future Retail Ltd that it had since dispensed with polythene and was using eco-friendly cloth instead and that it provided the cloth bags on a no-profit basis, as also not tenable. "Carry bags, sold at a particular price to the consumer, are in themselves ‘goods’. It cannot be that the said goods (i.e. the carry bags) are imposed without disclosing their salient specifications, at fixed price, without prior notice or information that (additional) cost will be charged for them," it said. After selection of goods, forcing carry bags on consumers causing "embarrassment and harassment" to them was "decidedly unfair and deceptive", it added. The Commission ordered the Chief Executive Officer of the company to ensure necessary notice, signs, announcement, advertisement or warning that they have to pay extra for carry bags to enable the consumer to make his or her informed choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consumer-commission-orders-big-bazaar-to-stop-charging-for-carry-bags-without-notice-932206.html
27-12-2020||National||Punjab CM, SAD attack BJP for calling agitating farmers ‘urban Naxals'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday launched a scathing attack on the BJP over the malicious and derogatory terms allegedly used by its senior leaders against protesting farmers. Singh asked the BJP to stop maligning farmers and their genuine fight for justice by using offensive terms like “urban Naxals, Khalistanis, hooligans etc”. “If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists, militants and hooligans, it should give up all pretence of being a people's party,” the chief minister said in a statement here. “A party which treats citizens exercising their democratic right of protest as Naxals and terrorists has lost all right to rule over those citizens,” he added. The Shiromani Akali Dal too condemned the BJP for allegedly terming Punjab farmers as “urban Naxals”. “It is reprehensible that the Punjab BJP unit has fallen so low that it is calling Punjab farmers urban Naxals. This insult is intolerable and I advise the BJP's Punjab unit to take back this slur inflicted on the ‘annadaata’ immediately and apologize for the same”, SAD senior leader and party's 'Kisan Wing' president, Sikandar Singh Maluka said in a statement here. He said the Punjab BJP should not try to label hard-working farmers of the state simply because they had protested against the anti-farmer statements of its leaders. Chief Minister Singh hit out at BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh over his alleged description of Punjab farmers as 'urban Naxals’. Singh said with these remarks, the BJP leadership had hit a new low in its desperation to promote its political agenda. He pointed out that protests by farmers, who have been demanding the repeal of the Centre's new farm laws, were taking place not just in Punjab but also in BJP-ruled states Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “Do farmers protesting in all these places look like Naxals to you? And does that mean law and order has collapsed everywhere?” he asked Chugh. “What is being seen in all these states, as well as at Delhi borders, is the sorry fallout of the BJP-led central government's failed policy on agriculture and its mishandling of the situation triggered by farmers' protest,” said the chief minister. Instead of heeding farmers’ pleas and responding to their concerns, the BJP was busy trying to demean them and stifle their voice, he claimed. Pointing out that various farmer leaders themselves had appealed to the agitating farmers not to disconnect power to mobile towers, the chief minister said this clearly showed that what was being witnessed on the ground in some places “was a spontaneous manifestation of the wrath of farmers who see a dark future ahead as a result of the new farm laws”. Singh said farmers' unions have clearly stated that they do not want farmers to indulge in such acts. The chief minister said the farmer leaders themselves believed, and have been stressing, that it was imperative for the success of their movement to ensure that it remains peaceful. “Is that the language of Naxals as Chugh is alleging?” he asked, dubbing the BJP leader's remarks as a “shameless reflection of his own cheap and vicious mentality”. “In sharp contrast to the BJP, the Congress believed in upholding the people's constitutional right of peaceful protest, which even the Supreme Court had validated in the context of the farmers' agitation,” the chief minister said. “But the BJP and its leaders like Chugh seem to be bent on stifling all such protests with their brazen lies and false propaganda,” he added. The chief minister also took a dig at Chugh's plea to the Union home ministry “to keep an eye on such developments in Punjab”, saying “it would have been better for the state if the BJP leader had sought the Centre's support in keeping an eye on the fresh spurt of the terrorist movement, as well as smuggling of weapons, in Punjab”. He urged farmers “not to give in to the provocations of BJP and other opposition parties in Punjab, as their sole agenda is to prevent the farming community from getting their rightful due from the Centre”. On Saturday, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh had taken exception to the alleged forceful disruption of telecom services by protesting farmers in Punjab and said the Congress government has failed to maintain law and order in the state. He had also said "urban Naxal forces seem to be having a field day in Punjab”. The BJP leader had also wondered if the chief minister “has connived with the Naxal forces to ensure the collapse of law and order" and create an environment of fear and terror in the state. Amid reports that power supply to mobile towers was being disconnected by protesting farmers in different parts of the state, Amarinder Singh had on Friday appealed to them to not inconvenience the general public with such actions. The farmers have been protesting against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-sad-attack-bjp-for-calling-agitating-farmers-urban-naxals-932226.html
27-12-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi leaves for abroad for short personal visit||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi left for abroad on Sunday for a short personal visit, the party said. Though the Congress did not disclose Gandhi's destination, the chief spokesperson of the party, Randeep Surjewala, confirmed that he will be away for a few days. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has left for abroad for a short personal visit and will be away for a few days," he told PTI. Asked where was the former Congress chief headed, Surjewala did not disclose the details. Sources said Gandhi left for Milan in Italy on a Qatar Airways flight in the morning. His grandmother stays in Italy and he visited her earlier too. Gandhi's travel abroad comes a day ahead of the Congress's 136th Foundation Day celebrations on Monday. The flag of the party will be hoisted at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-leaves-for-abroad-for-short-personal-visit-932227.html
27-12-2020||National||Court directs preserving video footage of search at premises of advocate representing NE Delhi riot accused||A court here on Sunday directed police to preserve the video footage of the search conducted at the premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, a lawyer representing some of the accused in northeast Delhi riot cases. Duty Magistrate Udhav Kumar Jain, however, did not pass any order on whether to hand over a copy of the video to Pracha. The court directed its staff to preserve the entire video footage of the search with its seal and place it before the court concerned for necessary orders. The judge said that at this stage, only directions for preserving the video footage are "deemed necessary and the concerned court can take a call on supplying the video footage to the applicant Pracha at an appropriate stage". The court has listed the matter for January 5 before the court concerned. The video footage was submitted by the investigating officer (IO) in response to an earlier court order. The court is hearing an application by Pracha in which he has said that he was threatened by the IO that a false case will be registered against him. Pracha had submitted that a search was conducted at his office from December 24 noon till around 3 am on December 25, and according to law, the IO should have intimated forthwith the search and the seized articles to the magistrate concerned. He submitted that, however, the same was not done and therefore, he filed an application in that regard. The advocate further submitted that the entire search was videographed as per a court order and that he was entitled to a copy of the video footage. The Delhi Police had alleged that lawyer Pracha forged documents and instigated a man to depose falsely in connection with a case related to the violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. Pracha has been representing various accused and complainants in cases related to the violence. Various cases were registered over the northeast Delhi riots, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others were injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-directs-preserving-video-footage-of-search-at-premises-of-advocate-representing-ne-delhi-riot-accused-932237.html
27-12-2020||National||Beijing frowns upon growing Delhi-Hanoi strategic ties as India, Vietnam warships conduct joint drill in South China Sea||The warships of India and Vietnam on Saturday and Sunday conducted a joint exercise in the South China Sea, notwithstanding Beijing’s displeasure over growing strategic cooperation between the two nations, which both have been at the receiving end of its territorial aggression. Beijing noted that India had of late been stepping up its strategic cooperation with Vietnam in the South China Sea in order to “exert pressure” on China and end the military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. An article on a website authorised by the all-powerful Central Military Commission of China claimed that India was finding it “severely challenging” to provide logistics support to the soldiers it had deployed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The INS Kiltan of the Indian Navy participated in a two-day Passage Exercise or ‘PassEx’ with the warships of the Vietnam People’s Navy in the South China Sea. New Delhi stated that the drill had reinforced the maritime interoperability between the Indian Navy and Vietnam People’s Navy. The joint exercise took place about a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a virtual summit with his Vietnam counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc and formally handed over to him a high speed patrol boat, which was the first of a fleet of 12 India had pledged to provide the South-East Asian nation to help it guard its maritime boundary in the face of growing aggression of China. New Delhi is providing the patrol boats under a $100 million Line of Credit (LoC) it had earlier extended to Vietnam. New Delhi moved to step up its strategic cooperation with Hanoi at a time when the Indian Army was engaged in a stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over US $ 5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of an escalating territorial conflict between China and its maritime neighbours – Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Philippines. Vietnam has been most vocal among the South East Asian nations in opposing China’s territorial aggression in the region. The summit between Modi and Phuc on December 21 saw New Delhi and Hanoi tacitly opposing Beijing’s latest move to press Vietnam and the other South-East Asian nations hard to insert in the proposed Code of Conduct on South China Sea certain clauses that would help China keep its rivals like India, the United States and other nations outside the region away from the disputed waters. “India has never stopped searching for chips to counter China on the land boundary issue, which is an important reason for its strategic cooperation with Vietnam on the South China Sea issue and its exploration of oil and gas resources in disputed waters between China and Vietnam,” Liu Zongyi, Secretary General of the Center of China-South Asia Cooperation at the Shanghai Institutes for International Studies, wrote in the article, published by China Military Online web portal authorised by the Central Military Commission (CMC) of the communist country. India’s ONGC Videsh Limited has a long-standing partnership with PetroVietnam for exploration of oil and gas in Vietnam. China, however, has been protesting the role of the OVL of India and other foreign companies in exploration of hydrocarbons in the blocks in the continental shelf of Vietnam. “At present, the border stand-off between Beijing and New Delhi continues, and India's logistics support (to its front-line soldiers) at the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso (one of the scenes of the stand-off in eastern Ladakh) is confronted with severe challenges,” Liu wrote, adding: “Therefore, India intends to exert pressure on China through the South China Sea issue to force China to back off on the border”. He noted that New Delhi had not only strengthened strategic cooperation with countries around the South China Sea, such as Vietnam and Indonesia, over the past few years, but had also built military facilities near the Malacca Strait, in order to guard against China. “India will not stop at meddling in the South China Sea issue as a means to pressuring China,” he wrote. Liu’s article was in response to the recent summit between Modi and Phuc, who reaffirmed “the importance of maintaining peace, stability, security and freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, while pursuing the peaceful resolution of disputes in accordance with international law, particularly the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), without resorting to threat or use of force.” They also underscored the importance of non-militarisation and self-restraint in the conduct of all activities by claimants and all other states, and avoidance of actions that could further complicate the situation or escalate disputes affecting peace and stability, according to a joint statement issued after the summit. What apparently rattled China was the joint statement issued after the summit between the Prime Ministers of India and Vietnam, emphasizing on the importance of the legal framework set out by the UNCLOS in determining maritime entitlements, sovereign rights, jurisdiction and legitimate interests over maritime zones. The stand-off between India and China started around late April and early May when the Indian Army responded to the Chinese PLA’s bid to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC, push the line westwards and transgress into the territory claimed by New Delhi along the disputed boundary. The relations between New Delhi and Beijing hit a new low over the eight-month-long stand-off, particularly after the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The PLA too suffered casualties, but never made public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-frowns-upon-growing-delhi-hanoi-strategic-ties-as-india-vietnam-warships-conduct-joint-drill-in-south-china-sea-932252.html
27-12-2020||National||Diu: President Kovind visits beach, fort; inaugurates light-sound show||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday visited Ghoghla beach and inaugurated a light-and-sound show at Diu Fort on the third day of his four-day visit, officials said. He was taken to the beach from Ghoghla circuit house by Praful Patel, administrator of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The president was overwhelmed by the beauty and cleanliness of Ghoghla beach, which was recently awarded the 'Blue Flag' certification by the Danish Foundation for Environment Education, said an official release. The release said Blue Flag certificates are given under four heads in 33 different categories, including environmental education and information, bath water quality, environmental management and conservation, and convenience and safety on the beach. Apart from basic facilities such as public toilets, changing and shower rooms, watch towers, mechanized pollution eradication services, beach safety and security measures as per international certification at Ghoghla Beach, facilities like demarcation of safe swimming area are provided by the administration, the release informed. "This year, the Union Ministry of Tourism sent a proposal of eight beaches for this certification, and all of them were accepted. It is a matter of great pride that India has topped the 50 Blue Flag certification countries," it said. Kovind later visited Diu Fort and inaugurated a light-and-sound show, and then saw a cultural programme staged there, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diu-president-kovind-visits-beach-fort-inaugurates-light-sound-show-932267.html
27-12-2020||National||BJP involved in horse-trading in West Bengal: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday alleged that the BJP was involved in "horse-trading" in the poll-bound West Bengal. Slamming Singh, BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Saroj Pandey tweeted in Hindi:" When you (Singh) were Chief Minister (of Madhya Pradesh), then what were you buying in the hotel in Khajuraho in 1995 to topple the BJP government in Gujarat. Why were you putting your black money as a 'charagah' (pasture)". When asked by reporters in Durg about some MLAs of ruling TMC in West Bengal, where elections are due in 2021, joining the BJP, Singh said, "All these things are a money game. The BJP had amassed a huge sum of black money which they are using for horse-trading. They (BJP) have amassed a lot of black money. "The way animals were earlier sold in the mandis (markets), nowadays MLAs are being sold," he added. Singh was in Durg to take part in the condolence meeting to pay tribute to senior Congress leader Motilal Vora who died on December 21. He said many constituents of the BJP-led NDA are walking out of the bloc. "Very soon Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will have to separate from them," Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-involved-in-horse-trading-in-west-bengal-digvijaya-singh-932273.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||Prashant Kishor: Bracing for his toughest fight yet||When Prashant Kishor recently predicted that BJP would struggle to cross the double-digit mark in the 294-member West Bengal Assembly, it did not come as a surprise. It was perfectly in sync with what is known of him. Kishor, an independent political consultant, gets into the character of the party he is currently advising. This time around, he is working for Mamata Banerjee for an election where the BJP has emerged as a shock challenger to her. In his 10-year-long career as a political strategist, Kishor has worked with all hues of political parties and seen many political fights. But the upcoming Bengal election might be his toughest test yet. His detractors have held that the secret of his success has been to cast his lot with the winning side (Modi in 2014, Nitish in 2015, Kejriwal in 2020 and so on) – this is his chance to prove them wrong. After all, in Bengal, he is up against Amit Shah once again, known as the master strategist to beat them all. That said, there is no denying Kishor is something of a campaign design genius, who understands the needs and requirements of present-day political campaigning from technology to branding, and has found a way to make his style of packaging personalities from Modi to Amarinder Singh and from Nitish to Jaganmohan Reddy a hit with voters. TMC's newly launched public outreach initiative ‘Mamata, the pride of Bengal’ is the brainchild of Kishor. It seeks to create the aura of an able administrator around her while also giving teeth to TMC's 'outsider' campaign against the BJP. Born in the Konar village of Rohtas in 1977, Kishor, the son of Shrikant Pandey, a doctor, shifted to Buxar in Bihar from where he completed his secondary education. After a stint with the UN in Chad, in north-central Africa, he formed Citizens for Accountable Governance, which he later converted into the Indian Political Action Committee. The year 2010 was the turning point for Kishor. One of his papers documenting economic prosperity and malnutrition in Chad caught the attention of then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, who invited him for a meeting over coffee. There has been no looking back for him since then. Kishor drafted the election strategy for Modi in 2012 Gujarat polls and by 2014 he was very close to Modi. He designed Modi’s 3D hologram campaign and 'Chai Pe Charcha' meetings for the 2014 general elections, consolidating a growing 'Brand Modi'. But if the grapevine is to be believed, Kishor did not get along with Modi's right-hand man Amit Shah. He ended his association with BJP by 2015 but soon moved on to advising Nitish in Bihar in the 2015 polls that saw the emergence of the successful Mahagathbandhan between Nitish and Lalu. With two massive election victories under his belt, he was considered the go-to man when it came to election strategy. Big names were lining up to be advised by him. But things didn't go as planned in the UP polls of 2017, where his ‘UP ke ladke’ campaign bombed badly. But Kishor delivered for Congress in 2017 Punjab polls, for Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray and YSR Congress’ Jaganmohan in 2019 and for AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal in 2020. All are chief ministers now – Thackeray after a change of alliance partners post the Maharashtra elections. The buzz was that Kishor was one of the brains behind the new alliance. In contrast to his mostly-successful role as a strategist, when Kishor directly dabbled in politics, his stint was short-lived. He joined JD(U ) in September 2018 and he became its national vice president, virtually the number two in the party after Nitish. But 15 months later he was expelled by Nitish himself. In February 2020, Kishor launched the ‘Baat Bihar Ki’ campaign to create a group of like-minded persons, who will help Bihar find its rightful place among top states of India in next 10-15 years. Only time will tell where this experiment takes Kishor. But for now, all eyes are on Bengal, where Kishor’s performance will be watched very closely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishor-bracing-for-his-toughest-fight-yet-932024.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||PM-CARES owned by govt but cannot be under RTI, says new RTI response||The controversial PM-CARES Fund is a body "owned by, controlled by and established by" the government but cannot come under the RTI regime as it is administered by "private individuals" as trustees and financed by donations from individuals, organisations and PSUs, the Centre has said in an RTI response. The response from the Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) to transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired) contradicts the Centre's own claim that the ‘Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund' (PM-CARES Fund) is a private body. Interestingly, an office memorandum dated March 27, 2020, by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs had said that the "Government of India has set up" the PM-CARES with the "primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic". The Income Tax office's response came in an appeal filed by Batra after he did not receive certain information he sought under the RTI Act, 2005. "This fund is completely financed by donations received from individuals/organisations/CSRs (Corporate Social Responsibility)/foreign individuals/foreign organisations/PSUs and not at all financed by the appropriate government and administered by private individuals as trustees, which is a compulsory condition to invoke section 2(h) of the Right to Information Act, therefore, PM CARES fund cannot be considered a public authority," the RTI reply dated December 24 has said. However, the deed of the PM Cares Trust made public earlier this month has said that it was "not created by or under the Constitution of India or by any law made by the Parliament or by any state legislature". It also went on to say that the Trust is "neither intended to be nor is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any government or any instrumentality of the Government". The Opposition and transparency activists had found faults with the continuous rejection of information requests on PM-CARES by the Centre saying that it is not a "public authority". Batra argued that PSUs are very much under RTI and donations under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme by the private sector will come under the transparency regime as they declare the details to the Ministry. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted, "Fraud compounded! Fund set up via govt notification but not answerable to RTI. Public sector, armed forces, government employees and MPs were forced to contribute thousands of crores to this non-transparent, non-auditable fund. Where is this money?"  Sharing a copy of the receipt of PM-CARES, Batra told DH that it is noteworthy that it is not the chairman of the 'Public Charitable trust' that is private in nature thanking the donor but the Prime Minister expressing the gratitude to the donor. The receipt says, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi expresses his gratitude for the thoughtful and compassionate gesture on your part. The valuable contribution will greatly help India in fighting distress situations like Covid-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-cares-owned-by-govt-but-cannot-be-under-rti-says-new-rti-response-932026.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||PM Modi to address last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ of the year today at 11 am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the last 'Mann Ki Baat' episode of 2020 at 11 am today. This episode will focus on the major events in 2020 including the novel coronavirus, one of the most disruptive events in recent history. On December 18, PM Modi had sought people's views on the year and what they looked forward to in 2021, ahead of today's 'Mann ki Baat' broadcast.  "How would you sum up the year gone by? What do you look forward to the most in 2021? Share this, and more in the final #MannKiBaat of 2020 on 27th December. Write on MyGov, NaMo App or record your message on 1800-11-7800," he had tweeted. In his last address on November 29, the prime minister had talked about the farm laws which have prompted widespread protests in India, asserting that they have opened doors of new opportunities for farmers and bestowed on them, new rights. "The demands, which were made by farmers for years and regarding which every political party at some point of time had made promises, have been fulfilled..." he said. In this monthly radio address, the prime minister touches on a variety of issues and also, at times, shares views of the people. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-address-last-mann-ki-baat-of-the-year-today-at-11-am-932028.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||'Opposing what you advocated': J P Nadda slams Rahul Gandhi over farm laws||The BJP on Sunday dug out Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Lok Sabha, making a strong pitch for removal of middlemen in farm trade, accusing him of hypocrisy by taking a stand against the agricultural reforms. BJP President J P Nadda shared a video of Rahul’s speech in the Lok Sabha in May 2015 where he is seen advocating a policy to allow farmers to sell their produce directly to buyers. “What is this magic, Rahulji? You are now opposing what you advocated earlier.. You have nothing to do with the interest of country or farmers. You want to play politics. But your hypocrisy will not work... the people and the farmers have realised your dual character,” Nadda said on Twitter. ये क्या जादू हो रहा है राहुल जी? पहले आप जिस चीज़ की वकालत कर रहे थे, अब उसका ही विरोध कर रहे है। In the video, Rahul had narrated a conversation between himself and a farmer from Uttar Pradesh. The farmer had told the former Congress president that he could get a better price for his potato crop if he could sell directly to factories that make potato chips. In his speech, apparently made in the last Lok Sabha when he was an MP from Amethi, Gandhi is heard saying that a farmer during his trip to Uttar Pradesh asked him to explain the "magic" behind a packet of potato chips costing Rs 10 while farmers sell potato for Rs 2 per kg. That was the idea behind a food park, and this is in a way what farmers and labourers of Amethi and 10-12 districts of Uttar Pradesh have been fighting for, he says in the clip. Gandhi had accused the Modi government during its first term of shelving the food park project in Amethi. The government had denied the charge and said the park never had land.  Last week, Rahul had led a march of Congress lawmakers and leaders to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking repeal of the three farm laws which include allowing farmers to sell their produce directly to buyers without middlemen, among other provisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposing-what-you-advocated-j-p-nadda-slams-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-932100.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||PM Modi has brought development in NE: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the North East in his heart and so brought a flood of development in the region, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. The BJP government under Modi has given a new identity to the region which is now experiencing a new thrust in development, Shah said at the inauguration and foundation laying program of several projects at Hapta Kangjeibung. Earlier, Manipur was known for insurgency, bandhs, and blockades, but now most militant organisations have joined the mainstream and those left would also do so following efforts of the BJP government, he said. He attacked the Congress for failing to solve the problems of Manipur when they were in power and asserted that, for the last three years under Chief Minister N. Biren Singh, the state is moving ahead on the path of growth. The Inner Line Permit (ILP) has been the biggest gift by the Prime Minister to the people of Manipur which they got even without asking for it, the home minister said. "Modiji realised that Manipur is not having the Inner Line Permit when other states surrounding it had it which is injustice to the indigenous people and he found a way", Shah said. It was a matter of "great satisfaction for us when Manipur got it (ILP) on December 11, 2019", he added. Inner Line Permit (ILP) is an official travel document issued by the concerned state government to allow travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It is obligatory for citizens from outside those states to obtain a permit for entering into the protected state. Shah arrived from Guwahati Sunday afternoon on the last leg of his three-day visit to the North East and laid the foundation of seven projects, including a medical college at Churachandpur, inaugurated the Thoubal Dam and dedicate the Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen Road to the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-has-brought-development-in-ne-amit-shah-932110.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||PM urges people to substitute foreign products with indigenous items||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to substitute foreign-made products they use with items produced in India and said they should make this resolution for the country in the new year. In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' radio broadcast of the year, he said people have supported the 'vocal for local' campaign started by his government as part of its 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' program and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. The outgoing year saw the spirit of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' echo in society, he said. "The call of 'vocal for local' is reverberating in each and every household…In such a scenario, it is time to ensure that our products meet global standards," he said, sharing feedback from people about the campaign. Urging people to prepare a list of items they use and find out those which were manufactured abroad, he said they should substitute them with 'made in India' products. "Let us find out their substitutes made in India and decide that henceforth we shall use products made with the hard work and sweat of the people of India. You make New Year resolutions every year. This time one has to certainly make a resolution for the country," the prime minister said. He said many shopkeepers have been selling products like toys with the emphasis that they are made in India and customers are also demanding them. "Indeed, this is a big transformation in mindset. A huge change has begun in the minds of our countrymen, that too within a year," he said. In this context, he also made mention of Kashmiri saffron and said that his government is working to make it a "globally popular brand". The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, he asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolves for the new year. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. "We pay tributes to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion," he said. The prime minister also touched on the subject of wildlife conservation. Noting that the population of leopards in India has increased by over 60 per cent between 2014 and 2018, from 7,900 to 12,852, Modi described this as a big achievement for the year. He added that in the past few years, the population of lions and tigers too has increased and so has India’s forest cover. Speaking of the feedback he received for his 'Mann ki Baat' broadcast on multiple platforms, he said the common factor has been that people have commended the country’s capabilities and the collective strength of the countrymen during the pandemic. A novel experiment like 'Janta curfew' became an "inspiration" for the whole world, he said. Millions of people across the country had stayed home on March 22 on the prime minister's appeal for a 'Janta curfew' to check the spread of coronavirus. The prime minister also noted that teachers have prepared creative course material in this period of online studies, and asked them to upload these materials on the Diksha portal of the Education Ministry. This will help students who are staying in far-flung areas of the country a lot, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-urges-people-to-substitute-foreign-products-with-indigenous-items-932118.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||India's foreign policy in 2020 saw recalibration following Chinese misadventure||India embarked on a major foreign policy overdrive in 2020, bringing its vision for a rules-based Indo-Pacific as a cornerstone of its diplomacy and displaying a steely resolve to fashion a regional environment conducive to its strategic interests in the face of China's transgression attempts in eastern Ladakh that caused the most serious damage to the bilateral relations in over four decades. As the bitter border standoff with China forced it to recalibrate its external engagements, India mounted a diplomatic push, focusing on boosting ties with major global players like the US, Japan, the UK and France with a larger goal to increase its geopolitical heft and position itself as a credible force wedded to peace, stability and international law in contrast to Beijing's expansionist behaviour. The ties between the two Asian powers nosedived significantly following a fierce clash in the Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead in mid-June. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar bluntly told his Chinese counterpart that the "unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship". Drawing a firm and clear line on its China policy, India held the neighbouring country accountable for triggering the Ladakh standoff by violating rules of engagement on border management and conveyed that peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are the basis for the progress of the rest of the relationship and they cannot be separated. In the midst of the standoff that erupted in early May, Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi agreed on a five-point pact to resolve the row at a meeting in Moscow on September 10. However, a concrete breakthrough is yet to be found to end the faceoff at the friction points. "India's rise will evoke its own reactions and responses. There will be attempts to dilute our influence and limit our interests. Some of this contestation can be directly in the security domain; others could be reflected in economics, connectivity and even in societal contacts," Jaishankar said at a think-tank recently. Outlining the broad contours of an assertive foreign policy, Jaishankar held that India's "relationship with the world" cannot be the same as when its ranking was much lower, adding the country now matters more on key issues and its global view must process that in all its aspects. With the region witnessing new geopolitical alignments, India too redoubled efforts to boost strategic cooperation with countries in India's immediate neighbourhood, Gulf region, Central Asia and member nations of the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) grouping. However, India's relations with Pakistan remained unchanged as Islamabad continued with its support to cross border terrorism to create instability in Jammu and Kashmir while New Delhi maintained a policy of hot pursuit to deal with the menace. India also continued its diplomatic offensive against Pakistan on the issue of terrorism and remained firm on not having any talks with Islamabad until it stops cross border terrorism. One of the key takeaways of India's diplomatic engagement in 2020 was a major expansion of strategic partnership with the US including on key regional and global issues like resolve to work jointly for a free and stable Indo-Pacific. The two countries elevated their ties to a "comprehensive global strategic partnership" during a two-day visit to India in February by President Donald Trump, accompanied by First Lady Melania, daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner and a host of top officials of his administration. "This relationship is the most important partnership of the 21st century," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his media statement after talks with Trump on February 25, reflecting growing congruence in ties between the two leading democracies. In October, India and the US sealed the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. India expects the relations to grow further under Joe Biden's presidency as he is known to be a strong proponent of closer India-US ties since his days as a senator in the 1970s. In many ways, New Delhi's efforts to further improve relations with Russia, Australia, Germany, South Korea, Vietnam, Indonesia and the African continent resulted in rich dividends. In the neighbourhood, India's relations with Nepal came under some strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand in May. Nepal claimed the road passed through its territory. The relations appeared to be back on track to a significant extent following visits to Kathmandu by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane in November. In the last eight months of 2020, India played a key role in calibrating a comprehensive approach in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic globally. It also supplied medical assistance to over 150 countries to help them deal with the pandemic that infected over 79 million people and killed 1.7 million. In May India launched a mega evacuation mission under which commercial jets, military transport aircraft and naval warships were deployed to bring back hundreds of thousands of Indians stranded across the world in view of the coronavirus lockdown. Nearly, 39 lakh Indians have been brought back home under the mission, billed as the biggest repatriation exercise in India's history. As Chinese actions in key maritime channels fueled greater concerns, foreign ministers of India, the US, Australia and Japan held extensive in-person talks under the framework of the Quadrilateral coalition or Quad in Tokyo on October 6, signalling serious resolve to work vigorously towards a collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. In the overall policy framework, concerns relating to Indo-Pacific and the way forward found greater salience in India's diplomatic engagements with majority of the countries as well as leading blocs. India also focused on improving regional connectivity with countries in its neighbourhood and with several central Asian nations as China's opaqueness in rolling out projects under its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) continues to draw suspicion. In another important development, India scored a major diplomatic victory in June to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the 2021-22 term. India won 184 votes out of 192 valid votes in the elections held for the vacant non-permanent seats. With the pandemic bringing to fore the prospect of a new global power-play, India also focused policy initiatives to deal with the complexity and pace of change. In 2020, India also carefully focused on consequences of Brexit, the Abraham Accords, fast-evolving scenario in the Gulf region and overall relations with the African continent. The Abraham Accords are agreements that Israel signed with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain marking the normalisation of diplomatic relations between the two Gulf nations and the Jewish state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-foreign-policy-in-2020-saw-recalibration-following-chinese-misadventure-932122.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||Budget 2021-22: CII suggests graded road map towards competitive import tariffs||Industry body CII has suggested a graded road map towards competitive import tariffs over three years, with lowest or nil slab between zero to 2.5 per cent for raw materials, highest of 5 to 7.5 per cent for finished goods and 2.5 to 5 per cent for intermediates, as part of its pre-Budget recommendations to the government.  The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has proposed the road map to encourage domestic manufacturing in alignment with global trade trends that would boost India's export competitiveness as per shifting global value chains in the next three to five years. "This will help Indian industry integrate into the global value chain while becoming competitive with its goods and services in the world markets," the industry body said.  Making a case for the need to boost to employment at higher levels, the CII suggested raising the cap on emoluments to Rs 50,000 per month to encourage employment in higher-skilled jobs.  Section 80JJAA provides for a deduction of 30 per cent on emoluments paid to new employees, which can be claimed for three years. This is available up to Rs 25,000 per month.  Besides, over last few years, it is seen that to enhance the financial strength of banks and for the stability of the financial sector, the RBI has mandated that banks should augment their non-performing assets (NPA) provisioning. The CII has suggested that the limit prescribed under section 36(1)(viia)(a) for provision for bad and doubtful debts for Indian Banks should be increased from the existing limit of 8.5 per cent to 15 per cent, it stated.  Banks operating in India facilitate foreign investment by Foreign Portfolio Investments (FPIs) by acting as custodians (cash and securities) for the FPIs investing in India.  The industry body said specific clarification should be provided so that banking and broking service providers are not held as representative assessments of their clients.  Moreover, the RBI has lowered the limit for recognizing an account as NPA from 6 months to 90 days.  "Rule 6EA should be amended to provide that in case of banks, the interest on NPA which has become overdue for more than 90 days should be excluded from the total income and be taxed only on receipt basis," said the CII. "All the above initiatives would go a long way in bringing growth back to the economy and moving once step ahead towards a taxpayer-friendly regime," it added. According to the industry body, its recommendations take cognizance of the stressed fiscal situation arising from a sharp decline in revenue collections due to the Covid-induced economic slowdown. The Union Budget 2021-22 is likely to be presented in Parliament on February 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/budget-2021-22-cii-suggests-graded-road-map-towards-competitive-import-tariffs-932126.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar resigns as JD(U) president, RCP Singh becomes new party chief||Two days after the BJP served a jolt to Nitish Kumar after six Janata Dal (United) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh joined the saffron camp, the Bihar Chief Minister on Sunday resigned as JD(U) national president. “It’s not proper for me to carry on with both the responsibilities – Bihar Chief Minister as well as the JD(U) national president,” said Nitish, who was re-elected as JD(U) chief in 2019 for three years. Speaking at the two-day national executive meeting here in the state capital, Nitish then proposed the name of his confidant RCP Singh, the Rajya Sabha member, who is also the leader of the party in the Upper House, as the new president of the JD(U). The proposal was unanimously approved. RCP Singh is a bureaucrat-turned-politician, who has also served as the JD(U) general secretary and is considered one of the closest aides of Nitish Kumar. Hailing from Nitish’s home town Nalanda, Singh, before becoming a Rajya Sabha MP, was an IAS officer of UP cadre and served Nitish when the latter was Railway Minister, besides serving as Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister when Nitish donned the mantle in November 2005. Singh, like Nitish, belongs to the influential backward caste Kurmi. He, however, had a running feud with the poll strategist Prashant Kishor when Nitish appointed him as the JD(U) national vice-president. Singh’s stature within the party grew after Kishor was shown the door by Nitish in 2018. The RJD has called Singh’s elevation as "JD(U)'s internal matter”, while the Congress was guarded in its reaction. “RCP Singh has been a bureaucrat. Running the bureaucracy and running a party are two different ballgame altogether. I doubt whether he will be able to run the show as party national president as successfully as Nitish,” senior Congress legislator Prem Chandra Mishra told Deccan Herald here on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-resigns-as-jdu-president-rcp-singh-becomes-new-party-chief-932136.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||Devendra Fadnavis writes to Uddhav Thacheray, alleges select builders getting 'windfall'||In a move that could result in a new face-off between opposition BJP and ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for what he says amounts to 'windfall' to select real estate developers. Fadnavis, a former chief minister, has also threatened to move the Bombay High Court over the matter. The government’s policies for helping the real estate sector to mitigate the effect of Covid-19 pandemic are aimed at and are resulting in windfall to a few real estate developers. Fadnavis alleged. “I always support steps taken to boost the demand during pandemic and decisions like the rationalisation of stamp duty rates, ready reckoner rates and premiums are necessary steps. However, under the garb of reduction for rationalisation, windfall cannot be allowed to a handful few,” Fadnavis said in the three-page letter. “I am therefore purposefully writing this letter to you in English because in case no corrective action is taken by you despite being made aware, I will be compelled to file a PIL in the Bombay High court at Mumbai,” the senior BJP leader said. According to him, the recommendations of the committee chaired by Deepak Parekh, the co-founder of HDFC Ltd, formed for seeking suggestions to revive the ailing real estate sector, are being implemented selectively without considering the real effect of the same. "It seems that certain vested interests have colluded for the purpose of extending benefits to a few handful parties at the expense of state exchequer. I must state here that the actions of the state government must be free from the vice of arbitrariness and must conform to Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/devendra-fadnavis-writes-to-uddhav-thacheray-alleges-select-builders-getting-windfall-932177.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||Respect Sharad Pawar, but Congress natural choice to lead UPA: Harish Rawat||As Shiv Sena pitched for NCP chief Sharad Pawar as the leader of regional outfits, Congress on Sunday said that it alone can lead a national alliance against the BJP. “It is but natural that the leadership of the coalition remains in the hands of the largest party in the alliance,” AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat said. At the same time, Rawat, a former Uttarakhand chief minister, said that Pawar was an important leader of the United Progressive Alliance which was evident from the role he played in bringing diverse political parties together in Maharashtra. Rawat’s statement is an indication that the Congress was unwilling to cede the leadership role in taking on the BJP at the national level amid growing calls for opposition unity by regional outfits as they feel the heat from the Modi government. Shiv Sena’s pitch for Pawar as the leader of regional parties also brought to the fore the tensions in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance which came to power in November last year. Shiv Sena leaders were miffed at the Congress for pressurising Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the issue of budgetary allocation for SC/ST in Maharashtra and going public with the letter written by AICC President Sonia Gandhi in this regard. The editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamna was seen as the outfit’s attempt to tell the Congress that it was not capable of taking on the BJP, particularly when regional outfits such as Trinamool, TRS, RJD were facing the heat from an aggressive BJP. After being in power for 10 years, the present UPA appears to be a pale shadow of its past with only NCP and DMK being the active constituents of the coalition, while Congress is seen struggling to put its house in order. Shiv Sena’s remarks also highlighted the inability of the Congress to reach out to all regional outfits such as Trinamool Congress and the TRS, whom it considers as political rivals. Even when in government, Congress never projected a second rung leadership in the UPA and ignored the demands of convening a coordination committee meeting of the coalition leaders on important issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/respect-sharad-pawar-but-congress-natural-choice-to-lead-upa-harish-rawat-932214.html
27-12-2020||National Politics||BJP, Oppn target each other as stir against farm laws enters second month||The war of words between the BJP and opposition parties intensified on Sunday as the stir by thousands of farmers who are camping on Delhi's borders braving the harsh winters to press for the repeal of three new central agriculture laws entered the second month. A day after protesting farmer unions proposed December 29 for the next round of talks but put forth several conditions for the agenda, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary expressed the hope that a solution will be reached in the meeting, even as several BJP leaders decried alleged attempts to politicise the farmer issues. However, farmer leader and CPI(M) politburo member Hannan Mollah said there has been no response to their proposal for talks and dismissed claims that the Left parties were behind the agitation. "The government till now said that we did not want a meeting, now that we have specifically told them when, where and what of the meeting, there is no response from them. Now, it is for the people to decide who are liars. We acknowledge that there cannot be a resolution without a dialogue with the government," the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary said. Mollah said the farmer unions have proposed four specific talking points for the December 29 meeting -- the government stating the procedure for repealing three farm laws, the procedure to make minimum support price (MSP) for crops a legal right, the release of Punjab farmers arrested in pollution-related cases, and repeal of the Electricity Amendment Bill. The government had earlier objected to the raising of issues not related to the three farm laws. "While there is no response from the government, they are busy pushing an agenda on the movement which was never ours to start with. Out of the 500 organisations which are part of the farmer struggle, around 10-11 would be Left-leaning. They want the people to believe that crores of people are responding to the call of the Left parties? If this were true, then we would have a revolution," the 76-year-old leader said. There has been no breakthrough after five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions, which rejected a government proposal to amend the laws and provide a written assurance on the MSP issue. AAP supremo and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the protest site at Singhu border for the second time and appealed to the Centre to scrap the contentious laws, but the BJP said he can fix a date and place of his choice where the benefits of the legislation could be explained to him. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri where the farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping since the last week of November. Protesters clanged plates and other utensils at the sit-in sites and in some areas in Punjab and Haryana during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann ki baat' monthly radio address following a call by agitating unions. Sources claimed ‎that more than 176 mobile signal transmitting sites have been vandalised in the last 24 hours in Punjab by protesters despite Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal not to damage telecom infrastructure. While firms belonging to billionaires Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani do not procure foodgrains from farmers, the narrative that new farm laws are to benefit them has made them easy targets, with protesting farmers in different places in Punjab having vandalised and damaged Reliance Jio towers, snapping connectivity, they said. A lawyer from Punjab allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison on Sunday a few kilometres from the site of a farmers' protest at Tikri border and police are trying to verify a purported suicide note in which he said he was sacrificing his life in support of the farmers' agitation. Amarjit Singh from Jalalabad in Punjab's Fazilka district was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak where doctors declared him dead on arrival, police said. Earlier, at least two suicides have been linked to the farmers' stir. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said attempts to "mislead" farmers on recent agriculture laws will not succeed. Addressing a function in Shimla, the BJP leader said the new laws will raise the income of farmers, but the Congress is misleading them. Whenever a reform is introduced, it takes a few years before it starts showing positive results, Singh said in his virtual address. Be it the 1991 economic reforms brought in by then finance minister Manmohan Singh or the ones introduced by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, it took four-five years to see the positive results, he added. "Similarly, if we cannot wait for four-five years, we can at least wait for two years to witness the positive results of the agriculture reforms being carried out by the Narendra Modi government," Singh said. BJP president J P Nadda shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi's speech in Lok Sabha in which he seems to be advocating the need for farmers to get rid of middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, as he accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers' protest "What is this magic happening Rahul ji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers' interests. You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards," Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit out at the BJP, saying it should stop maligning farmers and their genuine fight for justice by using offensive terms like “urban Naxals, Khalistanis, hooligans”. “If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists, militants and hooligans, it should give up all pretense of being a people's party,” the chief minister said in a statement. Two Congress MPs from Punjab said the Centre should withdraw the recent stubble burning ordinance and the Electricity Amendment Bill before its next round of talks with protesting farmer unions so that the dialogue to end the stalemate over three agri-marketing laws can progress smoothly. The government must earn the trust of the protesting farmers, said parliamentarians Ravneet Singh Bittu and Jasbir Singh Gill who have been staging a sit-in at Jantar Mantar here for three weeks now in solidarity with the ongoing agitation. Chief Minister Kejriwal, who had first visited Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border on December 7, said the farmers are protesting for their survival. "I challenge any Union minister to have an open debate with the farmers and it will be clear how beneficial or harmful these laws are," said Kejriwal who was accompanied by his deputy Manish Sisodia. "Farmers are protesting for their survival. These laws will snatch away their land. I appeal with folded hands to the Centre to please repeal the three agri laws," he said. BJP leaders Adesh Gupta and Manoj Tiwari, however, claimed that Kejriwal ignored Tiwari's Saturday's invite to his residence on Mother Teresa Crescent Road to clear his "doubts" on the laws. Tiwari said he was waiting for the chief minister at his residence at 3 pm on Sunday and asked the AAP chief to fix a date and venue of his choice where the "benefits" of the laws could be explained to him. Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee targeted Union Minister Amit Shah, who recently visited West Bengal, citing the farmers' stir. "What about visiting the agitating farmers on the Delhi-Haryana border? Why doesn't he go there to have lunch? Because he doesn't have that courage," he said. The Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation. “The Chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. People are advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44,” it tweeted. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-oppn-target-each-other-as-stir-against-farm-laws-enters-second-month-932245.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Kamal to kamal: Madhya Pradesh saw mid-way govt change in the coronavirus year||When the country was staring at a long-drawn battle with coronavirus, Madhya Pradesh was in the throes of hectic political activity which culminated in the fall of the Congress government in March, paving the way for BJP's return to power after narrowly losing the 2018 polls. The dramatic collapse of the 15-month-old Congress government helmed by party veteran Kamal Nath was the biggest political event of 2020 in Madhya Pradesh. Like rest of the country, Madhya Pradesh also bore the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown which brought public life and business activities barring essential services to a halt. Indore, India's cleanest city, emerged as the state's top Covid-19 hotspot followed by Bhopal as the health authorities dealt with daily coronavirus cases and deaths across Madhya Pradesh. Following a hard-earned victory in the Assembly polls, the Congress had assumed power in the state in December 2018 after a long gap of 15 years. While the Covid-19 outbreak disrupted the world, the Congress saw disorder in its legislative rank in Madhya Pradesh where a revolt by a section of MLAs and ministers, considered close to former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, cost it a government in a key Hindi heartland state. The country's oldest political party also performed poorly in the November 3 by-polls held for 28 Assembly seats, most of them vacated by Congress MLAs who later joined the BJP. While the BJP won 19 seats, the Congress had to settle for nine. The bypoll results helped the BJP get a comfortable majority in the 230-member Assembly and consolidate its hold on power. Scindia, who lost the chief ministership race to Nath in December 2018, played a key role in the political developments that eventually toppled the Congress government. Twenty-two MLAs, including six ministers, most of them associates of Scindia, resigned from their seats, reducing the Congress government to a minority in the Assembly, prompting Nath to step down without facing a floor test. His resignation, capping a long-drawn political drama, came just a few days before the country went into a lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. Scindia and the other Congress rebels later joined the BJP. As it lost power, an angry Congress repeatedly targeted Scindia, now a Rajya Sabha MP, during the year and accused him of backstabbing the party. The year 2020 will go down in the history of Madhya Pradesh as a black spot for political treachery on part of Scindia. The Congress gave Scindia so much, but in return it was back-stabbed by him," Congress spokesman K K Mishra said. On the other hand, the ruling BJP said the Congress was rejected by voters in the by-polls. State BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi said, "The people of Madhya Pradesh gave a befitting reply to the Congress on the traitor barb in the by-polls. The BJP won 19 out the 28 seats that went to by-polls. "The voters reposed faith in the BJP's leadership and its policies which they witnessed during its 15 years of rule from 2003 to 2018." The BJP banked on Shivraj Singh Chouhan (61) to head the government again and he became the state's chief minister for a record fourth term. After the resignation of 22 MLAs, three more Congress legislators quit the party to join the BJP. The by-polls, delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, saw a high-decibel campaign with charges flying thick and fast between the Congress and BJP camps. The campaign witnessed a bitter war of words between Congress and BJP leaders with the 'traitor' jibe freely hurled at each other. Congress leaders termed Scindia a traitor for deserting the party, while BJP politicians used the same description for that party for reneging on pre-poll promises made to people, especially agriculture loan waiver to farmers. Nath was taken to task by the Election Commission for using the word 'item' for Congress MLA-turned-BJP minister Imarti Devi, who ended losing the by-poll from Dabra SC seat. Despite the BJP's good show in the by-polls, Chouhan has been unable to further expand his ministry due to pulls and also pressures from within the party. Accommodating Scindia loyalists, who retained their Assembly seats, in the state ministry is proving an uphill task for him, sources said. Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon (85), who was associated with the BJP for long, died on July 21 in Lucknow after a prolonged illness. After losing power in Madhya Pradesh, a Congress bastion before the BJP became a formidable force in the state, the opposition party faces the onerous task of rejuvenating itself from the grassroots level. Nath, who is the MP Congress president and also the leader of the opposition in Assembly, created a flutter recently with his remarks hinting at retirement from active politics. The 74-year-old Congress leader said he was "ready to rest" and not hankering for any post, setting off speculation that he is indicating at possible retirement from active politics after the party's defeat in the by-polls. The coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown adversely affected the state's economy, which was put on the revival path only after the unlock process started. In May, Chouhan had said the state's economy had been battered due to the coronavirus outbreak and disruption in business and financial activities. In a major decision, the Chouhan-led government in August announced that necessary legal provisions will be made to provide government jobs to local people. The chief minister said resources of the state are meant for state residents. The BJP government also said it plans to come out with a new industrial policy to provide relief to coronavirus-hit micro, small and medium enterprises in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-to-kamal-madhya-pradesh-saw-mid-way-govt-change-in-the-coronavirus-year-932037.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Vehicles with caste labels to be seized in Uttar Pradesh: Report||DH couldn't independently verify the report. Several vehicles in the state, from cars to e-rickshaws boldly display caste stickers — Yadav, Jat, Gurjar, Brahmin, Pandit, Kshatriya, Lodhi — asserting their social status. The report states that the issue came into the eye of government officials after Maharashtra teacher Harshal Prabhu wrote a letter describing the vehicles as 'casteist' and "a threat to the social fabric." Additional Transport Commissioner Mukesh Chandra has ordered an immediate campaign against such vehicles and has ordered all the RTOs that whether caste is written on the vehicle or on the number plate, it should be immediately seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vehicles-with-caste-labels-to-be-seized-in-uttar-pradesh-report-932072.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Possible bid to attack temple foiled in J&K's Poonch||Security forces detained four suspects and recovered six grenades from them in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, foiling a possible bid to attack a temple, police said on Sunday. Poonch Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ramesh Kumar Angral said the success was achieved when Special Operations Group (SOG) of the local police along with troops of the 49 Rashtriya Rifles detained two brothers — Mustafa Iqbal and Murtaza Iqbal of Galhuta village — during vehicle checking near Basooni in Mendhar sector at around 8 pm on Saturday. "Their interrogation was conducted at 49 Rashtriya Rifles Battalion headquarters, Basooni," the officer said. It was found that Mustafa had received a call from a Pakistani number, he said. "On being questioned further, he admitted to having been tasked with throwing a grenade at a temple in Ari village," the SSP said. He said a video on how to use a grenade was also found on his phone. Later, during a search at his house, six grenades and a few posters of hitherto unknown J&K Ghaznavi Force were recovered, Angral said. He said two more suspects have been picked up from Dabi village on the Line of Control (LoC) in Balakot sector. The search operation is still going on and further details are awaited, the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/possible-bid-to-attack-temple-foiled-in-jks-poonch-932086.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Ship captain tests Covid-19 positive after return from London, under isolation in Bareilly||A Merchant Navy captain, who returned from the US and the UK recently, has been put under isolation here after testing positive for Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. Bareilly Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Vineet Shukla said the sample of the ship captain has been sent to CSIR laboratory in Delhi for testing for new Covid-19 strain B-117. "Of the 18 people who have been traced to Bareilly after returning from abroad, only the ship captain tested positive," he said. The CMO said the 23-year-old captain, a resident of Civil Lines in Bareilly, had gone to the US in November, and while returning from there, his ship docked in London for nearly three hours. After returning to India, the captain was found negative in an antigen test. He stayed in quarantine in Delhi for seven days, Shukla said. Officials of the health department, however, said it does not have any information regarding the departure of the captain from India or his arrival in the country. They said the mobile phones of the captain and his wife were found switched off. "On November 29, he came to Bareilly and spent some days with his family, and then went to Lucknow to attend a wedding. For the past 10 days, he has been staying in Bareilly with his family. "Following directives of the government to send samples of people who have returned from abroad for testing, his sample was sent to IVRI (Indian Veterinary Research Institute), Bareilly. On Saturday late night, the captain tested positive for Covid-19. He is under isolation in the international traveller ward of 300-bed Covid-19 hospital," the CMO said. Shukla said the captain's sample has been preserved at IVRI, and added that his wife had tested negative for Covid-19. In-charge of district surveillance Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Of the 18 people, whose samples were taken for testing, only the Merchant Navy captain tested positive, while reports of the remaining came out negative. Those who have been tested negative are under monitoring, so that their sample can be taken, if required." The government has issued a stringent set of SOPs mandating RT-PCR tests at airports for each traveller from the UK and isolation in a separate unit of an institutional facility for positive cases in view of the new coronavirus strain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ship-captain-tests-covid-19-positive-after-return-from-london-under-isolation-in-bareilly-932104.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Shahjahanpur: Police arrest man accused of raping 17-year old Dalit girl||A 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped here by a 25-year-old man, who was nabbed hours later, police said on Sunday. The accused hails from the girl's village, they said. "On Saturday, a 17-year-old Dalit girl was raped in a sugarcane field by a 25-year-old man from her village under Jalalabad police station," Superintendent of Police S Anand said. The girl managed to escape and narrated her ordeal to her family members, who lodged a police complaint, he said. The accused was arrested late on Saturday night, Anand said. The girl has been sent for a medical examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shahjahanpur-police-arrest-man-accused-of-raping-17-year-old-dalit-girl-932106.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Police deserter among 4 Jaish-e-Mohammad cadres held in Jammu and Kashmir||Four Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) cadres, including a police deserter, were arrested in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Acting on a tip-off, security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Hayatpora area of the district, a police spokesperson said. "During the search, one vehicle tried to flee from the cordon but was stopped tactfully. The occupants tried to resist but were overpowered by the security forces," he said. One of the arrested persons was identified as deserter SPO-turned-militant Altaf Hussain. The other three were identified as Shabir Ahmad Bhat, Jamsheed Magray and Zahid Dar, all residents of Pulwama, he added. Hussain had deserted the police force earlier this year. He had decamped with two AK-47 rifles along with one Jahangir, who has already been arrested. "On further enquiry, it was found that the group is associated with banned terror organisation JeM and was operating in the area with the intention to carry out some subversive activities," the spokesperson said. He said arms, ammunition and other incriminating material were recovered from the arrested persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-deserter-among-4-jaish-e-mohammad-cadres-held-in-jammu-and-kashmir-932107.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM's appeal fails to stop damages to telecom towers; 150 more damaged||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to protesting farmers to not damage telecom infrastructure seems to have failed to deter new attacks, with more than 150 signal transmitting sites being vandalised overnight, sources said on Sunday. While firms belonging to billionaires Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani do not procure foodgrains from farmers, the narrative that new farm laws are to benefit them has made them easy targets, with protesting farmers in different places in Punjab having vandalised and damaged Reliance Jio towers, snapping connectivity. As many as 151 towers have been damaged since yesterday, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. This has taken the total number of ‎telecom tower sites damaged to 1,338, they said. Incidents of snapping of power lines to attempts to axe the towers have been reported from different parts of Punjab, one of the sources said. "Site managers are slapped and abused for trying to persuade protestors from damaging sites," he said. The second source said the telecom towers damaged belong to Jio and common access infrastructure of telecom industry. The attacks have impacted telecom services and operators are struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies, the source said. The Punjab chief minister had on Friday appealed protesting farmers to not inconvenience the general public with such actions and to continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation. "Pointing out that telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the Covid pandemic, the chief minister urged the farmers to show the same discipline and sense of responsibility which they had been exercising during their protest at the Delhi border, which has completed one month, and also earlier during their agitation in the state," a statement issued by the chief minister's office had said. Urging the farmers to not take the law in their hands by forcibly shutting down telecom connectivity or manhandling employees/technicians of telecom service providers, the chief minister had said such actions were not in the interest of Punjab and its future. ‎ "Forceful disruption of telecom services due to snapping of power supply to mobile towers by farmers in several parts of the state was not only adversely affecting the studies and future prospects of students, who are dependent entirely on online education, but also hampering the daily life of people working from home due to the pandemic," the statement had quoted the chief minister as saying. The chief minister's appeal came in the wake of a request from the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, asking the state government to persuade the farmers to not resort to any unlawful activity in their fight for justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cms-appeal-fails-to-stop-damages-to-telecom-towers-150-more-damaged-932109.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Another accused held in Haridwar rape-murder case||A second accused in the rape and murder case of an 11-year-old girl here a week ago was arrested on Sunday from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, police said. Rajeev, who had been on the run since Monday last, was arrested on the basis of clues provided by his younger brother who was taken into custody by the police for interrogation on Saturday. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avudai Krishna Raj has confirmed Rajeev's arrest. He is the second accused in the case and the owner of the readymade garment shop from whose godown the girl's body was recovered a day after her brutal rape and murder. Ram Tirath Yadav, the main accused in the case, was arrested the same day but Rajeev succeeded in running away. The accused allegedly offered a kite to the girl to lure her to the shop located in Rishikul area, where she lived. The matter was raised by the Opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly during its winter session recently, prompting the state government to constitute a committee headed by DIG Garhwal to arrest the absconding accused. The state government had also said it wanted capital punishment for the perpetrators of the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-accused-held-in-haridwar-rape-murder-case-932131.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Sacrificing my life in support of farmers agitation: Lawyer from Punjab dies by suicide near protest site||A lawyer from Punjab allegedly died by suicide by consuming poison on Sunday a few kilometres from the site of a farmers' protest at Tikri border. Amarjit Singh from Jalalabad in Punjab's Fazilka district was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak where doctors declared him dead on arrival, police said. In a purported suicide note, Singh said he was sacrificing his life in support of the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new farm laws so that the government is compelled to listen to the voice of the people. Singh wrote that the common people like farmers and labourers are feeling "defrauded" due to the three "black" agriculture laws and "the worst life is inevitable". The police said they are verifying the authenticity of the suicide note, dated December 18. "We have informed the relatives of the deceased and once they reach here their statements will be recorded and further proceedings will be conducted," a police officer from Haryana's Jhajjar district said, adding that they were informed about the suicide by the hospital authorities. Earlier, at least two suicides have been linked to the farmers' stir, underway at various border points of Delhi for over a month now. A Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, allegedly died by suicide near the Singhu border protest site earlier this month claiming that he was "unable to bear the pain of the farmers". A 22-year-old farmer had allegedly died by suicide in Punjab's Bathinda after returning from a protest site near the Delhi border. A week ago, a 65-year-old farmer from Punjab had attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance near the Singhu border. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states have been protesting at various border points of Delhi against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacrificing-my-life-in-support-of-farmers-agitation-lawyer-from-punjab-dies-by-suicide-near-protest-site-932159.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||61 Madhya Pradesh Assembly staff, 5 MLAs test Covid-19 positive on eve of session||On the eve of the three-day session of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, 61 employees and officials of the Assembly secretariat and five MLAs have tested coronavirus positive. Protem Speaker of MP Assembly Rameshwar Sharma told this to reporters on Sunday. "As many as 61 employees and officials of the state Assembly secretariat have tested coronavirus positive so far. Besides, five MLAs were also found infected as per the reports received till now," he said, after taking stock of the preparation for the session that begins from Monday. Sharma said that the MLAs and their personal staff had been asked to undergo coronavirus test before the session began. "So far, the test reports of 20 MLAs have been received. The reports of several other legislators are still awaited," he said,adding that the reports of more employees and officials are also yet to come. The employees and officials, who have tested positive for the infection, will not be allowed entry into the House and the legislators can participate in the session virtually, he said. After taking stock of the preparation, Sharma said that seating arrangement has been made only for 105 MLAs (out of the total 230 legislators) and the remaining ones can participate through video-conference. "Only MLAs will be allowed to enter and their personal staff would not get entry into the Assembly building. The entry will be given only through one gate," he said. Sharma said that the seating arrangement has been made by keeping social distancing and other norms in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/61-madhya-pradesh-assembly-staff-5-mlas-test-covid-19-positive-on-eve-of-session-932167.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Yogi announces Sikh gurus' history will be included in school syllabus||The history of Sikh gurus will be included in the school curriculum in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Sunday. Adityanath said this at a Gurbani Kirtan held at his residence on the occasion of 'Sahibzada Diwas', which marks the martyrdom of four 'sahibzada' of Sikh guru Guru Gobind Singh and mata Gujri. Adityanath, who sported a saffron turban, said, "The history of Sikh gurus will be a part of the syllabus. Apart from this, December 27 will be celebrated every year as Sahibzada Diwas in all schools. Today is the day to pay gratitude to the sons of the Guru and mother who martyred their lives for the motherland, country and religion." Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and Cabinet ministers attended the programme. "No society can move ahead if it forgets history. The Sikh society is known for its hard work. The Sikh gurus sacrificed their lives to defend the Hindu religion. The country will always remember this," Adityanath said.   The chief minister, his ministerial colleagues and seers from the Sikh community also accepted the 'langar prasad' on the occasion, the UP government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-announces-sikh-gurus-history-will-be-included-in-school-syllabus-932207.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Congress facing trust deficit as it opposes public welfare: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Opposing public welfare schemes is fast becoming a "tradition" in the Congress due to which people are losing their faith in that party, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Scindia, who joined the BJP after quitting the Congress in March this year, said the people of the country are supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP, and various welfare schemes launched by the Centre. "In contrast, the Congress is opposing the schemes meant for the welfare and uplift of public, which is becoming its tradition. This is the reason why people are losing their faith in the Congress," Scindia said. Responding to a query, he said the "infighting" in the state Congress was now spilling onto roads from the closed doors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-facing-trust-deficit-as-it-opposes-public-welfare-jyotiraditya-scindia-932209.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Keylong shivers at minus 11.6 degrees Celsius in Himachal Pradesh||Several places in Himachal Pradesh, including Keylong, Kalpa and Manali, shivered at sub-zero temperatures on Sunday, the Meteorological Department said. Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 11.6 degrees Celsius, Met centre Shimla director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Manali in Kullu district recorded a low of minus 3.4 and minus 0.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, he added. Minimum temperatures in Mandi, Bhuntar, Sundernagar and Solan settled at minus 2, minus 1.6, minus 1.2 and minus 0.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.     Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of 2.9 and 3.6 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 4.7 degrees Celsius, he added. Kangra recorded the highest temperature in the state at 19.4 degrees Celsius. The Met Centre has predicted rain and snowfall in isolated places of the state on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/keylong-shivers-at-minus-116-degrees-celsius-in-himachal-pradesh-932216.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Assembly's winter session put off due to Covid-19 situation||The winter session of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, which was scheduled to begin on December 28, has been postponed in view of the "COVID-19 situation", an official said on Sunday, hours after protem speaker disclosed that 61 employees and officials of the Assembly secretariat and five MLAs have tested coronavirus positive. The decision to put off the three-day session was taken at an all-party meeting held here in evening, he said. "The three-day session has been postponed due to the COVID-19 situation. The three days (of the session which will be now washed out) will be added in the Budget session, which would be a lengthy one," Legislative Assembly's Principal Secretary AP Singh told reporters. The all-party meeting was attended by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Home Minister Narottam Mishra, state Congress unit president Kamal Nath and others. Meanwhile, former Union minister Arun Yadav said the Congress will continue to hold protests against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The Congress had earlier announced that the party leaders will reach the Assembly campus on Monday on tractors to protest against these laws. Earlier in the day, Assembly Protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma told reporters that 61 employees and officials of the state Assembly secretariat have tested coronavirus positive so far. "Besides, five MLAs were also found infected as per the reports received till now," he said, after taking stock of the preparation for the session. Sharma also said the MLAs and their personal staff had been asked to undergo coronavirus test before the session began. "So far, the test reports of 20 MLAs have been received. The reports of several other legislators are still awaited. Reports of more employees and officials are also yet to come," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-assemblys-winter-session-put-off-due-to-covid-19-situation-932220.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||JD(U) expresses anguish over Arunachal event; says it will have no bearing in Bihar||The JD(U) on Sunday expressed anguish over en masse exodus of its MLAs to the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, saying it is "not a good sign of alliance politics" while pitching for coalition dharma followed during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's time. The party's annoyance over the episode was expressed by its secretary-general K C Tyagi after its national executive meeting here. He, however, made it clear that the developments of Arunachal Pradesh will have no bearing on Bihar's politics as there is "no dispute" in its alliance government here. Kumar is heading the NDA government in Bihar having JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha, and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) as its constituents. After the departure of six MLAs, the JD(U) is now left with one legislator in the northeastern state. "The party has expressed its deep anguish, displeasure, protest on Arunachal Pradesh development. It is not a good sign for alliance politics," Tyagi told reporters. "The partners should follow the 'alliance politics' as was practiced during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure or being followed in Bihar for the past 15 years. "The coalition partners should follow 'Atal Dharma' while running alliance government", Tyagi said. He pointed to the former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee successfully ran a coalition government of 23 partners where there were no contradictions among them (allies). He was sharing information about the decisions taken at the party's national executive and national council meeting held at Karpoori Thakur Sabhagar at the party's state headquarters here. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member Ramchandra Prasad Singh better known by the initial RCP Singh, a close confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, was on Sunday chosen as the new president of JD(U). Kumar had proposed the name of Singh for the top post, which was then approved by other members during the party's national executive and national council meeting. Stating that party leader had told home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J P Nadda that they would not find an opponent who could create any sort of trouble for the government and hence they may be included in the Arunachal cabinet, Tyagi said that "instead of accommodating them (JDU MLAs) into the cabinet, they (BJP) included them in their party". "This is against the basic spirit of alliance government", he said while suggesting that "love and brotherhood should be the base of the alliance. Asked whether the party would apprise the BJP leadership of its displeasure, he said the displeasure will be communicated through media to them. Referring to Nitish Kumar's speech delivered at the party's meeting, Tyagi said that Kumar did not want to become the CM after the assembly results were declared, the decision which he (Kumar) had conveyed to both his party and ally BJP. Stating that those who raise the issue of strength of numbers, the JD(U) leader asserted that Nitish Kumar is a man known for his "credibility" and not for "numbers". "Neither his credibility is affected at all nor party's vote share has gone down in the recently concluded Bihar polls", Tyagi said while adding that Nitish Kumar would give more time to other states. In reply to a query, Tyagi said that the party would contest West Bengal assembly polls. When pressed further about the number of seats that the party will be contesting, he said that decision will be taken in a day or two in consultation with the party's state in-charge and state president. The party has also asked all its district presidents and candidates who fought Bihar assembly polls to find out the reasons, persons, and groups responsible for the defeat of the nominees, Tyagi said. In reply to a query, JD(U) leader said that the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) was neither part of NDA in Bihar nor at the Centre. LJP had worked against the JD(U) in Bihar elections despite being an alliance partner of the NDA at the centre. Whether the party would join the union cabinet, Tyagi said that the party would consider joining the cabinet if it gets a "proportionate representation", the issue which the party has already made clear in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jdu-expresses-anguish-over-arunachal-event-says-it-will-have-no-bearing-in-bihar-932228.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Rs 100 crore worth of prime land retrieved from 'encroachment' in Jammu||The housing and urban development department has removed decades-old "encroachment" on prime land worth Rs 100 crore in Jammu during a special drive, senior officials said on Sunday. A strong contingent of police and civilian officials reached Gole Market in the posh Gandhi Nagar locality and retrieved the prime land from encroachment, they said. All entry points to Gole Market were sealed and no vehicle was allowed there during the drive, they said. "We have removed encroachments on 7 kanals of prime land valuing over Rs 100 crore. These were under encroachments for several decades," principal secretary of the housing and urban development department Dheeraj Gupta, who supervised the anti-encroachment drive since late Saturday night, told PTI. Gupta said the land belonged to the Jammu and Kashmir housing board. "We took measure to protect our land. There is no issue of it at all," he said. "We have zero tolerance towards encroachments and the government is committed to removal of each and every encroacher from government lands," he said. People who occupied the prime land, however, said they were allotted the plots decades ago, a claim denied by the housing board. The occupants of the land also claimed that a court had put a stay on any action by the government. Denying the claim, a housing board official said, "This is not the plot of land which is under stay. It is an encroachment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-100-crore-worth-of-prime-land-retrieved-from-encroachment-in-jammu-932232.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||UP: Bank employee found dead in hotel room||The body of a Hyderabad-based bank employee was found in the room of a hotel here on Sunday, police said. Rajkumar, 35, had come here on December 24 to join his duty at the Bank of India branch located in Fariha locality and was living in a hotel under the Firozabad South police station area, Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Kumar Pandey said. He did not open his room since Saturday after he returned from the bank. Pandey also informed that Rajkumar's brother Rahul had called him up but after not getting any reply from his brother, he contacted the hotel staff. The hotel staff too did not get any answer from Rajkumar. When the door was broken, he was found dead in the room. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bank-employee-found-dead-in-hotel-room-932239.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Raid at advocate Mehmood Pracha's office: Lawyers urge Home Min to take action||Some office bearers and members of Bar Council of Delhi on Sunday urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take action regarding the search conducted by Delhi Police at the premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, a lawyer representing some of the accused in the north-east Delhi riots cases. In a letter to Shah, the lawyers said there has been an understanding between the representatives of the Bar Association/Bar Council and the Delhi Police that in case of any case against an advocate, the Bar Association/Bar Council representatives will be informed and taken into confidence. The letter was written by BCD vice chairman Himal Akhtar and its members K C Mittal and Rajiv Khosla. Delhi Police comes under the under the Ministry of Home Affairs. "This broader understanding is to maintain the harmony and cordiality between two wings of Justice Delivery System. This seems to have not been followed in the present case. While we do not want to go to various aspects of the matter, apparently the action of the Delhi Police falls short on these aspects, which is a very serious matter as far as the legal community is concerned. "We notice anguish and anger amongst the legal community, primarily because it goes to the very root and independent discharge of responsibility by an advocate," the letter said. "It calls for an immediate action at your (Shah's) end in the present situation," it added. According to Pracha, a search was conducted at his office from 12 pm on December 24 and till 3 am on December 25 approximately. Delhi Police had alleged that Pracha forged documents and instigated a man to depose falsely in connection with a case related to the violence in north-east Delhi in February this year. Advocate Pracha has been representing various accused and complainants in connection with the violence in north-east Delhi in which at least 53 people were killed and several were injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raid-at-advocate-mehmood-prachas-office-lawyers-urge-home-min-to-take-action-932240.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Congress being behind targeting of its offices, leaders in Punjab: BJP||The Punjab unit of the BJP on Sunday accused the ruling Congress of being behind frequent targeting of its offices and leaders in the state by some criminal elements masquerading as farmers. Accusing the Congress of resorting to the “murder of democracy” in Punjab, state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said the BJP leaders were not being allowed to hold party functions and programmes without the threat of disruption. “This is the murder of democracy. We are being denied our democratic rights. All this is being done at the behest of the Congress party,” he alleged at a press conference here. Sharma further alleged that people in the guise of farmers have been sitting on ‘dharna’ for the past three months in front of the residences of Punjab’s prominent BJP leaders. These persons, he claimed, are not farmers but those who wanted to disturb the hard-earned peaceful atmosphere of the state. “The police too have been silent spectator throughout,” he claimed. He said a delegation of senior BJP leaders will soon meet the Punjab DGP to apprise him of the situation. “Our functions have been peaceful. Even if anyone wants to kill us, we will stand for the peace and harmony of the state,” he added. On Friday, to protest against Centre's new farm laws, some farmers had allegedly disrupted the birth anniversary function of late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Bathinda by ransacking a makeshift venue prepared by the district unit of the BJP. Ashwani Sharma said the police registered an FIR in the incident only after a great persuasion by the BJP. In reply to a question, he asserted that “the BJP has been and will always be pro- farmers”. He said he was optimistic of the outcome of the upcoming meeting between the Union government and the agitating farmers’ leaders in Delhi on Tuesday. A day earlier BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh had alleged that the state had lately been witnessing frequent incidents like blocking of roads and rail traffic, disrupting the operation of toll plazas and the snapping of telecommunication lines “which indicate that disruptive forces have been at work and the police have failed to control them”. “The frequent targeting of the BJP offices and leaders in violent attacks has added a serious dimension to the law and order situation in Punjab,” he had said. “In the name of farmers' agitation, Naxal forces have been let loose in the state," Chugh had said in a statement. Chugh had also urged farmer leaders to make sure that such disruptive elements did not defame the farmers' cause and paralyse public services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-being-behind-targeting-of-its-offices-leaders-in-punjab-bjp-932241.html
27-12-2020||North and Central||Man dies after brutal assault, 6 booked, 2 cops suspended in Madhya Pradesh||A 50-year-old man who suffered internal organ injuries last month after a group of six people allegedly pumped air into his anus with a compressor machine pipe has died, leading to the suspension of two policemen for dereliction of duty on Sunday, an official from Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh said. The family of Parmanand Dhakat has claimed he died on December 25 after the manager of a crushing unit, identified as Rajesh Rai, and five of his men, on November 8, inserted the compressor machine pipe in his anus and released air, Pohri Sub Divisional Officer of Police Niranjan Rajput said. The incident took place in Ghazigarh village, some 50 kilometres from the district headquarter, and Dhakat, a labourer at the crushing unit where Rai is manager, was taken to Gwalior and Jaipur for treatment before being brought back to the district hospital here where he died of internal organ injuries, the SDOP said. "The family has claimed they lodged a complaint with Govardhan police station but no FIR was registered. A case of murder has now been registered and efforts are on to nab the accused," he said. Meanwhile, Shivpuri Superintendent of Police Rajesh Singh Chandel has placed Govardhan police station in charge inspector Raghavendra Yadav and sub inspector Pramod Tiwari under suspension for dereliction of duty, officials said. Incidentally, a case under lighter charges like culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered on Saturday, and stricter provisions were invoked after Dhakat's kin protested on Sunday, sources said. They said Dhakat may have been assaulted over a wage dispute with the crusher unit management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-after-brutal-assault-6-booked-2-cops-suspended-in-madhya-pradesh-932276.html
27-12-2020||Oasis||The etiquette of charity in Islam||The importance of charity in Islam can be gauged by the fact that it is considered as one of the five pillars on which the faith of Islam is built. You will find that almost everywhere prayer is mentioned in the Quran, charity is mentioned along with it. The idea is that if you truly worship God then your worship will be worthy of acceptance only when you help your less fortunate brethren by sharing with them the blessings of God on, as the entire creation is the family of God. You will find in the Quran that God has instructed us on who is more deserving of our charity and what are its do’s and don’ts and its etiquette. Also, we find umpteen examples from the life of Prophet Mohammed on how he lived these instructions and demonstrated it in his life.  The Quran exhorts us to seek out the real needy people who for genuine reasons are unable to earn a livelihood. Whose self-respect prevents them from beseeching from all and sundry in a persistent manner. The Quran tells us to take care of the orphans, the widows, the poor and the needy, to free those in bondage, and to those who seek our help and to be helpful and charitable in word and deed when you are dealing with the world at large. Now coming to the etiquette of charity, the Quran cautions us on how not to obliterate our charity by reminding the person of our generosity or causing any harm to him. In the words of the Quran; “O ye who believe! cancel not your charity by reminders of your generosity or by injury, like those who spend their substance to be seen of men, but believe neither in God nor in the Last Day.  The Quran gives us both the tenets and examples of the right attitude to adopt in charity and that is giving and helping whilst seeking only the pleasure of God. In the words of the Quran “(Saying): We feed you, for the sake of God only. We wish for no reward nor thanks from you” (Chapter 76. Verse 9)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-etiquette-of-charity-in-islam-932288.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||Abracadabra and a Happy New Year!||I can’t wait to dropkick 2020 into the bin, partly because it sucked from start to finish, and partly because I suffer from the mass delusion known as the New Year. The earth will only do yet another of its endless revolutions around the sun, but we like to put a wizard’s hat on it and assign it magical powers. Everything will be cleansed and reset. The barnacles of bad luck, bad habits, and bad choices will be stripped off my back, and the unicorns of diligence and potential will make sweet, sweet love amid the wildflowers. The fascists will wither, and justice will be restored, or at least, I’ll cut down the smokes. Everything will generally become better. But every December-end, the ghost of the previous year laughs at us for having badmouthed it. We can all hear 2019 snickering: You left me for that? Of course, 2020 has been such a crime scene of a year that 2021 may actually be better. From brutal attacks on students in January to the Delhi riots in February, followed by the migrant crisis and the incarceration of anti-CAA-NRC protesters through the brutal Covid-19 lockdown; from the standoff with China, and the media circus around Sushant Singh Rajput, to floods in Assam, to the New Education Policy; from the riots in Bengaluru to a 24% GDP contraction; from the acquittal of the Babri Masjid demolition accused, to the Hathras rape; from the farmer protests to the first arrest under UP’s regressive ‘love jihad’ laws to the CIC seeing no public value to electoral bond transparency, to the scandalous opacity of the PM Cares Fund, to yet another patronising prime ministerial address to AMU…2020 has been a shitshow, and that’s leaving out all the heart-breaking obituaries, from Irrfan Khan to Shamsur Rahman Faruqi, and saying nothing at all of the international chaos. But hope is the original Ouroboros, the serpent eating its own tail in an endless cycle of birth, destruction, and rebirth. The farm reform laws may involve complicated issues of which many of us know little or nothing. But the fact that the farmers have sat themselves down eyeball to eyeball with Delhi, with a permanence just short of installing septic tanks and picket fences, should remind us of two things. First, it says once again that the man known for connecting with the masses leads a government with lousy people skills (junking democratic procedures and rights allows you to junk a ton of people skills, too). Else, the Centre would be consultative and persuasive, not dictatorial; and it would respect the agency rather than keep telling people what’s good for them. Engagement would be negotiation, not a standoff. Second, this implacable rejection of the central government, and the fact that the government clearly doesn’t know what to do with this, has injected a fresh shot of hope into a Republic now thoroughly moth-eaten by its self-appointed nationalists. The farmers who have repotted themselves upon the Delhi border, impervious to all the names they’re being called, are proof that resistance remains possible; that if a government is going to create a banana republic, the least the people can do is toss a peel or two underfoot. The Ouroboros of hope from December 31, 2019, had snacked itself to death by March 2020; but springing eternal is what it does. Now we can feel all warm and fuzzy about the magical reset that will happen at midnight of December 31, 2020, when everything will generally become better. Until December 2021, that is, when 2020 might well snicker in our ears: You left me for that? Happy New Year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/abracadabra-and-a-happy-new-year-932002.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||The pandemic dividend: The other two viruses we don’t think about||While the entire world has been focused on the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic, two other much older viruses have been lurking in the shadows for quite some time. Since these two viruses are non-biological in nature, they are vaccine-proof. One of them is marketplace-based, the other, mind-based. While the origin of the coronavirus may or may not be traced back to Wuhan in China, the two older viruses originated in the US. Silicon Valley has had a huge role to play in propagating and prolonging these two viruses. The three seemingly disparate viruses are actually linked in major ways when viewed from the twin perspectives of cultural anthropology and economics. The marketplace-based virus has to do with ‘conspicuous consumption’, a term coined by American economist and sociologist Thorstein Veblen in his 1899 book The Theory of the Leisure Class. Conspicuous consumption is a catch-all phrase that best describes the practice of acquiring goods of quality and quantity far in excess of one’s needs – an acquisition process facilitated these days by e-commerce giants such as Amazon. While conspicuous consumption is typically associated with affluent countries in the West, it is catching on fast in India, much to the delight of delusional politicians and IT companies. I find this quite curious since India does not meet the definition of an affluent society, viz., a production-oriented society where the basic needs – food, clothing, and shelter - of its citizenry have been met. The mind-based virus is centred on ‘meme’, a term coined by Richard Dawkins, British evolutionary biologist and author of the 1976 best seller, The Selfish Gene. Memes are units of information that propagate in the meme-pool (akin to the gene pool) by leaping from brain to brain. Memetics is the study of information and culture based on an analogy with Darwinian evolution. Despite being dismissed as a pseudo-science by academicians, memetics does explain quite well the prevalence of all kinds of disinformation on the internet pertaining to the coronavirus and potential cures including vaccines. The frequent pronouncements of Donald Trump in this regard come to mind. Memes, be they visual, auditory or text-based, replicate through imitation – a monkey-see, monkey-do approach to life that does not involve any thinking, much less any understanding of the real damage that can be done to society. The philosophy underlying the three wise monkeys – see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil -- has largely been lost. Note that the mind-based virus is closely linked to the conspicuous consumption virus. For example, a huge number of products (home, office, news, etc.) have been successfully promoted on the Web through memes created by ‘influencers’, be they individuals or companies. The veracity of these memes has rarely been challenged. Over the last 10 months, there has been an enormous increase in online shopping, principally through Amazon, owing to people being confined to their living quarters because of the coronavirus. During this period, the net worth of Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, has increased by $24 billion to $138 billion. The enormity or obscenity of these two figures takes on a whole new meaning when viewed in terms of the GDP rankings of the 195 countries and territories that make up the world. Bezos’ net worth is greater than the GDP of any of the bottom 135 countries while his profits during the pandemic are greater than the GDP of any of the bottom 60 countries. To add insult to injury, both Amazon and Bezos will see their fortunes increase even more in the years to come, thanks to coronavirus vaccines about to enter the world market. Amazon recently announced it was getting into the drug delivery business and has gone on a hiring spree to recruit delivery workers in the US, India and elsewhere. Given its global reach, Amazon is better positioned than any other organisation, public or private, to ensure Covid-19 vaccines are delivered to various countries in preferential order. For a price, of course. Apple became the first trillion-dollar company two years ago. Jeff Bezos is on his way to becoming the first trillionaire, I think. Will Amazon’s delivery workers see a similar increase in their fortunes? Given that they are non-unionised contract employees with no guarantee of continuous employment or health insurance or retirement benefits, I doubt it. The three pandemics have catastrophically widened the inequality divide worldwide. Solutions, anyone?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pandemic-dividend-the-other-two-viruses-we-don-t-think-about-932003.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||The Age of Biology is here||2020 has been the year of Covid-19, President Trump’s post-truth politics, and visible climate change impact. Amidst social distancing, the race for the vaccine, and disastrous natural calamities, the Age of Biology has announced itself. The intersection of digital, materials, and biology will provide fuel for a new age of innovation. Artificial Intelligence mimicking biological neural networks and 5G continue to dominate the opportunity presented by digital. Amongst other advances in materials, biological materials such as synthetic messenger RNA (mRNA) are powering medical advances. The applications of biology will go beyond health and food production to include efficient energy generation, customised entertainment, soft robotics, archaeology, and even customised education. From a digital technology standpoint, the biggest advances of 2020 continue to be at the ‘edge’. Edge, here, refers to the ability to provide services closest to the source of data, including mobile phones, ground cameras, aerial cameras, routers, TVs, and industrial sensors. Neurocomputing chips have joined the CPU and GPU to power mobile phone edge computing. 5G promises to enable more than 100 MBPS average data rates, 100 times the traffic, and 10 times lower latency device-to-device intelligent, real-time collaboration at the edge. Technologies at the edge, providing faster, cheaper, and better services along with newer ways of extending human life and the comfort of living, are to be expected in 2021 and beyond. The centrepiece 2020 technology advance is the mRNA vaccine. Thirty years in the making, the mRNA vaccine is a crowning technological accomplishment for mankind in recent times. The ability to use in-vitro generated mRNA to produce designer proteins inside human cells, synthetically modify the mRNA to enable smuggling it into cells without being detected and destroyed by the human immune system, packaging the mRNA into protective nano-particle envelopes, and doing all this without entering the cell’s nucleus and hence not causing long-term genetic changes -- these are nothing short of miraculous accomplishments, and reasons to celebrate 2020. Covid-19 has accelerated the introduction of mRNA-based vaccines to the market. The same technology is being used in stem cell research, cancer research, protein-replacement therapy, gene editing, and cellular reprogramming and engineering. Here are three picks of other technologies at the intersection of digital, materials, and biology that we will see soon: Augmented reality for enhanced biological data visualisation and robotics in healthcare: Three-dimensional visualisation and the ability to work interactively with image data are a current reality. Soon, surgeries will be performed virtually on images of the patient body, with a detailed representation of the organ being operated upon. The coordinates of the surgical procedure will then be provided to a robotic surgeon to perform the actual surgery, aided by live visualisation and registration of the organ. Surgery templates will be used as starting points and modified for each patient. Wearable sensor-based recommendations for wellness, entertainment, and education: Recent scientific studies have established chronic inflammation as an indicator of general wellness and as a risk indicator for chronic diseases. It is now accepted that managing aging and disease is aided by measuring and managing inflammation. Currently available techniques for identifying inflammation and/or stress call for the use of markers that are determined via blood tests and lab analysis. However, soon, sensor data such as bio-impedance, heart-rate variability, along with pictures of the eyes, nails, tongue and voice samples, along with age and gender data, will be fused through AI to non-invasively measure inflammatory state and stress. Such systems will be used in wellness and find applications in recommending entertainment content, based on the mood of the user, and in customising pedagogy for educational content, based on assimilation. Supervisor-less remote workforce: The role of the traditional supervisor is over. On factory floors, it is easy to see how CC camera-based feed can be combined with AI to detect compliance for personal protective equipment, zoning, breaks, eating at work, time taken for a task, and attendance. Even for remote working, maybe more so, digital supervision will become real. Privacy issues will have to get addressed through cultural and technological changes. These changes will include complete transparency, access to individual data, online monitoring of both physical and mental wellness of employees, entirely new research for ergonomics applied to work-from-home, and providing team building and networking opportunities to maintain the culture of the tribe. There will be an ‘enterprisation’ of the home. Finally, a few words on climate change. Our planet exists in a very delicate balance. This balance is achieved through each constituent of the planet playing just its role. As humans, we have already strayed far from our narrative and have permanently damaged nature and even eliminated species. Let us raise a voice for the planet, for the frugality of consumption, and reserve the abundance mindset for giving rather than taking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-age-of-biology-is-here-932006.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||Stuff heavier than all life on earth||The end of the year is a good time to look back at what went well and what went wrong. In December 2020, two trends in world sustainability stood out. First, the good news. Global carbon emissions were down by 7%, the biggest decrease we’ve ever seen. Much of this is because of the global lockdowns. With fewer planes flying, air traffic is less than half of what it was last year, and trips by road and sea also reduced. Of course, this bit of good news came at a steep cost – loss of jobs, poverty, and near-starvation for too many. Next, the bad news. For the first time ever, the weight of the stuff humans produce – cement and bricks to make buildings, asphalt and tar for our roads, clothes, metals and plastics to support the conveniences and pleasures of daily life – that total weight is more than the weight of all animals and plants on earth. We stand at a momentous crossroads in history. Some 120 years ago, at the start of the 20th century – before World Wars I and II, before the United Nations was founded, in the colonial era, the weight of human-created objects like bricks, concrete, and asphalt were less than 3% of the total weight of stuff on the planet. In short, negligible. In 2020, the stuff we have produced matches and threatens to exceed the weight of Nature herself. The 20th century was a century of promise, a tribute to human ingenuity and prowess. A century in which steam-powered ships, coal-powered trains, and travel by horse and bullock-driven carts made way for speedy cars and jet planes. Does anyone remember the Concorde, the supersonic passenger plane that travelled at twice the speed of sound? Nothing seemed impossible in the last century. But by the 1960s, scientists like Rachel Carson began to warn us of the hidden costs of this progress. Pesticides helped in producing more food but made the food more poisonous for consumption. Cars, ships and planes helped us move people and goods around the world, reducing the prices of goods, but they spewed carbon emissions into the atmosphere, heating the world to a slow boil. By the 1980s, people started hearing about climate change as a problem that would haunt humanity in the future unless swift action was taken. This advice has, of course, been almost universally rejected, by countries, companies, and consumers across the world. More greenhouse gases have been emitted since the first predictions of future climate disasters were published by the IPCC in 1988, than in all the previous decades. Climate change is “everything change.” More than one million species are at risk of extinction. Amongst them are the charismatic black rhinoceros, which is critically endangered, as well as the humble honeybee, whose colonies have crashed worldwide. If we lose honeybees, we lose much more than honey. We lose their capacity to pollinate fruits, vegetables and nuts that we eat daily – services that we take for granted. And yet, we cut down millions of trees and raze wetlands and forests across India to make way for more highways, railway lines, ports, dams and industries. More sand is extracted from drying rivers to make more concrete, to create corridors of transport to feed our growing cities with stuff. Our homes, shops, offices and streets are full of stuff. The end of the year is the time for Christmas shopping. End-of-year discount sales and advertisements prompting us to buy more, cheap, shiny, happiness-giving stuff. Even Black Friday, that insane post-Thanksgiving shopping weekend of consumer excess that used to be such a peculiarly American phenomenon, has now made its way to India. The ‘high’ that comes from shopping is temporary. The stuff, unfortunately, is permanent. For those interested, the weight of human-made stuff is now 1.1 tera-tonnes. That’s 1,000,000,000,000 metric tonnes, or if you prefer a more familiar unit - 1,000,000,000,000,000 kilograms. If this trend continues, 20 years from now, we can expect the weight of stuff to double. When do we reach the point of collapse?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stuff-heavier-than-all-life-on-earth-932007.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||Is Pakistan nearing a 1971 moment in Balochistan?||The sudden disappearance and the subsequent death in Canada of 35-year-old Karima Baloch, one of the popular leaders of the Balochistan freedom movement, does come as a shock, though not as a surprise. She was on the hit list of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) for quite some time and had aired her fears about being targeted by the Pakistani military for speaking up against it. This is not the first time that a high-profile anti-Islamabad Baloch leader has met Karima’s fate. In March this year, Baloch journalist Sajid Hussain was found dead in the Fyris River near Uppsala in Sweden. He was the editor of Balochistan Times, a news website covering human rights violations, forced disappearances, and the drug trafficking menace in Pakistan. Although the Swedish police closed the case as “probable suicide or accidental death,” the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders (RSF) had alleged that it was a hit job by Pakistan’s ISI and the Military Intelligence (MI) wing of the Pakistan army. Like in the case of Hussain in Sweden, the Toronto police have termed Karima Baloch’s death as “non-criminal”. That’s hard to believe. Could it be that a 35-year-old rights activist who fled Pakistan, where she received constant threats and sought asylum in Canada, suddenly decided to kill herself? Her family and several Baloch leaders have demanded a full investigation. Earlier, the Pakistani army, under then-President Pervez Musharraf, had brutally killed the Baloch tribal leader and votary of Baloch independence Nawab Akbar Bugti in 2006. Zahid Baloch, the former head of the Balochistan Students’ Organisation (BSO), was abducted in Quetta in 2014 and hasn’t been heard of since. In fact, it was after his abduction that Karima had taken over as head of the BSO. Two years ago, the Chinese consulate in Clifton, Karachi, was attacked amidst a war-like situation. This was reportedly carried out by the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA), a highly trained militant group that will settle for nothing short of freedom for the Baloch people. Although no Chinese citizen was killed in the attack, Beijing called for a thorough probe, sought protection for its citizens and assets in Pakistan, and warned Islamabad that it would suspend ongoing projects till normalcy is restored. But Pakistan was sure that Beijing would do no such thing with projects linked to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The CPEC is one of the most strategically important components of China’s Belt and Road Initiative. It connects China’s western region of Xinjiang to the Indian Ocean through the Gwadar port in Balochistan. China’s ambition to increase its strategic presence in the Indian Ocean requires Beijing to increase its influence and foothold in Pakistan, especially in Balochistan. Pakistan is now fencing off the Gwadar port with barbed wire to prevent attacks on it by Baloch nationalists, and China is paying for the project. From being a Cold War ally of the US to becoming a vassal state of China, Pakistan has come a long way. Unlike the US, China has no qualms about Pakistan’s corruption, inhuman treatment of religious minorities or poor track record of human rights. With total disregard for democracy, the army’s supremacy and control over the decision-making process suits Beijing. For Pakistan, China is the best all-weather friend and trusted collaborator against India. New Delhi will have to take a serious view of the situation and prepare for course correction, the sooner the better, before a complete de facto take-over of Balochistan by the Chinese military. There is genuine concern in Balochistan that the Punjabi-dominated Pakistani army is determined to force a demographic change in the province by settling non- Balochis in the mineral-rich areas. The megaprojects in the coastal areas of Balochistan, including the Gwadar port project, are being used by the army to convert the mineral-rich areas and the port city into Punjabi dominated areas. This will result in two things. One, the locals will be reduced to a minority and their freedom struggle will run out of steam; two, the new colonies will not be interested in supporting the locals and will side with the army. Over time, the 6.5 million-strong Baloch population will become a minority over the entire province and they will eventually lose rights over their precious land, their dear maadare watan. In pursuing this nightmare of a vision, the Pakistani army is making all the mistakes it made in erstwhile East Pakistan, now Bangladesh, till 1971. There, the Punjabi-dominated army suppressed the Bengali language, literature, intelligentsia and identity. The rich cultural distinctiveness, far drawn and different from that of Islamabad, was sought to be stifled. The total rejection of the popular mandate and disrespect for democracy, coupled with the gruesome atrocities unleashed by a trigger-happy occupation army, resulted in the break-up of Pakistan. New Delhi should remember Napoleon Bonaparte’s advice, “Never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake”, but also keep the powder dry, as Indira Gandhi did. Karima Baloch’s killing, and the forced disappearances and killings of thousands of Balochis, will not be easily forgiven or forgotten by the people of Balochistan. But, has its 1971 moment arrived? Time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-pakistan-nearing-a-1971-moment-in-balochistan-932009.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||Brexit deal: It could have been worse for the EU, France and Germany||The defining image of Britain’s Christmas Eve trade deal with the European Union was a beaming Boris Johnson with his thumbs up in the air. There were no celebratory pictures from any of his continental counterparts. The EU, with comparatively less to lose, has less cause to rejoice. The costs of no deal for the bloc would have been relatively manageable, at about 0.5% of potential output. It’s also hard to sell the departure of a big member state as a victory, however rocky the historical relationship. European Commission boss Ursula von der Leyen expressed “relief” and “quiet satisfaction” when announcing the treaty, while her top negotiator Michel Barnier reiterated his view of Brexit as a “lose-lose” for both sides. Yet as officials in Paris, Berlin and elsewhere comb through the fine print of the trade agreement’s 1,250 pages, the EU’s capitals should feel they’ve been handed the least bad way to bring Brexit’s opening chapter to a close. The deal enshrines tariff-free, quota-free trade in goods, which will make a big difference to several member nations. New agricultural levies would hit Ireland hard, given that 40% of its agri-food exports go to the U.K., its biggest trading partner. Tariffs would cost Germany 8.2 billion euros ($10 billion) of its exports to Britain, and France 3.6 billion euros, according to Euler Hermes. Ensuring the deal has teeth will now be the priority for Von der Leyen. Protecting the single market was key for the EU, and a rallying point for its 27 members against the British threat to compete head-on with a “Singapore-on-Thames” deregulatory drive. An analysis of the provisional treaty by my Bloomberg News colleagues outlines how the U.K. and EU have agreed to uphold their environmental, social, labor and tax transparency standards to make sure they don’t undercut each other. The punishment is tariffs, subject to arbitration by an independent panel. This sounds rather like being nibbled to death by ducks — as is the case in existing long-running EU trade spats, such as the one between Airbus and Boeing — but if upheld it does offer a sensible deterrent. Tough geopolitical and strategic questions lie ahead for Brussels and the member states. Brexit redraws the map of European power, halving the number of permanent EU seats on the United Nations Security Council and cutting 40% of the bloc’s military capability. It removes 14% of the EU’s GDP, making it smaller as a single market, and deprives it of more than $100 billion in budgetary resources. At the same time, the departure of one of the EU’s least enthusiastic integrators — a country instinctively opposed to deeper union — is an opportunity to create a more ambitious and assertive bloc, one deserving of a seat at the superpower table alongside the U.S. and China. It’s hard to believe that the EU’s new $859 billion Covid-19 emergency fund, a historic agreement for fiscal transfers from wealthier member states to their less fortunate partner nations, would have been possible with the Brits in tow. It’s not just Johnson and his fellow Brexiters who want to “take back control.” The EU, too, wants to create a more “sovereign” bloc that’s less dependent on others (namely the U.S.) for its security and prosperity. How it asserts itself with its U.K. neighbor, whose own vision of sovereignty seems to be the freedom to escape pesky EU rules, will be an important test. Johnson’s previous threat to tear up the terms of Brexit withdrawal, including the agreement for a soft Irish border, shows the potential pitfalls. Having a trade deal in place won’t restore trust overnight, but it helps. Nobody expects a sudden new dawn in EU-U.K. relations. But the 11th-hour agreement avoids a worse and messier outcome, while allowing the bloc to monitor and limit unfair competition from the Brits and providing a path to more cooperation. Sometimes the least bad option is all there is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/brexit-deal-it-could-have-been-worse-for-the-eu-france-and-germany-932184.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||A historian's 12-step guide to staying sane during the Covid-19 pandemic||By Niall Ferguson Maybe you stayed safe in the plague year. Most of us have. But did you stay sane?  A growing body of research shows that the damage to our health caused by Covid-19 went far beyond the disease itself. In addition to multiple physiological conditions that have claimed lives because people eschewed medical care they would normally have sought, a great many of us have suffered psychologically — some from fear of infection, some from protracted incarceration with their nearest and dearest, many from the enforced isolation that does not come naturally to our species. Survey data from the United States, China and other countries point to a pandemic of depression, anxiety and stress. I’ve had the good fortune to avoid both physical and mental illness in 2020. As a repressed misanthrope — who for many years was forced by circumstances to be much more gregarious than I really am — I have positively relished nine months in one place with a social circle confined to my wife, my two youngest children, and a handful of local friends. (I cannot speak for the other inhabitants of my bubble.) As the year nears its end — and with the plot twist of a new and more contagious U.K. variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, as if to reconcile the Europeans to Brexit — I feel duty bound to share some tips for maintaining mental health. In honor of the process formulated in 1935 by Bill Wilson and Robert Holbrook Smith, the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous, here are my twelve steps to staying sane (or at least getting no more insane) in a pandemic:     Step One: Drink tea, not booze. I began 2020 with my first ever trip to Taiwan, where I was cured of making tea like a Brit, i.e., chucking a teabag, boiling water and some milk in a mug. Sitting cross-legged in the Shi Yang Shan Fang tea house, which perches on the side of Yangming Mountain to the north of Taipei, on a night of torrential rain, I experienced my first gong fu tea ceremony. A young man conducted the ceremony, which involves multiple pots and cups, all made of delicate, unglazed clay. “Are you a tea master?” I asked him, somewhat crassly. “No,” he replied serenely. “I am the servant of the tea.” Ever since that evening, I have served tea this way three times a day, beginning with Taiwanese gaoshan (high mountain) tea in the morning, followed by Wazuka Yuki Oolong Cha at lunchtime, and concluding with Japanese sencha (green tea) in the afternoon—all ordered from the wonderful Sazen Tea. More than anything else I have done this year, the tea ceremony has kept me sane in the solitude of my study. Step Two: Read Walter Scott (ideally with your mother). I had been thoroughly put off the novels of Scott as a schoolboy by adults who dismissed him as boring and stuffy. They lied. By some strange telepathic process, my mother and I—separated by nearly five thousand miles— decided to set aside prejudice and simultaneously begin reading “Waverly” (1814), the glorious, gripping tale of an ingenuous young Englishman who gets mixed up in the Jacobite Rising of 1745. As we progressed, at the rate of roughly one novel every three weeks, we found Scott as gifted a writer as Dickens, but funnier and shrewder. There are unexpected anticipations of Wilkie Collins and R.L. Stevenson in his darker characters — for example, the magnificent madwoman Meg Merrilies in “Guy Mannering” (1815) who recurs as Madge Wildfire in “The Heart of Midlothian” (1818), or the diabolical, dastardly Rashleigh Osbaldistone in “Rob Roy” (1817). Reading Scott in tandem provided my mother and me with a desperately needed topic of conversation other than the pandemic. Our weekly calls became literary seminars rather than lamentation sessions. By this route of printed pages, each of us was able to revisit our native Scotland in our imaginations and to understand, for the first time, how much that country used to be Scottland — for it was Scott, more than anyone, who made its emergence from Afghan-like misery into Enlightenment dynamism both intelligible and irresistible to the Victorians. Step Three: Have Proust read to you. On at least four previous occasions, I have tried and failed to get through the first volume of À la recherche du temps perdu. The solution was to listen to “Swann’s Way,” in the C. K. Scott Moncrieff translation, read exquisitely for Audible by John Rowe. If you have ever struggled with the ineffably sensitive Marcel, as I once did, then this is the way. For me, the breakthrough came with Swann’s all-consuming infatuation with the unsuitable but enthralling Odette and his descent into green-eyed jealousy. Step Four: Listen to Bruckner. This was also the perfect year to immerse yourself in the work of a composer you had previously failed to appreciate. I chose the self-effacing Austrian genius Anton Bruckner, whose Symphony No. 4 in E Flat Major, “Romantic,” provided exhilaration and exaltation — both in short supply in the world at large. Other plague-year discoveries have included Mendelssohn’s “Lieder ohne Worte,” Schubert’s exquisite Piano Sonata No. 18 in G Major, D. 894, and, as I wanted to hear music from the time of the Black Death, the plangent Messe de Nostre Dame of Guillaume de Machaut. Step Five: Practice a musical instrument. Since I took up playing the double bass at the age of 18, I have learned two important life-lessons. First, ensemble playing is very good for the mind and the soul, though not necessarily for the liver. Second, being mediocre is fine — you really don’t need to strive for perfection in everything you do (just in one thing). The jazz band of which I have been the mediocre member since we played at Oxford back in the 1980s, A Night in Tunisia,  has a tradition of performing together twice a year. The plague put a stop to that this year and our experiments with online collaboration risibly failed. (You cannot jam on Zoom.) The solution was to try to practice in new ways — not easy to sustain through the long days of internal exile, but the payoff will come when the band strikes up again next year. I may rise above mediocrity. Step Six: Watch “Doctor Who” with your children or grandchildren. I more or less gave up watching television at around the same time I took up bass-playing. There is one exception to this rule: “Doctor Who,” without a doubt the greatest television series of them all, which predates me by a year, having begun in 1963. The revival of “The Doctor” in 2005 was the single best thing the BBC has ever done. With my son Thomas, who turns nine this week, I’ve been catching up with 15 years of the series’ exceptional science fiction — which magically combines time travel, terrifying aliens and British irony — though we still cannot decide who was the best Doctor: David Tennant or Matt Smith? Or was it actually Tom Baker? Step Seven: Step. Do not fail to go for a walk every day, regardless of the weather. I write these words after an hour in a fully-fledged blizzard. A walk is infinitely preferable to any gym. If no one will come with you, take Proust. Step Eight: Improve your curry making. If you haven’t been cooking this year, shame on you. I recommend applying some turmeric, cumin, red chile and coriander seeds to some of that leftover turkey. Step Nine: Dress like an Oxford don, every weekday. Back in the spring, the beard, T-shirt and sweatpants combo was not conducive to the production of great thoughts. And yet I found it hard to take seriously the people who donned suits and ties to broadcast from their bedrooms. After months of slovenliness, I hit on the solution. I purchased a Fair Isle sleeveless sweater and dug out some maroon corduroy trousers, once part of the costume of an Oxford professor. This restored self-discipline and enabled me to finish writing a book. (I couldn’t quite bring myself to go full Tolkien by buying a pipe, but I was sorely tempted.) Step Ten: Disable notifications on Twitter. It occurred to me with a flash of insight that I don’t in the least care what the people I don’t follow on Twitter think, otherwise I would follow them. “Would you let all these other people into your garden?” I asked my wife one day. “If not, why would you let them inside your head?” Goodbye, snark! Step Eleven: Do not watch sports. Just don’t. To me, soccer and rugby without fans is about exciting a spectacle as two dozen men playing blind man’s buff. When we watch sport on television, we are imagining ourselves in the crowd, which is the real source of the adrenaline surge — not the flight of the ball from foot to goal. Without the ebb and flow of singing, cheering and booing, there’s just no thrill.    Step Twelve: OK, drink booze, too. But only after 6 p.m., otherwise you’ll end up like Agnes in Douglas Stuart’s “Shuggie Bain” (without a doubt the best book published this year). Tea’s all very well during the day, but I couldn’t have retained my sanity after dark without the following liquids: Bent Nail IPA, a delicious beer brewed by Red Lodge Ales; the Veneto winemaker Inama’s smooth yet peppery Carmenere Più; and Laphroaig, my favorite peat-infused Scotch, which they began making the same year Scott published “Guy Mannering.” As I pointed out eight months ago, “all the great pandemics have come in waves.” This one has managed three in the United States and two in Europe, and we’re still at least four or five months away from herd immunity. So, while you await your vaccination this holiday season, don’t go nuts. My twelfth step would have appalled the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous. But just as there are no atheists in a foxhole, there are precious few teetotalers in a pandemic. Happy New Year!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-historians-12-step-guide-to-staying-sane-during-the-covid-19-pandemic-932235.html
27-12-2020||Opinion||Off the record: December 28, 2020||The crowd-puller? For long, DMK MP Kanimozhi did not get the importance that she deserved in the party though she comes from the first family. But her recent tour to western districts of Tamil Nadu where the party is considered weak during which she pulled huge crowds has forced the DMK to have a rethink on the way it deals with her. With Kanimozhi striking a chord with women who form a major vote base for AIADMK under J Jayalalithaa, the DMK has realised the importance of reaching out to women. Not just she gets considerable airtime on Kalaignar TV, owned by the DMK’s first family, news and photos relating to her campaign are displayed prominently in Murasoli, DMK’s mouthpiece. It took a message from the ground for DMK to recognise “talent”? E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai  BJP’s outreach BJP’s outreach to the Christian communities in Kerala has gained momentum with Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to meet various denominations in the next seven to 10 days. Mizoram Governor and former Kerala BJP chief P Sreedharan Pillai has done the background work for the meetings, which is coming months ahead of the Assembly polls in the state. The first meeting will be held on Monday with the Catholicate faction of the Jacobite church, which is in a fight with the rival Patriarch faction. This will be followed by Modi’s meeting with the Patriarch faction on Tuesday. The Prime Minister is likely to explore unity among both the factions. A meeting is scheduled with the Catholic Church in the first week of January. It is to be seen how the meetings are going to pan out electorally, with both the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-led UDF keenly watching the outcome. Shemin Joy, New Delhi  Valley in the dark  With the onset of winter in Kashmir, the unscheduled and prolonged power cuts become an unwritten rule as the power demand shoots up. The frequent power breakdowns have become a source of big heart, headaches for people across the Valley. While the region witnesses a 10-12% increase in power demand annually the availability is limited. The frequent power cuts do not only affect studies of students and business of the shopkeepers but, it creates hardships for the ailing people as well. Many Covid-19 patients, who are on oxygen support at their homes face threat to their lives whenever electricity goes off, as their oxygen concentrators become defunct. However, in Kashmir, you learn to live with poor power supply and low internet speed. One thing is common in both the services--both are pathetic. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar  Dwindling funds Congress’ political pitch targeting top businessmen and ‘crony capitalists’ appears to have taken a hit on raising funds for the party. A senior Congress leader said the ‘Bombay Club’ is unhappy at the ‘anti-business’ stand taken by Rahul Gandhi and the personalised attacks against top businessmen. In the passing away of AICC Treasurer Ahmed Patel last month, the party has lost a person who had close ties with some of the top business houses, a relationship considered unparalleled by many in the party. Congress has appointed former union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal as the interim Treasurer who may find Patel’s shoes too big to fit. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  A frenzy It was on Christmas day that news channels went to town with the news break that Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram is going to get the youngest mayor in the country, 21-year old Arya Rajendran. Reporters made a beeline to her house and even national media took up the news with prominence. But the CPM was maintaining that no such ‘decision’ was taken yet by the party and even Arya said she was yet to receive any official communication from the party. It was learnt that the CPM district committee recommendation was awaiting party-state leadership’s nod. It seemed that the CPM was left with no room for a rethink as even celebrities like actor Mohanlal rang up and congratulated her and even youth leaders of opposition camps hailed the prominence being given by CPM to young leaders. She was announced as the party's mayoral candidate on Sunday.   Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-december-28-2020-932286.html
27-12-2020||Panorama||Consumer protection law: New dimensions||The newly enacted Consumer Protection Act [CPA] 2019, and Rules framed so far, have added a couple of new dimensions thereby strengthening the voice of the consumers.  While issues like giving consumers a choice to file complaints where they reside, e-filing of complaints, widening the meaning of misleading advertisements is noteworthy, more important are inclusion of Unfair Contracts, Product Liability, Mediation, E-Commerce and setting up of Central Consumer Protection Authority [CCPA].  By adding Unfair Contract as a ground for filing complaints, the CPA has gone beyond simple defects and deficiency in services. As per the new legislation requiring a consumer to give excessive security deposit for the performance of a contract, imposing a disproportionate penalty on consumers, refusal to accept early repayment of debts are treated as unfair contracts and consumers can approach the Consumer Grievance Redressal Commissions [CGRC] for relief. The definition of unfair trade practices have been so widened to bring almost all known unfair practices into its jurisdiction including acts like failure or non-issuance of a bill or a cash memo, refusal to take back or withdraw defective goods or withdrawal or discontinuance of deficient services, refusal to refund the consideration amount paid within the period as stipulated in the bill, cash memo, receipt or in the absence of such stipulation, within 30 days etc. However, the inclusion of disclosure of consumer’s personal information to any other person as an unfair trade practice is path breaking.  The new CPA has brought in the concept of Product Liability, which was hitherto not an issue of consumer protection. Sporadic instances of mobile phone sets exploding while charging or bursting of LPG cylinders cannot be brushed aside.  Taking note of these dangers, the CPA has given special importance to Product Liability.  The CPA allows a person to make a claim for product liability against a manufacturer, seller or service provider for any defect in a product or deficiency in a service. A consumer may make a claim compensation for any harm caused, including property damage, personal injury, illness, death, mental agony or emotional harm accompanying these conditions.  Including stringent measures to prevent misleading advertisements is one of the important dimensions of the CPA. Apart from bringing many practices of advertisements in its ambit, the CPA prescribes heavy penalty not only for advertisers but also for endorsers, advertisers and publishers of misleading advertisements. Henceforth, it may be difficult for the media to escape liability of misleading advertisements by just issuing a one line disclaimer. Similarly, the CCPA has been empowered to punish food adulterators with hefty fines, cancellation of licenses and even imprisonment in certain cases. The CPA-2019 envisages establishment of a separate authority known as the CCPA. The CCPA has drawn inspiration from the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, though the structure, functions and objects differ.  The object of the CCPA is to regulate matters relating to violation of rights of consumers, unfair trade practices and false or misleading advertisements which are prejudicial to the interests of public and consumers and to promote, protect and enforce the rights of consumers as a class.  In particular, the CCPA seeks to protect the rights of consumers as a class, and prevent violation of consumers rights, prevent unfair trade practices, ensure that no false or misleading advertisement is made that no person takes part in the publication of any advertisement which is false or misleading.  Wide powers The CCPA has wide powers to inquire or investigate into violations of consumer rights or unfair trade practices, either suo motu or on a complaint received or on the directions from the Central government, file complaints before the CDRCs, recommend adoption of international covenants and best international practices on consumer rights to ensure effective enforcement of consumer rights; spread and promote awareness on consumer rights, mandate the use of unique and universal goods identifiers in such goods, as may be necessary, to prevent unfair trade practices and to protect consumers' interest. It is empowered to issue orders like recalling of goods or withdrawal of services which are dangerous, hazardous or unsafe, reimbursement of the prices of goods or services so recalled to purchasers of such goods or services; and discontinuation of practices which are unfair and prejudicial to consumers' interest. Bringing e-commerce under the CPA is certainly a new dimension of consumer protection. Some of the consumer forums did hold e-commerce portals guilty of deficiency in service. But the e-commerce entities took shelter under the loopholes in the old CPA. But the new CPA has tightened the net and elaborate rules have been framed to make e-commerce portals accountable to the consumers and the government. Consumers can now seek remedy for losses caused by e-commerce portals. Similarly, mediation centres are proposed at the district, state and national levels.  However, the new CPA is not without drawbacks, particularly those relating to the eligibility of Voluntary Consumer Organisations [VCOs].  Since 1986, VCOs were representing consumers and were successful to a large extent. Some of the reputed VCOs were able to get relief to thousands of depositors, victims of Ponzi schemes etc. But under the new CPA, the role of VCOs has been restricted. For instance, VCOs are required to submit an affidavit for appearing before the redressal agencies.  The success of the new dimensions depends on presence of strong VCOs, media and more particularly the Central/state governments. The states have a number of responsibilities listed in the CPA. For instance, states have to constitute the State Consumer Protection Councils. In Karnataka, this is pending for the past 15 years.  (The writer is Founder of Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/consumer-protection-law-new-dimensions-932287.html
27-12-2020||Right in the Middle||Of Bobby Sam and Patrick McPatel||In the 1950’s, the world was not a global village like it is today. There was no internet, no mobile phone, no social media, no nothing. One had to wait three years to get a landline phone connection. The bulky instrument was garlanded! In the international arena, India practised neutrality. Nehru joined Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia, and  Gamal Abdal Nasser of Egypt to make a third front in order to cock a snook at America and Russia, the two biggos. Attempts were made by the west to reach out to India. A people exchange programme went under the name Experiment in International Living. The concept was simple: your family member would stay for three months with a family in say New York, while one member of that New York family would stay in your house in India.   My friend’s wife, whom we called Soumya Bhabhi, had gone to a Texas family and had initiated them into having a vegetarian in their house. When they first heard of that dietary preference, they were intrigued. Even their salads had chicken. What’s more, she’d eat with her fingers, was a Hindu but did not sleep on a bed of nails! Saying Soumya Bhabhi was a mouthful for them. They called her Sam. She was also Bhabhi, so she was called Bobby. Over the weeks, she was introduced around this, “This is  Bobby Sam, from Bomm– bay.’  In her lectures, she had to be very basic: “We don’t find snakes in our shoes in the morning in India,” and “our school buses are not elephants but regular motorized four-wheelers”. Sometimes tongue in cheek she’d say, "We live in trees – and how do we get up there? - we get up there by using elevators.” In the neighbourhood, in another family, Mahesh Patel from Bombay was an ‘Experimenter’. Patel had become Pat, and then Pat had expanded to Patrick… and eventually, he was called Patrick MacPatel.  At an outdoor barbecue cookout, vegetarian Patrick McPatel ate only the hamburger bun, i.e. without the meat patty. The guests would shake their heads in disbelief and say, ”Just a straight bun with mustard, eh? No meat patty for Pat.”  All this was before the Beatles’ Jai Guru Deva days.  Now, orange-clad Hare Krishna Americans drum and dance on their streets. At call centres in India, Satyendranath has become Stan, Bharath is now Bert, and Megha is Megan …and being urged to go vegan. Have we progressed or regressed or come a full circle?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/of-bobby-sam-and-patrick-mcpatel-932289.html
27-12-2020||Second Edit||Light pollution: Quietly growing||A global light pollution map developed by a group of researchers has ranked New Delhi, Kolkata and Bengaluru as the three cities with the highest light pollution in India. It should serve to alert us to the looming problem of light pollution about which we are not only doing so little to prevent but are also unaware about. Light pollution refers to the harmful impact of artificial outdoor lighting.  While artificial outdoor lighting is needed in the form of street lights to increase safety on roads and enables us to study and work in the dark, its use for floodlighting, illumination, advertising, etc has grown manifold in recent decades, resulting in the problem of light pollution. Studies show that brightness from outdoor lights has risen steadily across India over a 20 year period, with New Delhi, Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh showing a “very high light pollution intensity” rise between 1993 and 2013. The use of excessive artificial outdoor lighting has several harmful implications not just for human health but for the wellbeing of animals, birds and insects, and our environment. Use of artificial lights at night gives us more working and studying hours but it results in the problem of ‘loss of night.’ We find it difficult to fall asleep when the glow of streets enters our homes. It impacts our sleep-wake rhythm, which could have serious implications for our moods and health. Illumination of gardens impacts animals and insects too. It is nocturnal insects and birds that suffer the most due to light pollution. It makes them disoriented, impacts their reproduction and thus their populations. There is little understanding or even awareness of the concept of light pollution, let alone its implications. But it is a problem that is quietly growing in magnitude. India, in particular, seems to be sleeping on the problem. A 2017 global study revealed that the ‘loss of night’ due to excessive artificial light at night is increasing three times faster in India than the global average. It is time India woke up to the light pollution problem before it overwhelms us. It is not difficult to tackle the issue. What we need to do is stop excessive use of illumination and floodlighting. Do we, for instance, need to play cricket matches at night under the full glare of floodlights? Lights must illuminate our streets, not the skies. Use of light for advertising should be regulated. Could we not make it mandatory for advertisers to switch off lights after a certain hour? But first, we need to realise that we need the dark as much as we need light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/light-pollution-quietly-growing-932293.html
27-12-2020||South||Hyderabad set to emerge as global hub for Covid-19 vaccine in 2021||As the world is set to brace for a new year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the city is poised to emerge as a 'saviour' from the killer virus, with as many as five vaccine manufacturing firms based here racing to bring out an antidote. The vaccine development process by Bharat Biotech, Biological E Ltd and Aurobindo Pharma are currently in various stages, while Dr Reddy's and Hetero have tie-ups for manufacturing the vaccine. Some of these companies have also drawn up plans to scale up their vaccine manufacturing capacities. Besides vaccine makers, the International Airport here has also stepped up the cold-chain infrastructure for vaccine transportation. GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) is in talks with various stakeholders towards meeting specific requirements of export and import of Covid-19 vaccines. A recent visit of over 60 envoys to vaccine manufacturing facilities of Bharat Biotech and BE establishes the fact that the city will be in the forefront in making and supplying vaccines for Covid-19 which is rocking the world with over 77 million cases and nearly two million deaths as of now. Udaya Bhaskar, director-general of Pharmexcil, a pharma exports promotion body under the department of commerce, said as there is no policy in place with regard to Covid-19 vaccine exports to other countries, it can be assumed that the centre may ensure that domestic requirement is fulfilled before allowing vaccine makers to export. "All these vaccine makers, except Bharat Biotech, are having development or manufacturing tie-ups with foreign companies. We do not know the agreement details as to what quantity will be exported from India. However, the Indian Government has the final say in this regard," Bhaskar said. Telangana Director of Public Health G Srinivas Rao said though the companies are located here, the state will not get preference in vaccine allocation as it will be decided by the Centre. The state has no role in vaccine allocation. It will be decided by the centre only. They will devise a method to allot the number of doses and states will get accordingly," the official told PTI. The city's prominence accentuated after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a facility of Bharat Biotech Genome valley here on November 28 and reviewed the progress of Covaxin, a vaccine candidate for Covid-19. It is being developed by the company in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology and is now undergoing phase-3 trials. Apart from Covaxin, BB is also in the process of coming out with a vaccine that would be intranasal. BiologicalELtdhas entered into an agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, part of pharma major Johnson & Johnson for creation and enhancement of production capabilities to manufacture the latter's Covid-19 vaccine candidate, currently in Phase 1/2 of clinical trials. International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group, recently announced a loan of up to $30 million (around Rs 220 crore) to BE to support its expansion of low- priced, generic vaccines for routine immunisation of children and boost capacity to manufacture any future Covid-19 vaccine. Aurobindo Pharma expects to commercialise its vaccine manufacturing facility in Hyderabad by April-May next year and is investing around Rs 275 crore on the facility, which would be utilised to produce vaccines for the treatment of various viral diseases, including Covid-19. A top official of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology had earlier said three CSIR labs CCMB-Hyderabad, Institute of Medical Technology, Chandigarh and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology Kolkata, are developing vaccine candidates using different technology platforms. Aurobindo will undertake clinical development and commercialisation of the vaccines. The company has also entered into an exclusive license agreement with Covaxx, a US-based company, to develop, commercialize and manufacture UB-612, the first Multitope Peptide-based vaccine to fight Covid-19, for India and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) agency. Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have already said they commenced adaptive phase 2/3 clinical trials for Sputnik V vaccine in India after receiving the necessary clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli in Himachal. In September 2020, Dr Reddys and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and rights for distribution of the first 100 million doses in India. Pharma major Hetero also has a tie-up with RDIF to manufacture over 100 million doses of Sputnik V per annum The city-based firms also played a crucial role in providing bulk drugs and formulations for some of the prescribed medicines for Covid-19 like Remdesivir and Favipiravir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-set-to-emerge-as-global-hub-for-covid-19-vaccine-in-2021-932078.html
27-12-2020||South||Party will lead the alliance in Tamil Nadu: AIADMK's message to BJP||Affirming that the legacy of M G Ramachandran rests solely with it, Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Sunday asserted that Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the Chief Ministerial face of the alliance for the 2021 Assembly elections while ruling out any chances of forming a coalition government. At the launch of the AIADMK's campaign for the assembly elections due in the first half of 2021 at YMCA grounds here, AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munuswamy launched a veiled attack on the BJP by alleging that a few national parties are trying to “discredit” the 50-year rule by Dravidian parties. Speaker after speaker at the three-hour rally invoked the name of AIADMK founder MGR and his legacy, sending out a clear message to BJP, actors Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth who claim to establish “MGR rule” in Tamil Nadu. While Palaniswami and his deputy Panneerselvam refrained from talking about the alliance or using strong words against “national parties”, Munuswamy went full-throttle against BJP which is toying with the idea of a coalition government in Tamil Nadu. “We will have to work hard to achieve victory in 2021 assembly elections. If we come to power for a third straight term in 2021, the next 50 years would only witness AIADMK rule in Tamil Nadu. There is no need or talk of a coalition government. People who come to us with the thought of a coalition government, please have a rethink,” Munuswamy said, with OPS and EPS in rapt attention. He also asserted that the alliance will be led by AIADMK and its Chief Ministerial face will be Palaniswami as announced in October. Munuswamy The comments by Munuswamy, also a Rajya Sabha MP, assumes significance in the wake of the BJP maintaining that the Chief Ministerial face of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in which AIADMK is the major partner in Tamil Nadu will only be announced by the national leadership. The BJP's refusal to acknowledge Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the combine had led to friction within the AIADMK alliance. During a government function attended by Amit Shah in Chennai last month, EPS and OPS had announced that the alliance with BJP will continue for 2021 elections. In their speech, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam tore into the Opposition DMK and accused it of “spreading lies” against the AIADMK Government. Palaniswami said AIADMK was the only “democratic party” in India where even an ordinary cadre can assume the post of Chief Minister. “Today, I am the Chief Minister. Tomorrow, it could OPS. AIADMK is the only party where even a cadre can become Chief Minister. We are not heirs. In fact, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa do not have any heirs. The people of Tamil Nadu are their heirs,” Palaniswami said. Palaniswami asked AIADMK cadre to “bust” the DMK's “misinformation campaign” and take to them the achievements of the party-led government. On his part, Panneerselvam said the AIADMK was “friendly” with the BJP only for the betterment of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/party-will-lead-the-alliance-in-tamil-nadu-aiadmks-message-to-bjp-932087.html
27-12-2020||South||Covid, floods and BJP-JD(S) bonhomie hog the limelight in Karnataka in 2020||From recording the country's first Covid-19 death to being battered by devastating floods and seeing the passage of the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill, Karnataka had an eventful 2020. Known for its business-friendly environs and housing some of the IT and manufacturing majors, a couple of instances of labour unrest worried officials over the state's business-friendly image taking a hit. Political bonhomie between former partners BJP and JD(S), delay in the much-anticipated expansion of the BS Yediyurappa led cabinet and new leadership for the state, Congress dominated the political spectrum. Speculations were also rife about Yediyurappa being replaced. It was a double whammy for the state in 2020 with Covid-19 and devastating floods in parts of the state taking their toll on the people. While a pandemic-induced lockdown came into effect in March, there was no dearth of protests — whether it was against the controversial citizenship laws by the Centre or the contentious legislation enacted by the state earlier. Protests against the CAA and NRC spilt over from 2019 and incidents like pro-Pakistan sloganeering and certain controversial graffiti emerging at a couple of places in the state created a huge uproar. However, with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the death of a 76-year-old man from Kalaburagi in the state, the country's first casualty to coronavirus, in March, the focus entirely shifted to containing the contagion. While a strict lockdown and containment strategy started yielding results, making Karnataka a better performer state, easing of restrictions and allowing public movement soon led to a deterioration in the situation. By September-October, Karnataka became one of the worst affected states with daily cases surging as high as over 10,000, even as related deaths started going north. However, with a better testing strategy and stricter enforcement of containment measures, the government brought the situation under control and daily cases are around 1,000 now, with total infections being over nine lakh, including over 12,000 deaths. Nearly 14,000 cases are still active. For the third consecutive year, several parts of Karnataka were battered by torrential rains and floods in August and later in September and mid-October. There were very high discharges from reservoirs in Maharashtra to downstream Karnataka, making it probably the first time the state faced floods in Krishna and Bhima basins in a single year. The government estimated the damage from floods and landslides at Rs 15,410 crore. For Yediyurappa, the year began on a positive note as he inducted 10 new BJP legislators, who won on the party ticket after defecting from Congress and JD(S) into the cabinet, giving much-needed stability to his government. However, speculations about the BJP high command mulling over his replacement considering his age (77) is said to have put him in a spot of bother. His repeated requests to the high command for the cabinet expansion has not elicited a positive response, adding fuel to speculations over leadership change, despite the state BJP vehemently denying it. The opposition Congress saw a change of guard with the appointment of DK Shivakumar as state unit chief, who also faced a CBI raid in connection with a disproportionate assets case. BJP's one-time ally JD(S) seems to have softened its stand towards the saffron party, reflected in its support to the government in the passage of key bills and also the no-confidence motion against legislative council chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty, who is from the Congress. The Council had witnessed high drama recently with BJP-JDS and Congress members hurling abuses and pushing each other and the Deputy Chairman being pulled down from the Chairman's seat over a row pertaining to the no-confidence motion. The government this year passed contentious laws like amendments to the land reform act, which liberalises farmland ownership, and the APMC amendment bill, which curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees and allows private individuals to start agricultural trading. The BJP government also managed to push through the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill in the party-dominated Legislative Assembly but is yet to clear the hurdle in the council, where it does not enjoy a majority. JD(S) has made it clear it will not support the bill. The year also saw the government cracking down on the drug menace, with the seizure of narcotic substances and arrest of some actors and people linked to the film industry. At a time when the country is hoping to attract investments from corporate giants looking to shift out of China due to changing global scenarios,labour unrest at plants of Toyota Kirloskar Motor and Wistron Corp. has the government worried about its investor-friendly image taking a hit. On the space front, city headquartered ISRO's activities were also affected by Covid, with the agency forced to limit rocket launches this year to just three, while ambitious future programmes like its first human space flight mission Gaganyaan likely to be delayed by one year to 2022. The Chandrayaan-3 (moon mission) schedule is yet to be fixed. The space sector was also opened for private players for their participation in the entire range of space activities, including planetary exploration missions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-floods-and-bjp-jds-bonhomie-hog-the-limelight-in-karnataka-in-2020-932095.html
27-12-2020||South||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination to be conducted in Andhra's Krishna district on December 28||The dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination process would be conducted at five medical centers in the Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh on 125 health workers, on Monday. The exercise is in preparation for the central government's plan to roll out the Covid-19 vaccination for the public beginning with health and other frontline workers, in January. Andhra is the only south Indian state selected for the mock drill, while Punjab, Assam, and Gujarat are the other three states where also it would be held on 28 and 29 December. The government is yet to decide on the specific vaccine to vaccinate the population, but reports suggest that Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine is the current favorite. The homegrown candidate – Covaxin – of Bharat Biotech and ICMR is still in Phase-3 trials. The “end to end dry run” now would follow all the set protocols, except that there would not be any vaccine, Katamaneni Bhaskar, Andhra Pradesh health commissioner tells DH. “The dry run is aimed at testing the planned operations and laid out mechanisms. It will help us identify any gaps/bottlenecks so that the same could be addressed before the actual Covid- l9 vaccine drive,” Bhaskar said. The entire process is supported and monitored by an app named Co-WIN, whose operational feasibility would be tested on the field. The dry run is planned to be held in one district hospital/medical college, one Community/Primary Health Centre, one private hospital, and one centre each to test the urban and rural outreach. Accordingly, in the Krishna district, the dry run would take place at the Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, Uppuluru PHC, Purna Heart institute, Penamaluru PHC, and Prakash Nagar PHC. 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) are identified for the dry run, for each of the five-session sites. These beneficiaries will undergo the site simulation on Monday morning. Tuesday is set for review. Flowchart of vaccine administration at the centre, akin to a polling booth: 25 beneficiaries visit planned in a two-hour slot at each session site i.e. about five minutes for each: Vaccinating Officer-1 checks the beneficiary named on the list VO-2: Verifies beneficiary name using the Co-WIN application VO-2: To conduct vaccination (dummy on Monday) and report it on Co-WIN VO-3 & 4: To manage crowd, inter-process communication, messaging, and ensuring the 30-minute stay back of the person for post-vaccination observation VO-2: To report 2-3 dummy Adverse Events Following Immunization on Co-WIN AEFI treatment centres are also identified. The dry run would be filmed. A review report from the state task force committee will be sent to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-to-be-conducted-in-andhras-krishna-district-on-december-28-932183.html
27-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Parties oppose govt TV using picture of Thiruvalluvar in saffron robe||Kalvi TV, an educational television channel run by the Tamil Nadu government, ran into a controversy on Sunday after it used a picture of saint-poet Thiruvalluvar in a saffron robe during a telecast. Principal opposition, DMK, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), MDMK, and other political parties condemned the move to “saffronise” the poet. The parties said that the incident showed that the AIADMK government was aiding BJP's efforts to “saffronise” Tamil icons who “belong to all religions” as Thiruvalluvar spoke of brotherhood and peace. Kalvi TV used Thiruvalluvar's picture in saffron robe in its programme that popularises one couplet from Thirukkural written by the saint-point every day. It was the Tamil Nadu unit of BJP that first used a picture of Thiruvalluvar in saffron robe in 2019, inviting the wrath of political parties in the state. A year later, a government-owned channel using a similar picture has raised many eyebrows in Tamil Nadu, whose government is accused of “aiding” the BJP's attempts to “saffronise” the state. Former school education minister and DMK MLA Thangam Thennarasu accused the AIADMK government of “mortgaging Tamil culture” after “mortgaging the government.” “Saffronisation of Thiruvalluvar in a television channel owned by the Tamil Nadu government is unacceptable. It is nothing but poisoning the minds of young students,” he said, demanding action against officials responsible for the “gaffe.” AMMK chief and MLA of R K Nagar, a constituency that was represented twice by late J Jayalalithaa, said Thiruvalluvar belonged to humankind and denounced efforts to “saffronise” him. He also wanted the School Education Department to rectify the mistake. MDMK chief Vaiko also condemned the efforts to “saffronise” Thiruvalluvar and asked Kalvi TV to change the controversial picture. The picture used by the Kalvi TV distinctly different from the one that is generally used by Tamil scholars and the Tamil Nadu government – he is usually attired in a white robe. But the picture shared by the Kalvi TV showed him wearing a saffron-colour robe and his forehead smeared with vibudhi, the scared ash worn by Hindus. Thirukkural, penned by Thiruvalluvar, offers a remedy or a piece of advice for every issue that the modern world encounters and Modi has quoted from this very fine piece of Tamil literature more than once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-parties-oppose-govt-tv-using-picture-of-thiruvalluvar-in-saffron-robe-932188.html
27-12-2020||South||After youngest mayor, Kerala set to welcome its youngest panchayat president||After making a 21-year college girl the Thiruvananthapuram city mayor, the CPM is making another 21-year old girl a panchayat president. Reshma Mariam Roy, who was the youngest candidate in the local body election in Kerala, is all set to become president of Aruvappulam panchayat near Konni in Pathanamthitta district. Reshma received attention earlier also as she turned 21, the minimum age for contesting election, just a day ahead of the last date for filing nomination. Reshma, who did BBA, had been active in SFI. The panchayat president post to Reshma could be even seen as a reward of the party to Reshma as she won a seat that was with Congress over the last two terms. The Left Democratic Front is also getting power in the panchayat after about 20 years. Reshma told the media that she would like to be known not at the youngest people's representative, but as the most efficient panchayat president. It is the confidence of the party leadership in the youths that is being reflected as youngsters are being given key responsibilities, she said. Meanwhile, CPM on Sunday formally announced the decision to make 21-year old Arya Rajendran the mayor candidate of Thiruvananthapuram city. Since the CPM is having majority in the council, it is almost certain that Arya would be the youngest mayor in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-youngest-mayor-kerala-set-to-welcome-its-youngest-panchayat-president-932205.html
27-12-2020||South||Four contacts of UK returnees in AP test Covid-19 positive||Four contacts of the UK- returned Covid-19 positive persons contracted the infection in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, the health authorities here said. So far, six of the 1,216 people, who returned from the UK in recent days tested positive for coronavirus in East Godavari, Krishna, Anantapuramu, Guntur and SPS Nellore districts. Three of their contacts in Guntur and one in Nellore contracted the virus, Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said. Of the 1,216 people, 1,187 have been traced so far and 1,162 of them have been sent for the mandatory 14-day quarantine, Bhaskar said in a release. Efforts were on trace the remaining 29 returnees from the UK. "We are awaiting results from the NIV, Pune, and CCMB, Hyderabad, to verify if the positives had the new Covid-19 strain or not," Bhaskar added. He said 3,282 contacts of the UK returnees were also traced and tested. Four of them tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-contacts-of-uk-returnees-in-ap-test-covid-19-positive-932229.html
27-12-2020||South||Muslim cop carries exhausted woman devotee few kilometers on Tirumala footpath||An act of a Muslim policeman carrying an exhausted Hindu devotee of Lord Venkateshwara on his back for a few kilometres has earned the appreciation of the pilgrims and the TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy. The incident took place last week while the lady, about 60 years old, was walking through the arduous Annamayya Margam to the famous shrine at Tirumala. The centuries-old walkway through the Seshachalam forests, folklore says, was the path taken by the fabled devotee and composer of numerous Venkateshwara sankirtanas—Saint Annamacharya. When the cop spotted Nageswaramma in incapacitated condition, Shaik Arshad of YSR Kadapa Special Branch carried her for about six kilometres on his shoulders to the nearest motorable spot. She was reportedly admitted to a hospital later. The constable was part of the security of former MLA Amarnath Reddy who came to Tirumala on padayatra on December 23 in the said route. Reddy spoke to Arshad, appreciating his service, and said that he would recommend him for a suitable reward. "In a humble manner, Arshad attributed the stamina, strength that aided him to carry the devotee as a blessing from Lord Venkateshwara," the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board chief said. In the backdrop of a few devotees falling sick on the footpaths taken by thousands of pilgrims daily to Tirumala, TTD chairman directed officials to arrange emergency facilities like medicines, ambulance, oxygen and also wireless sets for faster correspondence and action. Two days back, Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation MD B Sreedhar was taken ill while on the Alipiri footpath and was moved for medical care. “Enhance the primary medical centre staff strength on Srivari Mettu and Alipiri footpath routes to work in two shifts. Extend the PHC services for devotees coming in the Annamayya Margam,” instructed Reddy. TTD is mulling a plan to support old age homes and Leprosy hospitals in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the chairman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/muslim-cop-carries-exhausted-woman-devotee-few-kilometers-on-tirumala-footpath-932246.html
27-12-2020||South||AIADMK asks cadres to 'drive DMK out' in its first poll rally||Vowing to defeat DMK in the 2021 assembly polls, the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Sunday listed achievements of its government and gave a clarion call to cadres to 'drive out' the arch-rival and slammed its 'false' and slanderous propaganda against it. The AIADMK, highlighting unity, asked its workers to go door-to-door and explain "the failures" of the DMK when it was in power. At a launch of its campaign for the assembly elections expected in April-May, the party also asserted it supported the Central government for the state's welfare and got a slew of projects sanctioned for the state. In his address, praesidium chairman E Madhusudhanan said, 'We will drive out the DMK' and dubbed the main rival for power as an 'evil force.' Chief Minister K Palaniswami said, "let us win elections and drive out our rivals." AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, stressing unity, urged cadres to visit every house and recall the travails and apathy of the DMK regime, its 'failures' like power cuts, "land grabbing," and so on. "Tell the people that the DMK, when it was in power, was inept. It is the AIADMK that could give good governance." Apparently countering the DMK's oft-repeated charge that the AIADMK government was subservient to the BJP heading the NDA government at the centre, Panneerselvam said his party supported the Centre for the welfare of the state. Listing out several projects sanctioned for Tamil Nadu though his party was not part of the union government, he said the Rs 1,400 crore AIIMS hospital at Madurai and nod for as many as 11 government medical colleges in a single year was due to its friendly ties with the Centre. The union government-sanctioned thousands of crore for a slew of other projects, he added. However, though the DMK was part of the Centre in the UPA regime, it did not bring such projects to Tamil Nadu, he charged, and targeted the arch-rival over its role in the lifeline issues of the state like the Cauvery and Mullaiperiyar. It was the AIADMK government which secured the rights of the state in both the inter-state issues and DMK, though it held the reins of power at the state and Centre did nothing, he maintained. The DMK ushered in the 'hydrocarbon' initiative in Tamil Nadu and the AIADMK reversed the situation in favour of farmers by declaring the Cauvery delta zone as protected farm region, he said. Also, he hit out at the DMK over the Katchatheevu issue and the killings of Tamil civilians during the 2009 Srilankan civil war. Palaniswami said victory would emerge with unity and hard work and added, "let us win elections and drive out our rivals." He asked each one of the party workers to consider themselves as candidates and get into fieldwork and slog for capturing power for the third time in a row. The AIADMK honoured every ordinary party worker and a worker, by his or her devoted work could aspire to become an MLA, MP, a Minister or even the Chief Minister, Palaniswami said. "You can become the Chief Minister," and only the AIADMK gave such an opportunity and the party brass today comprised people from humble origins whereas other parties favoured only their family members, he said in a veiled dig at the DMK. Slamming DMK president M K Stalin for claiming that the AIADMK regime did nothing good for the people, Palaniswami said, "this is false propaganda, a slanderous daily campaign and we have to keep a full stop to it." Seeking to refute the opposition party's allegations, he listed out a slew of welfare schemes including the latest '2,000 Amma Clinics' neighbourhood facilities to cater to the healthcare needs of common people. Opening of more and more upgraded Public Health Centres, 7.5 per cent reservation in medical admissions for government school students who clear NEET, setting up dozens of educational institutions including new medical and law colleges has led to an impressive 49 per cent of Gross Enrollment Ratio in higher education, the Chief Minister said. Due to infrastructural up-gradation and related work, water stagnation was seen only in 19 spots during the monsoon, whereas water logging was witnessed at 3,000 places during DMK regime, he said. "When you (Stalin) were Mayor (of Chennai), were you sleeping? You did not do anything," he added. Asking people to not get deceived by Stalin, Palaniswami said the DMK leader visited them only during the run-up to polls to make tall promises and blame the government. During the DMK regime, "Stalin had time only for his family," he alleged, claiming the AIADMK government alone could fulfil the aspirations of the people. Mocking at the DMK for its poll campaigns like the village outreach initiative (Makkal Grama Saba), he said the main opposition party merely received petitions from people and did nothing to act upon them. Through such tactics, it won 38 out of 39 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 Parliamentary elections, and such gimmicks would not fructify in the upcoming Assembly polls, he said. The government handled the coronavirus pandemic, the aftermath of back to back cyclones effectively, and has now announced Rs 2,500 cash support scheme for rice ration card holders for Pongal festival, he said. Also, it garnered about Rs 60,000 crore worth of investment even during the present times of the pandemic, he said. A memorial for 'Amma' Jayalalithaa would soon be reopened, he said and urged people to turn up along with their families for the event. The Chief Minister reiterated that the DMK's petition to Governor Banwarilal Purohit alleging corruption against him and his Cabinet colleagues was a bunch of lies. Apparently referring to Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam and BJP for praising AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran for his welfare measures, Palaniswami said the ruling party was founded by such a leader who was being hailed by even opponents. Organisation secretary D Jayakumar said the DMK's 'Goebbels' campaign of falsehood against the AIADMK government would not succeed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-asks-cadres-to-drive-dmk-out-in-its-first-poll-rally-932251.html
27-12-2020||South||AP govt suspends panchayat commissioner over dumping of garbage in front of banks||The Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday suspended Commissioner of Vuyyuru Nagar Panchayat in Krishna district over the dumping of garbage in front of four bank branches in the town last week allegedly by sanitation workers as a mark of protest over "indifferent attitude" in sanctioning loans. The government also sought an explanation from the commissioners of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation in the district where too similar incidents were reported, official sources said. The state government was said to have acted after the Centre took the issue seriously and registered its protest with the Finance Department, the sources added. The garbage dumping incidents led to strong protests from the banks and left the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government embarrassed as opposition parties alleged that it was a state-sponsored act. On December 24, garbage was found dumped in front of four bank branches in Vuyyuru, in what the Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration G Srkr Vijay Kumar now called a protest against the indifferent attitude of the bankers in sanctioning loans under various schemes. Such incidents also came to light in Vijayawada city and Machilipatnam as well. The bank unions called this atrocious and strongly condemned the government attitude. It is highly deplorable that the municipal officials themselves supervised the dumping of garbage in front of the banks. Such things, targeting the banks, have never happened anywhere else, the All India Bank Employees Association said. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly N Chandrababu Naidu took to Twitter to lash out at the YSR Congress government over the incidents. This depraved and callous state-sponsored act will reflect badly on APs reputation. Where is the state headed with such outrageously uncivil actions, Chandrababu angrily questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-govt-suspends-panchayat-commissioner-over-dumping-of-garbage-in-front-of-banks-932262.html
27-12-2020||South||Telangana farmers to get financial assistance under 'Rythu Bandhu' scheme||Over Rs 7,500 crore would be disbursed to 61.49 lakh farmers in the state Telangana under the TRS government's 'Rythu Bandhu' financial assistance scheme from Monday, Chief Minister K Chandrasekar Rao said. A sum of Rs 7,515 crore would be given to 1.52 crore acres of cultivated lands of 61.49 lakh farmers at the rate of Rs 5,000 per acre for the 2020 summer season, he announced after a review meeting on the scheme. Rao instructed the officials concerned to ensure that every farmer gets the assistance in his bank account directly for each acre, a release from his office said. At the meeting, officials said farmers can sell their crop anywhere under the new farm laws and the state government need not set up purchase centres in villages. They also noted the government incurred losses because it bought the produce by paying minimum support price (MSP) but sold at lower rates in markets due to lack of demand. The review meeting extensively discussed about matters including regulated farming policy, sale and purchase of agriculture produce in the markets, making available required seed and fertilisers in adequate quantity on time, transfer of required technology knowledge to the farmers. Ever since Telangana state was formed, the government had incurredlosses to the tune of Rs 7,500 croredue to purchase of various crops by the state government, officials said at the meeting, the release said. "Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the government had set up purchasing centres in villages itself and purchased the agriculture produce on a humanitarian consideration that farmers should not suffer losses. "It is not possible to do the same thing every time.The government is not a business organisation or trader. It is not a Rice miller or a Dal miller. Sale and purchase is not the responsibility of government. It is not possible to set up purchase centre in the village from next year onwards," the participants at the meeting unanimously stated, the release said. "The new farm laws being implemented in the country allowed the farmers to sell their crop anywhere. Hence, the state government need not set up purchase centre in the villages... But sale and purchase at the agriculture markets should be done properly," it said. Farmers and officials should meet regularly at the Rythu Vedikas, a platform for them, being set up across the state, it said adding they should discuss and decide on which crops should be cultivated based on the market conditions. The official also said the government should forthwith stop issuing guidelines on the crops to be cultivated and the farmers themselves should decide. "There is no need for the Regulatory Farming policy. Farmers should decide by themselves what crops they should cultivate. They should sell their produce wherever it gets a more price. And this policy is good, the meeting opined, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-farmers-to-get-financial-assistance-under-rythu-bandhu-scheme-932272.html
27-12-2020||State||Karnataka Gram Panchayat polls Phase II begins in 4 districts||The second phase of Karnataka Gram Panchayat elections commenced in four districts -- Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar -- at 7 am, on Sunday. The voters were allowed to cast vote only after hand sanitization and thermal screening. Special arrangements have been made for Covid-19 infected patients at the polling booths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-phase-ii-begins-in-4-districts-932047.html
27-12-2020||State||Karnataka: Five die on spot in Chitradurga accident||A total of five workers who arrived to cast vote for the first phase of gram panchayat polls held on December 22 died in an accident between a cruiser in which they were travelling and a government bus near BG Kere village of Challakere taluk in Chitradurga district on Saturday night. Seven others have sustained injuries in the incident. The workers were going back to Bengaluru from H Siddapur of Devadurga in Raichur district. The deceased have been identified as Thimmanna(40) and Ratnamma(35) of H Siddapur, Mahesh (19), of Somanamaradi village, Duragappa of Ganajali village. The identity of another deceased is yet to be ascertained. The injured have been admitted to the government hospital in Chitradurga. The workers had arrived at their native places in Devadurga taluk to cast their votes in the gram panchayat polls held on December 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-five-die-on-spot-in-chitradurga-accident-932050.html
27-12-2020||State||Polling in 114 Dakshina Kannada Gram Panchayats commences||The second phase of Gram Panchayat elections in 114 Gram Panchayats in Belthangady, Puttur, Sullia and Kadaba taluks in Dakshina Kannada commenced on Sunday morning. There are 3,421 candidates contesting for 1,541 seats in these Gram Panchayats. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor exercised his franchise at Hirebandadi Gram Panchayat limits. While Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja cast his vote in a polling booth in Belthangady. ANF personnel have been deployed for security purpose in Maoist infested areas of Naravi, Kuthloor in Belthangady taluk. Asha workers and health workers were seen checking the body temperature of the voters before allowing them inside the booth for casting their vote. There are 292 polling booths in 46 Gram Panchayats in Belthangady, 151 booths in 22 GPs in Puttur 132 booths in 25 GPs in Sullia and 135 booths with 21 GPs in Kadaba.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/polling-in-114-dakshina-kannada-gram-panchayats-commences-932054.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fewer schools flouting compulsory Kannada rule||The implementation of compulsory Kannada at schools in Karnataka has been progressing well as the number of schools violating the Compulsory Kannada Language Learning Act 2015 has come down by half in two years. According to data available from the state department of public instruction during the 2019-20 academic year, a mere 20 schools have failed to fall in line and have received notices for not implementing the act. The number was 43 during 2017-18. The state has over 21,585 private unaided schools, including CBSE and ICSE boards. According to department officials, all the 20 schools are affiliated to CBSE and ICSE boards. "Surprise visits by the department and Kannada Development Authority are among the main reasons for the effective implementation of the Compulsory Kannada Learning Language Act," said a senior official from the department. According to the Compulsory Kannada Learning Act 2015, it is mandatory for schools in the state to teach Kannada as the first or second language. This was implemented from 2017. The schools initially refused to implement it citing certain reasons and some schools still teach one more language unofficially as the second language along with Kannada, citing "pressure from the parents". Meanwhile, the demand from experts and pro-Kannada activists to introduce stringent penal measures is pending with the department. Under the existing norms, schools are levied Rs 500 penalty the first time and Rs 100 a day. " "We had requested the department to revise the penalty early on and it is still under consideration," said T S Nagabharana, chairman, KDA. However, KDA authorities opine that the number of schools violating the norms may be higher since there was inadequate monitoring due to the lockdown. "The lockdown has slowed down the process and the monitoring was not that effective this year," said Nagabharana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fewer-schools-flouting-compulsory-kannada-rule-931987.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Yuva Brigade, young couple win PM's praise in 'Mann Ki Baat'||A newly-wed couple’s efforts to clean the Someshwar beach in Udupi district by postponing their honeymoon has won the praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The efforts of Anudeep and Minusha, who prioritised cleaning the littered beach over their honeymoon, figured in the prime minister’s monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address. The couple decided to roll up their sleeves and clean the beach soon after their wedding. Anudeep Hegde, a marketing and advertising freelancer, married Minusha, an employee of a pharmaceutical company, on November 18 and with travel restrictions in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their honeymoon plans had to be put away. Disturbed by the condition of the beach, the couple decided to embark on a mission to clean it completely.  “They both had seen that whenever people go out of their homes on trips, they leave behind a huge pile of garbage. The situation was the same in Someshwar beach,” the prime minister said. He said Anudeep and Minusha cleared a lot of garbage from the beach and shared their resolve on social media. "Anudeep and Minusha decided to clean the garbage accumulated on Someshwara beach. Anudeep also shared this commitment on social media, and, inspired by his noble thought, many other youths joined them. You will be surprised to know that these people collectively cleared over 800 kgs of garbage from Someshwara beach," PM Modi said. “Inspired by their noble thought, many other youths joined them. You will be surprised to know that these people collectively cleared over 800 kg of garbage from Someshwar beach,” Modi said. “Today day we can never forget. What started as a small commitment after our wedding gets mentioned by my Inspiration which made us do this. This is totally unbelievable. No words to express my happiness. Together we can make a difference @narendramodi @PMOIndia @swachhbharat,” Anudeep tweeted later.  The efforts of a group of youth under the banner ‘Yuva Brigade’ to transform the dilapidated 300-year-old Veerabhadreshwara temple in Srirangapatna in Mandya district also earned accolades from Modi. Fifteen youths from different professions took out time on weekends, cleaned the temple premises, and restored its old grandeur. Pujas have also resumed there now.   The Yuva Brigade swung into action after seeing videos of the temple shrouded in weeds, creepers, and hidden behind shrubs and thorny bushes on social media, Modi said in his speech. Seeing this, local people extended a helping hand by offering cement, paint, and other materials to restore the temple, he said.  The members managed to get an electricity connection to the temple and also got a door fixed to its entrance. Following the restoration, the team members sent a letter and photographs of the temple to the Office of the PM. Yuva Brigade member Ranjith said, “We are proud as the PM acknowledged our efforts.” He thanked team members Sandesh, Kiran, Manoj, Deekshith, Suraj, Sharat, Lokesh and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-yuva-brigade-young-couple-win-pms-praise-in-mann-ki-baat-932203.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wistron's iPhone factory in Kolar will be operational in 20 days||Karnataka Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar on Sunday expressed confidence that Taiwanese contract manufacturer, Wistron Corporation's iPhone manufacturing facility in Kolar would become fully operational and ready for production in the next 20 days. Speaking to reporters after meeting the officials of Wistron Corp, Hebbar said, "I have spoken to the company officials and they have indicated that in the next 20 days the factory would be operational." Workers at Wistron's manufacturing plant at Narsapura in Kolar district, had gone on a rampage on December 12 over the alleged delay in payment of salary and overtime wages. Wistron had initially estimated the damage at Rs 437.7 crore but later backtracked and said the extent of the damage was about Rs 50 crore. Further, it had informed the Taiwan Stock Exchange in its regulatory filing that the vandalism did not cause a significant impact. The Minister said he could not get the full details about the incident as the senior officials of the factory were not available. He said, "We will hold a meeting in Vikas Soudha next week and ascertain the exact cause of the vandalism." Hebbar reiterated that the industrial policy in the state has been simplified to attract more investment and create more jobs for the locals. Noting that the government was industrial as well as employee friendly, Hebbar said it will make sure that the worker get their due wages on time. He underlined that his department was committed to building a good rapport between management and workers. Blaming the district administration for not reporting the labour department or the public representatives about the incident, the minister said, "The incident would have been averted, had it been brought to our notice." He further said that the management has agreed to retain those who were not involved in the vandalism while those who engaged in violence will be removed. On the ongoing strike at the Toyota Kirloskar manufacturing facility at Bidadi on the city outskirts, the Minister said the factory was shut for 26 days and now the first shift of the unit has begun while the second shift would start in the next 10 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wistrons-iphone-factory-in-kolar-will-be-operational-in-20-days-932274.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram Panchayat polls: 2nd phase uneventful, voter turnout put at 80.71%||The second phase of the polls to Gram Panchayats in the state recorded an overwhelming turnout of 80.71% on Sunday. A total of 2,709 GPs went to polls in the state. According to a press release by the Karnataka State Election Commission, Bengaluru Rural saw the highest voter turnout at 91.86% and Bengaluru Urban saw the least turnout at 67.48%  The first phase of polls was held on December 22, in which elections were conducted for 3,019 panchayats. According to official data, more than one lakh contestants are in the fray for 39,378 seats in the panchayat polls in the second phase. “It was a successful election. I personally visited several polling stations in Devanahalli, Chikkaballapur and Gauribidanur, whereby at 3 pm there was already a turnout of about 75%” State Election Commissioner Basavaraj said. \The counting for these polls will be taken up on December 30. Since the polling is through ballot paper, the counting will take more time compared to the other polls, according to officials in the election commission.  The voting for the second phase of Gram Panchayat elections was by and large peaceful on Sunday.  A candidate contesting the polls in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada district was detained by the police on the charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The police had registered a case on a complaint made by the parents of the girl. An 80-year-old retired teacher who had come to cast his vote died of a heart attack at Theerthapura in Chikkanayakanahalli taluk of Tumakuru district. The deceased Puttamarularadhya was unwell and had come to the polling booth with the help of his family members. Similarly, a 92-year-old woman breathed her last after casting vote at Beerenahalli of Hiriyur taluk in Chitradurga district. The deceased was identified as Sarojamma of Shivapura village. A pregnant woman who contested for the polls delivered a baby girl on the eve of polling day in Wadi of Kalaburagi district. Manjula Guduba is the candidate forward No-4 at Ingalagi village in Chittapur taluk. Interestingly, the new mother and her mother-in-law are in the fray.  Except for minor issues, the second phase of gram panchayat elections were largely peaceful in the Mysuru region. The polls were held for a total of 102 GPs of three taluks - Mysuru, Nanjangud and T Narasipur. The villagers of Padasalanatta village coming under Male Mahadeshwara Hill boycott the polls demanding immediate payment of compensation to the family of a man who lost his life in a bid to escape himself from a wild elephant attack. The efforts of the election officials and authorities from the Forest department to convince the villagers went in vain. As many as 270 voters did not exercise their franchise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayat-polls-2nd-phase-uneventful-voter-turnout-put-at-8071-932278.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram Panchayat elections turns homecoming for these villagers||It was a sort of homecoming for migrant workers from Badami, Guledagudda, Hungund, and Ilkal taluk, courtesy gram panchayat election. The candidates who contested the election brought these workers from their respective places of work to ensure votes. A majority of the people from rural parts of the above taluks have migrated to the Goa, Mangaluru, Bengaluru and Ratnagiri district in Maharashtra in search of livelihood. Two deluxe buses had brought these workers to Thimmasagara from Bengaluru and Manglauru. Several buses that brought these ‘voters’ were seen parked on the outskirts of the village. A resident of Thimmasagara said that his village was almost empty and had become home to only children and elders. He said that more than 250 people of the village were ferried from Bengaluru (one bus) and Mangaluru (three buses) for voting in the elections to gram panchayat. “I have been working as a housemaid at Kodikal in Mangaluru for the past 15 years. I stay alone there and my family is in the village. But I come to the village for every election to cast vote,” said Dyamavva Devaramani of Thimmasagara. Kanakappa, who had brought the voters, said that his bus left Kottara Chowki in Mangaluru last night and that a total of 67 people travelled in his vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayat-elections-turns-homecoming-for-these-villagers-932279.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KDA to campaign for banking service in Kannada||The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) is all set to launch a campaign in front of leading banks across the state demanding implementation of Kannada in banking services and activities. As part of 'Kannada Kayaka Varsha' announced by the state government, the KDA has decided to launch the campaign on December 29 in front of leading banks. As explained by KDA chairman T S Nagabharana, the members of Kannada Kayaka Pade and Kannada Jagruti Samiti will hold placards stressing the bank authorities for implementation of Kannada in day-to-day business. "The campaign will be conducted from December 29 to January 2. We have around 900 registered members in Kannada Kayaka Pade who will be part of this campaign," said Nagabharana. After completing the campaign, the KDA will send a report to the central government, demanding the implementation of Kannada in the banking sector. The campaign includes demand for Kannada in banking exams and also communication in Kannada during regular activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kda-to-campaign-for-banking-service-in-kannada-932281.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Biodiversity Board seeks steps to protect Gudavi bird sanctuary||Karnataka’s largest bird sanctuary at Gudavi in Shivamogga district is facing a threat due to deterioration of wetland, absence of supervision, and overuse of pesticides in the surrounding areas even as the lack of basic infrastructure has kept officials away. The Karnataka Biodiversity Board has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, stating that the fence, mesh, and other protective barriers erected around the 182.06-acre sanctuary have fallen to disrepair, requiring urgent a plan for a complete restoration. The sanctuary hosts 15,000 birds during the monsoon-winter period, some of which fly in from other countries. Birds belonging to 217 subspecies have been recognised in the sanctuary. However, the rich biodiversity is being eroded, the memorandum said. It said that the sanctuary, initially notified in 1989, also requires its wetland. The increase in the use of pesticides is threatening the sanctuary, it said and expressed concern over the monkey menace disturbing birds.  Chairman of the Board Anant Hegde Ashisar said that one of the first steps needed to improve the sanctuary was to ensure necessary payments and facilities to the lower-rung staff working there.  He also sought basic infrastructure to encourage tourism activities. “Information centre, canteen, toilet, and other necessary infrastructure should be built while guarding against unnecessary concretisation. Activities like boating, which affect the movement of the birds, should not be allowed,” he stated. The memorandum said a study needs to be undertaken to assess the quality of water flowing into the sanctuary as well as the silt formed in its lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biodiversity-board-seeks-steps-to-protect-gudavi-bird-sanctuary-932282.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 numbers fell by 25% since start of December||The number of new Covid-19 cases identified in the state fell by 25.4% in the last 30-day period. However, statewide testing numbers also showed a small decline during the same period. According to official data, testing numbers fell by 5.09%, when compared with figures at the start of December. In the last seven days, the state recorded 6,787 cases, out of which 54.9% or 3,731 cases were in Bengaluru Urban. At the start of December (between November 30 and December 6), the state had recorded 9,107 cases out of which 51.9% or 4,728 cases were found in Bengaluru Urban.  The percentage rate drop which has been accelerating with each passing week comes amid a time of uncertainty over a new strain of Coronavirus found in the United Kingdom.  On Sunday, the Department of Health and Family Welfare said three more individuals who recently returned to India from affected countries had tested positive for Covid-19, although it is not yet known whether they have the new variant of the virus. These three cases increased to 26 the number of international fliers who tested positive for the disease. On Sunday, the government said 911 new cases had been found, out of which the largest number (542) was in Bengaluru Urban. The next highest number of 40 cases was in the Mysuru district, followed by 34 in Hassan, 32 in Chikkaballapur, and 20 in Tumakuru. Eleven new deaths were also disclosed, out of which 8 happened in Bengaluru. None of the deaths happened on Sunday and three were discovered as a result of the reconciliation of data from Bengaluru Urban, Kolar, and Mysuru districts. Most of the deceased were senior citizens. A 29-year-old man from Mysuru died on December 23, two days after being diagnosed with the disease. He has symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI). The oldest of the newly disclosed fatalities was an 80-year-old woman with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Disease (SARI), who died four days after being diagnosed with the disease on December 25. She also had hypertension and ischemic heart disease. The BBMP said it conducted 42,464 tests over the last 24 hours. Bengaluru has a total positivity rate of 6.88%. As much as 23.65% of the 3,731 Bengaluru residents newly diagnosed with the disease were hospitalised. At the same time, 61.3% opted to go into home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-numbers-fell-by-25-since-start-of-december-932285.html
27-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wistron riots: Karnataka govt to hold talks this week||The government will hold a meeting with the representatives of Wistron in connection with the last week's riots at the iPhone plant at Naraspura in Kolar. Speaking to reporters after visiting the factory premises on Sunday, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said that it was not correct to blame workers or the company for the riot. The management of Wistron has admitted something went wrong. But it is not possible to initiate action against the company immediately. Steps have been taken to ensure production resumes in the factory, Hebbar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wistron-riots-karnataka-govt-to-hold-talks-this-week-932294.html
27-12-2020||West||NDMA to train one lakh volunteers in disaster management by March-end||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is planning to train one lakh volunteers in 350 districts prone to natural disasters by this March by extending the Aapda Mitra scheme, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has informed a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home. This is aimed at having a pool of volunteers who can respond to their community's immediate needs in the aftermath of a disaster thereby enabling them to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergencies like floods, flash-floods and urban flooding among other disasters. The NDMA had initiated the pilot project of 'Aapda Mitra' (friends in times of disaster) in 30 project districts in 25 states by training 200 volunteers. Volunteers were selected from the community, including students residing in flood-prone districts. Preference is given to ex-servicemen, Civil Defence and Home Guards among others. So far, 5116 volunteers have been trained. Assam, Bihar, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tripura, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh are also using their services in Covid-19 response. "It is also informed that based on the recommendations of states/UTs to upscale it in multi-hazard districts and to train more volunteers, the NDMA is planning to upscale it in 350 districts prone to landslide, earthquake, cyclone and floods to train one lakh volunteers in India in the current financial year," the panel's Action Taken Report said quoting the MHA. Besides, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is also conducting Community Awareness Programmes (CAP), School Safety Programmes (SSP), mock exercises as part of capacity building programmes and community is being sensitised about disaster management during the non-operation season. Training in disaster management to the National Cadet Corps (NCC) and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) volunteers is also being conducted, the MHA said. The panel recommended that the 'Aapda Mitra' pilot scheme may be implemented pan India and cover all the districts of the country if the result of the pilot scheme is found successful. It also reiterated its recommendation that a Disaster Management Training Corps (DMTC) on the lines of NCC can be initiated in schools and colleges not only to play the role of a strong civilian corps to support the disaster management teams but also to disseminate the practices in disaster management at the community level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndma-to-train-one-lakh-volunteers-in-disaster-management-by-march-end-931963.html
27-12-2020||West||Trend of Aurangabad's elderly being abandoned by kin in hospitals sees worrisome resurgence||The authorities of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad said they have been observing an increasing trend of elderly persons being abandoned at the facility by their kin after they are brought for treatment. The GMCH-Aurangabad is one of the biggest health facilities in the Marathwada region of Maharashtra. People from across the eight districts in the region come to the hospital for treatment, one of its senior officials said. He said the number of elderly persons being left at the hospital by their family members is growing. "The number of such abandoned old people had gone up in the initial phase of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. But we carried out a campaign with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and sent many of them to local shelter homes. However, as per our experience, many of them escape from the shelter homes," GMCH superintendent Dr Suresh Harbade said. Many of the abandoned people then start living on the hospital campus, footpaths or areas around the facility. They prefer to stay at such places as they easily get food and other basic things from the passers-by, which is why they don't want to stay at shelter homes and such facilities, he said. "After the initial drive, the number of abandoned persons decreased. However, such cases have started going up of late. Therefore, we are planning to undertake a similar exercise once again by roping in NGOs," he added. The authorities, however, do not have the exact number of such people. Dr Harbade said that patients are admitted to the hospital even if they are not accompanied by their family members. "Our staff and social workers take care of such people. But if we try to contact their family members, the latter do not give a positive response. It has been observed in many cases," he said. During the previous drive, the hospital authorities had contacted the local governing bodies from where these old people come, he said, adding, "We sent some of them back to their native places under this initiative." An elderly man named Nivrutti, who stays on the footpath in front of the casualty ward of the GMCH, said, "I come from a village near Badnapur tehsil in neighboring Jalna district. Some days back, a rat bit me and my son brought me here for treatment. But he left me alone at the hospital and returned home...I can barely walk." "After that, I started living on this footpath. At night, I see many people like me here," he said. "I had worked as a labourer throughout my life, but my family does not want to keep me with them. My son is busy with his own family now...But I am sure that even if I die here, someone or the other will perform my last rites...I am fine the way I am now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trend-of-aurangabads-elderly-being-abandoned-by-kin-in-hospitals-sees-worrisome-resurgence-932041.html
27-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Fishermen to block JNPT ships on January 21||Taking the sea route, the JNPT-project affected people of erstwhile Sheva village in Uran have decided to launch a ‘channel bandh’ agitation pressing for their rights on 21 January 2021 blocking ship traffic. "The villagers, who have been confined to the transit camp at Hanuman Koliwada about 40 years ago ever since their lands have been acquired for the country’s largest container port, have not received any compensation," said Suresh Damodar Koli, head of the Village Reforms Committee. Environmental groups such as NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan which have been campaigning against the destruction of wetlands and mangroves by the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust have come out in support of the agitating fishing community. Koli has recently written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray highlighting the plight of the people who lost their source of survival in the land acquisition and the CMO cell at Konkan Bhavan asked JNPT Chairman to address the issue. In all 256 families have been displaced from Sheva and now they have grown to about 600 families, Koli said and pointed out that none of the rehabilitation measures as per even the government norms have been implemented. As per the norms, JNPT is supposed to train the project-hit and give them jobs, however, according to them, it was not done. “Fed up with this attitude, we are left with no alternative but to launch an agitation,” Koli said. Hanuman Koliwada has over 125 fishing boats which will be pressed into action on January 21 to block the entry and exit of ships at JNPT, he said. NatConnect Foundation Director BN Kumar said the lives and livelihoods of the people must be protected.  Any development that destroys these must be stopped,” he said. In fact, NatConnect has recently asked the government to implement the Blue Economy and Mangrove-based aquaculture activities to help the people who lost their source of income with the land acquisition. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan, said, "How can you have a development that destroys the local economy? JNPT has also violated the provisions of the environment clearance which clearly stipulate that the fishing activity should not be disturbed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fishermen-to-block-jnpt-ships-on-january-21-932055.html
27-12-2020||West||More Covid-19 centres to be closed in Mumbai amid improving situation||With a significant improvement in various parameters in India’s financial capital of Mumbai vis-à-vis spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government and civic administration may take a call on closing or scaling down jumbo treatment centres. The Covid-19 situation in Mumbai would be reviewed in the first week of January by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Covid-19 progressive total in Mumbai stands at 2,90,336 while as many as 11,068 persons have lost their lives during the last nine months of the global pandemic. The total active patients now are 8,279 – and it is at below-10,000-mark for some weeks. According to BMC, the doubling rate is 363 days. The overall growth from 19 December to 25 December has been 0.21 per cent. The recovery rate is 93 per cent. The total number of beds for serious and moderate patients and complicated cases in DCH and DCHC and jumbo facilities is 13,898, while in CCC-2 the total capacity is 23,806 beds. Besides, there are 1,889 ICU beds and 1,137 ventilator beds. There are 8,316 beds which have oxygen facilities. “There has been considerable improvement in Mumbai,” BMC officials said. The big/jumbo facilities are located in the Dome of National Sports Club of India in Worli, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Richardson & Cruddas complex in Byculla, Bandra-Kurla Complex, NESCO Complex in Goregaon and the suburbs in Dahisar and Mulund. Besides, the civic-owned Seven Hills Hospital at Marol has 1,495 beds. “A majority of the active patients are asymptomatic and are getting treatment under home quarantine,” officials said, adding that beds are empty as the situation has improved. “If any new cases of the new Covid-19 strain are detected, the patients would be treated at the Seven Hills Hospital,” they said. During the review meeting, the BMC would take a call in reducing bed strength in these facilities and scaling down the operations at jumbo field hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-covid-19-centres-to-be-closed-in-mumbai-amid-improving-situation-932070.html
27-12-2020||West||Two dead, one critical in fire at Sai Baba temple in Kandivali||Two persons died while one is battling for life after a major fire broke out at the Sai Baba temple at Kandivali in Mumbai in the wee hours of Sunday. According to the Mumbai Fire Brigade and Mumbai Police, the fire broke out because of a suspected short-circuit at the temple located off the Bandar Pakhadi Road at Charkop in Kandivali West. The three injured persons were rushed to the Shatabdi Hospital, where Subhash Khode (25) and Yuvraj Pawar (25) were declared dead. Mannu Radheshyam Gupta (26), who sustained 90 to 95 per cent burns was shifted to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, where his condition was described as critical. According to initial investigations, they used to lock the main door and sleep inside the temple complex. When the fire broke out they were all asleep.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-dead-one-critical-in-fire-at-sai-baba-temple-in-kandivali-932108.html
27-12-2020||West||CBI should tell if Sushant Singh Rajput's death was murder or suicide: Anil Deshmukh||Nearly six months of the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Maharashtra government on Sunday asked the Central Bureau of Invesitgation (CBI) to share details of the investigation and whether he had died by suicide or was murdered. “The people of Maharashtra and the country are eagerly waiting for the CBI's report on its investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death. People are asking about the status of the case...I would request the CBI to reveal whether it was a suicide or murder," state’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. It has been nearly five months since the case has been handed over to the CBI. “It is time that the CBI come out with details and share the findings of its investigations,” Deshmukh said. Sushant (34) was found hanging in his duplex flat at Mont Blanc building off the Carter Road at Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The Dr R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital in Vile Parle where the autopsy was conducted had found "asphyxia due to hanging" as the cause of death. The Bandra police station in Mumbai registered an accidental death report (ADR) and recorded 56 statements during the investigation under Section 174 CrPC. However, on August 19, the investigations were handed over to the CBI following an order of Supreme Court based on the plea of the Bihar government which has registered an FIR in Patna against Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and others for abetment to suicide and swindling off the actor’s money. Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh has lodged the FIR and later also asked the murder charge to be probed. In fact, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi came under fierce attack from the BJP over the way it handled the case. In October, reports from New Delhi suggested that Sushant had died by suicide based on the findings of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ Forensic Medical Board. Multiple agencies were involved in the probe – while the CBI is investigating the death, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing a money-laundering angle and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing a drugs-related angle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-should-tell-if-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-was-murder-or-suicide-anil-deshmukh-932112.html
27-12-2020||West||Gujarat: Over 750 volunteers get Covaxin first dose in phase-3 trials||Over 750 volunteers have been administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' as part of its phase-3 trials at a city hospital, and none of them have experienced any side effects so far, a senior doctor said on Sunday. Bharat Biotech is developing Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV). The phase-III trials of the vaccine are being conducted at Sola Civil Hospital. "Over 750 volunteers, including around 50 health workers like doctors, nursing staff, para-medics, have been administered the first dose of Covaxinsince its phase-3 trial began on November 25. None of the volunteers have experienced any kind of side effects so far," Dr Kiran Rami, head of the hospital's TB and chest department, told PTI. "A total of 1,000 volunteers will be administered the vaccine by the end of this month. We have also begun giving the second booster dose to the volunteers who have completed 28 days of the first dose. We have covered 15 volunteers so far," he said. For the second booster dose, those who completed 28 days, are being called by the hospital. The volunteers were also given a diary with the details of their schedule, Dr Rami said. The first dose of the vaccine is given after the mandatory RT-PCR test. However, for the second booster dose, no such test is required when the vaccine is administered. But the volunteers will have to undergo RT-PCR test every month for ten months, he said. Sola civil hospital at Ahmedabad in Gujarat has been chosen for the phase-3 human trials of Covaxin on 1,000 volunteers. Bharat Biotech had earlier received approval for the phase-3 clinical trials on 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-over-750-volunteers-get-covaxin-first-dose-in-phase-3-trials-932127.html
27-12-2020||West||Alliance with Shiv Sena limited to Maharashtra: Congress minister||Senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday said that the Shiv Sena was not part of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and the tie-up between the two parties is limited to Maharashtra, a day after Sena MP Sanjay Raut called for expansion of the Congress-led bloc. Speaking to reporters here, the state PWD Minister also said that it was not proper on part of the Sena to comment on the leadership of the UPA. The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, of which the NCP and the Congress are constituents. "Shiv Sena is yet to become a part of the UPA. Our alliance with the Sena in Maharashtra is based on a Common Minimum Programme (CMP) and limited to Maharashtra," he said. A day after Sanjay Raut said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar also enjoys support across parties like UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, Chavan said it was not proper for the Uddhav Thackeray-led party to comment on the UPA leadership. "Sharad Pawar himself has denied the speculation that he will be the next chairperson of the UPA. UPA allies trust the leadership of Sonia Gandhi. So there is no need to discuss the issue," Chavan said. On Saturday, Raut told reporters that the UPA needs to expand to take on the "dictatorial" Union government. "All opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the Central government. A weak opposition is bad for democracy," the Rajya Sabha MP had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/alliance-with-shiv-sena-limited-to-maharashtra-congress-minister-932143.html
27-12-2020||West||Gujarat ATS arrests 1996 terror case accused from Jharkhand||The Gujarat ATS has arrested a 1996 terror case accused from Jharkhand who had been wanted along with Underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and gangster Abu Salem in connection with the seizure of a consignment of arms and explosives in Mehsana, a release said on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off that Abdul Majid Kutti, an aide of Dawood Ibrahim who has been wanted in the 1996 case was residing in Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, a team of the Anti- Terrorism Squad (ATS) rushed there and arrested him, a release said. The accused had changed his name to Mohammad Kamal, it said. Kutti alias Kamal has "accepted" during interrogation that he was wanted in the 1996 case, the ATS said. In December 1996, the Gujarat Police had arrested three persons and seized four kgs RDX, ten detonators, 130 pistols, 113 magazines and 750 cartridges in Mehsana. According to the ATS, the consignment of explosives was being smuggled into India from Pakistan through Rajasthan's Barmer border. The police had registered an FIR on December 23, 1996 under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and the Explosives Act against the arrested trio- Mohammad Fazal Mohammad Usman from Ajmer, Anwar Kureshi from Mumbai, and Shakeel Ibrahim Kureshi from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Later, a court in Mehsana issued an arrest warrant against Kutti, Dawhhod Ibrahim, Abu Salem, and others after their role in the case came to fore, the ATS said. The ATS further said the seized explosives and arms were supposed to be used to carry out terror activities in Gujarat and Maharashtra on Republic Day. "The ATS had launched a probe against Abdul Majid Kutti. ATS DSP KK Patel received a tip-off that Kutti, a wanted terrorist, has changed his name to Mohammad Kamal, and was living in Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. A team of ATS rushed to Jharkhand, arrested him and brought him here. When interrogated, he accepted being wanted in the 1996 case," the release said. Kutti was born in Mumbai in 1962. He had lived Dubai between 1978 and 1984 before returning to Mumbai where he became involved in gold smuggling and customs theft after getting in touch with Dawood Ibrahim, Chhota Shakeel, Abu Salem, Tiger Memon, and other members of the underworld, it said. Kutti used to frequent Dubai where he met Abu Salem in 1996, who asked him to take the delivery of explosives and arms from Ajmer for terror activities on Republic Day in Gujarat and Maharashtra, the ATS said, adding that Kutti had sent Fazal (Mohammad Fazal Mohammad Usman) to receive the delivery of explosives in Mehsana. After Fazal and two others were arrested and explosives and arms seized, Kutti fled to Bangkok on the direction of Salem, and stayed there till 1999. A court later sentenced Fazal and two others to life imprisonment. Meanwhile, Kutti got in touch with one Mamumiyan from Porbandar in Gujarat and began gold smuggling, the release said. Kutti also came to know about one Mohammad Inam Ali from Jamshedpur, who helped him get a fake passport from Patna in the name of Mohammad Kamal. Using this passport, Kutti travelled from Dubai to Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia, where he worked in the textile industry, the ATS said. He returned to India in May 2019 and started living in Jamshedpur under the fake identity, the release added. Salem, a convict in the 1993 Mumbai blasts' case, is currently undergoing a life sentence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ats-arrests-1996-terror-case-accused-from-jharkhand-932162.html
27-12-2020||West||UK Covid-19 strain: Mumbai civic body issues revised SOP||In view of the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the UK, the Mumbai civic body on Sunday issued revised guidelines to ensure the compulsory quarantine for 14 days for all passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, and the Middle East. As per the amended Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), travellers will be kept under institutional quarantine after arrival and RT-PCR test will be conducted on the seventh day from the arrival at the respective hotels, institutional facilities at their own coast. "If the report of the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after seven days with the advice of seven days mandatory home quarantine. A total of 14 days quarantine is to be ensured," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. As per the guidelines, home quarantine stamp will be put and undertaking will be taken from the travellers that they will abide to be in home quarantine. If the test result is found positive, passenger will be shifted to designated Covid-19 hospital like Seven Hills for UK and GT hospital for travellers from other countries for further evaluation and treatment, the release said. However, institutional quarantine is exempted for officials working in foreign embassies and in offices of counsel general. The guidelines under the "Vande Bharat Mission" for officials working in embassy will have to be followed for the application for exemption, it said. "These guidelines are applicable to all passengers arriving at Mumbai International Airport from the UK, South Africa, Middle East and European countries till further orders," the release added. In the guidelines issued on December 24, the BMC had said that people who have arrived in Mumbai from the UK in the last one month will be traced. All the passengers arriving from UK, directly or through indirect flights should be subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost, in the nearby hotels for seven days, the civic body had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uk-covid-19-strain-mumbai-civic-body-issues-revised-sop-932187.html
27-12-2020||West||For Ramdas Athawale, 'Go Corona Go' is past; it is 'No Corona' now||Union minister Ramdas Athawale, whose 'go corona, go' chant became a national sensation, on Sunday came out with a new slogan, 'No Corona', saying it was in response to the new strain of the novel coronavirus. "I gave the 'Go Corona Go' slogan and the virus is now going. But it also came near me, leading to my hospitalisation (after testing Covid-19 positive). I thought coronavirus would not reach me but it can reach anywhere," Athawale said. "For the new coronavirus strain, I would say 'No Corona, No Corona' as we don't want either the old coronavirus or the new strain to infect us," he told reporters in Pune. Athawale was discharged from a private hospital in Mumbai last month, 10 days after testing coronavirus positive. In February, a video of Athawale, along with a Chinese diplomat and Buddhist monks chanting "Go corona, go corona" at a prayer meeting went viral on social media. The video was reportedly shot at the Gateway of India here on February 20 during a prayer session to stop the spread of coronavirus in China. Athawale (60) is a member of the Rajya Sabha and minister of state for social justice in the Narendra Modi-led government. "I will be meeting BJP president J P Nadda to discuss a possible alliance for West Bengal Assembly elections," he said. "We expect (BJP to set aside for us) around 10 seats," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/for-ramdas-athawale-go-corona-go-is-past-it-is-no-corona-now-932213.html
27-12-2020||West||PMC Bank money laundering case: ED summons Sanjay Raut's wife for questioning on Dec 29||In a significant development, the Enforcement Directorate has summoned Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha in the PMC Bank fraud case. However, there has not been any official confirmation from the ED. Raut could not be contacted. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya in a Tweet, said, “I heard about ED notice to Sanjay Raut family. Will Mr Raut tell us, is his family a beneficiary? Whether earlier any inquiry, notices received? Around 10 lakh depositors are sufferers. Political protection is not a healthy idea. All want a revival of the PMC Bank.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmc-bank-money-laundering-case-ed-summons-sanjay-rauts-wife-for-questioning-on-dec-29-932222.html
27-12-2020||West||12 returnees from UK test Covid-19 positive in Gujarat||A total of 12 out of the 1,720 passengers who reached Gujarat from the UK and other European countries between November 25 and December 23 have tested positive for coronavirus, the state government said on Sunday. Samples of these patients --11 of who tested positive between December 9 and 23 -- have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and the Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Biological Research Centre to determine whether they were carrying the mutated Covid-19 strain found in England, an official release said. Results are expected in the next 8 to 10 days, it added. Passengers reaching Gujarat from the UK between December 21 and 23 were subjected to RT-PCR test at various airports. "Accordingly, the state health department started the process of testing passengers arriving from the UK and other European countries. Out of the 572 passengers who reached here between November 25 and December 8, one tested coronavirus positive. "Additionally, out of the 1,148 passengers who returned from these countries between December 9 and December 23, 11 tested positive in RT-PCR testing. While four of them are from Ahmedabad, two each are from Vadodara, Anand, and Bharuch. One passenger was from Valsad," it said. These patients have been shifted to various hospitals for treatment, the release said. Their samples have also been sent to the National Institute of Virology and the Gujarat Biological Research Centre for a "thorough investigation into whether they have any symptoms of the new coronavirus strain detected recently". Meanwhile, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's daughter, son-in-law and grandson who arrived here from London during this period underwent RT-PCR test, the release said, adding that they tested negative for coronavirus. India banned flights to and from the UK from December 23 in view of the emergence of a new variant of Covid-19 in that country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-returnees-from-uk-test-covid-19-positive-in-gujarat-932249.html
