28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Second phase of GP polling peaceful in Dakshina Kannada||The second phase of Gram Panchayat election was held peacefully in Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday. The polling was held for 114 GPs in Belthangady, Puttur, Sullia and Kadaba taluks in the district. The district recorded an average of 78.69% polling with 78.43% in Belthangady, 78.45% in Puttur, 80.54% in Sullia and 77.61% in Kadaba taluks. DK district had registered an average of 14.83% polling by 9 pm. It was 15.29% in Belthangady, 15.61% in Puttur, 13.81% in Sullia and 14.03% in Kadaba taluks. By 11 am, the polling percentage was 33.41 in the district with Belthangady registering 33.59%, Puttur - 34.23%, Sullia - 31.62% and Kadaba - 33.81%. The district had recorded 52.64% polling by 1 pm. By 3 pm, district registered 65.62% polling. There were 3,421 candidates contesting for 1,541 seats in these gram panchayats. Voters were seen heading to the booths since morning. MLAs, MLCs vote Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor exercised his franchise at Hirebandadi Gram Panchayat limits. While Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja cast his vote at a school in Gardadi in Belthangady taluk. MLC Harish Kumar cast his vote at Permanu School in Belthangady. Sullia MLA S Angara cast his vote at Doddathota booth in Amaramudnoor GP. While MLC Prathapsimha Nayak exercised his franchise while standing in queue along with other voters at SDM School in Ujire. Brides cast vote Amid the marriage celebrations, Zuhara and Khairunnisa, daughters of Ibrahim from Mundaje, exercised their franchise at one of the polling booths in the village. Aged and physically challenged were taken near the polling booths in vehicles. As polling booths with more than 1,000 voters were divided into auxiliary booths, there were no long queues in front of the booths. The candidates and their agents were seen appealing to voters outside the 200-metre radius of the booths. An incident of distributing miniature model of ballot papers came to light when Puttur Assistant Commissioner Yathish Ullal visited a polling booth at Hantyaru. “Though it is not prohibited, we warned them not to distribute it near the polling station,” said Yathish Ullal. Age did not come in the way of a 106-year-old Bommi in casting her vote when she was carried to the booth at ward number six of Uppinangady GP in Puttur by her grandson. Enraged over the pathetic condition of the road from Aletti to Baddadka in Sullia taluk, a banner asking people not to vote for those who are responsible for ‘my condition’ (condition of road) was mounted on the stretch of the road. The missing names of voters created confusion and chaos at Sri Gopalakrishna High School in Bilinele. As per the revised voters list, a few voters’ names were shifted to other polling booths in the area. The issue was solved after Kadaba Tahsildar Ananth Shankar visited the spot and convinced the voters. Only one sanitiser was given for a polling booth in Kadaba. By 11 am, the sanitiser was exahausted. Two teams of ANF personnel were deployed for security purpose in Maoist-infested areas of Naravi, Kuthloor in Belthangady taluk. Asha workers and health workers were seen checking the body temperature of the voters before allowing them inside the booth for casting their vote. There were 292 polling booths in 46 gram panchayats in Belthangady, 151 booths in 22 GPs in Puttur, 132 booths in 25 GPs in Sullia and 135 booths in 21 GPs in Kadaba. There were 1,605 polling officials in Belthangady. The 46 GPs in the taluk were divided into 20 sectors. Candidate detained A candidate contesting from a Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk was detained by the police on the charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. Following the complaint by the victim’s parents, Bellare police have registered a case. The detained is identified as Narayana Pucchama alias Hukrappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/second-phase-of-gp-polling-peaceful-in-dakshina-kannada-932317.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kannada flag installed in front of BCC in Belagavi||In a surprising move, Kannada activists installed the Karnataka flag in front of the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) on Monday, resisting police attempts to prevent them from doing so. The activists also used abusive words against the police officials. Earlier attempts by activists to install the flag on the flag pole inside the BCC premises failed to yield results. While the corporation was housed in the old premises at Swami Vivekananda Marg, a saffron flag used to be hoisted along with the national flag. After its head office moved to new premises at Subhash Nagar, a flag pole was installed on which the national flag is hoisted. Led by Kannada activist Srinivas Talukar, section of Kannada activists came to the BCC premises with a pole on which the Kannada flag had been fixed and begun to install clamps on the ground to ensure that the pole remains in tact. In the meanwhile, police personnel arrived and began to prevent the activists from nailing the clamps, but did not succeed. In the melee, Kannada activists also sung the national anthem. Talukar condemned the police for attempting to prevent them from hoisting the Kannada flag in front of the civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-flag-installed-in-front-of-bcc-in-belagavi-932470.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Unscientific’ Yettinahole project damages fields, crops||Unscientific works, in laying pipelines, under Yettinahole project, has badly affected Aluvalli in Sakleshpur taluk, Hassan district. More than one acre of land on survey number 12, of A N Nagesh, has become unfit for agriculture, due to the negligence of the officials. Out of 2.38 acres of land of Nagesh, the authorities had acquired 28 guntas for the Yettinahole project and provided him compensation. Huge pipelines have been laid through his fields. The contractor and officials of Visvesvaraya Hydroelectric Power Corporation visited the spot and assured of constructing retaining walls or ramps on either sides, to protect the fields. But, even after two years, no work has been taken up in this regard. The pipelines are left uncovered and valves are not closed. Thus, water leaks from the pipe, turning the whole place marshy. This has dampened the soil, which has started to cave in. Around one acre of land has caved in, damaging coffee, pepper, silver oak, banana, and cardamom plants. The land has become unfit for agriculture. Nagesh has appealed to the authorities to build retaining walls and to resolve his problem. The village, which is on the fringes of the Western Ghats, receives high rainfall. The authorities have dug 20-ft deep pits to lay the pipes. Besides rains, leaking pipes are damaging crops worth lakhs of rupees, allege farmers. Responding to the complaint of Nagesh, Assistant Commissioner M Girish Nandan directed the authorities to make a spot inspection and to submit a report. The company executing the works should take the responsibility, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unscientific-yettinahole-project-damages-fields-crops-932621.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Conversion of CIIL into varsity creates anxiety in CESCK||The recent proposal of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to convert the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) into an university has created anxiety among the members of the Planning-cum-Monitoring Board (PMB) of Classical Languages, that the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) would become a part of the university. Members of the PMB said that the MHRD has a proposal to convert CIIL into Bharathiya Bhasha Vishwavidyalaya (BBV) and establish Indian Institute of Translation and Interpretation (IITI). “The MHRD has formed a 11-member committee with Vice-Chancellor of National Sanskrit University, Tirupati, N Gopalaswamy as chairman to study and formulate the modalities and objectives. The cause for concern is the direction to study how the management of classical languages centres can be embedded into BBV,” they said. PMB member R V Sundaram said that there is no clarity on embedding the management of the classical languages centres (Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam and Odiya). “We are not sure, if CESCK would become a department in BBV or if it would remain an autonomous body and support BBV. Our advise is to give autonomy to CESCK and to make an agreement on the land shared by University of Mysore (UoM) on its Manasagangotri campus,” he said. Social activist Pa Mallesh said that the CESCK should function independently, on the four acre land of the UoM. Writer Aravinda malagatti said, “The CESCK is trying to come out of CIIL campus and is moving towards autonomy. Now, any proposal to harm its autonomy is not acceptable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/conversion-of-ciil-into-varsity-creates-anxiety-in-cesck-932622.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru, Hassan districts gear up to resume classes||Education department of Mysuru and Hassan districts have geared up to resume Vidyagama and regular classes for SSLC and PUC second year students. Education institutions have remained closed due to the outbreak of Covid-19, since March. According to the authorities, Vidyagama will be held on school campuses for Class VI and above students. The students will be divided into smaller groups, considering the number of teachers. In a press conference, Mysuru Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) B A Paramesh said, "All arrangements are in place and Vidyagama will be conducted with utmost care. The schools will be reopened in phased manner." “Initially, the teachers used to visit the places of the students, to conduct the classes under Vidyagama programme. But now, classes will be conducted on school premises. All guidelines issued by the Health department will be followed," he assured. The CEO said that all measures are in place to conduct classes for SSLC and PUC second year students. As many as 15 students will be accommodated in a classroom. The teaching staff must undergo Covid test and the students will be subject to tests in case of symptoms. However, consent of parents is must for the students to attend classes, he said. Deputy Director for Public Instruction (DDPI) Panduranga said, "A classroom in each institution will be reserved as an isolation centre. If any student develop health issues, he or she will be shifted to the isolation centre." "In Hassan also, the department has taken all measures to commence the classes as per the directions of the state government. An officer said that special care is taken to ensure the safety of students as well as teachers. Asha workers and Health department personnel will be deputed, wherever necessary," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-hassan-districts-gear-up-to-resume-classes-932623.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Proposal to CESCK to prepare textbooks stirs controversy||A remark by the director of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Venkateshmurthy that the Classical Language Centres should help the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) in preparing textbooks for 6th to 12th standard, in a recent meeting of Planning-cum-Monitoring Board (PMB) of Classical Languages, has stirred a hornets nest. A few dissatisfied members of the PMB from Karnataka, have written a letter to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), urging the government to safeguard the autonomy and dignity of the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK). Academy members, some of who were active in the movement, seeking classical status for Kannada, on par with Tamil said that the CESCK was established to research on Kannada language, its literature, culture and heritage. "Reducing it to mere preparing of textbooks will mar its core objective. The CESCK should concentrate on its core objective of research, as per the 2011 guidelines of MHRD and march towards attaining autonomy. Members of Telugu PMB also have joined us, in raising the concern, to write a letter to the MHRD,” they said. The letter states, besides research, the CESCK can prepare textbooks, but this responsibility should not be at the cost of research. Besides, the PMB members have opposed the process for new appointment of senior and junior research staff to CESCK, before the term of the existing researchers is completed. “The CIIL has issued a notification that the term of the existing researchers ends on December 31. But, in the same CIIL, there are researchers who are working since over 25 years. Why is the CIIL in a hurry, to end the term of the researchers of CESCK, to two years, while the projects on which they are working, are yet to be completed?” PMB members ask. Meanwhile, CIIL Director Venkateshmurthy said that he did not ask the CESCK to restrict to preparing textbooks. “Some people are unnecessarily creating confusion over the issue. When I receive the letter, written by the PMB members to the MHRD, I will see it and give a proper reply,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/proposal-to-cesck-to-prepare-textbooks-stirs-controversy-932624.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rangayana director seeks funds from govt to stage ‘Parva’||Mysuru Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariappa expressed displeasure against the state government for not funding to stage play ‘Parva’, based on writer S L Bhyrappa’s seminal novel. In a press conference here, on Monday, Cariappa said that Rangayana has decided to stage the play, based on Bhyrappa’s ‘Parva’ and it needs Rs 50 lakh. “Rangayana has earmarked Rs 10 lakh, but the government has not funded the remaining amount. We will raise funds from Bhyrappa’s readers, if the government denies funds,” he said. “The government has funded to stage Kuvempu’s ‘Malegalalli Madumagalu’ and ‘Sri Ramayana Darshanam’ plays. But, why is the government not funding ‘Parva’. Is Bhyrappa a sinner? The Department of Kannada and Culture has not conducted any activity this year, due to Covid-19. Let the government divert the funds for staging the play, instead of returning the grants to the Treasury department,” he said. The seven-hour play will be staged on every alternative day in the months of March, April and May. Kendra Sahitya Academy has translated ‘Parva’ into Russian, Chinese and other languages and Rangayana has planned a workshop in this regard in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rangayana-director-seeks-funds-from-govt-to-stage-parva-932625.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kannada activists continue to guard Kannada flag||Kannada activists who hoisted the Kannada flag in front of the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) continued to guard the flag pole and flag overnight on Monday. Kannada activists Srinivas Talukar, Kasturi Bhavi, and others continued to sit surrounding the flag fearing that the police could remove it. Earlier in the evening BCC Commissioner K H Jagadish and City Police officials made an unsuccessful attempt to convince the Kannada activists to remove the flag pole and Kannada flag as appropriate norms had not been followed. Kannada activists dared them to remove the Kannada flags hoisted by them before Suvarna Vidhan Soudha and the Regional Commissioner's office before asking them to remove the Kannada flag hoisted in front of BCC today. They demanded that they would leave the place if the District Administration assures them that the Kannada flag and flag pole would not be removed. Assurance from the district incharge minister was also sought. As the night progressed, a section of Kannada activists made food and sweets available to the activists guarding the flag pole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-activists-continue-to-guard-kannada-flag-932647.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||BSY may float another party in January: Ex-MLA||KPCC spokesperson and former MLA Belur Gopalakrishna said there is a possibility that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa may float another political party after the 'Sankranti' festival (January 15) next year. Speaking to media persons on Monday, he said BJP's Central leadership may dethrone Yediyurappa from the top post in January. So, he may float another party with leaders like Prabhakar Kore, Umesh Katti who are not happy with the high command.  The former MLA also addressed the Karnataka High Court's rejection of Yediyurappa's plea to quash one of the petitions pertaining to illegal land denotification in 2006, and its order for a detailed probe. He said it is nothing but a curse of Sigandureshwari, as the BJP leader formed a panel to look into the administrative affairs of the temple in Sagar taluk. He also made it clear that he would not seek his resignation as Yediyurappa himself would step down from the top post in January. He also alleged that RSS is behind the restrictions imposed on new year celebrations by the government, as it does not respect religions other than Hindu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-may-float-another-party-in-january-ex-mla-932447.html
28-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||I like eating cattle meat, it’s my right: Siddaramaiah||Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Monday said that he liked eating cattle meat and that it was his right, while accusing his own partymen of lacking the courage to speak out. “I had once said in the Assembly that I eat cattle meat. Who is anybody to ask? Food habits are my right. If you don’t eat, don’t. I eat because I like it. Does one need the courage to say this,” Siddaramaiah said at the Congress’ foundation day event. He said that many of his party colleagues were wary of taking a stand fearing a backlash. “Our people keep quiet because someone else would say it anyway. They’re scared to express themselves. We should come out of this confusion,” the former chief minister said that referring to the BJP government’s anti-cow slaughter bill, which could virtually end consumption of cow meat. “Farmers worship cows as gaumata. But where will they send aged cows and buffaloes? It needs Rs 100 per day to take care of them. Who will give this money,” he asked. In 2017, when he was chief minister, Siddaramaiah had courted controversy for visiting Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara temple in Dharmasthala after consuming a meal of fish fry and country chicken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-like-eating-cattle-meat-it-s-my-right-siddaramaiah-932543.html
28-12-2020||Mysuru||Leopard suspected to be injured in road accident under treatment||Forest department officials rescued an injured leopard, atop Chamundi Hill, on Monday. A visitor noticed the leopard near Devi Kere and alerted officials. Forest department officials and veterinarian Dr Nagaraj rushed to the spot and rescued the animal. The officials suspect that the animal was injured in a road accident. The animal is currently being treated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/leopard-suspected-to-be-injured-in-road-accident-under-treatment-932398.html
28-12-2020||National||Kaushambi jail inmates stitching body covers for cows draw PM’s praise||The stitching of body covers for cows out of old blankets by Kaushambi jail inmates on Sunday drew Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s praise in his 'Mann ki Baat' programme, the Uttar Pradesh government said. "In Kaushambi jail, the inmates have been making body covers for cows using old and worn-out blankets, so that the animals could be saved from cold. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed this as an example of 'Seva Bhaav',” the state government said in a statement. “The Prime Minister also said that efforts of such people should be praised," it added. Old blankets are collected from Kaushambi and jails of other districts, and then they are sent to 'gaushalas' (cow sheds) after stitching them into bovine body covers. The inmates of Kaushambi jail prepare several body covers for cows every week, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kaushambi-jail-inmates-stitching-body-covers-for-cows-draw-pm-s-praise-932311.html
28-12-2020||National||Odisha remains under grip of cold wave; Phulbani coldest at 5.3 degrees Celsius||Odisha continued to remain under the grip of a cold wave with Phulbani in Kandhamal district recording the lowest temperature on Sunday at 5.3 degrees Celsius, the weather office said. A total of 11 stations in the state have recorded temperatures below 10 degrees Celsius, it said. The mercury dropped to 7 degrees Celsius in Kandhamal's Daringbari. Jharsuguda recorded a temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius. The twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack recorded minimum temperatures at 12.2 and 11.5 degrees Celsius respectively. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar forecast that the minimum temperature in the city will remain unchanged over the next 2-3 days. Dry weather conditions prevailed with dense fog over Boudh district and shallow fog in one or two places in Mayurbhanj, Kandhamal, Koraput, Malkangiri and Nayagarh districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-remains-under-grip-of-cold-wave-phulbani-coldest-at-53-degrees-celsius-932334.html
28-12-2020||National||Assured basic income, SEZs for migrants among key recommendations of government-appointed panel||Former IAS officer CV Ananda Bose, the one-man Commission appointed by the Labour Advisory Board under the Ministry of Labour and Employment, has also suggested a Special Purpose Vehicle to help workers, who do not have entrepreneurial skills, to invest money which will be put in businesses and returned to the investors. Bose told DH that he had conducted online consultations with 3,360 people in three months before preparing the recommendations and earlier submitted interim reports so that the government does not have to wait till the final report for implementing recommendations it found feasible at the earliest. He was tasked to look into the problems of the workforce in India and suggest viable solutions against the backdrop of Covid-19 when the country witnessed the "distressing" sight of "hapless" migrant labourers trekking in thousands to their villages. Over 60 recommendations have been submitted so far. One of the suggestions was to provide assured basic income for workers losing a job due to a pandemic or disaster for a period depending on the nature of the calamity. The suggestion on setting up a National Registry of Workers has already been implemented. With the government moving ahead with One Nation, One Ration card, the report has suggested a tweak in the programme -- One Nation, One Man, One Ration Card. The rationale was that when a man leaves his villages for work without his family may not be able to avail ration and in this scenario, ration cards for individuals would be of help. Providing political capital to around 2 crore Non-Resident Indians, spread over the globe, was another suggestion. The report said that there could be 5-6 notional Parliamentary seats for the NRIs and their representatives could attend Parliamentary proceedings. "We cannot have territorial representatives. That is why I have suggested notional seats. The NRIs could vote for their representatives, say in the Gulf, Europe and the Americas," Bose said. While an SPV is mooted for small-time investors who may not be skilled to do business, the SEZs are envisaged for NRIs who are confident to do business on their own. The report also suggested the setting up of a National Labour Authority to look after the welfare of workers, as there is no overarching body that looks into these aspects. Tapping the skills of returnees from abroad, Bose has also recommended setting up of Panchayat-level service centres, which can utilise the services of those like plumbers, electricians and drivers among others. The idea behind the concept is that the returnees get jobs while society gets their service. Anticipating re-migration once the Covid-19 subsides, the report has suggested, "skilling, re-skilling and multi-skilling" of workers to reap benefits of the global job market. The report suggests that there could be more opportunities in the augmented reality and artificial intelligence sectors. A health insurance scheme for unorganised sector workers, pension scheme and National Social Security Board are among other suggestions in the report submitted by Bose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assured-basic-income-sezs-for-migrants-among-key-recommendations-of-government-appointed-panel-932336.html
28-12-2020||National||DH Toon | PM Modi addresses last Mann Ki Baat of 2020||In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast of the year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that people have supported 'vocal for local' campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. A newly-wed couple’s efforts to clean the Someshwar beach in Udupi district by postponing their honeymoon has won the praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The efforts of Anudeep and Minusha, who prioritised cleaning the littered beach over their honeymoon, figured in the prime minister’s monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modi-addresses-last-mann-ki-baat-of-2020-932343.html
28-12-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Politics in 2020||Hi and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio,  in today's episode we discuss what the year 2020 had in store for the field of politics as we move on to welcome the new year.  Shemin Joy: Hello and welcome to the DH podcast. As we approach the end of a tumultuous year, we present to you a series of year enders. This episode is all about politics in 2020, a year ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. Just as the pandemic has redefined everything in our lives, politics was no different. We witnessed a few elections, so-called lapses of the government and some preparations for future elections. I am Shemin Joy and today I am joined by Deccan Herald's political editor and chief of bureau in New Delhi Anand Mishra and Principal correspondent Sagar Kulkarni, who covers the Congress, to discuss politics in 2020. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-politics-in-2020-932358.html
28-12-2020||National||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccine drive begins in four states||As the country eagerly awaits a likely coronavirus vaccination drive in January, at least 125 intended beneficiaries each in four states who had registered on the Co-WIN App were on Tuesday sent SMSes informing them about the time and place of their 'Covid-19 vaccination' under a mock-drill and preparations made to administer the shots at designated centres. The two-day end-to-end dry run was being carried out in Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, in Rajkot and Gandhinagar in Gujarat, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) in Punjab and Sonitpur and Nalbari districts in Assam. It is being conducted to test the laid out mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccination in the states and provide insights into any gaps to be addressed before the commencement of the actual vaccination drive, according to officials. They said said the exercise tested the functionality of Co-WIN, which is an online platform for monitoring the delivery of COVID-19 vaccine, deployment of team members, checking cold storage, transportation arrangements and other arrangements while following all necessary protocols. Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiyaz, who inaugurated the dry run at the urban primary health centre at Prakash Nagar in Vijayawada, said "the (dummy) vaccine was transported from the central storage facility to cold chain points at various places". The dry run was being carried out in five locations with 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) for each session. "We have recorded this in the Co-WIN App and sent SMSes to the chosen patients. We have monitored the time taken for different processes and the logistics involved. This will be used in real-time simulation," the Collector told reporters. As per the checklist shared with the states by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, beneficiaries will be preidentified and an SMS will be sent to them in advance with the name of the vaccinator and the time of the immunization. After the vaccination, they will be under observation for the next 30 minutes to address any adverse even. A report on the dry run listing the issues involved is to be submitted by the states to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare besides the State Task Force for necessary action. Gujarat Immunisation Office Dr Nayan Jani told reporters that local health officials of the chosen districts and cities engaged in administrative preparations on the first day of the drive. Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) has identified 125 beneficiaries in the city who will be covered during the mock drill, said GMC Health Officer Dr Kalpesh Goswami. He said a total of 50 health personnel will visit the identified beneficiaries at five different sites in the city. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said immunisation partners the UNDP and the WHO at the state-level were supporting the dry run.         In Ludhiana, seven centres have been set up at various hospitals.           All beneficiaries are to be compulsory pre-registered on CoWIN portal and a Photo ID will be required for the same. Health officials in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr said for each centre 25 persons of those registered online were selected for the dry run. These persons were being sent an SMS each on their respective mobile phones. These SMS's would be treated as identity proof for entry into their allotted centres on Tuesday. Each centre is equipped with a team of five doctors. District Immunisation Officer, Nawanshahr, Dr Davinder Dhanda said that necessary infrastructure at each centre includes a waiting area, an injection room, and an observation room where the person undergoing 'dummy vaccination' on Tuesday during the dry run would be kept for half an hour has been prepared. Prior to the dry run, a special training workshop of personnel was also held. Sidhu said that details of 1.5 lakh healthcare workers from private and public facilities have already been uploaded on the COWIN portal. Assam officials said five hospitals in each of Nalbari and Sonitpur districts have been chosen for the exercise. The state surveillance medical officer of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday visited Nalbari district and held discussions on the exercise with health department officials and the Deputy Commissioner Purabi Konwar. The Centre had asked each of the four states to plan the dry run in two districts and preferably in five different session-type settings -- district hospital, community health centre (CHC) or primary health care centre (PHC), urban site, private health facility and rural outreach. This will also provide hands-on experience to programme managers at various levels. An important focus of the dry run will be on management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) as well as on adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission, it has said. The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and review at block and district levels, and preparation of feedback to be shared with the state and the Centre. "The central government is gearing up for the rollout of COVID-19 vaccine across the country. As the vaccine administrators will play an important role in the immunisation process, training of trainers and those who shall administer the vaccine has been taken up across various states," the health ministry had said, while announcing the mock drill. To strengthen the human resource for the vaccine introduction and roll-out, detailed training modules have been developed for different categories of vaccine handlers and administrators, including medical officers, vaccinators cold chain handlers, ASHA coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels. To facilitate redressal of queries on COVID-19 vaccination and Co-WIN portal, national and state helpline capacity has also been strengthened. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of COVID-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three prioritised population groups including, healthcare workers (about 1 crore), frontline workers (about 2 crore), and prioritized age group (about 27 crore). As vaccines are temperature-sensitive, the present cold chain system consisting of 85,634 equipment for storage of vaccine at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country will be used, the ministry stated. The current cold chain is capable of storing an additional quantity of COVID-19 vaccine required for the first three crore prioritised population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccine-drive-begins-in-four-states-932359.html
28-12-2020||National||Covid-19: Over 20,000 new infections reported in one day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to  1,02,07,871 with 20,021 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 97.82 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,47,901 with 279 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,82,669 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.83 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. There are 2,77,301 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,88,18,054  samples have been tested up to December 27 with 7,15,397 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-20000-new-infections-reported-in-one-day-932383.html
28-12-2020||National||PM Modi inaugrates India's first driverless train for Delhi Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated India's first-ever driverless train operations on Delhi Metro's Magenta Line along with the fully operational National Common Mobility Card service on the Airport Express Line via video conferencing. The driverless trains will be fully automated, which will eliminate the possibility of human error, the government has said, adding that after the start of driverless services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) of Delhi Metro is expected to have driverless operations by mid-2021.   Watch on PIB's   The Prime Minister's Office has said that these innovations will herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility. The National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to travel on the route using it. This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugrates-indias-first-driverless-train-for-delhi-metro-932388.html
28-12-2020||National||Louis Kahn's children urge for preservation as IIM-A decides to raze 14 'unsafe' dormitories designed by him: Report||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Ahmedabad's decision to demolish 14 of its dormitories designed by legendary American architect Louis Kahn in the 1960s has come under heavy criticism, with Kahn's three children and renowned architect Balkrishna Doshi objecting to the decision. The institute said that these dormitories have suffered damages beyond repairs over the years, due to various reasons including 2001 earthquake and water seepages. Kahn, a world-famous architect, had been called to Ahmedabad by renowned scientist Vikram Sarabhai to design various buildings. IIM-A was one of the iconic buildings built by him in the 1960s. After long deliberations, it was decided to commit to doing whatever it takes to restore the core of the Louis Kahn buildings the library, the faculty wings, and the classroom complex and the dorms on the periphery of the system of buildings. For the other dorms, however, it was decided to be guided by three imperatives: (1) functional needs, (2) cultural heritage, and (3) available resources, he added. "After much circumspection, we have decided to restore Dorms 16 to 18. Along with the restored Dorm 15 as you would recollect they constitute the periphery of the built campus and are the first buildings that persons who enter the campus see and understand along with the LKP and associated buildings as the grandeur associated with the work of Kahn. "For the other dorms (1 to 14) that are in the inner core, we will invite architects from across the world to present us options as to how we should go about making new dorms," IIM-A director Errol D'Souza said. "The Kahn dormitory buildings are magnificent works of art in their own right. There could be many ways to reimagine their uses if you are open to exploring the possibilities. For example, they might not all have to remain as dormitories. The exterior walls are load-bearing and the interiors could be sensitively reworked to suit alternative needs and uses," they wrote. D'Souza acknowledged having received the letter and wrote in reply that the decision was taken after much deliberation and everyone who was part of the decision-making process are in a stage of anguish, rechecking and evaluating every step. In an 11-page letter to the alumni, he wrote, "We felt it necessary to keep you informed as we are the custodians of the Louis Kahn buildings that have the potential to inspire future generations. Over the past couple of decades, the buildings have undergone dilapidation and structural deterioration. The earthquake at the beginning of the millennium and water seepage through ageing and deterioration of the exposed brick walls has resulted in large cracks in the masonry and periodical detachments of it in fragments. They are unsafe for living." "We have grappled with questions as to why we should presume that the past is not changeable and why we should assume that future generations will value things in exactly the same way that past generations have. We wondered if it is appropriate for us to colonise future perceptions of living spaces," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/louis-kahns-children-urge-for-preservation-as-iim-a-decides-to-raze-14-unsafe-dormitories-designed-by-him-report-932392.html
28-12-2020||National||BJP refutes Amartya Sen's 'shrinking space for debate' claim||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has voiced anguish over the "shrinking space" for debate and dissent in the country where people are jailed without trial through arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition. The BJP, which is often the butt of criticism by the economist, rubbished the accusation as baseless. In an e-mail interview with PTI, the 87-year-old Harvard University professor backed the farmers' protests against three agricultural laws, insisting there was a "strong case" for substantial review of the legislations. "A person whom the government does not like may be declared by the government to be a terrorist and imprisoned. Many opportunities of public protest and free discussion have been curtailed or closed. "The space for dissent and debate is shrinking. People are jailed without trial through arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition," he alleged. The celebrated economist deplored that young activists like Kanhaiya Kumar, Shehla Rashid and Umar Khalid were often treated like enemies. "Rather than treating young and visionary leaders, committed to peaceful and non-violent ways like Kanhaiya or Khalid or Shehla Rashid as political assets who should be given the opportunity to pursue their pro-poor initiatives in a peaceful way they are often treated as enemies to be suppressed," he claimed. Reacting sharply to Sen's views on allegedly shrinking space for debate and dissent, BJP's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh said his contention was baseless. "The allegations are baseless. If he wants to see what intolerance is then he should visit West Bengal where none of the opposition parties has the democratic right to conduct their programmes," Ghosh said. When asked for his views about the BJP-led government that were often interpreted as pro-opposition, Sen said," When a government makes a mistake that harms people, it is not only permissible to speak up, it is actually necessary. Democracy demands that!" Sen said there is a strong case for substantial review of the three contentious farm laws which have sparked protests by agriculturists. "There is certainly a strong case for revising the legislations substantially. But the first necessity is a proper discussion rather than making allegedly big concessions that actually make very little real concession," said Sen. Sen's comments come in the backdrop of thousands of farmers protesting at Delhi's borders for a month demanding repeal of three agricultural laws enacted in September and a legal guarantee on minimum support price. While the government insists these laws constitute major reforms to help farmers, protesting unions have maintained these will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening mandis and the MSP regime. Responding to Sen's position on farm protests, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the government has made all efforts to address the issues and concerns raised by the farmers' unions. Sen also said there are big gaps in the treatment of disadvantaged communities in India. "Perhaps the biggest lacuna is a combination of policies that have led to such a terrible expansion of child undernourishment. To reverse that, we need different policies in many distinct fronts." On the country's efforts in battling Covid-19, Sen said India was right to see the necessity of physical distancing but was wrong in imposing the lockdown with almost no notice. "It was also mistaken in ignoring the need for poor labourers to earn an income," he said, referring to the lockdown that rendered crores of people jobless and triggered a massive migration of labourers, arguably the biggest since Partition. Stressing on the need for "more intelligent reasoning and a humane touch" in implementing the Covid-19 strategy, Sen said India had got some ideas right, but "messed up" its response by overlooking the country's reality of extensive inequality. The presence of huge inequality should influence every aspect of India's policymaking, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-refutes-amartya-sens-shrinking-space-for-debate-claim-932416.html
28-12-2020||National||Online tests for recruitment, Mission Karmayogi for training personnel ministry's key decisions in 2020||The online common eligibility test for majority of government recruitments and Mission Karmayogi for capacity building of central employees were some key initiatives for the personnel ministry in 2020. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry took timely measures to facilitate smooth functioning of all the central government offices and provided safe working conditions to over 48 lakh employees. The concept of work-from-home necessitated due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown to stem the spread of the deadly infection besides staggered working hours and attendance system initiated by the personnel ministry ensured that central government organisations continued to work. Various steps were also announced during the year by the ministry to ensure that central government pensioners do not face any problem in submitting life certificates - a proof required to be submitted by them to the pension disbursing banks for continued pension. In November, it was decided by the Centre that postmen would provide doorstep service to the central government pensioners for submitting their life certificates online. "In view of the current pandemic, it is a huge relief for pensioners to submit life certificates while staying at home," a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry had said. The government also came out with a format to file complaints with the anti-corruption ombudsman Lokpal. "One of the historical path-breaking decisions is to have a national recruitment agency (NRA) which will conduct a common eligibility test (CET) for recruitments to government jobs," Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said. He said this will provide a level playing field for job seekers by avoiding multiple selection tests at multiple locations. "Further, the government has also decided to have at least one or more than one centre in every district of India so that economically disadvantaged candidates and women candidates especially, would not have to deprive themselves of such opportunities owing to any difficulty in travelling," Singh told PTI. He said Mission Karmayogi is again going to become a path-breaking decision in governance by providing constant upgrading mechanism for government officials. "There will be an online facility for each official to acquire capacity building whenever he or she takes up a new assignment or whenever he or she is posted to a different assignment," the minister said. The Union Cabinet in August had decided to set up the national recruitment agency, a multi-agency body, for conducting the CET to screen or shortlist candidates for the Group B and C (non-technical) posts. The NRA will have representatives from the Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Finance/Department of Financial Services, the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). At present, candidates seeking government jobs have to appear for separate examinations conducted by multiple recruiting agencies for various posts, for which similar eligibility conditions have been prescribed. Candidates also have to pay fee to multiple recruiting agencies and have to travel long distances for appearing in various exams. These multiple recruitment examinations are a burden on the candidates, as also on the respective recruitment agencies, involving avoidable or repetitive expenditure, law-and-order or security related issues and venue related problems. On an average, 2.5 crore to 3 crore candidates appear in each of these examinations. A CET would enable these candidates to appear once and apply to any or all of these recruitment agencies for the higher level of examination. This would indeed be a boon to all the candidates, the government had said. It is envisioned that the NRA would be a specialist body bringing state-of-the-art technology and best practices to the field of central government recruitment. The Union Cabinet had in September given nod to Mission Karmayogi, dubbed as the biggest bureaucratic reform initiative, aimed at capacity building to make government employees more "creative, proactive, professional and technology-enabled", ending the culture of working in silos and ensuring transparency. A council, comprising select union ministers, chief ministers and eminent public HR practitioners among others and headed by the prime minister, will serve as the apex body for providing strategic direction, while a Capacity Building Commission is also proposed to be set up. The government had in March issued a format for filing complaints of corruption against public servants including the prime minister with the Lokpal, 11 months after the anti-corruption ombudsman was formed. There is a vacancy of two judicial members in the Lokpal, against the strength of four. Lokpal's judicial member Justice (retd) Ajay Kumar Tripathi had passed away in May. Another judicial member Justice (retd) Dilip B Bhosale had resigned from the post in January. When asked about these vacancies, Singh said "filling up of vacancies is an ongoing process".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-tests-for-recruitment-mission-karmayogi-for-training-personnel-ministrys-key-decisions-in-2020-932449.html
28-12-2020||National||PIL filed in SC to double number of judges in High Courts and subordinate courts||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre and state governments to take appropriate steps to double the number of judges in the High Courts and subordinate courts. The pending cases exceeded 30 thousand per million populations. Obviously, it is unrealistic to expect the law courts to deal with this abnormal caseload with present judicial infrastructure, it claimed. The plea also asked the court to direct implementation of the judicial charter to decide cases within three years and to achieve break-even and dispose of the backlog by 2023. Petitioner, BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay contended that the Centre on October 25, 2009, promised to reduce pendency of cases from 15 years to three years but it did nothing to implement the recommendations proposed by Law Commission of India in report number 114 (alternative forum for resolution of disputes), report number  116 (formation of Indian judicial service), report number 221 (need for speedy justice), report number 230 (reform in judiciary), report number 45 (arrears and backlog). "Right to speedy justice is an integral part of Article 21 of the Constitution. However, the Centre and States have deliberately neglected the importance of speedy justice. They have not provided required judicial infrastructure to clear huge backlog," the plea contended. It further said that the number of judges per million populations was less than 20. The figure stood at 19.78 in 2018, 17.48 in 2014 and 14.7 in 2002. "These numbers show how the Indian judiciary is suffering due to low man-power," it pointed out. It further said around five million cases were pending in High Courts. Out of them, around 10 lakh cases were for over 10 years and two lakh for more than 20 years and around 45,000 for over three decades. "The gigantic pendency of cases and deliberate inordinate delays are diminishing the faith of people in judiciary. Not only this, it is root-cause of increasing criminalisation. People are taking law in their hands because they are losing faith in judiciary," the plea added. It further cited an example where a property dispute is pending before Consolidation Officer Jaunpur for 35 years and the victim got more than 400 dates but not the justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-to-double-number-of-judges-in-high-courts-and-subordinate-courts-932458.html
28-12-2020||National||National capital should embody glory of today's India: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said Delhi being the national capital of the country should reflect the grandeur of 21st-century India and the government is making efforts to modernize the city's old infrastructure. The prime minister said work is going on to develop the tourist attractions in the national capital. He was speaking after inaugurating the first-ever driverless Metro operations and launching the expansion of the National Common Mobility Card to the Airport Express Line of Delhi Metro via video conference. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was also present at the virtual event. "Delhi is the capital of a big economic and strategic power of more than 130 crore people. Its grandeur should be evident here," PM Modi said. He said the government has incentivised electric mobility by giving tax rebates in Delhi, adding that the city's old infrastructure is also being transformed with the help of modern technology. "This thinking is reflected in provision of better living conditions to slum dwellers through regularisation of hundreds of colonies and in turning old government building into environment friendly modern structures," Modi said. The prime minister stressed that since Delhi is an old tourist destination, work is going on to develop 21st century attractions in the city. As Delhi is becoming a favoured destination of international conferences, international exhibitions and international business tourism, the country's largest centre is being constructed in Dwarka area of the capital, Modi said. "Similarly, work for the new Parliament building has commenced along with a very big Bharat Vandana Park. This will not only give employment to thousands of people from Delhi but will also change the face of the city," he added. The driverless trains, which started operating in Delhi on Monday, will be fully automated which will eliminate the possibility of human error, the government has said, adding that after the start of driverless services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) of Delhi Metro is expected to have driverless operations by mid-2021. The Prime Minister's Office has said these innovations will herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility. The National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to use it for travelling on the route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-capital-should-embody-glory-of-todays-india-pm-narendra-modi-932484.html
28-12-2020||National||Attack on BJP leaders in Punjab failure of state government: Avinash Rai Khanna||Senior BJP leader Avinash Rai Khanna on Monday said the alleged attack on his party leaders in Punjab was a failure of the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government as maintaining law and order in the state is his responsibility. Some farmers had allegedly disrupted an event organised to observe the birth anniversary of late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Punjab's Bathinda and ransacked a makeshift venue prepared by the BJP's district unit on Friday. A few weeks back, BJP president Ashwani Sharma's car had allegedly been attacked by a group of farmers in Hoshiarpur. Khanna said he did not hold the agitated farmers for the attack and asserted that the state government failed to maintain law and order. "It (the attack) is the government's failure as law and order is a state subject," the The BJP president of Punjab told reporters here. Asked to comment on Akali Dal severing ties with the BJP over the recent farm laws in Punjab, Khanna said his party workers had been demanding for long that it contest election in the state on its own. Khanna said the BJP would now contest the upcoming coming elections on all the 117 assembly as well as 13 Lok Sabha seats, which would give the party an opportunity to expand its base in Punjab.  In reply to a question, Khanna said the Union government had not taken the farmers' agitation lightly and that is why it has held several meetings with the agitated farmers.  The former BJP state president further stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had himself stated six times that the minimum support price (MSP) would not be withdrawn but the farmers are being misled.  Khanna said be it erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpayee or the current Narendra Modi government, the BJP government has brought several schemes for the benefit of the farmers.  Earlier Kisan credit card, soil health card and kisan nidhi were introduced and now the Modi government has brought the three farm laws for the benefits of the farmers, he said.  Khanna, who is also the in-charge of the party's affairs in Himachal Pradesh, said whatever shortcomings are there in the state unit, they will be removed and the BJP would definitely form the government in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-bjp-leaders-in-punjab-failure-of-state-government-avinash-rai-khanna-932486.html
28-12-2020||National||False narratives about new farm laws hurting farmers' interests: Niti Aayog Vice Chairman||False narratives about the new farm laws are doing significant harm to the interest of farmers as well as the economy in general, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Monday and expressed his disappointment at some economists changing their stance on the new legislations. As farmers continue their protests demanding repealing of the three new laws, Kumar also emphasised that continued negotiations with protesting farmers is of course the way forward. "Any argument that these measures (the Centre's new farm laws) will open the farmers for exploitation by large corporates is completely false because the government has assured Minimum Support Price (MSP) to all the farmers on a range of crops," he told PTI in an interview. The Vice Chairman of Niti Aayog, the government think tank which also plays a key role in formulating economic policies, said that he was dismayed by the dishonesty of some Indian economists, including former chief economic adviser Kaushik Basu who used to support farm reforms, for switching sides and talking in different languages now. His remarks come against the backdrop of an article written by Basu along with another economist Nirvikar Singh which said that the government should withdraw the farm laws and quickly return to the drafting table to create new laws that are efficient and also fair, and incorporate the perspectives of farmers. "I must here stress my disappointment and dismay at the dishonesty of some of our Indian economists, including our former Chief Economic Adviser (Kaushik Basu) who had continuously supported these measures while he was in the position of Chief Economic Adviser but has now switched sides and is talking in different languages," Kumar said. Basu, currently a professor of economics at Cornell University, was the Chief Economic Adviser between 2009 and 2012 when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power. According to him, economists who had earlier supported the farm reforms and are now opposing the new farm laws are not helping in finding a solution because they are helping to create a false narrative which is misleading the farmers. "So, all these false narratives that have been created (about the Centre's new farm laws) are doing significant harm to the farmers' own interest and that of the economy in general," Kumar asserted. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and some other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly assured that MSP and mandi system will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/false-narratives-about-new-farm-laws-hurting-farmers-interests-niti-aayog-vice-chairman-932487.html
28-12-2020||National||Over 25 cities across India will have driverless metro rail services by 2025: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched India's first-ever driverless train operations of Delhi Metro and said that over 25 cities across the country will have the metro service by 2025. A fully automated driverless train will operate on the 37-kilometre long Magenta Line between Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden, thus eliminating the possibility of human error. With these new trains, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation will enter the elite league of 7% of the world's Metro networks that can operate without drivers, an official said. Participating in the function through a video-link, the Prime Minister recalled that the Delhi Metro started operations during the tenure of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and expanded from five cities in 2014 to 18 cities in 2020. “By 2025, we will take this service to more than 25 cities,” the Prime Minister said after virtually flagging the driverless metro. Modi said India had a metro network of 248 km when his government was formed in 2014, which will expand further to 700 km by 2025. “In 2014, 17 lakh people used to travel by metro. Today, the footfall has increased by five times. This is the evidence of ease-of-living," he said. He also inaugurated the National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line to enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to travel on the Airport Express Line. This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022. The prime minister took a swipe at the previous UPA government. “That time, no one paid heed to the future's requirement, work used to be done half-heartedly and there was a delusion. The result was such that in various parts of the country, a huge gap came in the infrastructure demand and fulfilment,” Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-25-cities-across-india-will-have-driverless-metro-rail-services-by-2025-pm-modi-932493.html
28-12-2020||National||'Wall of lies' to fall soon; hopeful of early solution to impasse over farm laws, says Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said a "wall of lies" has been spread in a "planned manner" among farmers against the new farm laws, but it will not last long and protesting peasants will soon realise the truth. The minister reiterated he remains hopeful to find an early solution to end the impasse.         It's been over a month now that thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping at Delhi borders seeking repeal of the three farm laws. They have threatened to intensify their stir in the coming days if their demands are not fulfilled.       So far, five rounds of formal talks held between the Centre and 40 protesting farmer unions remained inconclusive. After repeated requests from the Centre to resume the discussion to end the stalemate, the unions have given December 29 for talks. The government, in response, has written to the unions inviting them for talks on December 30.      "Soon, some way out will emerge and we will reach towards the solution. Everyone knows that the wall of lies is never strong. Truth is truth. There is going to be a time when people will start accepting the truth," Tomar said addressing a virtual event organised by the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI). Expressing regret that some have created "misconception in a planned manner" in the hearts of protesting farmers on these farm laws, the Minister said however the government is constantly engaging with such farmer unions.     He said the benefits of the new farm laws have started reaching farmers. Many peasants are "thinking positive" of these legislations, but there is "confusion" in some sections of the farmers.       "I am hopeful we will be successful in clearing their concerns," he noted. Further, Tomar said the government was and will always be ready for talks because, in a democratic setup, the government believes that dialogue is the only weapon for resolving the issues. "We are stressing on this," he said.  Stating that discussions on reforming the farm sector were going on since long after economic liberation in 1990s, the minister said many committees were set up and consultations were held across the country. Even the previous governments had debated and reached a consensus but somehow could not implement them.     But the Modi government took the initiative and enacted the three agri-laws, which were passed in Parliament after discussion for 4 hours in both the Houses, he said.       "I am happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought revolutionary changes through farm laws keeping future in mind. I am confident that these laws will benefit poor, small and marginal farmers across the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wall-of-lies-to-fall-soon-hopeful-of-early-solution-to-impasse-over-farm-laws-says-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-932494.html
28-12-2020||National||We want to make India a superpower: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||India has the potential to become a superpower and it needs significant achievements in the fields of education, health and industry to make the cut, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday as he mentioned the country's glorious history including major discoveries by ancient scientists like Aryabhata ahead of their western counterparts. In an online address at the convocation of IIM Ranchi, Singh delved into India's rich contribution in the field of scientific research in the classical age of Indian mathematics and astronomy and noted that "Aryabhata confirmed the round shape of the Earth and its rotation on its axis about 1,000 years before famous German astronomer Copernicus did". "We want to make India a superpower. To make the country a superpower, we need even bigger achievements in the fields of education, health and industry, etc. The potential in these areas is within our country. It is not yet fully utilised," Singh said. "When we talk about making India a superpower, then we also have to take care of the development potential in all the states of the country," he added. The defence minister said the youth of the country has the ability to face any challenge and can turn them into opportunities with the help of "invention, innovation and ideas". Encouraging students to play a key role in making of a 'New India', Singh said modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country's glorious history, adding it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. "Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God," Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: "He said 'an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God'". Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister cited the contributions of renowned ancient Indian scientists and said "no success is final and no failure is fatal". "India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.," said Singh. "Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason," Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the 'Pythagoras theorem' years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. "Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century," said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India's achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration. "Today, when we are all working for the creation of New India, it is important for all of us to understand our heritage," he said. Talking about the coronavirus pandemic, Singh said India effectively confronted the crisis despite having limited resources and that the country turned the disaster into an "opportunity" under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asking students to work hard to achieve their goals, Singh said, "We have to understand that the road to success often passes through the streets of failure. There will be no successful person in the world who has never faced failure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-want-to-make-india-a-superpower-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-932495.html
28-12-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi flags off 100th 'Kisan Rail'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th "Kisan Rail" from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal via video-conferencing. The multi-commodity train service will carry vegetables such as cauliflower, capsicum, cabbage, drumstick, chilli and onion as well as fruits like grape, orange, pomegranate, banana and custard apple, according to an official statement. Loading and unloading of perishable commodities will be permitted at all stoppages en route with no bar on the size of consignment, it said, adding that the Centre has extended a 50-per cent subsidy on the transportation of fruits and vegetables. It may be noted that the first Kisan Rail was introduced from Devlali in Maharashtra to Danapur in Bihar on August 7, which was further extended up to Muzaffarpur. Following good response from farmers, its frequency was increased from a weekly service to three days in a week, it said. "Kisan Rail has been a game changer in ensuring fast transportation of agriculture produce across the nation. It provides a seamless supply chain of perishable produce," it said. The launch of the train by Modi comes amid protests by a section of farmers against the Centre's three farm laws near Delhi's borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-flags-off-100th-kisan-rail-932497.html
28-12-2020||National||Farmers' stir: Centre invites 40 unions for next round of talks on Dec 30||Centre does not appear to be in a hurry to meet agitating farmers as it set talks for Wednesday, a day later than what was suggested by the protesters even as indicated that there would be no changes in the new farm sector laws. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal responded to the letter written by the agitating farmer unions on Saturday and invited them for talks on December 30 at 2:00 p.m. “You had conveyed to us that farmers’ unions were ready for talks with an open mind and will always be. The government is also open and clear-minded on the discussion on emergent issues and finding well-argued solutions,” Agarwal said in the letter to leaders of 40 farmer unions. Even as it expressed readiness for talks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the 100th Kisan rail, transporting fruits and vegetables from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal. He said that the growing demand for Kisan Rail was an indication that farmers were ready to embrace new possibilities. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the Modi government had implemented farm sector reforms that UPA had set out to unleash, but could not do so because of the pressure and influence. Tomar, who received letters of support for farm reforms from 25 farmers’ organisations, expressed confidence that he would be able to explain the new laws to the agitating farmers as well. At the same time, the farmers accused the government of indulging in doublespeak and showing unwillingness in resolving the issues raised by the farmers. “Government claims to have an open mind, but is adamant on laws remaining,” the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said in a statement. The agitating farmers also claimed that they were receiving greater support and protest rallies were planned in Thanjavur and Patna on Tuesday and Hyderabad and Imphal on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-centre-invites-40-unions-for-next-round-of-talks-on-dec-30-932500.html
28-12-2020||National||Covishield vaccine ready for rollout in January: Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawala||With a stockpile of 40 to 50 million doses, Pune-based world’s largest vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII) is ready to roll out the much-awaited Covishield vaccine in January 2021 to fight out the Covid-19 pandemic. The data of clinical trials have been submitted to authorities in India and the United Kingdom. “We expect good news in the next few days, in the new year,” SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawala told in an online media briefing from Pune. As the SII is manufacturing Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, earlier this month Prime Minister Narendra Modi had personally visited the Pune facility of the vaccine maker to review the development process. “We are awaiting regulatory approvals. We must respect the regulatory process. Once we get regulatory approvals in a few days, it will be up to the government to decide how much they can take and how fast,” Poonawalla said. “We are ready for rollout in January. We expect to ramp up production capacity to 100 million doses by March. We will be ready with 300 million doses by June,” he said. Poonawala said that the first six months of 2021 will see a shortage globally. “Nobody can help that. But we will see easing off by August-September 2021 as other vaccine manufactures also start supplying,” he further added. However, he made it clear that the priority would be India. “We will also be giving vaccines to Covax countries,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-vaccine-ready-for-rollout-in-january-serum-institute-of-india-ceo-adar-poonawala-932503.html
28-12-2020||National||Serum Institute of India launches India’s first indigenous pneumococcal vaccine||The Pune-based world’s largest vaccine maker, Serum Institute of India, on Monday launched India’s first indigenously developed pneumococcal vaccine – PNEUMOSIL. The vaccine has been developed through a collaboration spanning over a decade among Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd, PATH and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The aim is to improve pneumococcal conjugate vaccine affordability and enable sustainable access for low and middle-income countries. The vaccine was launched at an online event in the presence of Minister of Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsha Vardhan. “It is a significant milestone for the country’s public healthcare which will ensure that children are protected better against Pneumococcal disease with an affordable and high-quality vaccine,” Harsh Vardhan said from New Delhi. Driven by the philanthropic commitment of the SII to protect every family with affordable vaccines, PNEUMOSIL comes with the advantage of the presence of serotypes 6A & 19A. The composition of the WHO pre-qualified vaccine is specially tailored as per the prevalence of the Top 10 serotypes of S.pneumoniae in India and other regions of the world, which is the unique feature of this conjugate vaccine. The vaccine will provide effective and long-lasting protection for children against pneumococcal diseases. With this, the SII further cements its position as the leader in the conjugate vaccines. It has several patents related to the manufacturing of this vaccine to its credit. The vaccine is relatively cost-efficient at high-volumes and more accessible over the long-term for the countries that need it most. SII CEO Adar Poonawala said: "Over the years our constant endeavour has been to provide high-quality vaccines with regular supplies, which ensures excellent immunisation coverage to children and families worldwide." “With that thought, we have developed this PCV with a unique composition based on the serotype prevalence in India. This makes our PCV an ideal choice for protecting our children from pneumococcal disease," he said. "While the vaccine itself is of the highest quality and grade available, vaccine accessibility is of utmost importance as well, and to ensure ease of access by making it available at an affordable price,” Poonawala added.  Pneumococcal disease is a significant contributor to the under-five mortality rate worldwide. Annually, India witnesses an estimated 71% of pneumonia deaths and 57% of severe pneumonia cases. Every year nearly 67,800 children under 5 years of age die in India from pneumococcal diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-launches-india-s-first-indigenous-pneumococcal-vaccine-932504.html
28-12-2020||National||S K Maini of Maini Group, promoter of India's first electric car Reva, passes away||The founder of the Maini Group, Dr Sudarshan Kumar Maini, who encouraged his son Chetan Maini to commercialise India's first electric car Reva, has died, his family sources said on Monday. According to family members, Maini died in Bengaluru at his residence on December 26 after prolonged illness at the age of 87. He is survived by wife Reva and three sons, Chetan, Gautam and Sandeep. Hailing from Punjab, Maini established the Maini Group in 1973. Under his stewardship, the firm grew to a multi-unit group of six companies with over 1,500 employees spread over 14 locations. He encouraged his son Chetan to commercialise India's first electric vehicle Reva car, named after his wife. Maini had a degree in mechanical engineering from the Banaras Hindu University, and studied industrial administration in the United Kingdom. For six years from 1967 he was the general production manager for MICO-Bosch in Bengaluru and later launched his own company, Maini Group. Mourning his death, Biocon chief Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw tweeted, "Celebrated Industry doyen and founder of the Maini Group Sudarshan Maini passed away on 26th December after a prolonged illness. He will be remembered as a pioneering entrepreneur who supported his son Chetan to commercialise Indias first EV Reva, his wife's name. May his soul RIP."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-k-maini-of-maini-group-promoter-of-indias-first-electric-car-reva-passes-away-932510.html
28-12-2020||National||Delhi HC asks DU to provide timeline for exams and degrees||The Delhi High Court has asked the Delhi University to provide a timeline for declaring results after the conclusion of last semester examination and providing marksheet, degrees in actual and digital form, to enable students to go for further studies and employment. A single-judge bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh asked the varsity administration to file a comprehensive affidavit. "This court is of the opinion that in order to ensure that there is a comprehensive, streamlined procedure for declaration of results, issuance of transcripts, marksheets and degree certificates, etc, DU ought to have a prescribed timeline," the court said. It said there should be a timeline for conducting examinations and declaring results in every semester of undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Likewise, there should be a timeline for holding the convocation on an annual basis. The court was hearing a plea by a group of students for a direction to the university to declare their results and issue degrees. The Delhi University, for its part, said as per executive council resolution of February 16, 1993 degree can be “advance degree before convocation” if student is leaving country to pursue higher studies. It also said all other students can apply for the provisional certificate and it has started issuing digital provisional certificate. So far, the university has sent data of degree of 27000 students of 2017 to DigiLocker and within a month’s time entire data of 2017 will be transferred to DigiLocker followed by 2018 and so on. Terming the DU's response as quite cryptic, the court it was not satisfactory as no specific timelines have been given for the issuance of digital degree certificates and for transmission of data to Digilocker. "The DU shall file a comprehensive affidavit providing the timelines and procedure so that students are not inconvenienced every semester and are not forced to approach the court for obtaining their transcripts, marksheets, degree certificates, etc," the court, said, putting the matter for consideration on February 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-du-to-provide-timeline-for-exams-and-degrees-932517.html
28-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Virat Kohli bags top ICC award; Karnataka Cabinet clears anti-cow slaughter ordinance||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Karnataka Cabinet decides to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to an anti-cow slaughter law;  a post office in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur printed postage stamps carrying pictures of underworld don Chhota Rajan and gangster Munna Bajrangi; Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district administration has successfully conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme and India captain Virat Kohli wins Sir Garfield Sobers Award for the ICC Male Cricketer of the Decade.  Here are the top news of December 28, 2020: The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to an anti-cow slaughter law. However, slaughterhouses will continue to function and beef consumption will not be prohibited, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said. When the new law kicks in, there will be a blanket prohibition of slaughter of cows in the state. "The anti-cow slaughter law is not new. We have had it for decades. Previously, there was a ban on slaughter of cows until the age of thirteen. We have just extended it with the intention that older cows should not be abandoned. Since the prohibition does not extend to buffaloes, there is no ban on beef consumption," Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters. Also, in the earlier law, there was much scope for litigation on the age of the cows. The new legislation would put an end to such confusion, he said.   In a shocking incident, a post office in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, located about 90 kilometres from Lucknow, printed postage stamps carrying pictures of underworld don Chhota Rajan and gangster Munna Bajrangi, who was killed inside Baghpat jail in July 2018. One can get personalised sheets of postage stamps by paying a fee under the 'My Stamp' scheme and could use them to send letters. However, the applicant has to give passport size photograph and identification proof to the India Post officials. According to the sources, a youth from Kanpur's Kalyanpur got the photographs of the two criminals printed under the scheme and it was done at the GPO in Kanpur's Bara Chauraha locality. The youth is a scribe associated with a Hindi daily and claimed later that he had done it to expose the workings of the post office.  Left red-faced after the incident, the officials said that they would investigate the matter and punish the guilty.   The Krishna district administration on Monday successfully conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme by carrying out various exercises that go into the actual event whenever it begins. Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiyaz, who inaugurated the dry run at the urban primary health centre at Prakash Nagar in Vijayawada, said the (dummy) vaccine was transported from the central storage facility to cold chain points at various places. The dry run was carried out in five locations with 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) for each session.   India captain Virat Kohli on Monday won the Sir Garfield Sobers Award for the ICC Male Cricketer of the Decade. The International Cricket Council (ICC) made the announcement via Twitter, bestowing the honour on Kohli, who scored 66 out of his 70 international hundreds, in the "ICC Awards" period. In the same period, he was also the batsman with most fifties (94), most runs (20396) besides having the maximum average (56.97) among players with 70 plus innings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-virat-kohli-bags-top-icc-award-karnataka-cabinet-clears-anti-cow-slaughter-ordinance-932518.html
28-12-2020||National||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announces new neighbourhood grievance redressal programme||Claiming that the West Bengal government's 'Duare Sarkar' (administration at the doorsteps) programme has been a huge success, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a new initiative 'Paray Paray Samadhan', under which local neighbourhood grievances will be redressed. The chief minister said that the programme will be launched on January 2 and will continue till February 15. "This will not address major infrastructural gaps but will address municipal, local or service gaps through specific mission mode to reach out to the neighbourhood. This will be supplementary of 'Duare Sarkar' which has reached out to crores of people. It will be a New Year's gift," Banerjee said during an administrative review meeting held here. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said, "While 'Duare Sarkar' is an individual-oriented programme, neighbourhood problems will be addressed by this scheme. A separate task force comprising a principal secretary and a secretary has been appointed for 'Paray Paray Samadhan'." He said like 'Duare Sarkar', 'Paray Paray Samadhan' will also operate on real-time mode and applicants will be able to track their applications. "We expect to be able to at least start addressing the issues by February 15," Bandyopadhyay said. The CMO has received around 10,000 communications regarding problems in the neighbourhoods, he said. Through 'Duare Sarkar', the West Bengal government aims to enable left-out eligible beneficiaries to avail 11 state-run schemes. The programme has started on December 1 and will continue till January 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-announces-new-neighbourhood-grievance-redressal-programme-932520.html
28-12-2020||National||Over 1,500 telecom towers damaged in Punjab amid farmers' protest||More than 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab have been damaged by farmers protesting against the three farm laws, disrupting services in some pockets, sources said. Power supply to towers that relay telecom signals was snapped and cables cut in several parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm Jio as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the new laws. Neither Ambani's Reliance group nor Adani's companies are into the business of procuring foodgrains from farmers. "Till yesterday, 1,411 towers were damaged and today the count has gone well past 1,500," a source with knowledge of the matter said. In Jalandhar, some bundles of Jio's fibre cable were also burnt. Jio has over 9,000 towers in the state. Another source said the most common way of damaging the telecom towers was to cut off the power supply. In at least one case, the generator at a tower site was physically taken away and allegedly donated to a local gurudwara. Videos of Jio employees being threatened and made to flee have gone viral. The attacks have impacted telecom services and operators are struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies, the source said. The Punjab chief minister had on Friday appealed to protesting farmers to not cause inconvenience to the general public with such actions and continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation. Sources said state police have so far not acted against those damaging telecom towers and even FIRs have not been registered in most cases. According to the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, at least 1,600 towers have been vandalised. These include common access infrastructure as well. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for over a month now against the three farm laws which they see would user in end to minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of farm produce like wheat and paddy. The government has denied the apprehensions, saying MSP will continue and the new laws only provide farmers an alternative market to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1500-telecom-towers-damaged-in-punjab-amid-farmers-protest-932521.html
28-12-2020||National||Centre extends Covid-19 guidelines till January 31, no further relaxations in view of new strain in UK||The Centre on Monday extended the existing Covid-19 restrictions and instructions on surveillance and containment till January 31 but provided no further relaxations citing the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom. While all those activities allowed till now will remain in place, the new order would mean that the international air travel, barring those allowed by the MHA, would continue to be suspended, while states are allowed to impose night curfew and restrict participation of people in events that attract a large number of people. Though it acknowledged the "continuous decline" in the cases, the MHA issued the order to extend the 'Guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution', issued on November 25 and valid till December-end, to next month. "While there has been a continuous decline in the active and new Covid-19 cases, there is need to maintain surveillance, containment and caution, keeping in view the surge in cases globally, and emergence of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom (UK)," an MHA spokesperson said. The containment zones will continue to be demarcated carefully and prescribed containment measures strictly followed within these zones. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will be strictly enforced. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed in respect of various permitted activities will be followed scrupulously. "Therefore, the focused approach on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines/SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), as envisaged in the Guidelines issued on November 25 need to be enforced strictly by States and UTs," the order said. The guidelines issued on November 25 had instructed states to trace, track and quarantine 80% contacts of a Covid-19 patient in 72 hours besides allowing states to implement staggered office timings in cities with higher positivity rate. States were also allowed to impose local measures like night curfew. Swimming pools will continue to remain out of bounds for the public as it will be allowed only for training of sports persons. Exhibition halls will be allowed only for Business to Business purposes. States are also allowed to reduce the number of people attending social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious and other gatherings to 100 in closed places from the existing ceiling of 200 based on the ground situation. It should also ensure careful demarcation of containment zones, where only essential services should be allowed. Strict perimetre control should be ensured so that there is no movement in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and maintaining essential supplies, while intensive house-to-house surveillance and testing as prescribed should be conducted. However, the MHA has reiterated that the states cannot unilaterally declare lockdown outside containment zones at local or state-level without prior consultation with the Centre. With more and more offices functioning following the unlocking of restrictions, the new guidelines said the states could consider implementing staggered office timings and other measures in cities where the positivity rate is more than 10%. WHAT IS IN THE GUIDELINES: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-covid-19-guidelines-till-january-31-no-further-relaxations-in-view-of-new-strain-in-uk-932539.html
28-12-2020||National||SP's Ram Govind Chaudhary urges farmers to be ready for 'do or die battle' with new farm laws||Leader of Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on Monday exhorted farmers for a "do or die battle" with the government for the withdrawal of the new agriculture laws. Addressing a 'kisan ghera chaupal' in Saidpura village under Bansdih assembly segment, the senior SP leader urged farmers' unions that "till the withdrawal of the three controversial laws and MSP was not made mandatory, they should continue their 'aar-paar ki ladai' (do or die battle)." Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were trying to corporatise the country with the power of police and crush the nation's soul, Chaudhary said, "We will not allow Modi to succeed in his intentions. We are ready to give every sacrifice for saving the country's soul." Saluting the farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi, he said farmers are fighting to break the chains and every farmer of the country is with them in this battle. The SP leader said if the Modi government does not utilise the opportunity and withdraw the three laws on December 29 and give legal backing to the MSP, the farmers' unions should give a call of 'aar-paar ki ladai' from December 31 at the national level. He assured that his party (the SP) will support farmers at every level in this battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sps-ram-govind-chaudhary-urges-farmers-to-be-ready-for-do-or-die-battle-with-new-farm-laws-932558.html
28-12-2020||National||Lawyers' bodies condemn raid at Mehmood Pracha's office||Lawyers associations on Monday condemned the police raid at the office of advocate Mehmood Pracha, who has been fighting the cases of Delhi riots victims. SC Bar Association said that advocates are entrusted with confidential and privileged communication with their client, which is the sine qua non for effective realisation of right to fair trial and access to justice.  The attempt to seize the personal computer of advocate and other digital devices is a grave and egregious violation of the right to privacy, a statement by SCBA, acting secretary Rohit Pandey said. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raid-at-advocate-mehmood-prachas-office-lawyers-urge-home-min-to-take-action-932240.html The Bar Association of India, through its President Prashant Kumar also expressed its deep concern on reports of the search and seizure operation by the Delhi Police on the premises of Pracha. "The issuing of a search warrant in respect of a lawyers’ communication and correspondence, is a grave violation of client-attorney privilege, and can cause a chilling effect on clients providing true and complete disclosures," the statement said. Delhi police had December 24 conducted a search and seizure at Pracha's office here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-bodies-condemn-raid-at-mehmood-prachas-office-932567.html
28-12-2020||National||Protesting farmers agree to Centre's proposal for talks on December 30||Protesting farmer unions Monday agreed "in-principle" to a government proposal of holding the next round of talks on the new agricultural laws on December 30, but said the Centre should have spelt out the agenda of the meeting in its invite. Abhimanyu Kohar, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of 40 unions protesting against the contentious legislations -- said the farmers have agreed to go for the meeting on the date proposed by the Centre. The farmers' acceptance of the proposal came hours after the Centre sent them a letter suggesting December 30 as the date for the dialogue, against December 29 the protesting unions wanted. "In our letter sent to the government on December 26, we had clearly mentioned that repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for MSP should be part of the agenda for fresh talks, but despite this, the government in letter today has not mentioned any specific agenda," Kohar told PTI. "But, we have agreed in-principle to hold talks with the government," he said. The government's latest invite followed a proposal made by unions last week to hold the talks on Tuesday, December 29, on agenda including modalities for the repeal of the three laws enacted in September. Kohar said the government proposing to hold the talks on December 30, instead of agreeing to farmers’ suggestion of December 29, shows the Centre wants to assert its control. Meanwhile, the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been camping in protest against the new laws since November 28, visibly swelled up on Monday as new protestors joined in over the weekend. Navigating the highway-turned-township became challenging with the pathways being cramped as tractors and trolleys of new protestors occupied more and more space at the protest site. Having already completed one month, the farmers said they were prepared for a long haul, and that essentials such as food and clothing are coming in in sufficient quantities to sustain their agitation. Apprehensive that the new laws will lead to the elimination of the MSP regime and the mandi system, the farmers have been demanding the three legislations be repealed. The government, on the other hand, has been projecting the laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector. Several farmers who had gone to their villages after spending a few days at the protest sites have returned with their families. Amrinder Singh from Patiala had gone back home on December 4, and returned on Saturday with his wife and sister. "More people are coming in, and to keep our fight going, each house in every village in Punjab is giving Rs 1,000." "More people will be coming from Fatehgarh Sahib on January 2 after a religious event there gets over," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-agree-to-centres-proposal-for-talks-on-december-30-932584.html
28-12-2020||National||Congress seeks Smriti Irani's resignation over charges levelled by shooter||The Congress on Monday demanded the resignation of Union minister Smriti Irani over charges of corruption levelled against her by an international shooter, and said a thorough probe should be initiated to ascertain the truth. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference that the charges levelled are serious and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order an independent judicial probe to punish the guilty. International shooter Vartika Singh had recently moved court accusing the Union textile minister and two others for demanding money to make her a member of the central women's commission, days after she was herself named in a police complaint. The MP-MLA court in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur has fixed January 2 for a hearing after which it will decide if the case falls under its jurisdiction, according to her lawyer. The shooter has alleged that people close to Irani issued her a fake letter, appointing her as a member of the central women's commission, a possible reference to the National Commission for Women. Surjewala said serious charges of corruption have been levelled against the Union minister. If such charges would have been levelled against a minister during the UPA, Smriti Irani would have sat on a dharna outside the Congress office, he said. "Smriti Irani should resign and face an independent probe. Prime minister Narendra Modi should ask her to resign. Why does he not order an independent judicial inquiry against her, as no ordinary person but an international shooter and a decorated daughter has levelled the charges," he told reporters. This is also Prime Minister's test and he should order a judicial probe in the matter. We expect Smriti Irani and the PM to reply to the charges, the Congress leader added. Irani's legal counsel Kirat Nagra had said the case filed against her by shooter Vartika Singh was based on "the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods" and that "political patronage" was writ large on the matter. Nagra said the case was a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame the minister, adding that she will take legal recourse against the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-seeks-smriti-iranis-resignation-over-charges-levelled-by-shooter-932587.html
28-12-2020||National||Probe agencies act only if there is a complaint against a person: BJP hits back at Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Hours after Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut lashed out at the BJP vis-à-vis a notice of the Enforcement Directorate against his wife, the saffron party hit back saying it wants to know what is worrying him. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar said that Raut’s family members must face the probe. "Now, the probe agencies act only if there is a complaint or sufficient evidence against any person. I repeat, if you are not guilty, then why are you scared?" Fadnavis said. "The allegations that he made against BJP are baseless," added Darekar. "The central agencies are independent and the manner in which he (Raut) is linking it with the BJP is not appropriate," state BJP president Chandrakant Patil. State Vice-President Kirit Somaiya asked Raut why he was not replying to serious questions like what was his relationship with HDIL and Praveen Raut, whether his family received Rs.54 lakhs from HDIL from the PMC Bank fraud money. “Will he return the money which rightfully belongs to PMC Bank depositors,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-agencies-act-only-if-there-is-a-complaint-against-a-person-bjp-hits-back-at-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-932590.html
28-12-2020||National||Online exam from next year for select govt recruitment: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||A Common Eligibility Test (CET) will be conducted online across the country from next year to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to select central government jobs, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Monday. He said the test will be a major boon for youths seeking government employment. "The National Recruitment Agency (NRA) for conducting Common Eligibility Test has been constituted with the approval of the Union Cabinet," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group-B and C (non-technical) posts, he said. "The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas," Singh told PTI. One of the important objectives of this historic reform is to provide a level-playing field to every candidate so that none of the job aspirants is at disadvantage and has an equal opportunity regardless of his or her background or socio-economic status, he said. "This will also be a huge benefit to women and divyang candidates as well as those who find it financially unaffordable to appear for multiple tests by travelling to multiple centres," the minister said. Singh said the first Common Eligibility Test to be conducted by the NRA is likely to be scheduled around the second half of 2021. He also pointed out that NRA will be an independent autonomous organisation responsible for shortlisting candidates for certain categories the recruitment for which is carried through Staff Selection Commission (SSC), State Selection Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). "However, the existing central recruiting agencies like SSC, RRBs and IBPS would continue to conduct specific recruitments as per their requirements and the Common Eligibility Test will only be the test for preliminary screening of candidates for the jobs," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-exam-from-next-year-for-select-govt-recruitment-union-minister-jitendra-singh-932591.html
28-12-2020||National||Bipin Rawat lauds Odisha Police for effectively fighting Naxalism||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Monday appreciated the Odisha Police for successfully tackling Naxalism in cooperation with central paramilitary forces. General Rawat, while virtually addressing the ongoing 62nd Senior Odisha Police Officers' Conference here, extolled the state police for maintaining "high standards" of law and order in the state. "Odisha Police has earned very high standards of law and order in the state and succeeded in tackling the challenges of Left-wing Extremism with good results," he said. He said that policemen are the most visible representatives of the government and the first responders to any crisis, which is why they are called "pioneers of security". General Rawat said the fallout of events like climate change, de-globalisation, regionalisation, popular protests and trade wars has raised the risk of destabilisation and disruptions and in this context, the role of police in maintaining internal security is critical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bipin-rawat-lauds-odisha-police-for-effectively-fighting-naxalism-932601.html
28-12-2020||National||TRP scam: Ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta's police custody extended||The Mumbai police on Monday told a local court here that Partho Dasgupta, arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in alleged connivance with another ex-senior BARC official and Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, manipulated the television rating points (TRP) of Republic TV and its Hindi arm. The Mumbai police's Crime Branch, in its remand note submitted before a magistrate's court here, sought further custody of Dasgupta, claiming he was the "mastermind" of the alleged TRP scam. It said Dasgupta and other accused (both arrested and wanted), in conspiracy, allegedly manipulated the TRP of specific TV news channels to obtain financial gain. Romil Ramgarhia, former BARC COO, also allegedly connived with Dasgupta for manipulation of TRP of certain news channels, the police claimed. "Dasgupta misused his official position and manipulated TRP of specific news channels broadcast by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd such as Republic Bharat Hindi and Republic TV English," the police alleged in its remand note. "Dasgupta, while serving as CEO of BARC, got involved in the conspiracy along with Arnab Goswami and others for manipulation of TRP. The police remand note alleged that Goswami has given "payment in lakhs" to Dasgupta from time to time. It alleged that Dasgupta used this money to procure jewellery and other expensive articles which have been seized from his residence. The magistrate, after perusing the remand note, on Monday extended the police custody of Dasgupta, who was arrested last week, till December 30. The police said his further custodial interrogation was required to ascertain if more payments were made and if the same manipulation was done for other news channels too. It further alleged that Dasgupta, while serving as BARC CEO, was privy to confidential information on TRP ratings of all channels and a probe was on to find out if the same was revealed to others. The police said BARC had carried out random test and collected samples of 40 weeks during which TRP of 'Times Now' news channel was higher, but allegedly, with rigging, the rating of Republic TV was increased. This was allegedly done by tampering with barometers, the police said. Dasgupta is the 15th person to be arrested in the case related to alleged rigging of TRP of some news channels. Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-scam-ex-barc-ceo-partho-dasguptas-police-custody-extended-932602.html
28-12-2020||National||No information on 'stop Chinese' directive to airlines: Hardeep Singh Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday denied reports that the Centre has asked airlines to stop flying Chinese nationals on India-bound flights. “It is wrong to make suggestions as to citizen of which country should come. There is no such information from our side,” Puri said. Reports in a section of the media claimed that the Centre has “informally” asked airlines not to fly Chinese nationals to India from other foreign destinations. The move, the reports suggested, was in response to China’s decision in November to bar entry of foreign nationals with valid visas and residence permits citing the Covid-19 pandemic. It was also seen as a retaliation to China’s refusal to allow 39 Indian seafarers on two cargo vessels – MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia – to disembark nor allowed the ships to leave the ports. India has suspended flights to China and those eligible to travel were flying via a third country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-information-on-stop-chinese-directive-to-airlines-hardeep-singh-puri-932604.html
28-12-2020||National||Gujarat BJP leader killed for 'engineering' power change in municipality: Police||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Monday said that the BJP councillor, who was allegedly killed in a staged hit-and-run case in Jhalod, Dahod district in central Gujarat, was murdered allegedly at the behest of sitting Congress MLA's brother Amit Katara, who also happens to be the son of ex-Congress MP Babubhai Katara. Officials said that the murder was "politically motivated as he had engineered defection in the Congress leading to the victory of the BJP-supported councillors in the municipality election. The alleged revelation came after the ATS arrested one of the main accused Imran Gudala from Mewat, Haryana, where he was traced on Sunday. Gudala is said to be close to Amit Katara, the brother of sitting local Congress MLA Bhavesh Katara. ATS officials said that at the behest of Amit Katara, Gudala and other co-accused hatched a conspiracy to kill councillor Hiren Patel. Patel was killed on September 27 when he was out on his morning walk. He was rammed by a car. "It was a political killing since Patel had orchestrated a change of power in the local municipality," Deputy Inspector General of Police Himanshu Shukla told DH. Superintendent of Police, ATS, Imtiaz Shaikh, told reporters that, "At the instruction of Amit Katara, Ifran Pada together with another accused Ajal Kalal executed the killing." Pada is also a convict in Sabarmati Express train carnage case. So far, a total of seven accused have been arrested, including Kalal, a resident of Jhalod, Salim Shaikh alias Kala, Irfan Basti, Sajjan Singh Chauhan, Md Samir Mujawar and Balram Bhuvanji, all residents of Madhya Pradesh. "Gudala is closely associated with Amit Katara. After BJP councillor Hiren Patel engineered defection in the Congress and kept several independent members of the Jhalod municipality out of Congress' reach, it is suspected that Katara was upset as he couldn't make his candidates win the election held for Jhalod Municipality president and vice-president. "His wife Kinjal was president from February 2018 to August 2020. In that election, it is believed that due to Patel, three Congress councillors and one independent favoured BJP-supported candidate. Among the three Congress councillors was Sonal Dindor who was elected unanimously. She and two other Congress councillors supported a BJP backed candidate Nanda Vaghela for the post of vice-presidentship. This led to Congress' loss in the municipality," said a police officer, who is part of the probe. Sources added that Jhalod, dominated by tribal population, is a cash-rich municipality as it gets various grants for tribal development and that could be the reason behind eliminating Patel, who is believed to play a key role in ousting the Congress from the local body. Officials said that Amit Katara will be arrested soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-bjp-leader-killed-for-engineering-power-change-in-municipality-police-932605.html
28-12-2020||National||Rahul not on holiday, has gone to meet ailing relative, says Congress||After the BJP criticised Rahul Gandhi for his visit abroad, the Congress on Monday said he has gone to meet an ailing relative and his grandmother and is not on a holiday. Asked about Rahul Gandhi's absence from the party's foundation day function at the AICC headquarters, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala came out in the defence of Gandhi, saying he is currently not the party chief and has performed all the duties entrusted to him by the organisation. The former party chief left for Italy on Sunday afternoon, a day ahead of the party's 136th foundation day, prompting many BJP leaders to take a swipe at him and the Congress. "Rahul Gandhi's holiday in India has ended and he has gone back to Italy," Union Minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh had tweeted. Surjewala said the BJP should not have any objection to Gandhi visiting an ailing relative. "Rahul Gandhi has gone out on a short personal visit to meet up with an ailing relative, who is seriously sick. He has not gone out on a holiday. He also meets up with his maternal grandmother this time of the year, every year. I don't think the BJP should have objections to him visiting an ailing relative," he told reporters. He said today the issue is not about Rahul Gandhi but of farmers protesting in the cold, and alleged that the prime minister or his ministers do not have time to meet them. "Why don't the ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the prime minister of the country take care of the farmers? Instead of abusing the opposition, why don't they pay attention to running the country? "Why doesn't the prime minister and minister go 20 kilometers and talk to the farmers? Why is the prime minister so arrogant that he is not ready to talk to farmers," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-not-on-holiday-has-gone-to-meet-ailing-relative-says-congress-932609.html
28-12-2020||National||Business leaders tweet less after lockdown: Report||With the new normal being visible even after the lockdown has been lifted, a Twitter analysis showed that top Indian business leaders and world leaders tweet less often now than they did during the lockdown period of March to June. However, Anand Mahindra and Harsh Mariwala were the two exceptions among Indian businessmen, and Michael Bloomberg and Hans Vestberg in the global set. Not just the tweets, even the traction that the tweets that business leaders received dropped in the same period. For Indian business leaders, it fell by 28 per cent, and for the global set, the retweets declined by 22 per cent. Mint also examined the kind of tweets these leaders were making. During the lockdown, the coronavirus accounted for 20 per cent of the tweets by Indian leaders and 24 per cent by global. However, after the lockdown was lifted, it declined to 13 per cent for Indian leaders, and 18 per cent for the global set. A notable point made in the report was that the 10 Indian leaders' tweets revolved much on the government policies during the post-lockdown period. The business leaders have always kept away from giving their opinions on Twitter. This could be due to the criticism from the public. During the lockdown, the most retweeted tweets for these leaders were out of the socio-political context.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/business-leaders-tweet-less-after-lockdown-report-932631.html
28-12-2020||National||Gen Naravane begins rare visit to South Korea; holds talks with top military brass||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Monday held extensive talks with the top military brass of South Korea as he began a three-day rare visit to the East Asian country to further deepen strategic ties amid mounting concerns over China's military muscle-flexing in the region. In Seoul, Gen Naravane interacted with Minister of National Defence Suh Wook, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen Won In Choul and Minister of Defence Acquisition Planning Administration Gang Eun Ho, officials said here. They said the focus of the talks was to further strengthen strategic and defence cooperation between the countries. It is the first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to South Korea. The defence and security ties between India and South Korea have been on an upswing in the last one decade as there have been a growing convergence of interests between the two sides in an array of areas including in the maritime domain. The East Asian country has been a major supplier of military platforms and weapons to India. Indian policy-makers think there is a huge opportunity to expand cooperation in manufacturing equipment relating to aeronautics, ship-building, electronics and missile technologies. The South Korean military is considered one of the strongest professional forces globally and it often operates alongside the US troops as well as carry out exercises regularly with American and other regional armed forces. The major areas of concern for South Korea include increasing Chinese hegemony in the South China Sea and security of sea lines of communication, and the country considers India as a stabilising influence in the Indian Ocean region, said a military official. The South Korean military keeps its troops at a high level of readiness in view of constant hostilities with North Korea, and policy planners in New Delhi think Indian armed forces can gain substantially from expansion of bilateral military cooperation and exchanges. Gen Naravane began his engagements by visiting the country's war memorial and national cemetery in Seoul where he paid tributes to the fallen heroes. "During the first-ever visit of an Indian Army COAS to the Republic of Korea, General MM Naravane COAS interacted with Minister of National Defence, His Excellency Suh Wook and discussed issues of mutual interest and defence cooperation," the Army said in a tweet. Gen Naravane's visit to South Korea came in the midst of growing global concerns over China's renewed military offensive in the South China Sea. The Army Chief will also visit the Korea Combat Training Centre in Gangwon province and Agency Defence Development (ADD) facility at Daejeon. Ties between the two countries were raised to the level of 'strategic partnership' during a visit to India by then South Korean President Lee Myung-bak in 2010. The relationship was further elevated to the level of 'special strategic partnership' during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Seoul in 2015. Both sides are signatories to a mutual logistics support agreement for naval cooperation. The pact facilitates the two navies to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies. Last month, Gen Naravane travelled to Nepal on a three-day visit that had significant diplomatic overtones. In October, the Chief of Army Staff, accompanied by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, travelled to Myanmar during which India decided to supply an attack submarine to the Myanmar Navy besides agreeing to further deepen military and defence ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-naravane-begins-rare-visit-to-south-korea-holds-talks-with-top-military-brass-932642.html
28-12-2020||National||SC announces new roster; CJI, 7 senior judges to hear PILs from Jan 4||The Supreme Court came out with a new roster on Monday determining the allocation of cases to its different benches, which would come into effect from January 4 next year post the winter break. According to the new roster, public interest litigation (PIL) petitions, letter petitions and social justice matters would now be heard by Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde and seven senior judges. Besides the CJI, the seniormost judge, Justice N V Ramana, and justices R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and L Nageswara Rao would deal with the PILs and social justice matters, usually involving the Centre and the states, and their instrumentalities as opposite parties. Usually, six to seven benches of the apex court assemble through video-conferencing due to the situation triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, in contrast with the normal times when 14-15 benches used to take up cases in physical hearings. Besides PIL matters, the CJI has kept with him the matters of contempt, habeas corpus, social justice, direct and indirect tax cases, among others. He would also be dealing with election matters, cases pertaining to the appointments of constitutional functionaries, and those that are specially assigned to him. The seven other judges would be assigned letter petitions and PILs by the CJI. Justice Ramana will also be hearing matters related to arbitration, compensation, religious and charitable endowments, and cases pertaining to judicial officers. The bench headed by Justice Nariman would look into cases related to company law, family law, matters related to mercantile laws, and commercial and banking transactions. The previous roster was notified on October 1, according to which PILs, letter petitions, and social justice matters were being heard by the benches headed by the CJI and seven senior judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-announces-new-roster-cji-7-senior-judges-to-hear-pils-from-jan-4-932646.html
28-12-2020||National||Javadekar hoists international blue flags at 8 beaches||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday virtually hoisted international blue flags in eight beaches across the country. These beaches are Kappad (Kerala), Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod and Padubidri (Karnataka), Rushikonda (Andhra Pradesh), Golden (Odisha) and Radhanagar (Andaman & Nicobar Islands). The Flags were also simultaneously hoisted on these beaches physically by state ministers and senior officials of the respective state and union territory. "Hoisted the International Blue Flag at 8 beaches virtually. It is a proud moment for India that all the 8 beaches which were showcased have been awarded the coveted blue flag. I compliment and congratulate the State Governments, officials and people for this feat," Javadekar tweeted. Blue Flag certification is a globally recognised eco-label accorded by "Foundation for Environment Education in Denmark" based on 33 stringent criteria. India secured the International Blue Flag Certification for these beaches on October 6 when an international jury comprising of member organisations United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), UNESCO, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), etc. announced the award at Copenhagen, Denmark. While congratulating and lauding the efforts of the state and central government as well as the people, Javadekar said "neat and clean beaches are an indicator that the coastal environment is in good health and the Blue Flag certification is a global recognition of India's conservation and sustainable development efforts". The environment minister said hundreds of more such beaches will be made Blue Flag in next three-four years and highlighted that cleaning beaches need to be made a “Jan Andolan” not only for its aesthetic value and tourism prospects but more importantly towards reducing the menace of marine litter and making the coastal environment sustainable. In an official statement, the Ministry of Environment said, "India started its journey of sustainable development of coastal regions on World Environment Day in June 2018 by launching its beach cleaning campaign – I-AM- SAVING-MY-BEACH simultaneously at 13 coastal states and thereafter implementing ministry's coveted program BEAMS(Beach Environment & Aesthetics Management Services). "Today, the introduction of BEAMS program in 10 coastal states has resulted into an international level of cleanliness at beaches with over 500 tonnes of solid waste collected, recycled and scientifically disposed at these beaches reducing the menace of marine litter by over 78 per cent and marine plastic by over 83 per cent,” it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-hoists-international-blue-flags-at-8-beaches-932649.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||Like Amethi, Raebareli too will bid goodbye to Gandhis: Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday accused former Amethi MP and Congress president Rahul Gandhi of using foul language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and resorting to lies to spread confusion in the country. At this rate, Congress will end up losing Raebareli’s Lok Sabha seat too, represented by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, in 2024 elections, said Irani, who snatched Amethi Lok Sabha seat from Rahul Gandhi in 2019 general elections. “Rahul Gandhi uses foul language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is indulging in lies to create confusion in the country,” said Irani on the second day of her visit to her parliamentary constituency. Irani who reached Amethi Friday on a three-day visit made the remark while addressing people after laying foundation stones of various developmental projects and inaugurating different welfare schemes in her constituency. The Union minister alleged that the Gandhi family and Rahul Gandhi have knowingly thrown farmers and the poor in poverty to do their politics without any hurdles. And for this, Amethi has already bid goodbye to Rahul Gandhi and Raebareli too would do the same to the Gandhi family in 2024, she said, claiming that her party will win the Raebareli seat as well in the next Lok Sabha elections. Irani said it was not easy for a woman belonging to a common family to fight against the Gandhi family. “I have faced a lot of humiliation but it is the love of the people here that I am standing here as your MP,” she said. “How can someone, who has never seen poverty, know the pain of the poor?” she asked, alleging that Rahul Gandhi has grabbed the land of farmers and snatched their rights. “How can those living in palaces of gold know the plight of farmers?” she asked. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who too was present with Irani, also charged the Congress with neglecting the development of Amethi. He also accused the West Bengal government of depriving the farmers of the benefits of the central scheme in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/like-amethi-raebareli-too-will-bid-goodbye-to-gandhis-smriti-irani-932362.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||Anna Hazare threatens to launch hunger strike in his 'last protest' for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his "last protest". Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said he had been holding protests for cultivators since the last three years, but the government has done nothing to resolve the issues. "The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government)...Let's see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my hunger strike protest. This would be my last protest," the 83-year-old said. On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee's recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain to him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anna-hazare-threatens-to-launch-hunger-strike-in-his-last-protest-for-farmers-932384.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||PM Modi, other top BJP leaders pay tributes to Arun Jaitley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to his former cabinet colleague and late BJP leader Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversary and said his warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with.  Other BJP leaders also remembered the former finance minister who for many years remained the most articulate party voice on a gamut of issues and was considered one of its sharpest political minds.  Born in 1952, Jaitley died in August last year. "Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary. His warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. He worked tirelessly for India's progress," Modi tweeted.  In his tributes, Home Minister Amit Shah said Jaitley was an outstanding parliamentarian whose knowledge and insights had very few parallels. "He made a lasting contribution to Indian polity and served the nation with great passion & devotion. My heartfelt tributes," he said.  BJP president J P Nadda said Jaitley will be remembered as an articulate orator and capable strategist. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said remembering Jaitley's contribution to India's public life and his role in strengthening the party will always be remembered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-other-top-bjp-leaders-pay-tributes-to-arun-jaitley-932387.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul skip Congress Foundation Day event||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were missing from the 136th foundation day of the party on Monday, giving a handle to the BJP to take potshots and leaving a section of the party disappointed. Congress cited “health reasons” for the party chief’s absence at the flag-hoisting function at the AICC headquarters next door to her official 10, Janpath residence, while Rahul, the de-facto president, had left for Milan on Sunday to meet his ailing grandmother. The foundation day function was a truncated affair with only Congress Working Committee members being asked to be present citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Veteran leader A K Antony hoisted the party flag with Ghulam Nabi Azad and KC Venugopal by his side. “For 136 years we have been celebrating the foundation day of the Congress, regardless if someone is present or absent,” Azad, who was part of the G-23 letter writers who had sought a more visible leadership in the party, told reporters at the AICC. Speaking to the media, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sought the repeal of the three farm laws and expressed solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting against the farm sector reforms for the past 33 days. Several Congress leaders also joined MPs from Punjab, who have been protesting at Jantar Mantar for the past three weeks, in solidarity with the agitating farmers. “Rahul Gandhi is neither serious nor mature, he only pretends to be a well-wisher of the farmers. After a picnic in India, he has now gone to eat Italian pizza… and if we call him an immature boy of 51 years, people feel offended,” Gaurav Bhatia, BJP spokesman, said. Congress slammed the BJP for the remarks and wondered whether it was a crime to visit an ailing grandmother. “Rahul is not the Congress president. He carries out the tasks assigned to him by the party as a party worker. Can’t he visit his ailing member of his family,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-rahul-skip-congress-foundation-day-event-932400.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||Anybody speaking against BJP faces ED or CBI: Anil Deshmukh||In an apparent swipe at the Centre, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said whoever speaks against policies or leaders of the BJP is facing action by the Central agencies, a day after it came to light that the ED had summoned Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's wife in the PMC Bank money laundering case on December 29. Speaking to reporters here, the senior NCP leader also said that the use of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for "political purposes" had never happened in Maharashtra. "Anybody who speaks against policies or leaders of the BJP faces the ED or the CBI. As far as the Central Bureau of Investigation is concerned, we had taken a decision that any probe by that agency in Maharashtra cannot be pursued without the permission of the state government. "However, the rights of ordering an ED inquiry is with them (the Central government), but using these rights for the political purpose was something never seen in Maharashtra," Deshmukh said. He was replying to a query on the ED summoning the wife of Sanjay Raut for questioning. In October this year, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government had revoked the "general consent" given to the CBI to probe cases in the state. The NCP and the Congress are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Meanwhile, another senior NCP leader Praful Patel told reporters in a separate interaction that several people are now getting notices from the ED. "....The reason (behind getting such notices) may be political or may be something else...Whatever it my be the facts will stand out. I don't want to derive any other meaning out of this action. "We don't take these things otherwise. Such things happen..action is taken...We follow the procedure," he said when asked whether the Central agencies were being misused to settle political scores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anybody-speaking-against-bjp-faces-ed-or-cbi-anil-deshmukh-932405.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||A month of Delhi protests: How farmers are sustaining themselves during the stir||Since the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protests started a month ago, thousands of farmers from villages in Punjab and Haryana have been camping on the highway demanding a complete repeal of the Centre’s contentious farm laws as support for their movement pours in from India and abroad. Farmers have reportedly kept a part of the highway open to allow for trucks to bring in supply and to court visitors and supporters. Protestors take turns and work on stocking up on essentials by driving to and from their villages to their new dwellings, the Delhi border. Through this network, farmers ensure that food is stocked, bottled water is made available, winter clothes and firewood are provided, cleanliness is ensured on the highways and morale is always maintained through group activities. Lakhwinder Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) told the paper that they follow a system where only one village arranges for supplies for a day and divide responsibilities equally. “We have a team back home and they only have to be told what we need. Following this, they coordinate with villagers and deliver the supplies here the next day.” Since the farmers arrived at the various border points of Delhi, they have opened up community kitchens, seating areas and built a stage. Some of them sleep in trucks, using clothes to create sleeping compartments, HT reported. Some farmers stay back in the villages to work, but they keep updated with the protests in Delhi through the strong social media network of Facebook and WhatsApp groups. “We want to stay here but someone also has to work back home on the fields of these farmers and ensure they have all that they need here,” Inderjeet Singh Khullar, one of the protestors helping in replenishing stock, told HT. Gurwinder Singh, a farmer from Punjab is quoted in a report saying that no work of any farmer has been affected by the agitation as people are helping each other out. Farmers at the Delhi borders have shown no signs of backing off as they head for another round of talks with the Centre on Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-month-of-delhi-protests-how-farmers-are-sustaining-themselves-during-the-stir-932436.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh Cong MLAs stage silent protest against Centre's farm laws||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLAs led by state unit chief Kamal Nath on Monday staged a silent protest against the Centre's new farm laws in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue in the Assembly premises here. The protest began with Nath garlanding the statue of Gandhiji amid MLAs holding placards and toy tractors and shouting slogans denouncing the Centre. The decision to stage a silent protest was taken since the three-day winter session of the Assembly, set to begin on Monday, was postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak, said state Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja. "We will continue to extend support to the ongoing farm agitation against the Centre's new laws," he added. The winter session got postponed after 61 Assembly staffers and seven MLAs tested positive for Covid-19. An earlier plan by the party to arrive at the Assembly complex in tractors was set to face hurdles from an order issued by the district collector banning the movement of several types of vehicles within a 5-kilometre radius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-cong-mlas-stage-silent-protest-against-centres-farm-laws-932438.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||A country that does not respect agriculture will fall, says Kamal Haasan||Backing the farmers protesting against the contentious Central farm laws outside Delhi, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said any country that "does not respect agriculture will fall." Farmers were "annadaata", Haasan, who earlier deputed a party delegation to express solidarity with the agitating farmers near the national capital, told reporters here. "A country that does not respect agriculture will fall. I believe that should not happen to our country. They (farmers) are the annadata (providers of food)," Haasan said. He was responding to a question on the more than a month-long farmers' protest in Delhi, where ryots, mainly from Punjab and Haryana have held ground demanding repealing of Centre's three farm laws. To a question on actor Rajinikanth, who was discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, Haasan wished him good health, saying that was more important. Asked if the superstar, who is slated to launch his political party next month, will come forward to join hands with him, Haasan only said "we have done so forty years ago," in an apparent reference to their working together in many movies. Haasan added "it is not necessary that friendship should go away" if they entered politics. Earlier, the two had hinted at working together in the field of politics. To a question, he indicated his party might lead a 'third front' in the state for the 2021 Assembly elections, likely to be held in April-May next year. Matters like chief ministerial candidate have to be discussed with other probable partners, he added. When asked about the actor highlighting late chief minister and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in his election speeches, ruffling the feathers of the ruling party, and if he will also recall others like the late DMK president M Karunanidhi, the actor-politician said he will "do so at the appropriate time." The MNM chief also released what he claimed was a "bribe list" to be paid for various government services in the state such as providing birth certificate and driving licence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-country-that-does-not-respect-agriculture-will-fall-says-kamal-haasan-932469.html
28-12-2020||National Politics||On foundation day of Congress, Sonia Gandhi urges partymen to unite in fighting 'dictatorship'||On the foundation day of the Congress on Monday, its chief Sonia Gandhi urged the party leaders and workers to unite in "fighting dictatorship" in the country and protecting its democracy, Constitution and people. Addressing party workers in a video message on the 136th foundation day of the party, Gandhi claimed that the country is going through difficult times as prevailing before independence. Congratulating the Congress leaders and workers on the completion of 135 years of the party's formation, she said it has traversed the path from the freedom struggle till now for achieving the values of patriotism, fearlessness, selflessness, selfless service towards humanity, brotherhood and the country's unity and integrity. Gandhi said the party was launched as part of a "jan andolan" (people's movement) during the freedom struggle and has seen times when atrocities were committed on its leaders and workers. "But Congressmen have not fallen behind in achieving their goals of getting India's freedom and in the service of the country, despite taking lathis, going to jail and giving their supreme sacrifices," she said, adding that the grand old party has helped lay the country's strong foundations. "Today, once again the circumstances are similar to those existing before independence. The rights of people are being crushed, there is dictatorship everywhere, democratic and constitutional institutions are being finished. "Unemployment is at its peak, farms and fields are being attacked and black laws are being imposed on the country's 'annadata' (food provider). In such circumstances, it is our responsibility to save the country from such dictatorship and fight it. This is true patriotism," Gandhi said in her video message. Urging the Congressmen to strengthen the party at every level, she said it is the hope of the people of the country. "We will have to unite to save the pride and honour of the tricolour, under which we achieved our nation's freedom. "We have to win over the hearts of people. We should take a pledge on the Congress's foundation day to fight to protect the country's democracy, Constitution and the countrymen for whom we will fight till our last breath," she said. Gandhi skipped the party's foundation day function at the AICC headquarters here. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi also skipped the event as he is abroad. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and a number of Congress leaders attended the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/on-foundation-day-of-congress-sonia-gandhi-urges-partymen-to-unite-in-fighting-dictatorship-932598.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi braces for cold wave in run-up to New Year||A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather department officials said on Monday.  The minimum temperature in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius as against 6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department said the mercury may drop to three degrees Celsius on New Year's Eve.  Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next four days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a Western Disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.  The wind system has withdrawn. Now, cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas will bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius, he said. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, UP and north Rajasthan.Ground frost and dense fog is likely in isolated pockets in the region," the IMD added. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.   On Sunday last, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-braces-for-cold-wave-in-run-up-to-new-year-932385.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||BJP’s Haryana coalition partner JJP walks tightrope on farmers’ protests||Farmers in Haryana didn’t go as far as those in neighbouring Punjab, but the protests over the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws kept politics on the boil in this state as well in the closing months of the year. The year was also marked by a new Haryanvis First policy on jobs, a law in the making against the so-called “Love Jihad” and a tussle between the chief minister and the home minister over a coveted police department. All this against the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, which tested Haryana as it did the rest of the country. Months before the current agitation over the Centre's three new farm laws erupted, the opposition Congress and the Indian National Lok Dal had already begun raising farmers’ issues in the state. The two parties complained about alleged mismanagement in wheat procurement and slammed a new crop diversification scheme, saying farmers were being “forced” to give up paddy cultivation. And when criticism over the new laws sharpened, the Jannayak Janta Party -- a part of the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state -- felt the heat. Over the weeks, the opposition accused the new party of ignoring farmers’ concern just to hang on to power in Haryana. At least half of the JJP’s own 10 MLAs too have made statements supporting the protesters, defying the official coalition line that the laws are for the farmers’ own good. Farmers protested even in JJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s Uchana constituency, digging up a part of a temporary helipad where they expected his chopper to land. Chautala has been forced to do a tightrope walk -- backing the BJP government’s laws but conceding that some amendments are needed. Urging farmers not to walk out of negotiations with the Centre, he has assured that the minimum support price system for their crops will continue in Haryana. “I will quit the government, if the MSP goes,” he said. Chautala’s outfit has fulfilled an election promise in another sector. Earlier this year, the BJP-JJP government brought a Bill proposing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from within the state. The new quota applies to jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. Ironically, a JJP MLA was the one who sounded a note of caution. Ram Kumar Gautam said the move will set a wrong precedent -- other states may well decide to stop hiring people from Haryana, if Haryana stops hiring their people. Another Bill passed bny the assembly proposed giving rural voters the right to cut short the terms of sarpanchs and other panchayat members if they don’t perform. Apart from this “right to recall”, the new law would fix a 50 per cent quota for women in panchayat bodies. The murder of a 21-year-old college student, caught on video in Ballabhgarh, triggered some tough talk by Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on bringing a law to check “love jihad”, a reference to right-wing allegations that Hindu women are being lured or coerced into marriages by Muslim men seeking to convert them. A similar allegation was made by the dead woman’s family. Vij has set up a three-member committee to draft legislation against religious conversion through coercion or fraud. It will study laws in other states, the minister said. Earlier in the year, the home minister was involved in an unseemly tussle over the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), usually seen as part of the police force, which is under him. But Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had kept it for himself. Ultimately, the six-time MLA backed down. “I have always maintained that the chief minister is supreme and he can take away or divide any department,” he said. Vij is also the state’s health minister, which pitched him in the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. A 29-year-old woman from Gurgaon district was the first person in Haryana to test positive for the virus. By the year-end, about 2.6 lakh cases and 2,800 deaths were recorded. As migrant workers headed home after the lockdown, the state lost about Rs 4,600 crore in revenue in the first few months alone. Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, CM Khattar, Deputy CM Chautala and assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were among the politicians who tested positive. Vij too caught the virus, ironically after offering himself as a volunteer for the trial for the indigenous Covaxin. For the Congress, the shot in the arm came in November when its Indu Raj Narwal defeated BJP’s wrestler-turned politician Yogeshwar Dutt in Sonipat’s Baroda, retaining the seat for the opposition party. Haryana’s claim on river water through Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal also figured briefly in 2020. Recently, Haryana BJP activists sat on dharnas to highlight the issue, which is yet to be settled despite the Supreme Court’s intervention. But farmers’ bodies termed the BJP demonstrations a ploy to deflect attention from their own cause In August, Khattar, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had discussed the matter through video conference. Their meeting remained inconclusive with Singh, indirectly hinting that Khalistani elements will take advantage if Punjab gives in to the neighbour’s demand. “Punjab will burn,” Singh had warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-s-haryana-coalition-partner-jjp-walks-tightrope-on-farmers-protests-932423.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||UP: 40 ASHA workers detained for taking expectant mothers to illegally-run nursing home for delivery||Forty ASHA workers were taken into custody for allegedly taking gifts from an illegally-run nursing home as an allurement for bringing more expectant mothers there for the birth of their children, police said on Monday. The administration had got information that ASHA workers were being distributed gifts as allurements by a nursing home operating illegally for bringing more expectant mothers there for delivery, District Magistrate, Budaun, Kumar Prashant said. Subsequently, a raid was carried out at the Ayesha nursing home in the Navada area under Civil Lines police station Sunday night and 40 ASHA workers were detained while accepting gifts, he said. Prashant said a case has been registered against all the detained ASHA workers and proceeding for their dismissal from service is being initiated. He said action will also be taken against health department officials found involved in it. The nursing home has also been sealed and a case registered against its owners and the staff, the official said. According to police, the nursing home belonged to a Samajwadi Party leader and was operating illegally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-40-asha-workers-detained-for-taking-expectant-mothers-to-illegally-run-nursing-home-for-delivery-932428.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC ensured 'all hands on deck' to thwart Covid-19 in 2020||Covid-19, which brought the country to a standstill in March, did not deter the Delhi High Court from ensuring that people had access to justice and "all hands were on deck" to curb the spread of the deadly virus as also to provide treatment and basic amenities to those affected by it. Before the pandemic brought the country to a grinding halt, the high court conducted two unprecedented midnight hearings, one related to north-east Delhi riots and the other to the Nirbhaya gangrape and murder case. Throughout the year, the high court dealt with a number of petitions relating to Covid-19, including pleas to provide adequate PPE kits to health workers, sanitation staff, medical cover to media persons reporting on the pandemic, payment of salaries to teachers, doctors, nurses, safai karamchaaris and retired employees of municipal corporations. A day after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, the high court took no time to commence hearings via video conferencing of very urgent matters, and only lawyers appearing for each side were allowed the access. In the riots case, a call was made at the residence of a judge explaining the dire circumstances wherein it was not possible to move the victims from a small hospital to a government hospital. The court directed the police to ensure their safe passage and emergency treatment. The next day, the judge, Justice S Muralidhar, expressed "anguish" over Delhi Police's failure to register FIRs against alleged hate speeches by three BJP leaders. Hours later a notification was issued by the central government for his transfer to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Even as many in the legal community questioned the timing, Justice Muralidhar, during his farewell, apprised everyone that he was informed about the transfer much before he heard the riots case. On late evening of March 19, three of the convicts in the Nirbhaya case approached the high court to stop their execution. However, their plea was dismissed by the high court as well as the Supreme Court and they were hanged on the morning of March 20. During the initial phase of heaings via video-conferencing, the court dealt with the pleas of students and other citizens stranded abroad due to coronavirus and directed the authorities to take steps to evacuate them. It also from time to time extended interim orders, including bail, issued by it and subordinate courts before the lockdown. By June, when Unlock-1 was implemented, almost all benches of the high court began hearing matters via video conferencing which the general public was allowed to attend. Following the Supreme Court orders, a high powered committee, headed by a senior Delhi High Court judge, was formed to reduce the number of inmates in over-crowded jails via parole and interim bail. The high court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to implement steps to curb domestic violence and protect the victims during the lockdown and to also ensure there was no dearth of food, water, electricity and sanitation requirements for homeless workers during the period. It observed that in the present "emergent" situation when the country is struggling to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, "it is the need of the hour that all hands are on the deck" and suggested the government to appoint officers to address all problems faced by migrant and daily wage workers living in relief camps during the lockdown. It also gave stern directions to the authorities to clear the arrears and pay salaries of the employees. Besides, it asked the government to ensure that Covid-19 test samples sent to the accredited labs are processed swiftly and the results declared within 24-48 hours. Availability of beds -- both ICU and normal -- and ambulances were the other issues which the high court kept monitoring. It kept pushing the Delhi government to go for RT-PCR tests, instead of Rapid Antigen Testing, but it was only after the per day cases crossed 8,000 in November and strictures were passed by the high court that the AAP administration "turned turtle" and "woke up" to the situation. In September, the high court began physical hearings of matters on a smaller scale due to requests from a section of lawyers. However, according to the high court data more than 90 per cent advocates preferred proceedings via video conferencing. In October, the high court also decided to stop granting a blanket extension of interim orders, including bails and ordered the staggered surrender of the prisoners. However, the decision was put on hold by the Supreme Court. In November, the high court decided to extend its restricted form of functioning till January 16, 2021. Towards the year-end, by an interim order, it allowed Amazon to oppose before regulators a Rs 24,713 crore deal by Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail to sell assets to Reliance Retail but ruled that the US e-commerce giant's attempt to control Future Retail is violative of FEMA and FDI rules. The other cases dealt with by the high court during the year related to actor Rakul Preet Singh's plea over media connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case as also the pleas challenging the election of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia for allegedly violating poll campaign norms in the recent assembly elections. The court also set aside ex-law minister Jitender Tomar's election in 2015 polls for false declaration and refused to suspend BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar's life imprisonment for raping a minor girl in Unnao in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-ensured-all-hands-on-deck-to-thwart-covid-19-in-2020-932429.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Home Minister Amit Shah unveils Arun Jaitley's statue at DDCA premises||A controversial build-up notwithstanding, the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) on Monday unveiled the statue of its former president Arun Jaitley at its premises in the memory of the late administrator and political figure. Union Home Minister Amit Shah unveiled Jaitley's life-size statue, prepared by 96-year-old renowned sculptor Ram Sutar, the man behind the making of the iconic Statue of Unity in Gujarat. Former India cricketer Bishen Singh Bedi had severely criticised the DDCA for choosing to install the statue of an administrator instead of an inspirational cricketer and even demanded that his name be removed from one the stands at the Feroze Shah Kotla ground. BCCI President and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, India opener Shikhar Dhawan, ex India opener Gautam Gambhir, who is also a BJP MP from Delhi, BCCI Vice President Rajeev Shukla and Union Minister Hardeep Puri attended the unveiling ceremony along with a number of DDCA officials. "Arun was like an elder brother to me. He was known for his sportsmanship spirit in political circle. He remained aggressive in his speeches but never lowered the dignity of the Parliament," Shah said in his tribute to Jaitley, who remained DDCA President for 13 years. "Arun always put his own interest at the back, never sought publicity and rose during the Emergency days when he spent 19 months in jail. His political journey started then. He was multi-talented and fulfilled a range of responsibilities." Ganguly said Jaitley's contribution was immense in the development of cricket in Delhi, though the DDCA has been in "turmoil" for some time. "When we play and get 100, it gets recognition but lot of people work behind the scene and help the cricketers. He was a cricketer's person. that is the role of an administrator," he said. "I remember a phone call (he) made during the 2003 World Cup in South Africa. We had lost the first game and the whole country went berserk but he (Jaitley) said that association supports you and you play well. These small things matter, he was a great human being," said Ganguly. "This is a remarkably talented state which has produced so many players, Virat Kohli, Ishant Sharma, Rishabh Pant now and many in the past. A settled DDCA is good thing for Indian cricket and hopefully they can do it." Gambhir said the installation of Jailtely's statue is a perfect tribute to him. "We won the Ranji trophy during his tenure and the stadium was also built. Honesty, (being) intellectual and absolute transparency are important for any administrator and he had that," said Gambhir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-minister-amit-shah-unveils-arun-jaitleys-statue-at-ddca-premises-932430.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Horse-trading in DDCs: J&K admin to verify status of anti-defection law||Amid allegations of horse-trading and pressurising of DDC candidates to switch sides, Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday said that it will verify whether anti-defection law can be enacted in the union territory (UT) to stop the alleged poaching. “I will have to check it from the Rural Development Department (RDD) department whether the anti-defection law can be imposed on DDC members or not,” Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, P K Pole, told reporters on the sidelines of the oath-taking ceremony of the newly elected DDC members in Srinagar. After PM Narendra Modi recently praised J&K administration for holding peaceful district development council (DDC) elections, former Chief Minister and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah alleged that the BJP was using official machinery to influence, buy or pressurise winning candidates to switch sides. He also accused the Apni Party, believed to be the proxy of the BJP, and the union territory administration of using coercive tactics to buy loyalties of newly elected DDC members. The NC leader had demanded that anti-defection laws should be applied to all candidates who switch sides after the election results. Over the last few days, the Apni Party claimed that three candidates - one Independent and one each from the NC and the PDP - who won the DDC elections last week, have joined its ranks. Since the anti-defection laws do not apply to the winning candidates of DDCs, parties like NC, PDP and Congress don’t have any recourse when its winning candidates shift allegiance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/horse-trading-in-ddcs-jk-admin-to-verify-status-of-anti-defection-law-932432.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||From militancy to mainstream: J&K youths give up terror path for variety of reasons||There was the young man who surrendered after he spent a night on a tree to hide from a bear on the prowl and felt his militant recruiters had left him to die and another, so moved by the entreaties of his parents that he laid down arms right in the middle of an operation. The stories of the 17 recruits to the militant movement who took the decision to surrender their arms to the Army officials this year are varied but their subtext is the same – the desire to return to the mainstream. Officials said the Army has been focusing on surrenders and has had many successful counter-terror operations in the Valley, especially in south Kashmir. Three months ago, a 24-year-old from the Valley was persuaded to join militancy by a local militant Abbas Sheikh. He was given a grenade and designated a member of The Resistance Front (TRF), a shadow group believed to be a subsidiary of the banned Lashker-e-Taiba terror outfit, officials said. The disenchantment set in soon after, they said. The youth, whose identity is being kept under wraps, spent a night on a tree, tired, hungry and fearful of a wild bear who lay in prowl. He had been roaming the jungles of Kokernag when he encountered the bear. "The bear ran after me and I managed to climb a tree. I was on the tree the entire day and night on an empty stomach with a grenade in my hand. I realised that our mentors are making fools of us," he is quoted as saying in his interrogation report. It was a turning point. He gave up his arms at a nearby Army unit in the interiors of south Kashmir. He was promised that he and his family can now lead a normal life. Details of his surrender are not being divulged, said a senior official. In another incident on December 22, troops of the 34 Rashtriya Rifles received information about the presence of two Lashker-e-Taiba terrorists at Tantraypora in Kulgam district. The two terrorists were identified as Yawar Waghey and Amir Ahmed Mir. "As we launched the operation, we came to know that both were locals who had joined the ranks of terrorists a couple of months ago,” an official said. Efforts began to identify their families and get their parents to appeal to them to surrender. "Waghey's elderly father and mother made appeals to their son and finally he came out and surrendered before the troops. We requested Mir's parents to do the same and he, too, came out and laid down his arms," an official said. There is a video capturing the moment of Waghey's parents with their son. It shows Waghey's mother kissing him on the forehead while the father reassures both that the Army was there to protect them and would take care of them. "...Tell them everything and you will soon have meals with us," the father tells the son. Among the 17 militants who surrendered this year was Shoiab Ahmed Bhat of the Al Badr terror group in August this year. He was part of the group which had killed a jawan of the Territorial Army in south Kashmir's Shopian district. The efforts don't always work. On Saturday, Army troops made a desperate attempt to persuade terrorists to surrender during an operation at Kanigam in Shopian district. However, the terrorists did not heed to the request and were subsequently killed, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-militancy-to-mainstream-jk-youths-give-up-terror-path-for-variety-of-reasons-932446.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Postage stamps with pictures of underworld don Chhota Rajan, gangster Munna Bajrangi printed in UP||In a shocking incident, a post office in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, located about 90 kilometres from Lucknow, printed postage stamps carrying pictures of underworld don Chhota Rajan and gangster Munna Bajrangi, who was killed inside Baghpat jail in July 2018. One can get personalised sheets of postage stamps by paying a fee under the 'My Stamp' scheme and could use them to send letters. However, the applicant has to give passport size photograph and identification proof to the India Post officials. According to the sources, a youth from Kanpur's Kalyanpur got the photographs of the two criminals printed under the scheme and it was done at the GPO in Kanpur's Bara Chauraha locality. The youth is a scribe associated with a Hindi daily and claimed later that he had done it to expose the workings of the post office.  Left red-faced after the incident, the officials said that they would investigate the matter and punish the guilty. ''We have taken a note of the matter. We will get it thoroughly investigated. Postage stamps under the My Stamp scheme can not be issued without proper verification of the applicant. It can only be issued in the name of a living person,'' said a senior official in Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/postage-stamps-with-pictures-of-underworld-don-chhota-rajan-gangster-munna-bajrangi-printed-in-up-932453.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||College students in UP booked for sedition; principal alleges they raised anti-national slogans||Six students of a college here were booked for sedition after its principal lodged a complaint accusing them of raising "anti-national slogans" during a protest on the institute's campus, police said on Monday. The students of Saket Degree College allegedly raised the slogans during a demonstration on December 16 against the non-conduct of students' union elections. In his police complaint, Principal N D Pandey said that the students had raised "anti-national" slogans such as "Azaadi le Ke Rahenge". He also named the students in his complaint, police said. The students, however, denied the allegations, saying they were demanding "Azaadi (freedom)" from a corrupt principal and an anti-student system of the college. On the principal's complaint, police have booked Sumit Tiwari, Shesh Narayan Pandey, Imran Hashmi, Satvik Pandey, Mohit Yadav and Manoj Mishra. They have been booked under sections 124 A (sedition), 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order ), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 342 (wrongfully confinement), 353 (assault on public servant), 427 (causing damage to property), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) and 506 (offense of criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, police said. "The students were raising slogans of 'Azaadi' and they wanted to take 'Azaadi' by revolt and by violence. They were raising the slogans, they were trying to burn the nation, and we're creating violence. To protect the motherland is my duty and I have filed the complaint against the students," Pandey told PTI. However, former student union president Abhas Krishna Yadav said the students were raising "Azaadi slogans as they were demanding 'Azaadi' from a corrupt principal and an anti-student system of the college". They were demanding that the student union elections be held, said Abhas Yadav, a student of the Saket Degree College.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/college-students-in-up-booked-for-sedition-principal-alleges-they-raised-anti-national-slogans-932462.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Snowfall in higher reaches of J&K; improvement in minimum temperature in Valley||Many areas in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir received fresh snowfall even as there was an improvement in the minimum temperature across the Valley, providing some respite from the cold to the residents, officials said on Monday. Fresh snowfall was recorded in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley and the Jammu region during the night, the officials said. They said the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded two inches of snow, while Pahalgam resort, in the south, and Sonamarg resort, in central Kashmir, each received around an inch of snow. Gurez in north Kashmir recorded three inches of fresh snowfall, the officials said, adding there are reports of snowfall in other areas in the upper reaches of the valley as well. Many areas in the Jammu region also received fresh snowfall, they said. The officials said the area around the Jawahar Tunnel — on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway — received two to four inches of snow, leading to temporary disruption of traffic movement on the highway. The traffic on the highway — the only all-weather road-link connecting the valley with the rest of the country — was suspended for some time in the morning, but was allowed later after the clearance of snow, the officials said. The overcast conditions led to an increase in the night temperature across the Kashmir valley during the night, providing huge relief to the residents, the officials said. They said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — increased nearly six degrees from minus 5.2 degrees Celsius the previous night to settle above the freezing point at 0.6 degrees Celsius Sunday night. The officials said the mercury in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir settled at minus 1.3 degrees Celsius, up over four degrees from the previous night's low of minus 5.9 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 6.5 degrees Celsius – up from minus 7.2 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. The resort was the coldest recorded place in the valley, they added. Qazigund — the gateway town to the valley — recorded the minimum of minus 0.3 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 1.5 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' — the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' — which began on December 21 — will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold) following it. The Met Office has said the weather would likely remain dry till January 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-jk-improvement-in-minimum-temperature-in-valley-932480.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Man killed, 3 injured as wall collapses in UP||A man died and three others were injured when a wall collapsed and fell over them at a brick kiln in the Kotwali Dehat area here on Monday, police said. A temporary wall erected at a brick kiln collapsed when three youths were loading bricks on a tractor-trolley in Mirzapur village, Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said. A youth standing near the wall died, while those three loading the trolley suffered injuries, he said. Police identified the deceased as Sachin and the three injured as Akash, Arjun and Sikandar. They said the injured were rushed to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-3-injured-as-wall-collapses-in-up-932489.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Rawat admitted to AIIMS in Delhi||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was hospitalised in Dehradun after developing fever, was admitted to AIIMS in Delhi on Monday. He was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility, around 12.30 pm, sources said, adding his condition was stable. Rawat's physician N S Bisht said he has been shifted to AIIMS for necessary tests on the advice of doctors there. The chief minister's health parameters are normal and his fever has also gone down since Sunday night. There is slight infection in his lungs, he said. Rawat was in home isolation since December 18 after testing positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the Government Doon Medical College here after developing fever on Sunday evening. His wife and daughter had also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-admitted-to-aiims-in-delhi-932513.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Interfaith marriage: Allahabad HC quashes FIR, says adult woman has right to live as she wishes||The Allahabad High Court has quashed an FIR lodged against a Muslim man over a marriage with a Hindu woman, ruling that she had a right to live her life on her own terms. Upholding the interfaith marriage in a case from Uttar Pradesh’s Etah district, a bench of Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal said the woman is an adult according to her high school certificate. It said the woman, Shikha, has the right to live life according to her own wishes and terms and she has expressed her desire to stay with her husband. The bench said she is free to do so. The judgment was delivered on December 18 on a habeas corpus petition. The Kotwali Dehat police in Etah district had registered a case in September against the man, Salman alias Karan, under section 366 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with “inducing” or abducting a woman to compel her into marriage. On December 7, Etah’s Chief Judicial Magistrate ordered that Shikha should be handed over to the child welfare committee. The committee then sent her to her parents the next day against her wishes. The high court said the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s order and action of the child welfare committee did not follow legal provisions. Shikha was produced before the high court on its directions. The court said that according to the high school certificate, her date of birth is October 4, 1999 and she is an adult. The matter came up before the high court against the backdrop of a flurry of cases registered by the UP Police under the state’s new ordinance which punishes “forcible” or “fraudulent” religious conversions, including those involving marriages. The Etah case, however, was registered before the new law came into being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interfaith-marriage-allahabad-hc-quashes-fir-says-adult-woman-has-right-to-live-as-she-wishes-932523.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||28 MLAs elected in bypolls take oath as members of Madhya Pradesh Assembly||Twenty-eight MLAs elected in the recent bypolls in Madhya Pradesh were administered the oath as members of the Assembly on Monday by protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma, a government official said. They were supposed to take oath on the first day of the winter session of the Assembly which was scheduled to begin on Monday. However, after the session was postponed due to some Assembly staffers and MLAs testing positive for coronavirus, the oath ceremony was held in the office of the speaker, he said. Those who took oath were BJP legislators Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Brajendra Singh Yadav, Bisahulal Singh, Dr Prabhuram Choudhary, Rajwardhan Singh Dattigaon, Hardeep Singh Dang, OPS Bhadoria and Tulsiram Silawat. Their party colleagues Raksha Santram Sironia, Govind Singh Rajput, Pradyumn Singh Lodhi, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, Kamlesh Jatav, Suresh Dhakad Rathkheda, Jajpal Singh Jajji, Manoj Narayan Singh Choudhary, Narayan Patel and Subedar Singh Sikarwar also took oath. The other nine MLAs who were administered the oath were from the Congress, namely Mevaram Jatav, Rakesh Mawai, Kunwar Ravindra Singh, Ajab Singh Kushwaha, Dr Satish Sikarwar, Suresh Raje, Vipin Bankhede, Pragilal Jatav and Ramchandra Dangi. The ruling BJP had won 19 out of the 28 seats in the bypolls held on November 3, taking its strength in the 230-member House to 126. The tally of the Congress, which won nine of the 28 bypoll seats, is 96.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-mlas-elected-in-bypolls-take-oath-as-members-of-madhya-pradesh-assembly-932545.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Ram Temple project likely to cost Rs 1,100 crore: Trust official||The construction of the Ram Temple complex in Ayodhya, including the main structure, is estimated to cost around Rs 1,100 crore and is expected to be completed in three-and-a-half years, said the treasurer of the trust overseeing the project on Monday. Swami Govind Dev Giriji Maharaj, treasurer, Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said structural experts and engineers are drawing up a plan for foundation of the temple. Addressing a press conference here, he said the cost of construction of the main Ram Temple is estimated at Rs 300 crore to Rs 400 crore, while the entire premises will "cost not less than Rs 1,100 crore". "But, these are all estimation that we need to raise, the seer said. The construction of the temple has started and experts from IITs at Bombay, Delhi, Madras, Guwahati, Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, and special engineers from L&T and Tata groups are deliberating on drawing up a plan for strong foundation of the complex, Giriji Maharaj said. "Options given for the foundation of the temple will be discussed at tomorrow's meeting (of the trust) (and final selection will be done)," he said. Giriji Maharaj said the trust, set up by the Centre, has received more than Rs 100 crore worth of donations online till now. "Besides, we will be reaching out to 4 lakh villages and 11 crore families so that all sections of the society can participate in this initiative," Giriji Maharaj said. The trust has announced the launch of a mass contact and fund contribution campaign for construction of the temple. The Vidarbha regional office for collection of donations was opened in the city a few days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-project-likely-to-cost-rs-1100-crore-trust-official-932554.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Panun Kashmir reiterates demand for separate homeland in valley||Reiterating its demand for a separate homeland in the Valley for the rehabilitation of Kashmiri pandits, Panun Kashmir, an organisation representing the community, Monday sought a one-time compensation for their youths who could not apply for government jobs on account of being in exile. It also called for setting up a special crimes tribunal to enquire into the "excesses, genocide and ethnic cleansing" against the community, and a law for preservation and management of Hindu temples and shrines in the Valley. The demands were highlighted by Panun Kashmir leaders at a function here to mark the '29th Margdarshan Divas', a party release said, adding it was on this day 29 years back that the historical 'Margdarshan Resolution' was adopted to highlight various demands of the displaced community. Panun Kashmir President Virender Raina in his address said the Margdarshan Resolution represents the sum total of the aspirations of the Kashmiri Pandit community. "The resolution unambiguously demanded the creation of a separate homeland on the North and East of river Jhelum with free flow of Indian constitution," he said. He said a Special Crimes Tribunal needs to be established to enquire into the "excesses, genocide and ethnic cleansing" committed against the community. Raina also demanded to fast-track recruitment of the youth of the displaced community in order to fill up all 6,000 reserved posts in the government. Panun Kashmir General Secretary, Upinder Koul said the overage youth of the displaced community, who could not apply for the government jobs, may be granted one-time compensation so that they are in a position to carry on their life with dignity. General Secretary (Organisation) Kamal Bagati said the Kashmiri Pandit community's three-decade old struggle in exile has largely contributed to the historical changes in the Jammu and Kashmir. "The central government should bring the basic and fundamental reforms not only in the administrative and political field but also in the social, economic and cultural fields as well. Jammu and Kashmir should always be on the top of the agenda of the party and the government. There are opportunities available to substitute terrorism with tourism in the UTs of Ladakh and J&K," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/panun-kashmir-reiterates-demand-for-separate-homeland-in-valley-932564.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||New Year eve set to be chilly in North India, night temps to fall by 3-5 deg C during next 3 days: IMD||Brace for a chilly New Year's Eve in north India. Night temperatures are expected to fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius in the northern parts of the country from December 29-31, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday as a cold wave sweeps across several states. Cold wave conditions are likely to abate from January 2, the IMD said. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh. Isolated cold wave conditions are likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha during December 30-31. “….fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over northwest India during the next 3 days (29th-31st December),” the IMD said. There will be a slight rise in the temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter. An orange colour-coded warning has also been issued to the states.   The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan during December 28-30. “Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours from December 31 to January 2,” the IMD added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-year-eve-set-to-be-chilly-in-north-india-night-temps-to-fall-by-3-5-deg-c-during-next-3-days-imd-932565.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||UP Congress leaders sit on day-long fast after Sandesh Yatra stopped by police||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Monday alleged that police stopped party leaders and him from paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at his statue here on the occasion of the Congress' 136th foundation day. However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Somen Burma said Congress leader Lallu was asked to go with only four others to pay tributes at the Gandhi statue in Hazratganj. He did not agree, and since there is no permission to move in large numbers because of Covid-19, they were stopped, the DCP said. Lallu, who sat on a day-long fast at the Congress' headquarters over the incident, said, "Workers and leaders were trying to take out the 'Congress Sandesh Yatra' on the occasion of the party's foundation day and reach the Gandhi statue, but police did not allow it." The party alleged that police stopped Lallu and others at the Congress headquarters from going to Hazratganj. There was also a spat between police and Lallu, when he asked if the government would not allow him to put a garland around the Gandhi statue, the Congress claimed. In a tweet, Lallu said, "Was going to offer flowers at the Gandhi statue on the occasion of foundation day but the arrogant UP government stopped me by deploying police force." "In the country of Gandhiji, we cannot offer flowers on the statue of Gandhiji. What kind of democracy is this. There is an undeclared emergency in UP. We will fast," he said. Later in a statement issued here by the UP Congress, Lallu said, "Today some anti-democratic powers are trying to crush the Constitution and constitutional institutions. If someone raises his voice for his rights, he is sent to jail. The Yogi Adityanath government is murdering democracy and violating constitutional rights." "The (UP) Chief Minister makes a photo of him feeding cows with 'gurh' (jaggery), 'chana' (gram) and 'roti' viral. But the reality is that because of corruption, the cows are dying of hunger and cold," he said. The UP Congress chief also said that when the party took out 'Gai Bachao-Kisan Bachao' padyatra, the state police stopped it and arrested the party workers. "The police have brought me from Lalitpur to my Lucknow residence, and has put up a heavy cordon," he said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-congress-leaders-sit-on-day-long-fast-after-sandesh-yatra-stopped-by-police-932593.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||140 DDC members take oath across 10 districts in Jammu division||Newly elected members of the 10 District Development Councils in Jammu division took oath of office on Monday, marking the establishment of the three-tier panchayati raj system. According to a government spokesperson, the members took oath in their respective district headquarters. The 140 members were elected in the eight-phase elections between November 28 and December 19, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the revocation of its special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories in August last year. The counting of votes took place on December 22. There are a total of 20 DDCs -- 10 each in Jammu and Kashmir -- in the Union Territory. Each District Development Council (DDC) has 14 members. Jammu Deputy Commissioner Sarita Chauhan administered the oath to the 14 DDC members, including five women, at a function here. Four of them took oath in Dogri language, six in Hindi, three in English and one in Punjabi. The DDC members, while talking to mediapersons, promised to work for development of their areas with utmost transparency and serve the people with a sense of great dedication and passion. Similar swearing-in ceremonies took place in Kathua, Rajouri, Udhampur, Doda, Samba, Kishtwar, Ramban, Reasi and Poonch districts. Administering the oath to the members, Udhampur District Development Commissioner Piyush Singla expressed hope that the development process at the grassroots level will get a boost with the establishment of the panchayati raj system. Reasi District Development Commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib congratulated the new members and said the people have high hopes from democratic institutions and it is their responsibility to focus on development and welfare issues of the public. It is the dawn of a new year and a step towards strengthening grassroots-level democracy, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/140-ddc-members-take-oath-across-10-districts-in-jammu-division-932613.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||5 killed, 7 injured as SUV overturns in Rajasthan||Five people were killed and seven injured after a car in which they were travelling overturned and fell into an agriculture field along the road on a highway here Monday, police said. The 12 people, all aged between 25 and 30, were travelling to their home in Kaithun town from Baran by an SUV when one of its tiers busted and it overturned, Station House Officer at the Simliya police station Rampal Sharma said. Three of the injured are critical and undergoing treatment at MBS hospital, he said, adding that an investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-killed-7-injured-as-suv-overturns-in-rajasthan-932627.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||People distraught with 2-year 'jungle raj' of Rajasthan govt: Poonia||Rajasthan BJP Chief Satish Poonia on Monday alleged that every section of the society is "troubled, shocked and distraught" with the two-year "jungle raj" of the Congress-led state government. He said criminals are flouting rules fearlessly, women feeling insecure and farmers are still waiting for complete debt waiver in the state. "Gehlot ji, now do justice to the people of the state," Poonia said in a statement. The BJP leader said the OBC front of the party held protests across the state on Monday to wake up the Ashok Gehlot-led government from its slumber. Workers led by BJP's OBC Front president Om Prakash Bhadana protested at Jaipur's Civil Line gate by raising anti-government slogans and black balloons. A memorandum addressed to the chief minister was later submitted to the district collector. Addressing the activists, Bhadana alleged that at the time of elections, the Congress had made several promises like complete loan waiver of farmers, unemployment allowances to youth and not raising electricity tariffs in the state. He said the government failed to fulfil these promises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-distraught-with-2-year-jungle-raj-of-rajasthan-govt-poonia-932632.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||7 out of 227 UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand||Seven of the 227 people, who came to Uttarakhand from England earlier this month before flight operations from that country were suspended, have tested positive for COVID-19. Five of them are in Dehradun district and one each is in Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts, an official at the State Health Directorate said. All the 227 people arrived in the state from England between December 9 and December 23, when India decided to suspend flights to and from that country amid fears of a new and more infectious variant of the coronavirus being found there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-out-of-227-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-932634.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers raise slogans against Sukhbir Singh Badal, try to gherao him in Punjab||A group of farmers raised slogans against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and tried to gherao him when he visited Gurdwara Sri Fatehgarh Sahib here on Monday. The farmers protesting against the Centre's new farm laws also waved black flags at Badal. The police, however, secured an alternative route for Badal's motorcade to leave the area. Badal's SAD had quit the BJP-led ruling alliance at the Centre in protest against the farm laws and has extended support to the agitating farmers. But the farmers alleged that the SAD and its erstwhile ally BJP have cheated the farmers of Punjab. Badal reached the gurdwara to pay obeisance on Monday, a day after a three-day traditional 'Shaheedi Jor Mela' concluded there. He also interacted with media persons there. Soon after, a group of farmers reached there and raised slogans against him. They also tried to gherao him, but the police ensured a safe passage for the leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-raise-slogans-against-sukhbir-singh-badal-try-to-gherao-him-in-punjab-932636.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||People visiting Bankey Bihari Temple advised to book slot online to avoid crowding||Devotees desirous of paying obeisance at the Bankey Bihari Temple here have been advised to book a slot online as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19, its office-bearer said Monday. The temple manager, Munish Sharma, said online booking for entry in the temple was made mandatory from October 25 but some devotees are still not availing of the facility. He said devotees without face masks will not be given entry into the temple. Owing to Covid-19 restrictions and renovation work, the temple was opened on October 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-visiting-bankey-bihari-temple-advised-to-book-slot-online-to-avoid-crowding-932652.html
28-12-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to take ordinance route to enforce anti-conversion law||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh will take the ordinance route to enforce from Tuesday the proposed law on religious conversion that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. The decision comes in the wake of the postponement of the winter session of the state assembly due to the Covid-19 situation. The Madhya Pradesh Religious Freedom Bill, 2020, which provides for a prison term of up to 10 years and a fine of Rs 1 lakh for "conversion through marriage or by any other forceful means", was approved by the cabinet on Saturday. The Bill was slated to be tabled in the assembly during the three-day winter session, which was scheduled to begin from December 28. "The Religious Freedom Bill along with other bills, which could not be tabled in the assembly due to the postponement of the session scheduled from today, are going to be brought before a special cabinet meeting tomorrow (Tuesday)," Chouhan told reporters. By ordinance route, we are going to enforce them. The law will come into force forthwith after the cabinet meeting, he said. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had also taken the ordinance route to notify a similar law. The proposed law in MP will prohibit religious conversion or such efforts by misrepresentation, allurement, force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or any other fraudulent means. Abetment and conspiracy for religious conversion will also be prohibited under it. Any marriage solemnised in violation of the proposed law will be considered null and void. Those willing to convert will need to apply to the district administration 60 days in advance, according to provisions of the legislation. Religious leaders facilitating the conversion will also have to inform about it 60 days in advance, as per the bill cleared by the MP cabinet. Violation of these provisions would attract a jail term of three to five years and a fine of Rs 50,000. In cases involving religious conversion of members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and minors, a provision has been made for the imprisonment of two to 10 years and Rs 50,000 fine for violators. There is a provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by "hiding religion, misrepresentation or impersonation", according to the bill. In the case of mass conversions (of two or more persons), a provision of five to 10 years of imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rs one lakh has been made for offenders in the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-take-ordinance-route-to-enforce-anti-conversion-law-932653.html
28-12-2020||South||Covid-19 vaccine dry run worked well, Andhra Pradesh health officials announce||Andhra Pradesh health officials stated that the dry run conducted to test the Covid-19 vaccine process preparedness has “worked well.” The dry run was carried out on Monday in the Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh with 125 prior identified health workers, 25 each at five designated health centres. “95 per cent of the total identified beneficiaries (health workers) attended the process which got completed by 1 pm. All the processes of creating session sites, allotting beneficiaries and time slots as well as SMS communication to beneficiaries have worked well,” said Katamneni Bhaskar, Andhra Pradesh's health and family welfare commissioner. "The dry run was basically to test the planned operations and the laid out mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccination in the state. It will provide insights into any gaps or bottlenecks so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the actual drive," Bhaskar said. Andhra is the only south Indian state selected for the mock drill, while Punjab, Assam and Gujarat are the other three states selected for the dry run. A report on the dry run listing the issues involved would be submitted to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare besides the State Task Force for necessary action. The actual Covid-19 vaccine drive is expected to begin in the country in January. The central government is yet to finalize the vaccine for the Indian population. The “end to end dry run” followed all the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare laid out vaccination procedures, guidelines and behaviors, albeit without any vaccine, to test the practical operability. It even included arrangements to address cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI). The exercise now was also intended to test a specially developed app named Co-WIN, to support and monitor the Covid-19 vaccination process. Katamneni said that the “allocation of vaccine from store to session site was also working well. AEFI management was also working well.” Feedback was taken from all the staff who participated in the dry run process at the Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, Uppuluru PHC, Purna Heart institute, Penamaluru PHC and Prakash Nagar PHC. A report from the state task force committee will be sent to New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-worked-well-andhra-pradesh-health-officials-announce-932403.html
28-12-2020||South||Kerala Police arrest 41, crack down on social media groups promoting child pornography||As many as 41 persons were arrested in a special drive of Kerala police against child pornography. Those arrested included youths working in professional jobs and some were also suspected to be involved in child trafficking. A total of 339 cases were registered and 392 devices like computers and hard disks seized in the raids held on Sunday. Many pictures and videos were that of local children in the age group of six to 15, said ADGP headquarters Manoj Abraham. The police action code named Operation P-Hunt 20.3 was carried out by the Kerala Police Countering Child Sexual Exploitation team under Cyberdome. Abraham, who is in charge of Cyberdome, said that online crime against children was witnessing an increase during lockdown and the Interpol had also raised alerts against it. The culprits were traced using hi-tech tools and several social media groups with more than 400 members each we're identified. Raids were conducted at 596 locations throughout the state. The highest number of places raided were in Thiruvananthapuram, 58, followed by 50 each at Malappuram and Kannur districts. Abraham said that over the last couple of years more than 525 cases were registered and more than 428 arrested for possession of child sexual abuse material. Many accused seems to be having mental addictions that required treatment. There are trends of repetition of offences or the accused coming back to the crime, more prepared, with better tools of anonymity. Hence the police would continue to maintain vigil. Most of the accused were IT savvy. They were using all kinds of encrypted handles to upload and download the material. Some were suspected to be involved in the trafficking of children also as there were many chats to this effect in their devices, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-arrest-41-crack-down-on-social-media-groups-promoting-child-pornography-932406.html
28-12-2020||South||Arya Rajendran sworn-in as Thiruvananthapuram mayor||Twenty-one-year old Arya Rajendran was sworn in as mayor of Thiruvananthapuram city on Monday. In the 100-member council, Arya who represents the CPM-led Left Democratic Front, got 54 of 99 votes polled. A second-year degree student, Arya is considered to be the youngest mayor in the country. While Arya is considered as the youngest mayor of India, Suman Koli, who became the mayor of Bharatpur in Rajasthan in 2009, was reported to be aged 21 at that time. Arya's elevation to the mayor post reflects CPM's strategy to give prominence to youngsters in electoral politics. The CPM also made 21-year old Reshma Mariam Roy president of Aruvappulam panchayat near Konni in Pathanamthitta district. She was the youngest candidate in the local body elections in Kerala as she turned 21 a day before the last date for filing nomination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arya-rajendran-sworn-in-as-thiruvananthapuram-mayor-932441.html
28-12-2020||South||Pondy University gives students two more special chances for exams||Pondicherry University has decided to give two more special chances for students who are yet to complete their courses through Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) and twinning programmes. As a special case, their exams will be conducted through online mode from 18.01.2021 to 23.02.2021 (first chance) on working days, the university said. It added that students will be provided question papers through online and they can write their exams from home. All MBA students of the Academic Year 2005-06 to Calendar Year 2016 batch and students of M.Com, MA (English, Sociology, Hindi) from 2014-15 batch to 2016 Calendar year batch who have already exhausted the maximum prescribed period for completing the degree are granted two more chances (January 2021 and June 2021 examination sessions). The last date for submission of examination application forms and re-registration is 31st December 2020, the university said, adding that exam details for the June 2021 session will be announced in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondy-university-gives-students-two-more-special-chances-for-exams-932460.html
28-12-2020||South||Farm laws: Kerala Governor gives assent for one-day assembly session on December 31||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Monday gave assent to the state Cabinet's recommendation to convene a special session of Kerala Assembly on December 31 to discuss the Centre's farm laws. The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front is planning to pass a resolution against the farm laws with the support of Congress in the one-day session. Lone BJP MLA in the house O Rajagopal might not be backing the resolution. Though the session was initially planned for December 23, the Governor rejected it citing that there was no emergency situation that warranted convening a special session to discuss the farm laws as the Assembly regular session was already scheduled for January. But the government again submitted a recommendation and a delegation of ministers called on the Governor and clarified the stand. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had strongly flayed the Governor's decision to reject the initial recommendation to convene the special session. In a letter sent to Governor, he said that it was unconstitutional as the powers for convening Assembly session did not come under the discretionary powers of Governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-laws-kerala-governor-gives-assent-for-one-day-assembly-session-on-december-31-932490.html
28-12-2020||South||Petty thief-turned-witness in sister Abhaya murder case flooded with wishes and rewards||Raju alias 'Adayka' Raju, a petty-thief who turned out to be crucial witness in the 28-year old sister Abhaya murder case in Kerala, is being rewarded by well-wishers for being firm on his statement and not conceding to pressure and torture to change his statement. Not only that people are ringing up him from various places to congratulate him, but many were also learnt to be rewarding him with financial assistance after coming across his plight. There were reports that around Rs. 15 lakh reached his bank account over the last few days. Priest Thomas Kottoor and sister Sephy were found guilty and sentenced to life term by a CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram last week for murdering Sister Abhaya at St Pius X convent at Kottayam on March 27, 1992. While many attempts were made to scuttle the case and to frame it as a suicide, it was Raju's statement that became crucial. Raju said that when he entered the convent with intention of robbery during the early hours of the day on which Abhaya was found dead, he spotted the accused in the convent. Though the accused questioned the credibility of Raju, the court took his statement into consideration. Raju even allegedly faced severe pressure, torture and attractive offers to change his statement. He was even allegedly threatened to be made accused of murder. But he remained firm on his statement and did not fell to the offers despite his weak financial background. Along with recent reports of his bold stand, a section of media also highlighted his poor living conditions and also shared his bank account details. Raju told DH that his phone has been ringing over these days with people from various parts calling him and congratulating him. Many also gave financial assistance to him through his bank. But Raju considered it as his duty to reveal the truth before the court. Raju was given the alias name 'Adayka' (areca nut) Raju by the police as he was initially involved in cases of stealing areca nut. After the Abhaya murder case, Raju stopped robbery and is doing casual jobs to eke out a living for family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petty-thief-turned-witness-in-sister-abhaya-murder-case-flooded-with-wishes-and-rewards-932502.html
28-12-2020||South||Congress in Kerala heads for revamp in view of poor show in civic polls||In view of the poor performance of the Congress-led United Democratic Front in the just concluded local body polls in Kerala, a shake-up in the party from top to bottom seems to be on the cards. Many Congress leaders, as well as leaders of prominent coalition partners, have openly raised the demand for bringing former Chief Minister and AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy to the forefront to face the Assembly polls that are hardly five months away considering his mass connect. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar who had been listening to the woes of party leaders, as well as that of coalition parties, over the last two days in, Thiruvananthapuram said that the local body election results were an alert to the party and steps would be taken to strengthen the party from grassroot levels. It was learnt that most of the coalition partners including the Indian Union Muslim League, Kerala Congress, and RSP,  suggested that Oommen Chandy should be brought to the forefront to face the Assembly elections. Hence a committee with Chandy as chairman might be constituted to face the Assembly elections. However, elevating Chandy to the forefront may not go down well with Ramesh Chennithala, who is currently the leader of the opposition. Hence the chances of groupism in the party aggravating further with the elevation of Chandy could not be ruled out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-in-kerala-heads-for-revamp-in-view-of-poor-show-in-civic-polls-932549.html
28-12-2020||South||'Cyber Yodha' to train people to fight cyber crime launched||In a first in Telangana, "Cyber Yoddha,"a programme aimed at creating awareness and empowering citizens by training them to fight cyber crimes, was launched by the Rachakonda Police Commissionerate here on Monday. It was launched in collaboration with the Rachakonda Security Council and End Now Foundation with the aim of creating awareness on digital safety, reducing cyber crime, digital de-addiction support, among others. "This is first time we are launching this programme in Telangana,where specialist teams will train volunteers-college students, citizens, employees and others- as part of preparedness in preventing cyber crimes and to ensure that innocent citizens will not be victimised by cyber fraudsters", Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat said. Those participating in the programme will be given an internship certificate as well a medal and be branded as an 'Ambassador for Cyber Safety' to fight cyber crime, he told reporters here. The programme was launched, keeping in view the rising number of cyber crimes in the Commissionerate limits, he said. A total of 704 cyber crime cases were reported in 2020, up from 334 in 2019, he said. Bhagwat said there was a 12 per cent reduction in the overall crime rate in 2020, compared to last year. However, cases of crime against women rose by 11 per cent this year. The conviction rate increased to 51 per cent in 2020 from 35 per cent in 2019. He said a total of 1052 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in Rachakonda Police Commissionerate. Going forward in 2021, a 'Bharosa Centre', an integrated support centre for women and children who are victims of violence, will be constructed, besides six for development and empowerment of women, he said. To a query on Rohingya refugees, he said biometric data-- fingerprints and iris scans- of around 4,500 of them staying in the Commissionerate jurisdiction has been collected and 66 cases were registered against those whoprocured proof of Identity through fake documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyber-yodha-to-train-people-to-fight-cyber-crime-launched-932606.html
28-12-2020||South||Ties with AIADMK strong, says Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan||The BJP's Tamil Nadu chief L Murugan on Monday asserted that his party's alliance with the AIADMK continues and that ties are "strong," a day after the ruling party told its saffron ally that it was the big brother in the state. His remarks came shortly after his meeting with Chief Minister and ruling AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami here today. Palaniswami, who later in the day spoke to reporters at Coimbatore, said the AIADMK-BJP alliance would continue. He also said his party had announced the chief ministerial candidate, i.e. himself, for the 2021 Assembly polls, Murugan said he had requested the chief minister to implement the Centre's New Education Policy and that he had submitted his party's signature campaign containing 50 lakh signatures on the issue. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier said it will only follow the two-language formula of Tamil and English, in vogue for decades, and not go for three languages as envisioned in the NEP 2020 which includes Hindi. Murugan evaded a direct question on the AIADMK declining to share power with allies if it came to power, but said "the BJP's alliance with AIADMK continued and it remained strong." "You will know the answers for all the queries in two or three days," he shot back when asked to comment on AIADMK's stand on that the BJP cannot be accommodated in the government if the alliance won the 2021 Assembly polls. In its first poll rally here, the ruling AIADMK on Sunday bluntly told ally BJP that it cannot be accommodated in the government if it won the assembly elections, due next year, and asserted that the saffron party cannot make a mark in the Dravidian heartland of Tamil Nadu. The BJP has to endorse Chief Minister K Palaniswami's candidature for the CM's post for the polls, the AIADMK indicated and wanted its partner to agree to its other terms like non-participation in government and if not, rethink of its 2021 electoral options. Meanwhile, Palaniswami said the alliance between the two parties, forged for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, will continue. "We have announced the chief ministerial candidate. Our alliance continues. The coalition (apparently the NDA in TN) will be forged under our leadership," he said in Coimbatore. On Monday, Murugan lashed out at the M K Stalin-led DMK for "duplicity" on the NEP. He alleged that the schools run by the "DMK family encourage the learning of four or five languages." "But when it comes to government schools, that party does not want the students to learn an additional language," the BJP president said, lashing out at the Dravidian major over its stated opposition to alleged Hindi imposition and insistence that Tamil Nadu should follow only the two-language formula. Meanwhile, senior AIADMK leader and state Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar said his party will forge electoral ties only with those that accepted Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ties-with-aiadmk-strong-says-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-l-murugan-932614.html
28-12-2020||South||Trivandrum couple who threatened self-immolation over eviction from home succumbs to burn injuries||A couple in Thiruvananthapuram, who accidentally caught fire while threatening the police of immolating themselves to resist eviction from their house, succumbed to the burns injuries on Monday. It was on December 22 that Rajan, 47, and his wife Ambili, 40, of Neyyatinkara in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, staged a protest against the police and revenue officials who tried to evict them from their house citing a court order based on an allegation of encroachment. Rajan and Ambili doused themselves in petrol and threatened to immolate themselves if they were evicted. Rajan also held a lighter in his hand. When the police tried to prevent him from taking the drastic step, the lighter accidentally lit the fire and Rajan and Ambili were set ablaze. Both suffered serious burn injuries and passed away on Monday. Their children, Renjith and Rahul, allege that the police was responsible for their parents' death as they caught fire while the police tried to forcefully stop them. They also alleged that the police did not help them to rush the two to a hospital. Video footage of the incident had also gone viral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trivandrum-couple-who-threatened-self-immolation-over-eviction-from-home-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-932648.html
28-12-2020||State||IndiGo airlines launches Mysuru-Hyderabad route||IndiGo airlines on Monday launched a new route from Mysuru to Hyderabad under the UDAN scheme. With this addition, Mysuru is now connected to seven cities in India by air. This route was earlier being operated by Alliance Air Price of one-way tickets for this route has been fixed at Rs 3850.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/indigo-airlines-launches-mysuru-hyderabad-route-932410.html
28-12-2020||State||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar hints at police action against untraceable UK returnees||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday hinted at stringent action against those returnees from the United Kingdom who were untraceable and had switched off their mobile phones. It could even be police action against them, the minister indicated. "I request the UK returnees to cooperate with us as responsible citizens. You have to get tested. If you don't get tested and switch off your phone, then it's a crime in true sense," Sudhakar told reporters here. Replying to queries, he said he would hold a meeting with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai after the cabinet meeting because the UK returnees could not be tracked, have switched off their phones and were not responding to requests through media and social media. To a question whether police cases will be registered, Sudhakar said, "I am compelled to say that I will discuss with the Home Minister and decide the future course of action." According to him, till now 1,614 people have been tested. Of them, 26 people have tested positive till Sunday evening. Their samples have been sent to the designated lab in NIMHANS. Later, the report will be sent to the ICMR. The Minister said all the 26 people have been admitted to the designated hospitals and none of them is in home isolation. "They are under the supervision of the government and are getting the best treatment. All of them are in good health and none of them are suffering from any serious ailment. They do have mild symptoms," Sudhakar said. To a question about delay in getting the reports, the minister said test lab reports have to be sent to the ICMR as part of the uniform protocol designed for the entire country. "If different protocols are adopted in different states then it will cause fear among people. To avoid panic, uniform protocol is adopted pan India," he said. Sudhakar exuded confidence that the reports on 26 people may come by the end of the day. Regarding the opening of schools and PU colleges, Sudhakar said he would discuss with the education minister. He stressed that there was no need to panic with the emergence of a new strain of coronavirus. "We have not yet confronted the fear so far. Cases are reducing and the fatalities have come down substantially. There are many districts which have not seen a single death for the past many days," he added. According to him, there were cases coming up in certain localities of Bengaluru. "Even the UK returnees are located in Bengaluru only. So, it will not affect the schools," the minister explained. Regarding vaccines, Sudhakar said he was expecting it at the earliest. He said the Prime Minister was going to offer the best gift to the people of the country. Speaking about the trial results of Covaccine, he said encouraging results were emerging from the third trial as well. "There are no adverse effects on 95 to 96 per cent people. Their immunity on the people has also gone up," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-hints-at-police-action-against-untraceable-uk-returnees-932419.html
28-12-2020||State||Police raid houses in Bengaluru West||The Bengaluru Police conducted extensive raids at some houses in the Bengaluru West Division. Bar and Restaurants were also being checked in all police station jurisdictions in West Bengaluru for suspicious persons/activities, news agency ANI reported. More to follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-raid-houses-in-bengaluru-west-932655.html
28-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to launch one portal for all citizen's grievances||Citizens of Karnataka will soon be able to have all their grievances — be it a broken street light or an infrastructure issue — addressed at one single portal.   The Karnataka government is all set to launch the 'Integrated Public Grievance Redressal System', bringing an end to the system of multiple portals that tested people's patience and energy. Developed by Karnataka's Centre for e-governance, the portal, to be launched on a pilot basis in January 2021, will pool grievances across all government departments, keep track of complaint status and ensure officials resolve the issue.  A recent government order announcing the launch of the portal had flagged the current state of affairs when it came to grievance redressal. "There are numerous helplines and web-portals set up by different departments to receive and redress the department-specific grievances of the public in the State of Karnataka and all of them working in silos," it stated. Further, citing a High Court order pertaining to unaddressed public grievances, the government order also noted that many departments had failed to address the grievances in time, forcing even government staff to approach courts to get their problems addressed.   But that will change with the integrated grievance portal. In the new system, once a complainant uploads the grievance, the system will automatically connect the person to a "last mile functionary" in the department to resolve the issue. This will ensure that a citizen is not burdened with the task of identifying the right office to get their problem resolved. Even government staff will be able to upload their service-related grievances in the portal.   Speaking to DH, Rajeev Chawla, Additional Chief Secretary, DPAR (e-governance), said they had identified 6,000 categories and sub-categories of grievances, covering all the departments.  "Each grievance will be connected to the last mile functionary. When a particular grievance is addressed by the functionary, the call centre will make a call to the complainant to check if it was satisfactorily resolved. If not, it will be escalated to a senior official. The grievance can also be filed through the call centre by providing relevant government ID," Chawla said.  About 20-30 types of complaints will be taken up in the pilot phase to assess how the system responds to it. The portal was first announced in the 2018-19 state budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-launch-one-portal-for-all-citizens-grievances-932328.html
28-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cow slaughter ban remains, but no ban on beef consumption, says Karnataka govt||The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to an anti-cow slaughter law. However, slaughter houses will continue to function and beef consumption will not be prohibited, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said. When the new law kicks in, there will be a blanket prohibition of slaughter of cows in the state. "The anti-cow slaughter law is not new. We have had it for decades. Previously, there was a ban on slaughter of cows until the age of thirteen. We have just extended it with the intention that older cows should not be abandoned. Since the prohibition does not extend to buffaloes, there is no ban on beef consumption," Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters.   Also, in the earlier law, there was much scope for litigation on the age of the cows. The new legislation would put an end to such confusion, he said. The government is also looking at building goshalas to ensure that aged cows that are not used for milching, do not become a burden on the farmer, Madhuswamy said. The ordinance is likely to be sent to the Governor in a day's time, he added. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill was passed in the Legislative Assembly, but not in the Legislative Council. That’s why the government will promulgate an ordinance.   “Cow is the root of India’s culture, faith and farmers’ livelihood,” Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said in a statement, expressing concern over the decline in the number of cows year-on-year. “All of us must rise above politics to help the growth of the state’s cattle assets. But, opposing this Bill for political reasons and misleading the public is intolerable,” he said. Citing the 2019 Cattle Census figures, Chauhan said 2.38 lakh cows are slaughtered every year. “Every single day’s delay will lead to the slaughter of 662 cows. If it continues at this pace, we aren’t far away from a time when cows will only be read about in books,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cow-slaughter-ban-remains-but-no-ban-on-beef-consumption-says-karnataka-govt-932434.html
28-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 653 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Karnataka added 653 new Covid-19 cases and eight related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,16,909 and the toll to 12,070, the health department said on Monday. The day also saw 1,178 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are 12,547 active cases in the state. The state's cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,16,909 Covid-19, which includes 12,070 deaths and 8,92,273 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. A total of 12,342 patients are stable in isolation at designated hospitals, while 205 are in Intensive Care Units. As many as 309 of the new cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, which also accounted for five of the eight deaths Ballari, Kodagu and Uttara Kannada each reported one fatality. All the deceased had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Mysuru was second in the number of cases 63, Chikkaballapura came next with 28, Kodagu had 27, Tumakuru 20, Shivamogga 17, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 3,86,908 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,289 and Ballari 38,821. Among discharges too Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,74,378 discharges, followed by Mysuru 50,772 and Ballari 38,011. A total of over 1,37,72,451 samples have been tested so far, out of which 67,742 were tested on Monday alone. Till date, tests have been conducted on 1,766 UK passengers who have arrived in the state, out of which 27 are positive, 1,384 are negative and results of 355 are awaited, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-653-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-932562.html
28-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||P Ravi Kumar to be new Karnataka chief secretary?||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely to pick 1984-batch IAS officer P Ravi Kumar as the next chief secretary in place of T M Vijay Bhaskar who is set to retire on December 31. Bhaskar, a 1983-batch officer, was felicitated by Yediyurappa and other Cabinet ministers on Monday, which also happened to be his birthday. Bhaskar took charge as chief secretary in December 2018. In terms of seniority, Kumar, 58, is said to be next in line after Bhaskar to take up the top administrative post. He is currently additional chief secretary (ACS) and was earlier Yediyurappa’s ACS. Bhaskar will be known for being a taskmaster and his push for the use of Kannada in administration. He also gave thrust for government services to become easily accessible to citizens with the mantra of ‘sarkarada seve mane bagilige' (government services to the doorsteps). Got a problem? Send BSY an email Starting January 1, citizens can send petitions to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s office by emailing them to cm.kar@nic.in This will be the sole email address that the chief minister’s office (CMO) will use to receive petitions from the public, the CMO said in a statement. At present, the CMO uses three active email addresses, which caused “unnecessary” confusion, the CMO said. Since August 2020, all emails received by the CMO are handled under the e-Office system, a paperless environment that enables faster movement of files and decision-making.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/p-ravi-kumar-to-be-new-karnataka-chief-secretary-932600.html
28-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka making efforts to improve its NITI Aayog health rating: CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka would make efforts to achieve all the 17 parameters set by the NITI Aayog to achieve a better ranking in its health index, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Monday. "In the NITI Aayog's Health Index, Karnataka has got sixth place by scoring 66 out of 100. We will further improve our position in the Health Index by fulfilling all the 17 parameters," the chief minister said after inaugurating the 'Arogya Soudha' (state health department's headquarters) here. The chief minister said the government is committed to improving the primary health centres and has decided to allocate more funds for it. According to him, 951 PHCs are presently working round-the-clock and arrangements are afoot to ensure that other PHCs too function 24x7. Yediyurappa said the government has initiated measures to recruit 1,500 doctors in the government hospitals. "Government has the desire to provide all the necessary equipment to this department. We want to make sure that there is an adequate number of MBBS doctors who will work in the rural areas," the chief minister said. Heaping praises on Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, Yediyurappa said during the peak time of Covid-19, he was reviewing the situation on an hourly basis. "We could succeed in containing coronavirus because of the sincere efforts of Dr Sudhakar," he said. Sudhakar said the government has been working towards reforming the public healthcare system in the state despite the financial crunch due to the pandemic. "Our aim is to build a medical college in every district," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-making-efforts-to-improve-its-niti-aayog-health-rating-cm-bs-yediyurappa-932630.html
28-12-2020||West||477 passengers from Europe and Middle East isolated in Mumbai||A total of 477 out of the 868 passengers who landed in Mumbai from Europe and the Middle East on December 26 have been quarantined in Mumbai, an official said on Sunday. These 868 passengers landed from 11 international flights, he said. "Out of the 868 passengers landed on Saturday from Europe and the Middle East, 477 passengers were quarantined in Mumbai while 385 were sent to other states. Six passengers were exempted from (institutional) quarantine," the official added. As per the revised guidelines issued by the Mumbai civic body in view of the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the UK, all passengers arriving from England, Europe and the Middle East will have to stay in quarantine for 14 days. India has already suspended flights to and from the UK. As per the amended Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued earlier in the day, travellers will be kept under institutional quarantine after arrival and an RT-PCR test will be conducted on the seventh day from the arrival at the respective hotels, institutional facilities at their own coast. "If the report of the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after seven days with the advice of seven days mandatory home quarantine. A total of 14 days quarantine is to be ensured," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. As per the guidelines, a home quarantine stamp will be put and an undertaking will be taken from the travellers that they will abide to be in-home quarantine. Institutional quarantine is exempted for officials working in foreign embassies and in offices of counsel general, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/477-passengers-from-europe-and-middle-east-isolated-in-mumbai-932313.html
28-12-2020||West||Dr Mahinder Watsa, Mumbai’s famous ‘sexpert’, passes away||Renowned sexologist Dr Mahinder Watsa, often referred to as a “sexpert” passed away in Mumbai on Monday. He was 96. His wife, Promila, predeceased him. “Dr Mahindra C Watsa lived a glorious life and on his terms. He won innumerable accolades in his life and played several roles as a counselor, guide, mentor and many more,” the family said in a brief message. At a time when taking about sex was a taboo, Dr Watsa, a trained obstetrician-gynaecologist, spoke about it publicly, loudly, with clarity and most-importantly, with humour and medical science. A Punjabi, Dr Watsa spent a little part of his childhood in Rangoon. and worked in teh United Kingdom in the 50s. In the 60s, after his return to India, he started writing as a columnist and his name appeared in several women’s magazines. Watsa wrote the famous ‘Ask the Sexpert’ column in Mumbai Mirror. Through his work as a columnist, he became aware of the lack of sex education in India. In 1974, while working as a consultant for the Family Planning Association of India (FPAI), Dr Watsa proposed that a sexual counselling and education program be introduced. Despite oppositions, FPAI accepted his proposal and started India's first sex education, counselling and therapy centre. In 1976, he organised India's first workshop on human sexuality and family life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dr-mahinder-watsa-mumbai-s-famous-sexpert-passes-away-932371.html
28-12-2020||West||Notice to Sanjay Raut’s wife politically motivated: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena described the Enforcement Directorate's notice to party chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut's wife, Varsha, as “politically motivated”, in an initial reaction. The ED has asked Varsha to appear on Tuesday in connection with the PMC Bank money laundering scam. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member and executive editor of Saamana, is expected to address a press conference at 2 pm. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya, who is the state’s protocol minister, said that the ED notice was politically motivated and that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is not worried. “Nobody fears the ED,” NCP spokesperson and state’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said. Stepping up the attack on Shiv Sena, senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said, “Shiv Shiv leader Sanjay Raut must clarify whether Varsha Sanjay Raut has received three summons (notices) to appear before ED in the fourth week of November, the second week of December and fourth week of December 2020. It is understood that the ED is investigating PMC Bank and HDIL flow of funds.” Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant, however, said: “With this yardstick, BJP President must be interrogated first as BJP received massive donations from HDIL. HDIL companies RKW Developers and Skill realtors donated Rs 20 crores to BJP although they weren't in profit and by rules can't donate.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/notice-to-sanjay-raut-s-wife-politically-motivated-shiv-sena-932409.html
28-12-2020||West||Sanjay Raut launches no-holds-barred attack on BJP, says central agencies being misused by Modi govt||Rattled by the Enforcement Directorate notice against his wife, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut launched a no-holds-barred attack, saying that he has a list of 120 leaders of the BJP which are fit cases for investigation charges of money laundering. Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said that for the last one year he was being contacted by BJP leaders pursuing him to topple the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax are being blatantly misused by the BJP government,” he said, however, refusing to name the BJP leaders. When asked whether it was leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, he replied in negative. “Let us not get into names….I will reveal when the time comes,” he said. “Some senior leaders are meeting me continuously attempting to convince me not to continue supporting the MVA as they have made all preparations to bring it down. They even showed me a list of 22 NCP and Shiv Sena MLAs to prove their point,” said Raut, a Rajya Sabha member and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson. According to him, his wife, Varsha Raut has taken a loan of Rs 50 lakh 12 years ago to purchase a house. “We are from a middle-class family, my wife is a teacher and she had taken a loan from a friend 12 years ago…and we are getting notice now,” he said, adding that the notice has been replied to twice. “When the ED did not mention that the correspondence was for the PMC Bank scam case and HDIL , how is it that the BJP leaders are saying this," he wanted to know, alleging that it has come to notice that the BJP leaders are visiting the ED office regularly and getting documents. “Don’t take ‘panga’ with me… I am the late Balasaheb Thackeray’s Shiv Sainik… I will expose you all… I have a list of 120 BJP leaders (scams) which the ED can investigate for five years… They will have to take flights like Nirav Modi or Vijay Mallya to foreign countries,” Raut warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-launches-no-holds-barred-attack-on-bjp-says-central-agencies-being-misused-by-modi-govt-932456.html
28-12-2020||West||Gujarat: Three siblings locked up in a room rescued after 10 years||In a shocking incident, three siblings in the age group of 30 to 42 years were rescued from a room in which they had been locked up for nearly a decade in Rajkot in Gujarat, according to officials of an NGO which brought them out with the help of their father. When the members of the NGO broke open the door of the house on Sunday evening, they found the room had no access to sunlight, and it was reeking of human feces with stale food and newspapers scattered around, said Jalpa Patel of 'Saathi Seva Group' that works for the homeless on Monday. "The siblings, including brothers Amrish and Bhavesh and their sister Meghna, had locked themselves up in the room for nearly a decade, according to their father," Patel said. "The siblings were in a disheveled condition, with their hair and beards grown in long locks like those of mendicants. They were too feeble to properly stand up. Their condition was worse even than an Aghori tantrik," Patel said. According to Patel, the father of the trio said his children have been in such condition since the death of their mother nearly 10 years ago. "They may be like what their father says (that they are mentally ill), but they need treatment urgently," she said. The members of the NGO brought out the trio and got them cleaned and shaved. Patel said they are planning to shift the trio to a place where they can get better food and treatment. Their father, a retired government employee, said his children are well educated. "My eldest son Amrish, 42, was a practicing lawyer with BA, LLB degrees, while the younger daughter Meghna (39) is an MA in Psychology. My youngest son wis BA in Economics and also a promising cricket player," he said. "My wife started keeping ill in 1986. She died five-six years later, which affected my children deeply, following which they locked themselves up," he said, adding that he would keep the food outside the door every day. "People say some relatives did black magic on them," he said. No police complaint is lodged so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-three-siblings-locked-up-in-a-room-rescued-after-10-years-932474.html
28-12-2020||West||Mumbai police crack murder case behind 'fire incident'||The death of three people in a Sai Baba temple in Mumbai would have passed off merely as an incident of fire because of short-circuiting. However, within hours, the Mumbai Police, which is considered the best police force after Scotland Yard, detected it to be a brutal cold-blooded murder and nabbed two people, including a juvenile, involved in the case. In the wee hours of Sunday, a fire broke out at the Sai Baba temple at Bandar Pakhadi Road at Charkop in Kandivali West. Three persons, who used to sleep in the temple — Subhash Arun Khode (28), Yuvraj Vasant Pawar (28) and Mahesh Radheshyam Gupta alias Monu (24), who sustained 90-95% burns — died in the incident. On Monday, the Charkop police nabbed two suspects, a 20-year-old youth and a juvenile. “Initially, it was suspected that the fire erupted after a blast in the air-cooler and water-cooler. However, later traces of an inflammable substance were detected,” Additional Commissioner of Police (North region) Dilip Sawant said. While the Mumbai Fire Brigade helped in detecting the technical issues, the police gathered human intelligence. The arrested duo is said to be working in a nearby shop, and nursed an old grudge with one of the fire victims, said Sawant. The accused were reportedly harassed by one of the victims, Pawar. Last Thursday, he had also assaulted the 20-year old accused. Nursing an old grudge, the duo kept an eye on the movements of Pawar and finally got the opportunity on Sunday. After a drinking binge on the temple premises, the duo went and emptied petrol from a scooter into a plastic can, splashed it at the temple premises and set it afire. When a gas cylinder burst, the 20-year-old also sustained minor injuries. “We have registered a case of murder,” said Sawant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-crack-murder-case-behind-fire-incident-932619.html
28-12-2020||West||India's foremost car designer Dilip Chhabria arrested in forgery case||India's foremost car designer Dilip Chhabria has been detained by the Mumbai police in an alleged cheating and forgery case on Monday. Chhabria, the founder of DC Design is being investigated by the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch-CID. A luxury car was also seized by the Mumbai police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indias-foremost-car-designer-dilip-chhabria-arrested-in-forgery-case-932637.html
28-12-2020||West||Fire destroys 8 industrial units in Palghar's Vasai||Eight industrial units containing plastic and paper were gutted in a fire that broke out in Vasai in Palghar district on Monday morning, an official said. There was no report of injuries to anyone and the fire was doused after a 6-hour operation at 3pm and cooling procedures were currently underway, he added. The cause of the fire has not been found as yet, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-destroys-8-industrial-units-in-palghars-vasai-932640.html
