29-12-2020||Comment||What the farmers are telling us||The farmers of India, led by the feisty fighters from Punjab, have made their opposition to the farm bills very clear. The issues are complex but faces never-before seen on TV and on YouTube have explained them rather well and told us why they stand against the bills that were rushed through Parliament with no debate. To the extent the new laws are the handiwork of the BJP and are pushed by its leadership, the protesters have taken a stand against the party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This is a political fight in which the PM isn’t backing down yet, but he isn’t in the lead. His much-hyped communications skills and vaunted political craft pale in comparison to the farmers’ explanation of why they have taken this hard stance against the government. In a line, the farmers are saying this: Don’t kill the mandis that have stood the test of time and leave us to the vagaries of private traders, corporates or what are called ‘market forces.’ While this clean and clear framing stands out, we cannot miss that the agitation is even more a vote of no-confidence against the private sector of India. This is the lesser said story of the protests, and it carries implications beyond the immediate battle and how it eventually turns out. Thirty years after India took the path of economic reforms, here is the peasantry saying that large corporates have not inspired confidence and do not have a track record that offers comfort. As a result, they are unwilling to leave the security of a government-guaranteed support price for their produce, duly legislated so that it is armed with the teeth of the law. It is not insignificant that large corporates are being named as crony capitalists, but they only serve to give specifics, the concreteness, the ‘gotcha’ and the proof as it were, of what the farmers believe and present as a headline concern. And this concern is against large corporate machines that the government wishes and hopes will change India’s rural landscape. Exposing the average Indian farmer, small holder, with little or no bargaining power, less savvy about contracts and fine print, to these large entities is not something the vast majority now sitting in protest are willing to stomach. They appear convinced that this is the game of the big against the small, of the powerful against the weak, or corporates against the people. That frames the agitation rather well as the battle of the people on the streets versus the combine of big business and the government in its pocket. This is a tear in the political fabric of India. It indicates that the hopes and promises that came with the path of ‘Reforms 1.0’, packaged in all the uplifting rhetoric that Manmohan Singh offered in his maiden speech as finance minister on July 24, 1991, have come to naught. Then, Singh quoted Victor Hugo: “no power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come.” That idea was of India as an economic superpower. The turn that would be called liberalisation was meant to take India away from the so-called Hindu rate of growth, of the clutches of the licence-permit-quota Raj and of corruption, nepotism and a perennial shortage of goods and services. A new generation of Indians born under liberalisation is now at work –- in urban and rural areas. Yet, these years under economic reforms haven’t convinced the masses of India that the private sector can work in a fruitful partnership to deliver growth with fairness and balance in areas where the government has failed. In fact, where the government failed, the government can be nudged, pushed or voted out. The Congress has been dethroned, after all. But the private sector hasn’t been. The same biggies and power brokers rule the roost, or so goes the narrative. So, in many eyes, this sector may be the new zamindari that sits as the superpower, a law unto itself that gets the government to act on its behalf as it recently did by suspending labour laws in several states so that the workers are forced back to the shop floor and are not allowed to demand their share. Combine this with the recent bank failures, the rising tide of NPAs, the housing boom and bust, the scamsters who scooted from the country, the extortionist policies of private hospitals most recently during the pandemic, the sharp practices of the insurance companies, the PSUs being run to the ground -– all hammer in the message that we need the government to protect us against sharks and Shylocks in business. Under reforms, growth accelerated, the command-and-control economy was dismantled, and scarcities disappeared. Many achievements have been recounted. We certainly pushed on the pedal, but it has been an uncomfortable ride. The current protests tell us that pushing this pedal further has its limits and the cylinders of the socio-politico engine will burst if the car is driven too fast on this path. This is the political limit to the so-called ‘Economic Reforms 2.0’. There is a lot of spade work to be done; it is for the political establishment to show and to prove that it will be the watchdog for the people, always protecting the interests of the common citizen while it aligns policy to make it easy for businesses to operate but impossible for them to deliver a bad bargain for the common man. Today, that is not the case. Contracts can be enforced and even manipulated only by the contractor/employer, not the contracted/employed. Businesses cannot grow and innovation won’t come if the environment laws are relaxed as they were recently; it’ll come when businesses are told they must strictly follow norms and must face the full brunt of the law when they violate or cut corners. This means the Prime Minister of India cannot be seen, almost like a model, in full page ads of a chosen business house. That tells us the story of why reforms won’t progress because the government has told us that it is on the side of big business, not on the side of the people of India. That is the precise complaint of the farmers of India.  (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at Bhavan’s SPJIMR) (Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-the-farmers-are-telling-us-932695.html
29-12-2020||Comment||New Year, no partying? Chill, cops||The authorities in Bengaluru have thrown a wet blanket on the plans for the celebration of the New Year with a number of curbs and regulations on the conduct of the people. Section 144 will be imposed in the city on the evening of December 31 and it will be in force through the night till the morning of the New Year. No celebrations will be allowed after 11 pm, forcing many to cheer the New Year an hour before it officially arrives. No celebrations in parks and streets and other public places and the happy frolicking grounds of MG Road and its surrounding areas will be no-man’s land. Apartments, clubs, bars and restaurants will all be under various restrictions and even bikes have been told not to rise in the stunt, and their owners have been served the copies of the orders. Not even a cake to be cut in apartment buildings, nor should anyone dance, says a police notice.  Bengaluru has always welcomed the New Year boisterously, on its streets and in public places, apartments and homes, and anywhere else that people can meet, sometimes going beyond the limits of normal celebrations. The spirit often runs ahead of the rules. But we know corona is a hard nut to crack, unforgiving in temperament, present everywhere and ready to strike. Our rulers know that better and that is why a warlike scenario has been drawn up and something like a scorched earth policy is being implemented so that any hopeful viruses will be disappointed, seeing the deserted streets and other places without people. We do not know if viruses celebrate the New Year in their world. If they do, we should not make it easy for them to go over the top.  But the New Year spirit may pose some questions to the regulations. The virus is said to be beating a retreat. Many of our places are safer than they were in the past few months. There are big congregations happening in many places, and small ones in many more places. An election rally in West Bengal can provide a bigger carnival for the virus than a single night’s festivity. The government itself is opening up schools the next day with no thought about how many children should walk, sit or run together. So why discriminate against the New Year revellers? After a run of depressing days and months, many would be looking forward to let go and have some fun, hoping for better days. This New year is like no other New Year, and it is bound to sneak and breakthrough all the gaps in the rules for the night. Cops, just chill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/new-year-no-partying-chill-cops-933037.html
29-12-2020||Comment||Farmers' protest: To win them over, yield||The recurring images on media of lakhs of farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi, huddled together under the sharp sun during the day and covered in thick blankets facing biting cold at night, their stern visage weather-beaten and deeply furrowed, like their lands, are haunting. Many among them in the forefront are stout, hardy and hearty Sikh farmers with flowing majestic beards and piercing eyes that penetrate your soul, and your heart swells when you see them braving the harsh outdoors. And more farmers from across the other states are pouring into Delhi borders. They are stoic, steadfast and resolute, despite the vicissitudes of fate. They are slow as the seasons and have the patience of Nature. The farmers, well-stocked with their own provisions, parsimonious by habit, practised in the art of self-sufficiency, have pitched their tents and are determined to be in Delhi for the long haul in anticipation of the well-versed wily tactics of governments that invariably attempt to divide and wear them out with interminable negotiations and prevarications.  We have an affinity with the farmers because we see our forefathers in them. Our ancestral blood runs in their veins. We are all issued of the same stock. Even if some of us have lost our native roots, living in towns and cities, there is a primeval longing to return to the land, to the lost paradise. Many of us city dwellers, those who commute to work every day or sit cloistered within the four walls of buildings morning to evening, peddling our wares or pushing files or working on our sterile computer screens, identify ourselves instinctively with the farmers in a vicarious way because the farmer’s cause is our cause. He provides grains, meat, milk, fruits and vegetables and our clothing. He is a life-giver. All other vocations are secondary. As Emerson said, “All trade rests at last on his primitive activity. The food which was not, he causes to be. The first farmer was the first man...And the profession has in all eyes its ancient charm, as standing nearest to God, the first cause.”  The nation is on the edge now. Its heart resonates with the farmers. And everyone wants this impasse to end quickly.  The farmers’ protests are more than just about the three farm bills that were rammed through parliament and enacted in a hurry. They are distraught and in deep distress. Though it appears that their protests are about the contentious MSP (minimum support price) or fear of corporatisation of agriculture by marauding home-grown oligarchs or monstrous MNCs – fears that are well-founded and has drawn much attention during the protests – these were only a trigger for the simmering discontent pent up over many years that has erupted, drawing sympathy from all sections of the farming community. It is a matter of time before others from other far-flung states join them. The crisis of the agri sector is not one or two problems but the sum of a hundred different problems, intricate and interconnected, that have resulted in unviable livelihoods dependent solely on small landholdings, which has pushed them into poverty and destitution.  The rural economy can move farmers out of poverty by not only sound policies through reforms and good infrastructure necessary for improving agriculture productivity through roads, power, irrigation, and linkages to markets that directly impact farming but by moving more people out of agriculture to other jobs. Which in the long term means good high-quality, affordable education and healthcare, which is the only known way to lift people out of poverty. All ruling parties have failed on this front. Let us be clear. Small farmers and farm labour and their families cannot make a decent living on holdings of two to three acres. So, alleviation of poverty, both rural and urban, through sustained reforms and good governance, in cooperation with the states, is the answer.  But right now, the farmers have laid siege to Delhi. The present government cannot solve all the problems of the farmers. Many are inherited from the past. And agriculture is a state subject. It needs all hands on the deck. It is delusional to think it can redress farmers’ grievances by ramming through central laws alone. This is not about the merits and demerits of the farm laws -- numerous subject experts have used reams of paper to analyse it and many have praised it. This is about how ushering in progressive reforms using regressive methods can backfire. This is about a highhanded approach and ham-handed ways of handling profound matters instead of time-tested ways of debate and dialogue with all stakeholders to achieve the same objectives without strife. This is about the trust deficit between the farmers and the government leadership. The conflict with farmers has been exacerbated by bumbling government emissaries who are treating this like an event management task, with each one of them shooting off his/her mouth at any platform available and alienating the farmers further. To compound matters, the mainstream media and the social media are sowing confusion and discord, sundry activists and trade bodies and opportunistic opposition leaders are jumping into the fray. The true content and intent of the three controversial farm laws, with many beneficial reforms contained in them, are lost in translation in all this din. The farmers see the farm bills as ominous portents. They feel undermined and taken for granted. They want the laws to be scrapped and are demanding to be involved in the framing of fresh laws.  By virtue of the mandate he commands both in the country and within the party and as leader of the largest democracy, it behooves Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to reach out to the farmers and unite a polarised polity. He must meet them face to face and listen to them and put forth his own views. He should end the standoff by making amends and finding a resolution. Those who till the land and sow and harvest are the true ministers of our heritage and wealth. Deferring to citizens and ceding to their demands is not defeat. It’s statesmanship. It will only enhance Modi’s stature and earn him the farmer’s and the nation’s goodwill.  (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/farmers-protest-to-win-them-over-yield-933038.html
29-12-2020||First Edit||Accept ruling, end matter||The rejection by the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague of the Indian government’s Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on British energy major Cairn Plc is the second instance of an international court holding the retrospective tax provision in the country’s tax law wrong and illegal and giving relief to companies that were acted against under the law. It ruled that the demand on Cairn was in breach of the “guarantee of fair and equitable treatment’’ under the India-UK bilateral investment protection treaty. The same court had turned down the demand of Rs 14,500 crore on telecom company Vodafone on similar grounds. In both cases, the court has awarded legal costs and damages to the companies. But the government does not seem to be ready to accept the rulings. It has appealed the Vodafone judgement and may challenge the Cairn ruling also.  The Hague court rulings came after multiple courts in India, including the Supreme Court, rejected the idea of a retrospective tax. The Income Tax department had made the tax demand on Vodafone which had acquired its Indian assets from Hutchison in 2007. The Supreme Court ruled in favour of Vodafone but to nullify the court order, the then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee brought about an amendment to the I-T Act in 2012 which enabled the tax authorities to impose a retrospective tax. The demand on Cairn was made in 2015 on the basis of the business reorganisation it had made in 2006. Retrospective taxation is wrong and unfair under any tax law. Taxpayers, whether individuals, companies or other entities, have the right to take their decisions and actions under existing laws. To change the law later and to make demands under it is to violate the basic principles of taxation.  The BJP had opposed the I-T Act amendment as “tax terrorism.” The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had told parliament, after the BJP came to power, that it would not use the retrospective tax provisions. He had also said that the government would abide by court judgements on the matter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had endorsed it. But the government went back on its word and is now exploring all possibilities to avoid implementation of the most authoritative judicial pronouncements against it. It should realise that its posture is doing harm to the country's reputation as an investment-friendly country. Investors look for stability and predictability of the tax regime, continuity of policies, and adherence to rule of law as essential conditions for investment. If the government persists with its obdurate position on retrospective tax, the country will lose much more in investment than it hopes to gain from these two companies or others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/accept-ruling-end-matter-932694.html
29-12-2020||In Perspective||Pandemic has widened India-China GDP gap||India had overtaken the UK in 2019 to become the fifth-largest economy in the world but has been relegated to the sixth spot in 2020. "India has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic. As a result, after overtaking the UK in 2019, the UK overtakes India again in this year's forecasts and stays ahead till 2024 before India takes over again," the UK-based think tank, Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) said in an annual report published on Saturday.  "GDP in Q2 (April-June) 2020 was 23.9% below its 2019 level, indicating that nearly a quarter of the country's economic activity was wiped out by the drying up of global demand and the collapse of domestic demand that accompanied the series of strict national lockdowns," CEBR said about the impact of the lockdown on the Indian economy. However, CEBR projected that India, the world's second-most populous country, would become the world's third-largest economy by 2035, 15 years down the line. India, after overtaking France and the UK last year, had fallen back behind the UK as a result of a sharp fall in the value of the rupee. But the dip will be short-lived, and India will once again be one course to be the third-biggest economy by 2035. CBER also said that China will overtake the US in 2028 to become the world's biggest economy, five years earlier than previously estimated due to the contrasting recoveries of the two countries from the Covid-19 pandemic. In its annual league table of the growth prospects of 193 countries, the UK-based consultancy group said China had bounced back quickly from the effects of Covid-19 and would grow by 2% in 2020, as the one major global economy to expand. With the US expected to contract by 5% this year, China will narrow the gap with its larger rival. The pandemic has different economic outcomes for India and China. India is now pushed back by five years, expected to reclaim its fifth-largest economy spot only in 2024. On the other hand, due to better economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic in China, it has advanced by five years and is set to overtake the US economy five years ahead of the earlier estimated year of 2033.  In a nutshell, due to the paths taken by India and China during the pandemic and the consequent paths they will take to economic recovery, China's economy has advanced by five years and the Indian economy has been pushed back by five years. This, in turn, will create a further 10-year gap between India and China in terms of their per capita GDP incomes. At present India's per capita income is only a fifth of China's per capita income. China's nominal GDP per capita was $9,580 and India's nominal GDP per capita was $2,038 in 2018. So, China's GDP per capita was 4.7 times higher than India's in 2018.  The CEBR further said that India's economy had been losing momentum even ahead of the shock delivered by the Covid-19 crisis. "Slowing growth (in India) has been a consequence of a confluence of factors, including fragility in the banking system, adjustment to reforms and a deceleration of global trade," it said. Even before the pandemic had set in, India's GDP growth sank to a 11-year low of 4.2% in 2019, down from 6.1% the previous year and around half the 8.3% growth rate recorded in 2016. Even though the think tank was gentle in its criticism of demonetisation and the new agriculture laws passed in India, the message was eloquent -- that such reforms should have been done in a more calibrated and consultative manner. The low fiscal stimulus spending by the Indian government has also come for a rap by the think tank. The Indian government's stimulus spending in response to the Covid-19 crisis has been significantly more restrained than that of most other large economies, CEBR noted. "In the medium to long term, reforms such as the 2016 demonetisation and more recently the controversial efforts to liberalise the agricultural sector can deliver economic benefits," CEBR said. However, with the majority of the Indian workforce employed in the agricultural sector, the reform process requires a delicate and gradual approach that balances the need for longer-term efficiency gains with the need to support incomes in the short-term, CEBR observed. “Despite the rapid ascent of countries such as India and Indonesia, it is striking how little an impact this will have on the US and China’s dominant roles in the global economy. Indeed, their (US and China) share of world GDP is forecast to rise to 42% by 2034," said Pablo Shah, Senior Economist at CEBR. (The writer is an alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad, and a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/pandemic-has-widened-india-china-gdp-gap-932696.html
29-12-2020||In Perspective||Jaitley statue: Why Bishan Singh Bedi is right||“Bishan is the most upright and candid cricketer I’ve ever played with and against.” -Sir Garfield Sobers, in an interview to The Wisden, 1982 Lambasting the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) for deciding to install a statue of its former president, the late Arun Jaitley, at the Feroz Shah Kotla grounds, spin legend Bishan Singh Bedi has asked the body to remove his name from the spectators’ stand, named after him in 2017. The ever-outspoken Bishan Singh Bedi’s logic holds water and is totally valid. In no other cricket-playing country will you get to see a minister’s statue adorning a stadium. What’s the role of a minister in a cricket stadium? Jaitley may have been a keen follower of the game and an administrator, but he never played cricket at any level to justify his statue at the Feroz Shah Kotla. The detractors of Bedi might call him vindictive, unsporting and even envious (of Arun Jaitley). But those who played with and against the magnanimous Sardar, have called him one of the most principled cricketers who called a spade a spade, nay a shovel, and recognise him as one who played the gentleman’s game like a gentleman.  It was Bishan Singh Bedi, who like the peerless Sir Garfield Sobers, clapped and generously appreciated when a batsman would play a nice shot off his bowling. It was Bedi who donated blood to a Pakistani citizen when he visited the neighbouring country, not as a cricketer but as a visitor, despite the shabby treatment meted out to him and his team in 1978 when the Indian team went to Pakistan to play a three-Test series after a hiatus of 17 years.  It was Bedi who honestly said in 1974 that because of sheer luck, he was in the Indian team as a left-arm orthodox spinner. Otherwise, Bombay and Maharashtra’s Padmakar Shivalkar (nicknamed Paddy) and Haryana’s late Rajinder Goel were better than him. It’s worthwhile to mention that Paddy and Goel were both left-arm spinners like Bedi, but they couldn’t play a single Test for India. Even Sunil Gavaskar paid glowing tributes to them in his book ‘Idols.’  So, when such an honest and straightforward man puts forth his point, he must be listened to and heeded. Only in India do ministers handle cricketing affairs and administration, and with the passage of time, they become so damn important that they start getting involved in the selection of players. Here a Jagmohan Dalmiya and a Sharad Pawar can become the heads of BCCI! Mind you, the honourable gentlemen Pawar and Dalmiya never played cricket at any level. Statues of Sir Donald Bradman, Sir Gary Sobers, Dr W G Grace, Sir Viv Richards, Sir Richard Hadley, among others, are installed at the world’s finest cricket stadiums. Players and spectators can also relate to those statues and players, rather than to those of politicians who never bowled, batted or fielded.  Mind you, Bedi has no problem with Jaitley. Bedi’s gripe is against the politicisation of cricket. Even in a sycophantic country like Pakistan, when the PCCB (Pakistan Cricket Control Board) proposed to install Field Marshal Ayub Khan’s statue at the Gaddafi Stadium in  Lahore, former cricketers Fazal Mahmood and Nasim Ul-Ghani openly protested, and the PCCB had to concede. Today, a statue of the former maverick captain of Pakistan, Abdul Hafiz Kardar, stands at this stadium.  The same thing happened in Sri Lanka a few years ago when a minister’s statue was being installed at Colombo Cricket Stadium. Former cricketer Duleep Mendis openly criticised the Sri Lankan government’s decision. Finally, and fortunately, no statue was installed.  The lesson is: Do not mix politics with sports. Let ministers and politicians do what they’re good at and allow players and spectators to play and get inspired by the icons of their own sphere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/jaitley-statue-why-bishan-singh-bedi-is-right-933039.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||IndiGo relaunches Mysuru-Hyderabad flight||IndiGo airlines on Monday relaunched its service between Mysuru and Hyderabad. While 54 passengers arrived in Mysuru on the first flight, 42 travelled during the return journey of the flight.   IndiGo commenced the daily services under Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS). Flight 6E 7955 departs Hyderabad at 8.35 am and arrives at Mysuru Airport in Mandakalli near Mysuru at 10.25 am. In the return direction, flight 6E 7956 leaves Mysuru Airport at 10.50 am and reaches Hyderabad at 12.50 pm.  Alliance Air is already operating between the two cities every day. While flight AI 9881 leaves Hyderabad at 2.35 pm and reaches Mysuru 3.30 pm, AI 9882 leaves Mysuru Airport at 8 pm and reaches Hyderabad at 10 pm. Mysuru is now connected to seven cities in India by air. A large number of people from Hyderabad residing in Mysuru and hundreds of tourists travel between the two cities, say the authorities of the Airports Authority of India. The private operator decided to recommence the service due to growing demand. Apart from tourists, IT professionals and industrialists prefer air service to save time, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/indigo-relaunches-mysuru-hyderabad-flight-932671.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Siddaramaiah key to Kurubas’ demand for ST status’||Seer of Hosadurga branch of Kaginele Kanaka Guru Peetha Eshwaranandapuri Swami said that former chief minister Siddaramaiah is key to the demand of Kuruba community people for Scheduled Tribes (ST) status and reservation. During a preparatory meeting on the ongoing movement, demanding reservation under ST category for Kuruba community, the seer said that the blue print for the demand was drawn at Siddaramaiah’s house itself. “Siddaramaiah, also Opposition Leader, is the head of the Kuruba community. He said, there is no need to take to the streets, to seek our demand. But, he has agreed to the issue of including Kuruba community under ST list, during a discussion at his house,” said the seer. Eshwaranandapuri Swami said that there should not be talks of dissent in the movement. “Eshwarappa of the BJP is not leading the movement. But, it is Kuruba Eshwarppa, who is spearheading the movement. This movement is not against anybody, but for the development and welfare of the community. There is no role of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in this movement. Some vested interests are misleading Siddaramaiah,” he said. MLC A H Vishwanath said, “The first seer of Kanaka Guru Peetha was from the RSS. We have to note that Kurubas are Hindus. This movement is not in favour of any person or party, but for the community people. Without a movement, no demand will be met. Leaders of the community should understand this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-key-to-kurubas-demand-for-st-status-933000.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||New sand policy soon, says minister C C Patil||Mines and Geology Minister C C Patil said that a new sand policy will be implemented in the state soon, to solve the problem of availability of sand for construction. Speaking to media persons here, on Tuesday, he said, “It will be a major reform by the state government and there will be a provision to use sand in a graded system, from one to six. Our objective is to provide sand at Rs 300 to Rs 350 per tonne for domestic purpose and it will be sold at the Gram Panchayat level. Under grade 1, 2 and 3, sand can be extracted from a ditch or a stream, locally.” “Under grades 4, 5 and 6, for half of the state, sand will be provided through Mysuru Minerals and for the rest of the state, through Hatti Gold Mines. The sand will be extracted in large scales from bigger sources. The policy is ready, but its implementation is delayed due to the Covid crisis. All mines across Karnataka will be surveyed by drones and a couple of agencies have been identified for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-sand-policy-soon-says-minister-c-c-patil-933001.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||GP polls: Vote counting today||The votes, polled for Gram Panchayat (GP) seats, on December 22 and 27, will be counted in their respective taluk headquarters on Wednesday, from 8 am, and the candidates and political parties keep their fingers crossed, before the results are declared. Even though the GP elections are not contested on any political party symbol, after the results are announced, each party claims some numbers in its favour. It has to be noted that the BJP, which did not have a network of grassroots-level workers, especially in the rural areas of the Mysuru region, till the last election, has tried to gain a foothold this time. Otherwise, it is basically a contest between the workers of the Congress and the JD(S) in Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. Even the leaders of the parties did not tour the villages like in either Assembly or Lok Sabha polls, but held either division-level, taluk-level or Assembly constituency-level meetings of their respective party workers. While it was Grama Janadhikar Samaveshas by the Congress, it was Grama Swaraj convention by the BJP. As the number of seats and candidates is vast, the respective district administrations have imposed restrictions on the movement on people and vehicles around the counting centres in each taluk headquarters. In Mysuru, the counting of votes of the GPs in Mysuru taluk will be held at Maharani's Women's Commerce and Management College, on Valmiki Road. Thus, movement of vehicles is banned on Valmiki Road, from Hunsur Road junction to Kalidasa Road junction, from 6 am to 10 pm on Wednesday. Besides, on Adi Pampa Road, the restriction is from Mathrumandali Circle up to Valmiki Road junction. On Kalidasa Road, it will be one-way traffic from Valmiki Road junction up to Mathrumandali Circle from east to west. Traffic on the opposite direction is not allowed. On Hunsur Road, traffic of heavy vehicles is restricted from Dr Veerendra Heggade Circle to A Venkataramanaiah Circle (Paduvarahalli junction). There will be no traffic on both sides of the Double Road, from A Venkataramanaiah Circle up to Kalamandira. Vehicles can take the alternative route via Kalamandira junction, Kukkarahalli junction, Bogadi Road, University of Mysore Open Air Theatre Road and Hunsur Road near Paduvarahalli junction. KSRTC buses should turn towards Temple Road in Jayalakshmipuram and reach Dasappa Cricle via KRS Road, to reach the city. The candidates, their agents and counting officials should reach Valmiki Road via KRS Road. At Valmiki Road, they should enter Kalidasa Road and enter the college from the gate near Mahadeshwara temple in Paduvarahalli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gp-polls-vote-counting-today-933003.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Writers suspect conspiracy to increase exports of beef behind Anti-cow Slaughter Bill||A few writers and retired professors of Mysuru city suspect that the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, is a conspiracy to increase the exports of beef and to help a few industrialists and traders. They allege that 99% of those involved in the exports of beef are members of organisations like Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal. Retired professor and writer K S Bhagawan, addressing a media conference here recently said, “I have read in newspapers that industrialists and traders belonging to forward castes and Brahmins are a majority among those involved in exports of beef. My suspicion is that the government intends to provide cattle to such industrialists and traders for exports, by preventing slaughter of cattle in Karnataka.” “Farmers do not want to keep aged or feeble cattle, as it is a financial burden. Taking care of such cattle is also difficult. Thus, the farmers do not have any emotions for the cattle and wish to sell them off. The government should understand this,” he said. Meanwhile, another writer and retired professor B P Maheshchandra Guru said, “Consumption of beef was introduced by Vaidhikas and even now 99% of those involved in the exports of beef are members of organisations like RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal.” He was speaking during a round table conference, held to press for internal reservation for tribal people and aborigines, based on the report of Muzzafar Assadi Committee Report here, on Tuesday. “Those who trade and make profits in cattle are in the government now. The prevention of slaughter is just an eyewash. Even Swami Vivekananda had said that by just not consuming beef, one will not become a good Brahmin, good Indian or a good person. Who are these people in the government to prevent slaughter of cattle? Who gave them the right to do so?” he asked. Besides, writer Kalegowda Nagawara took objection to the politicians travelling to and visiting temples and mosques, at government expenses. “Why do they use government machinery and funds to visit temples and mosques? If they do so, the citizens should file cases against them. If they want, let them make their visits personal and spend their personal money,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/writers-suspect-conspiracy-to-increase-exports-of-beef-behind-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-933004.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka again rejects Kasturirangan panel report on Western Ghats||Karnataka on Monday decided to reject “outright” the K Kasturirangan Committee report on conserving the Western Ghats, just ahead of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) December 31 deadline for its implementation.  A Cabinet sub-committee headed by Forest Minister Anand Singh took a stand against the implementation of the report.  The Kasturirangan Committee has recommended that 20,668 sqkm spread across 11 districts in the Western Ghats cradling 1,592 villages be declared as an Ecological Sensitive Area (ESA), which will come with restrictions that the government believes will hamper developmental works. Karnataka has repeatedly rejected the recommendations of the Kasturirangan report.  “The Kasturirangan report is unscientific. This will affect the villagers in that region. There are loopholes in the report and there is opposition at all levels, from a gram panchayat to an assembly constituency,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters.  “This will come up before the NGT on December 31. The Centre will have to file an affidavit. While the state government isn’t a party to this, we had to inform the Centre what our stand is,” Ashoka said.  The minister said that the Kasturirangan report would affect five other states -  Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu - with Karnataka comprising most of the area. “We won’t be able to even build schools or hospitals,” he said.  A written memorandum will be sent to the Centre “within the next two days”, Ashoka said. “We have also permitted officials to move the Supreme Court with a special leave petition if there’s any decision that goes against our state,” he added.  The Cabinet sub-committee is also considering shrinking the eco-sensitive zone around national parks and wildlife sanctuaries from a 10-km radius to just one km. “A 10-km buffer would end up covering villages and towns. We want to reduce this to a 1-km radius. This is still being discussed,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-again-rejects-kasturirangan-panel-report-on-western-ghats-932676.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||2 names shortlisted for Belgaum LS bypoll: Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Satish Jarkiholi has said that the names of two candidates had been shortlisted for byelection for Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency. However, he refused to disclose the name of these probable contestants. Jarkiholi told reporters here on Tuesday that earlier it was decided to shortlist three names for the byelection, but only two remained in the fray after "filtering." He said he had no idea whether his name also figures in the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/2-names-shortlisted-for-belgaum-ls-bypoll-jarkiholi-933011.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Special panel to look into December 15 Karnataka Council ruckus||A fortnight after a ruckus erupted over a no-trust motion against Legislative Council chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty, a special House committee has now been constituted to inquire into the incident. This constitution of the committee coincides with the untimely death of Council deputy chairperson S L Dharme Gowda, who was heckled during December 15 the ruckus in the House. The committee, constituted by Shetty, includes members from all three political parties. It will be headed by senior JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda. The other members include Congress leaders B K Hariprasad and R B Thimmapur apart from BJP leaders H Vishwanath and S V Sankanur.  Speaking to DH, Shetty said, “The special committee had to be constituted to inquire into the role of everyone present in the House that day, including officials and the marshals. The committee will also examine the role of the government in the incident. It will be given 20 days’ time to submit a report. The report will be submitted to the House.” On how the members were chosen, Shetty said he ensured that there was an equitable representation of all parties and only members who were not involved in the ruckus were chosen. He had to take the decision independently as seeking recommendations from political parties would be counter-productive to the inquiry, he added.  Expressing regret over the incident, Shetty further said there were procedures to address any lapses on part of the chairperson. However, those who were supposed to protect the sanctity of the House were involved in the incident, he said.  On December 15, a ruckus erupted in the Council over a no-trust motion against Shetty. The ruling party, which claimed that Shetty could not occupy his designated seat owing to the no-trust motion pending against him, reportedly made Deputy Chairperson Dharme Gowda take the seat. This ‘coup’ took place even before Shetty could enter the House and even as the quorum bell was still ringing. Angered by this, an irate group of Congress MLCs physically dragged Gowda from the chairperson’s seat, leading to unprecedented scenes of brawls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/special-panel-to-look-into-december-15-karnataka-council-ruckus-933012.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Dharme Gowda was upset over Council row: Brother||Legislative Council Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda, whose body was found on the railway tracks at Gunasagara in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru in the early hours of Tuesday, was apparently upset over the recent incidents in the Council. “My brother was saddened by the recent incidents in the Council. He told he felt insulted. I tried to console him for the past one week. I never expected him to take such a drastic step,” said MLC S L Bhoje Gowda, brother of Dharme Gowda. “We had attended various programmes in the district on Monday. My brother was a sensitive person. I had even told him that if he was so distressed with the incident, he could tender his resignation and we could leave for Bengaluru on December 29. He has mentioned in the death note too that the incident in the Council had hurt him,” he said with tears inhis eyes. MLA C T Ravi said that the police had recovered a death note written on his  (Gowda’s) letterhead. “It made a mention of the incident at the Council. The note also mentions money in the bank and properties to be transferred to his son and daughter. He had also asked the family members for forgiveness.” After the post-mortem at a hospital in Shivamogga, the body was kept for public homage on the premises of the government college at  Sakharayapattana. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Deputy CM Govind Karjol, Ministers J C Madhuswamy, Kota Srinivas Poojary, former CMs Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy and others paid their respects to the departed soul. Dharme Gowda is survived by his wife Mamatha, a daughter, and a son. The last rites were performed with state honours at his farm near Sarapanahalli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dharme-gowda-was-upset-over-council-row-brother-933014.html
29-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||'All of us' are responsible for Gowda’s death: HD Kumaraswamy||In a veiled attack on the Congress and the BJP, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday saw “a political killing” in the death of fellow party man and Legislative Council deputy chairman S L Dharme Gowda. Gowda was known to be a close aide of Kumaraswamy. In emotional condolence, Kumaraswamy blamed “toxic politics” for Gowda’s death, calling it “a huge personal loss”. Hinting at pressure from the ruling party in forcing Gowda to occupy the Council chairperson’s seat during the December 15 ruckus, Kumaraswamy said: “Both H D Deve Gowda and I had told him not to buckle under any pressure and do anything that went against the rules of the Upper House. Gowda was very sensitive. After the December 15 incident, his brother and MLC Bhoje Gowda had called to tell me that Dharme Gowda was depressed following the ugly incident.” Kumaraswamy further said “all of us” are responsible for Gowda’s death. Criticising Congress leaders, Kumaraswamy asked why Council chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty did not offer to resign knowing that a no-trust motion was coming up against him. “When there was no majority, he could have resigned. They (Congress) tried to use this incident to tarnish Deve Gowda’s secular credentials. They wanted to reap huge political benefits from it. Look, where it has led us to,” he said.  Further, Kumaraswamy revealed that he got to know that Dharme Gowda had been talking with friends for the past two days about Cafe Coffee Day founder V G Siddhartha’s suicide. Many leaders across party lines condoled Gowda’s passing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/all-of-us-are-responsible-for-gowda-s-death-hd-kumaraswamy-933015.html
29-12-2020||National||4 cr Bengal residents denied benefits of 80 central schemes by TMC govt: Union minister||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday claimed that over four crore residents of West Bengal have been denied the benefits of 80 central government welfare schemes by the Mamata Banerjee administration. Participating in a door-to-door outreach campaign in Panihati assembly constituency in the northern outskirts of the city, Shekhawat said that the West Bengal government has so far deprived 76 lakh farmers of the state of Rs 4,200 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. "The Mamata Banerjee government has denied the people of the state the benefits of 80 welfare schemes of the Modi government aimed at helping the poor, Dalits, tribals and people from the marginalised sections," the BJP leader said during an interaction with locals at Panihati. Maintaining that corruption and anarchy are prevalent in the Trinamool Congress-ruled state, Shekhawat said that the BJP will put an end to the menace after emerging victorious in the assembly elections due in April-May next year. He said that Banerjee, who herself holds the health portfolio in the state, is denying the people the benefits of the Centre's Ayushman Bharat healthcare scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-cr-bengal-residents-denied-benefits-of-80-central-schemes-by-tmc-govt-union-minister-932658.html
29-12-2020||National||New coronavirus strain: 66% of international travel bookings to be cancelled||Driven by flight bans due to the new coronavirus strain, international travel from India is bound to take another big hit in the first three months of 2021. Two-thirds of those who had planned to take a flight out of the country are now likely to drop their plans and bookings, a countrywide survey has found.  The survey by community social media platform, LocalCircles, was based on responses from over 10,000 people across 204 districts. A high 71% of the respondents with travel plans were clear that they will not head out of the country in the next three months.  Only a minuscule 2% had travel bookings and were likely to travel internationally. But another 2% responded that they might cancel based on the emerging Covid situation. However, on the domestic front, 18% had travel plans although 34% would evaluate based on how the pandemic behaves in the coming year.  The Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine had reported that the mutant coronavirus was 56% more transmissible than other strains. The mutation has been detected in South Africa, The Netherlands, Denmark and Australia.  Overall, the survey indicated that the mutant coronavirus and related flight bans have led to 66% of those planning international travel in the next three months to hold back. “However, if India is able to contain the spread of Covid and the new virus mutations, domestic travel is likely to be strong,” the survey report said. India’s ban on flights from and to the UK commenced on December 23, and is currently on until December 31. After the lockdown, the Centre has not yet allowed regular operation of international flights. Instead, it operates transport bubbles with 23 countries, including the UK, via the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coronavirus-strain-66-of-international-travel-bookings-to-be-cancelled-932683.html
29-12-2020||National||India will be voice of developing world in UN Security Council, keep calling for reformed multilateralism: T S Tirumurti||India is set to start its eighth two-year-term as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council on January 1, 2021. T S Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York, tells DH’s Anirban Bhaumik that New Delhi would continue to be the voice of the developing world during its stint in the Security Council. Tirumurti, who joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1985, also shares his thoughts on failures and successes of the United Nations over the past 75 years. The ace diplomat, who served as Secretary (Economic Relations) at the Ministry of External Affairs before being appointed as New Delhi’s envoy to the UN, says that the Inter- Governmental Negotiations on expansion of the Security Council has been going on for more than a decade without any progress because some nations, who do not want reform in the UN system, used it as a smokescreen to hide behind it. He, however, adds that India will continue to seek expansion of the Security Council in particular and the overhaul of the UN system in general, as reform is the only way to keep multilateralism alive. What is the significance of India taking its place as a non-permanent member of the UNSC at this juncture? This will be the eighth time that we take our seat in the Security Council as an elected member. The very first time we were in the Security Council was in 1950-51, during the Korean war. We were in the Security Council in 1972-73 immediately after Bangladesh was liberated, and we pushed for its admission into the UN. We have also used our successive tenures in the Security Council to speak out for developing countries, especially Africa. We were vocal opponents of the apartheid regime in South Africa. The last time we were in the UNSC, the crisis in Libya and Syria had just started. The world has now become more multi-polar and countries like India need to start playing a larger role in the decision-making structures of the world, including in the Security Council if they are to be made effective. As we get into the UNSC again, we will use the prestige and experience of being the largest democracy in the world for the benefit of the world.  What will be India’s priorities in the Security Council? We will bring an Indian perspective to the pressing issues of the Security Council. It is rooted in India’s experience in dealing with conflicts in a respectful, accommodative and inclusive manner. India will reiterate and reinforce its commitment to the principles that we have been articulating: Reformed multilateralism, rule of law, and a fair and equitable international system. We will continue to serve as the voice of the developing world. We will speak in support of peace, security and development and speak out against the enemy of humanity – terrorism. We will also focus on maritime security, peacekeeping and peacebuilding, promotion of technology with a human face as well as issues related to women and children. Why did the UN fail to rise up to the occasion when the pandemic swept the world and triggered a global crisis? The UN and its organisations were slow to react to Covid-19. In some ways, plurilateral bodies like G-20 were more responsive, for example on debt repayment, etc. The Security Council belatedly endorsed the call of the Secretary-General for a global ceasefire, with the express provision that fighting terrorism will be exempt from this call. In many ways, the strong differences between member-states manifested itself during this period and paralysed the UN. Some even took advantage of Covid-19 to pursue aggressive policies and even enhanced support to terrorism, as Pakistan has. Fortunately, some of the other UN organisations have got back on their feet and reached out to countries, especially those that are most vulnerable. What progress has been made on the issue of expanding the Security Council? It has been over 15 years since the World Summit Document adopted in 2005 called for early reform of the Security Council. The world has changed even more in these 15 years. But, sadly, the UN is still stuck in the same place – not even in 2005, but in 1945. Procrastination is no more an option, though it’s a strategy for some reform-reluctant member-states. The overwhelming majority of the UN members firmly support comprehensive reforms of the Security Council. An expansion of the Security Council in both the permanent and non-permanent categories is indispensable to make this body more representative, legitimate and effective. An immediate and time-bound text-based negotiation is critical. However, the so-called inter-governmental negotiations process, which has gone on for more than a decade, has not made any progress and, in fact, on the contrary, provided a smokescreen for those handful who do not desire reform to hide behind it. We will be working with like-minded partners – and we have many – and look at options to overcome these obstacles. What is the future of multilateralism centred around the UN? Multilateralism is in danger today not necessarily because countries do not believe in the concept, but rather because they don’t see it delivering the result they desire. This is very different from what the situation was in 1945 when countries saw multilateralism as being in their interest and founded the UN. This is primarily because the multipolarity of the world is not reflected in the way multilateralism is now working. Frustration with this inability to reflect multipolarity has only fostered unilateral tendencies. This is clearly not desirable. The only way to make multilateralism attractive again is to ensure that it serves the interests of all countries, big and small. What we need, in other words, is reformed multilateralism. Usually, crises afflicting our world have changed or have had the potential to change the way we do business with each other. I do hope that we use the current crisis of the pandemic to bring about genuine reform in multilateralism.  The United Nations is celebrating its 75th anniversary next year. Looking back, how does India view the United Nations and its journey over the past 75 years? When the UN was formed in 1945, there were 55 member states. Half the world, including most of Africa, was colonised. Today, there are 193. To give you a sense of the composition of the Security Council on 1st January 2021, out of the 15 members, 7 were not members of the UN when the Security Council first met in January 1946. Only 8 members, India along with US, UK, France, Russia, Mexico, Norway and China, will be among the founding members of the UN. This small fact is enough to tell you how much the world has changed over the past 75 years since the founding of the UN.  Indeed, the UN did serve its original purpose of preventing another World War; it has overall maintained global peace; it has provided a platform for even the smallest of countries to have a voice in global politics. It has made a huge difference while tackling some of the burning issues of the day like decolonisation, apartheid. In fact, India was the first Chair of the Decolonization Committee. The UN has given us the Sustainable Development Goals and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The UN has achieved much and let’s acknowledge it.  However, the UN failed to prevent smaller conflicts all over the world; it failed to prevent being used as a tool in Cold War power politics; it turned a blind eye to serious crimes against humanity, including genocide in what was then East Pakistan in 1971; divisions are appearing among countries in the name of UN Alliance of Civilizations, which gives voice only to select religions; UN has not been able to effectively transition from peacekeeping to peacebuilding; and last but certainly not the least, it has not been able to tackle terrorism with resolve. When sponsored and supported by States, terrorism becomes another means of waging war.  Therefore, it is in our hands collectively to make the UN relevant again. Can you please give an update on the progress made in the negotiations on expanding the Security Council?  The World Summit Document adopted in 2005 called for early reform of the Security Council.  It has been over 15 years since that document was adopted. The world has changed even more in these 15 years. But, sadly, the UN is still stuck in the same place – not even in 2005, but in 1945. Procrastination is no more an option, though it’s a strategy for some reform-reluctant member states. The overwhelming majority of the UN member states firmly support comprehensive reforms of the Security Council. An expansion of the Security Council in both the Permanent and non-Permanent categories is indispensable to make this body more representative, legitimate and effective. An immediate and time-bound text-based negotiations is critical. That’s what we have called for and continue to pursue. However, the so-called Inter-Governmental Negotiating process, which has gone on for more than a decade, has not made any progress and, in fact, on the contrary, provided a smokescreen for those handful who do not desire reform to hide behind it. We will be working with like-minded partners – and we have many of them – and look at options to overcome these obstacles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-voice-of-developing-world-in-un-security-council-keep-calling-for-reformed-multilateralism-t-s-tirumurti-932699.html
29-12-2020||National||MHA to expand MAC coverage across country for intel sharing, analysis||The Multi-Agency Centre (MAC), a platform set up in 2001 in the aftermath of the Kargil conflict to share, collate and analyse intelligence relating to terrorism, will be extended to 825 locations from the existing 374 to share and disseminate inputs regarding anti-national activities. This was disclosed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home in an 'action taken' report. The MAC has already established a comprehensive system of communication and connectivity to deal with inputs and data on terrorism and for this, the national capital has been connected with 25 central agencies and all state capitals. In the state capitals, the network links the Subsidiary MAC (SMAC) at state-level housed in the Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB), state police Special Branch and other offices of all counter-terror agencies. As of now, the MHA told the panel headed by senior Congress MP Anand Sharma that a total of 374 locations were added in two phases. "In phase III, the network is being extended to 475 districts selected in consultation with state police chiefs. Out of 475 identified locations, 451 locations have been found feasible for providing connectivity, out of which 174 districts have already been connected. When completed, the network will cover 825 locations around the country," the MHA said. The MAC works on a dedicated, secure electronic network for real-time sharing of inputs and it has been extended across the country, with two custom-built software platforms --  an intelligence-sharing tool called Threat Management system (TMS) and a database tool called National Memory Bank (NMB). The TMS was developed in-house by technical staff from the Intelligence BureauIB, while the NMB software was developed by C-DAC, Pune on specifications provided by IB. The NMB software is deployed on all MAC and state police servers and a large amount of data has already been uploaded onto the database by the IB and some other agencies, including some of the states. On average, the MHA said, every day the MAC gathers, collates, stores, shares and disseminates about "150 inputs" to concerned agencies besides issuing special alerts. The inputs are broadly divided under four heads -- Kashmir, North-East, Left Wing Extremism, and Rest of India with the Naxal-related inputs form the largest proportion of the inputs, "reflecting the spread of the problem across several states". Earlier in its report on the Demands for Grants submitted on March 5 this year, the Parliamentary panel had said there are multiple agencies like the IB, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), paramilitary forces, Army, and state agencies involved in the collection of intelligence and "at times, due to lack of coordination, distrust amongst the intelligence agencies, timely action to prevent terrorist incidents could not be taken". To avoid such a situation, the panel had recommended that the MHA should act as the focal point to coordinate amongst those intelligence agencies, device mechanism for collating intelligence inputs and sharing it on a real-time basis through the MAC to avoid any delay in taking necessary action on the ground level. It had also suggested developing an effective mechanism to conduct validity checks on information obtained by the MAC from other agencies. "As we are living in a globalized world which is interconnected and interdependent, our intelligence agencies should strive for increased coordination and cooperation not only at District, State and regional level but also at International level with friendly foreign counterparts in developing and sharing intelligence to mitigate and nullify threats," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-to-expand-mac-coverage-across-country-for-intel-sharing-analysis-932707.html
29-12-2020||National||DH Toon | Rahul, Sonia Gandhi skip Congress Foundation Day event||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were missing from the 136th foundation day of the party on Monday, giving a handle to the BJP to take potshots and leaving a section of the party disappointed. Congress cited “health reasons” for the party chief’s absence at the flag-hoisting function at the AICC headquarters next door to her official 10, Janpath residence, while Rahul, the de-facto president, had left for Milan on Sunday to meet his ailing grandmother. On the foundation day of the Congress on Monday, its chief Sonia Gandhi urged the party leaders and workers to unite in "fighting dictatorship" in the country and protecting its democracy, Constitution and people. Addressing party workers in a video message on the 136th foundation day of the party, Gandhi claimed that the country is going through difficult times as prevailing before independence. After the BJP criticised Rahul Gandhi for his visit abroad, the Congress on Monday said he has gone to meet an ailing relative and his grandmother and is not on a holiday. Asked about Rahul Gandhi's absence from the party's foundation day function at the AICC headquarters, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala came out in the defence of Gandhi, saying he is currently not the party chief and has performed all the duties entrusted to him by the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rahul-sonia-gandhi-skip-congress-foundation-day-event-932708.html
29-12-2020||National||The Lead: Journalism amid the coronavirus pandemic||Hi and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio, we discuss the pandemic of 2020 from a journalist's point of view.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of DH Radio. 2020 was marred by the pandemic. We read about and saw the news of the Corona warriors. But, we haven't seen or heard the stories of those bringing you those stories. In today's episode, we are joined by our very own Akhil Kadidal and Suraksha P, both of who have relentlessly been covering the pandemic. Hi, Akhil and Suraksha, welcome to DH Radio. Akhil Kadidal: Hi, it's good to be on the DH podcast. Suraksha: Hi, Thank you. Ahmed: Akhil, my first question to you is: How has the pandemic been to you? Akhil: It's been very interesting that you asked this question, Ahmed, because you know I have found that I have actually grown a lot as a journalist... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-journalism-amid-the-coronavirus-pandemic-932720.html
29-12-2020||National||6 UK returnees test positive for new coronavirus strain in India; Centre creates panel to pick up vaccine recipients||India on Tuesday reported its first six cases of the new fast-spreading Covid-19 variants in people who returned from the UK recently, as the process of tracking and testing thousands of such returnees gains pace all over the country. While those who have been tested positive with the new strain would have to stay at government isolation facilities for the next 28 days, efforts are on to track down nearly 33,000 individuals who came back from the UK between November 25 and December 23 so that they and their contacts can be screened for the new strain, which according to the WHO is 40%-70% more transmissible than the circulating strains. "A total of 6 samples of 6 UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome. Three samples were tested positive at NIMHANS, Bengaluru, two in CCMB, Hyderabad, and one in NIV, Pune,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. “All these individuals have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by the state governments and their close contacts have been put under quarantine.” K Vijayraghavan, Principle Scientific Advisor to the government assured that vaccines would work against the new strain allaying fears harboured by many. “All vaccines target multiple regions of the virus, most of which were not impacted by these 17 mutations. The changes in the variants are not sufficient to make the vaccines ineffective,” he said. A network of 10 laboratories has been set up to carry out the genetic sequencing of not only those who returned from the UK but also 5% of other RT-PCR positive samples to find out what are other types of mutations that the strains circulating in India underwent. “In the last 11 months, there were more than 5000 sequencings, which did not reveal any virus drift or shift,” said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Meanwhile, the Centre has formed an expert panel to decide the criteria for selecting the 27 crore potential recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine after 1 crore doctors and 2 crore front line workers receive their vaccinations. The 12-member panel comprising specialist doctors of kidney, lungs, heart diseases, and cancer would finalise the parameters based on which the recipients would be chosen. While age and comorbidity are the determining factors, the experts would also take into account the severity of a disease. For instance, mild hypertension being experienced by nearly 30% of Indians would not be counted as a comorbidity factor, but severe hypertension would be. "In the next few days, the expert panel is likely to submit its report, based on which the national task force on vaccination would take a decision,” said NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul, who heads the task force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-new-coronavirus-strain-in-india-centre-creates-panel-to-pick-up-vaccine-recipients-932746.html
29-12-2020||National||Telugu film star Ram Charan tests positive for Covid-19; says no symptoms shown||Telugu film star Ram Charan on Tuesday said he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and is under home quarantine. The 35-year-old actor took to Twitter to share his diagnosis. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. No symptoms and quarantined at home. Hope to heal soon and come out stronger," Charan said in a statement. He urged all the people, who have been around him in the past couple of days, to get tested. "More updates on my recovery soon," he added. On the work front, Charan will be seen in writer-director S S Rajamouli's next film "Rise Roar Revolt" ("RRR"). The "Baahubali" fame director resumed shooting on his most talked about Telugu movie in Hyderabad in October with necessary safety precautions amid the coronavirus pandemic, nearly seven months after filming was halted. The period action drama narrates a fictional tale based on the lives of two freedom fighters in the early 20th century -- Alluri Sitarama Raju and Kumram Bheem, played by Ram Charan and N T Rama Rao Jr. Produced by DVV Entertainments, "RRR" also stars Bollywood superstar Ajay Devgn in a pivotal role and marks the debut of Alia Bhatt in South cinema. The film was earlier slated to hit cinema halls on January 8, 2021 but has been deferred to a later date due to Covid-19. Charan will also be seen playing a supporting role in Telugu action drama film "Acharya", directed by Koratala Siva. Produced by Charan and Niranjan Reddy under the Konidela Production Company and Matinee Entertainments banners, the film stars Chiranjeevi and Kajal Aggarwal in the lead roles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telugu-film-star-ram-charan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-says-no-symptoms-shown-932765.html
29-12-2020||National||With 16,432 new Covid-19 cases, 252 deaths, India reports lowest one-day spike in over 6 months||The daily new coronavirus infections in India dipped below 20,000 for the third time this month taking the Covid-19 caseload to 1,02,24,303, while the recoveries crossed 98 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 16,432 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in little over six months, while the death toll increased to 1,48,153 with 252 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,07,569 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.92 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 2,68,581 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.63 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,98,01,749 samples have been tested up to December 28 with 9,83,695 samples being tested on Monday. The 252 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra,27 from West Bengal, 26 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Delhi. A total of 1,48,153 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,305 from Maharashtra followed by 12,080 from Tamil Nadu, 12,070 from Karnataka, 10,474 from Delhi, 9,625 from West Bengal, 8,322 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,098 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,312 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-16432-new-covid-19-cases-252-deaths-india-reports-lowest-one-day-spike-in-over-6-months-932766.html
29-12-2020||National||Censor Board denies nod for Malayalam movie on JNU agitation||Malayalam film Varthamanam, set in the backdrop of students protest held in Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi early this year, has been denied permission for screening by the Censor Board of Film Certification's (CBFC) regional office here. Directed by noted filmmaker Sidhartha Siva with award-winning actress Parvathy Thiruvoth in the lead role, the movie revolves around the journey of a Keralite woman who goes to the JNU campus from the home state for her research studies. Aryadan Shoukath, the film's producer-script-writer, said the CBFC officials here did not point out any reason for denying the certification. He also said the movie would be submitted to the revising committee of the Censor Board in Mumbai for certification this week itself. "The CBFC officials here just informed us that the film has to be submitted to the revising committee. We still do not know why the movie is denied the certification," Shoukath, also a Congress leader, told PTI. The award-winning scriptwriter said he had carried out several months of research and studies before penning the script and spent several days in Delhi to get the first-hand experience of the culture and lifestyle in JNU campus. "We cannot send the movie for any award this time if we do not get the Censor Board clearance before December 31," he said. Shoukath suspected that the nod for screening was denied on political grounds citing a recent tweet of a censor board member, who is also the state vice president of SC Morcha of the BJP. "Adv V Sandeep Kumar, a censor board member, recently tweeted that the permission was denied as Aryadan Shoukath was its scriptwriter and producer. Nowadays Censor Board has several political appointees who have no basic knowledge of cinema," he said. Shoukath, the other day, also uploaded on his Facebook page the screenshot of the controversial tweet of the regional censor Board member. In his tweet, which was found removed later, Sandeep Kumar had said that he, as a member of the Board, was opposed to giving nod for the movie. "As a member of the Censor Board, I saw the movie Varthamanam. The theme was the persecution of Muslims and Dalits in the JNU agitation. I opposed it. Because Arydan Shoukath was its scriptwriter and producer. Of course, the theme of the film was anti-national," the tweet said. Violence broke out at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus early in January this year as masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers protesting the fee hike and damaged property on the campus, prompting the administration to call in the police which conducted a flag march. Coming down heavily on him, Shoukath, in his FB post, sought to know how a movie would become anti-national if it speaks about the students' agitation in Delhi campus or the democratic movements in the country. "We are still living in India which is a democratic, secular and socialist country. Is it based on the clan and race of the script-writer that a film is given a nod for screening? The undeclared emergency situation in the cultural sector cannot be accepted," the script-writer's FB post said. Film sources here told PTI that when two censor board members, who are from the film industry, strongly supported the movie and wanted to give it a nod for screening, two others, who are political nominees, objected to it. When contacted, the censor board officials here were unavailable for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/censor-board-denies-nod-for-malayalam-movie-on-jnu-agitation-932772.html
29-12-2020||National||PM Modi inaugurates New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor in Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing.  The 351-km section, which has been built at a cost of Rs 5,750 crore, will open new avenues for local industries in Uttar Pradesh. The prime minister also inaugurated the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor's (EDFC) operation control centre at Prayagraj. According to officials, the section will open new vistas of opportunity for local industries such as aluminium industry in Pukhrayan region of Kanpur Dehat, dairy sector of Auraiya, textile production and block printing of Etawah, glassware industry of Firozabad, pottery products of Khurja, asafoetida or 'hing' production of Hathras, and locks and hardware of Aligarh district. The section will also decongest the existing Kanpur-Delhi mainline and will enable the Indian Railways to run faster trains.   Noting that a state-of-the-art Operation Control Centre at Prayagraj will act as the command centre for the entire route length of the EDFC, they said this is one of the largest structures of its type globally with modern interiors, ergonomic design and best-in-class acoustics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-new-bhaupur-new-khurja-section-of-eastern-dedicated-freight-corridor-932778.html
29-12-2020||National||Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey has said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under home isolation. In a tweet, Choubey informed on Monday that he underwent a test after showing initial symptoms of coronavirus infection. He urged everyone who came in contact with him recently to get tested for the disease.     "On getting the initial symptoms of coronavirus infection, I got a test done and the report came positive. My health is fine and I am following all guidelines in home isolation on the advice of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate themselves and get a test done," he said. कोरोना के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने आज टेस्ट करवाया और रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मेरी तबीयत ठीक है, डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर होम आइसोलेशन में सभी दिशा- निर्देशो का पालन कर रहा हूं। मेरा अनुरोध है, जो भी लोग गत कुछ दिनों में संपर्क में आए हैं, कृपया खुद को आइसोलेट कर अपनी जांच करवा लें||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-ashwini-kumar-choubey-tests-positive-for-covid-19-932790.html
29-12-2020||National||Three samples sent to CCMB found positive for UK variant of coronavirus||Three people who returned from the UK recently were infected with the mutated strain of coronavirus, a top official of the CCMB here said on Tuesday. Around 40 samples were sent to CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for ascertaining the presence of the new variant out of which three had the new strain. "CCMB has received about 40 samples of Covid-19 positive patients who returned from the UK recently. Some of them have wrongly tested positive for the virus. We finished sequencing (for a new variant) of 20 samples, out of which three are positive of this strain (new variant from the UK)," Rakesh Mishra, Director, CSIR-CCMBtold PTI. Mishra said there is no surprise that the new variant of the virus is found in some of the samples. According to the official, large scale testing is the need of the hour and people need not worry too much about the new strain. "It (new strain of Covid-19) is just fresh, otherwise, it is the same virus and not much of an issue. Same symptoms, mortality, everything is the same.. we just have to take precautions," he said adding that the new strain may spread faster. He said India is the largest reservoir of coronavirus and people should take precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. According to the government, 1,216 people have returned from the UK to Telangana since December 9 and out of them 1060 have been traced and six of them left for different countries while 58 belong to other states. The state government has conducted tests on 996 people, out of which 21 tested positive and the results of nine more are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-samples-sent-to-ccmb-found-positive-for-uk-variant-of-coronavirus-932792.html
29-12-2020||National||Farmers fear FCI purchases may end under new farm laws||Food Corporation of India (FCI), the state grain procurement agency, buys rice and wheat from growers every season at guaranteed prices but farmers fear that those purchases may end under new agricultural laws at the centre of recent protests. Farmers say the new laws will shut the regulated wholesale markets they depend on to take their produce. But FCI has racked up huge debts from the purchases required to meet its role as a buyer of last resort and to supply India's food welfare program. How have FCI's purchases created massive grain stockpiles? For years, India's federal government, across different administrations, has ordered FCI to purchase grain in excess of its requirement to run the world's biggest food welfare programme as a buyer of last resort to placate farmers. FCI's safety net encourages farmers, especially from states such as Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to grow tonnes of rice and wheat. FCI supplies grain to more than 800 million beneficiaries entitled to receive 5 kg (11 pounds) of rice and wheat every month at 3 rupees (4.1 US cents) and 2 rupees a kg, respectively. Robust output in many states and rising purchases by FCI have led to overflowing warehouses. By the end of the crop year to June 2020, FCI's rice and wheat stocks surged to 97.27 million tonnes against its requirement of 41.12 million tonnes. According to official estimates, the value of the extra grain lying at state warehouses comes to about $39 billion. FCI cannot export the grain as its rice and wheat are more expensive than world prices. Also, the World Trade Organization rules restrict exports of grain meant for welfare programmes. Why FCI's purchases have risen in the past two decades? Punjab and Haryana were at the forefront of India's Green Revolution in the 1960s and have traditionally accounted for the bulk of FCI's purchases. But in the past two decades, farmers from other states such as Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have ramped up rice and wheat output, increasing FCI's purchases. In 2020, Madhya Pradesh sold 12.94 million tonnes of wheat to FCI against 351,000 tonnes in 2000/01. FCI's purchase of rice from Chhattisgarh totalled 5.2 million tonnes this year, up from 857,000 tonnes two decades ago. Why has FCI run up debts? In the past decade, FCI's expenses have risen as the guaranteed price for common rice has climbed by 73% and for wheat by 64%. However, the prices at which FCI sells rice and wheat to India's food welfare programme have remained unchanged. The government is supposed to pay the difference between FCI's procurement prices and sales prices. But for the past few years, the government has not fully compensated FCI, forcing it to borrow every year. FCI's total debt has ballooned to 3.81 trillion rupees ($51.83 billion). For the current fiscal year to March 2021, the government earmarked 1.15 trillion rupees in food subsidies, but FCI is likely to spend about 2.33 trillion rupees, partly because of free grain distributions during the coronavirus lockdown, stretching its debt further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-fear-fci-purchases-may-end-under-new-farm-laws-932813.html
29-12-2020||National||Farmers' stir: COAI condemns sabotaging telecom infrastructure||Industry body COAI on Tuesday "strongly condemned" the sabotaging of telecom network infrastructure and disruption of services as a form of protest, after over 1,500 mobile towers were targeted during farmers' stir in Punjab. Terming telecom services as "lifeline" for lakhs of customers, COAI's Director-General, SP Kochhar said disruption of telecom services is causing immense inconvenience to the common man, for whom mobile services are "essential". "While we respect people's right to protest on any issue, sabotaging the telecom network infrastructure and disrupting telecom services as a form of protest by anyone is strongly condemned," COAI said in a statement. Apex industry body Cellular Operators' Association of India (COAI's) members include Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea. More than 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab were damaged by farmers protesting against the three farm laws, disrupting services in some pockets. Power supply to towers that relay telecom signals was snapped and cables cut in several parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm Jio as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the new laws. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed police to take strict action against vandalisation of mobile towers and disruption of telecom services in the state during the farmers' stir against the agri laws. Asserting that he will not let Punjab plunge into anarchy at any cost and nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands, the chief minister had said he has been forced to toughen his stance as his repeated appeals to perpetrators of such acts had been ignored. In a statement on Tuesday, COAI said telecom services are the lifeline of lakhs of customers, including students taking online classes, professionals working from home, people going for online health consultations in the tough time of Covid-19. "The disruption of telecom services, which are considered 'essential' under various enactments, is causing immense inconvenience to the common man for whom the mobile services are so essential," COAI's Kochhar said. During the lockdown and the continuing pandemic, "warriors of the telecom sector" worked tirelessly to provide seamless and uninterrupted connectivity across the length and breadth of the country through doorstep delivery, infrastructure augmentation and 24x7 network support, Kochhar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-coai-condemns-sabotaging-telecom-infrastructure-932819.html
29-12-2020||National||India records lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 187 days||The daily new Covid-19 cases in the country touched a new low with less than 16,500 new cases being added to the national tally after a gap of 187 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The daily new cases were 16,922 on June 25. India's active caseload has fallen to 2,68,581 as on date.  "The share of active cases in the total cases has further compressed to 2.63 per cent of the cumulative caseload," the ministry said. A net decline of 8,720 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a day, it stated. With the rising recoveries and decline in daily new cases, India's cumulative recoveries are inching closer to 1 crore, the ministry said. The total recovered cases have crossed 98 lakh (98,07,569). The gap between recoveries and active cases continues to grow and presently stands at 95,38,988, it underlined. A total of 24,900 cases have recovered in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 77.66 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,501 recoveries. Kerala follows with 4,172 new recoveries. Chhattisgarh recorded another 1,901 daily recoveries.  Of the new cases, 78.16 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 3,047 in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra recorded 2,498 new cases while Chhattisgarh reported 1,188 new cases yesterday. Ten states and UTs account for 77.38 per cent of the 252 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours. Of the new fatalities, 19.84 per cent are from Maharashtra which reported 50 deaths. West Bengal and Chhattisgarh follow with 27 and 26 new deaths, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-in-187-days-932825.html
29-12-2020||National||Amid pandemic, Delhi courts deal with Tablighi, Nirbhaya, CAA cases virtually||Delhi courts quickly adopted technology to counter the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown and heard important cases related to Delhi communal riots in February and also violations of visa norms by foreigner Tablighi Jamaat members in 2020. Before entering the uncharted waters of hearing through video conferencing, a trial court had to reschedule thrice the date of execution of four convicts in the Nirbhaya gang rape and murder case on several occasions because of various applications moved by them, which the judge termed as “delaying tactics”. Finally, they were hanged on March 20 at 5.30 am. While entertaining all their applications, the court said however that a condemned convict has the right to exhaust his legal remedies and no court could afford to ignore his fundamental rights. During the virtual hearings following the lockdown on March 25, there were glitches initially -- lawyers struggling with video-conferencing and e-filing, daily orders not being uploaded on courts’ websites, judges as well as advocates facing network issues and hence being forced to come to courts physically to avail the video-conferencing facilities and so on. The Covid-19 infection also affected the work at the trial courts. In one instance, almost the entire staff of a judge looking after the north-east Delhi riots cases, was affected and hospitalised. Judges and the lawyers, however, were quick to respond to all the setbacks. As soon as a judge or court staff got infected with Covid-19, the courtrooms and chambers were sealed, sanitised and circulars issued for contact tracing and quarantine. About one-fourth of the courts have now been conducting physical hearings daily since September. Cases related to the riots, in which 53 people were killed and 200 injured, kept Delhi courts busy. A court termed it as the "worst communal riots since partition" in Delhi and a "gaping wound" in the conscience of a nation aspiring to be a "major global power". On the directions of the Delhi High Court, four special courts were created at Karkardooma District Courts complex to conduct day-to-day hearings in the 755 FIRs lodged in connection to the riots. In the 755 FIRs, 395 charge sheets have been filed, including one charge sheet running over 17,000 pages in the case related to premeditated conspiracy in the riots. Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, activist Khalid Saifi, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam were among those named as accused in the conspiracy charge sheet and booked under the stringent UAP Act. While in some cases the courts passed strong remarks against the accused, in others they pulled up the police for flaws in the investigation. There were several instances where the courts came to the rescue of the accused and granted them bail while rebuking the police for discrepancies. The police also bore the brunt of the court in the case in which 955 foreigners were charge-sheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin here in March by allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines on Covid-19. The trial was conducted on a fast-track basis on the directions of the Supreme Court and was completed in December. After five writs, 955 plea bargains, 955 bail pleas, 80 revision petitions, 29 quashing petitions and 44 discharge applications, the trial court on December 15 acquitted 36 foreigners, who faced trial, of all charges. Of the 955 foreigners, eight were discharged of all charges and others were allowed to walk free on payment of fines. While acquitting the foreigners, the court came down heavily on the police and questioned their evidence, the way the foreigners were identified from among the 2,343 people and SHO's laxity in ensuring dispersal of the gathering. In another highlight, the proceedings in criminal defamation complaint filed by former Union minister M J Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani for accusing him of sexual harassment 20 years ago, remained in final hearing throughout the year facing a number of twists and turns in the process. Firstly the proceedings were suspended for months due to the pandemic, then Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Vishaj Pahuja, who had started hearing the final arguments in the case on February 7, sought transfer of the matter on October 13, saying his was a special MP/MLA court. On October 22, District & Sessions Judge, Rouse Avenue, New Delhi refused to transfer the case from the court, which had been hearing the case since 2018. Judge Pahuja, however, was on November 18 transferred to another court by the Delhi High Court. ACMM Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who replaced judge Pahuja, started hearing the final arguments afresh on November 21. Another controversial case related to Jammu and Kashmir DSP (suspended) Davinder Singh getting bail by a court on June 19 in a terror case filed by Delhi Police after it failed to file a charge sheet on time. Singh, however, remains in jail in another case lodged by the NIA. On October 26, former Union minister during erstwhile NDA government, Dilip Ray, was awarded 3-year jail term in a coal scam case, while on July 30, ex-Samta party Party president Jaya Jaitly, along with two others, was awarded 4-year jail term for corruption in a 2000-01 case related to a purported defence deal. The Delhi High Court is reviewing both the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-pandemic-delhi-courts-deal-with-tablighi-nirbhaya-caa-cases-virtually-932832.html
29-12-2020||National||Modi govt's scholarship scheme to help 4 crore SC students in 5 years: Thawarchand Gehlot||The Modi government aims to provide post-matric scholarship to over four crore students belonging to the Scheduled Castes category over the next five years, raising the number from existing 60 lakh beneficiaries, senior BJP leader and Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot said Tuesday. He also told reporters the government's recent decision to raise the Centre's share in the scholarship amount to 60 per cent, and hike it progressively to 80 per cent, will result in a total expenditure of over Rs 59,048 crore by 2025-26 and ensure monitory assistance to the underprivileged students in time. The Centre had spent only around Rs 1,100 crore annually in the last two years under an earlier formula, now changed by the Modi government, which had led to a rise in state's share, with almost half of the 36 states and Union Territories not getting any contribution from the Union dispensation, he told reporters. Many states would not pay scholarship on time or use the fund for some other purposes resulting in increasing dropouts from SC students due to lack of scholarship, he said, adding this will change now. Money will be now directly transferred to the student's bank account and the Centre will contribute only after the state has done so, he said. "This is a historic decision. It will boost educational standards. No state has opposed our announcement," Gehlot, a Dalit face of the ruling party, said. The percentage of students benefiting from the post-metric scholarship has risen to 23 from 17 in 2014-15, and the government is working to augment the number of beneficiaries to 27 per cent, he said. Addressing the press conference, BJP general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam hit out at the previous Congress-led UPA government at the Centre, saying over 50 lakh fake beneficiaries were getting scholarships at the cost of Dalit students. He alleged a scam in the Congress-ruled Punjab, citing lack of documents regarding the list of scholarship beneficiaries in the state. Hailing the Modi government, he said it has worked to build memorials in honour of Dalit icon Bhimrao Ambedkar who, he alleged, never got due recognition from the earlier Congress regimes. The Union Cabinet had last week approved changes in the centrally sponsored Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to benefit more than four crore Scheduled Caste students in the next five years and approved a total investment of over Rs 59,000 crore for the purpose. This decision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said, will ensure greater educational access to youngsters belonging to SC communities. “Ensuring top quality and affordable education to our youth is an important focus area for our government," he had said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govts-scholarship-scheme-to-help-4-crore-sc-students-in-5-years-thawarchand-gehlot-932834.html
29-12-2020||National||Not just freight corridor, DFC a ‘Dedicated For Country’ scheme: Piyush Goyal||Hailing the inauguration of the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern DFC in Uttar Pradesh, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal Tuesday said it is not just a freight corridor but a "Dedicated For Country scheme" that will carry goods as well as development. Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday inaugurated the 351-km section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor via videoconferencing. Speaking at the inauguration, Goyal said the DFCs are the best example of Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat. He said the DFC will play a role similar to what the river Ganga plays in terms of sustaining lives and livelihoods across its course. "The society calls the one ‘Jeevandayini (one who nurtures the life)' and the other (DFC) will prove to be a lifeline for industries," he said. "The DFCs are not only Dedicated Freight Corridor, but a Dedicated For Country scheme," he said, adding they will carry not only goods but also development in the areas they serve. He said at present passenger as well as goods trains operate on the same track. "Because of this 150-year-old arrangement, goods trains do not reach in time (to their respective destinations), as they are not given priority on their route," Goyal said. The Railway Minister also said that earlier goods trains used to run at an average speed of 25 kilometres per hour, which has now doubled. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic this year, the Railways has almost reached 95-96 per cent of previous year's freight loading, he said. "And by March 2021, we will exceed previous year’s carry and strengthen the economy more." "All this has been possible due to the reforms undertaken in the past five months and increasing strengthening of the economy," he said. Speaking on this occasion, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, "For a land-locked state like Uttar Pradesh, we can understand its (the DFC's) importance. "It is also important for us that 75 per cent of the Eastern DFC lies in Uttar Pradesh. The junction of Eastern Freight Corridor and Western Freight Corridor are also in UP. This will provide us an opportunity to create new avenues in the logistics sector," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-just-freight-corridor-dfc-a-dedicated-for-country-scheme-piyush-goyal-932836.html
29-12-2020||National||India likely to extend ban on flights from UK||India is likely to extend “slightly” the temporary suspension of flights from Britain imposed to contain the spread of the mutant strain of coronavirus prevalent there. “I foresee a small extension to the temporary suspension,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters on a day when India detected the mutant strain of the coronavirus in six passengers who had returned from Britain. Puri said the situation in South Africa and a few other countries that have reported the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 was being monitored carefully. The minister said India had put in place a new protocol for handling passengers from Britain and other countries, including genome sequencing of positive cases to detect the new strain. “We are getting a handle on it. Our systems are in place, we have managed contact tracing,” Puri said adding that the detection of the new strain of the virus had not affected domestic aviation. The minister said the resumption of normal international passenger flights depended on the behaviour of the virus and the roll-out of the vaccine for Covid-19. He said he expected normal international flights to be back to pre-Covid times in the first half of the new year.   Airport privatisation:  Meanwhile, Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh told the press conference the government is planning to hold the next round of privatisation of airports in the first half of 2021. "As far as the next round of airports' privatisation is concerned, we are at the final stages of obtaining government approvals. Once the approvals are received, I think we will start the process of bidding in the first quarter of 2021," he said. The AAI had in September recommended the Centre now privatise airports at Amritsar, Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy. In the first round of airports’ privatisation under the Narendra Modi government, the Adani Group in February bagged contracts for six airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- winning the bids by huge margins. After signing the concession agreements for three airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru -- the AAI handed them over to the Adani group earlier this year. The concession agreements for the remaining three airports would be signed in the first half of next month, Singh said. The AAI, which works under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country. Kozhikode Air Crash The minister said an investigation into the Air India Express crash at Kozhikode on August 7 was under progress and was expected to be completed within the five-month timeline. He said the report was expected early next month. Meanwhile, Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh said bidding for the next round of privatisation of six airports would be held in the first half of 2021. The concessionaire agreement for three airports – Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati and Jaipur was expected to be signed next month. Adani Enterprises had won the bids to operate, modernise and manage the airports for a 50-years period.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-extend-ban-on-flights-from-uk-932838.html
29-12-2020||National||Mumbai Police submits C-summary report over 'Free Kashmir' held in protest against JNU violence||Mumbai Police have submitted a C summary report before a metropolitan court here in a case filed against a woman who was accused of holding a "Free Kashmir" poster during a protest held at the Gateway of India against the JNU violence in January this year, a senior police official said on Tuesday. A C summary report is issued by the police in a matter when the criminal case was filed due to mistake of facts or the offence complained about is of a civil nature. "The C-summary report has been submitted in a case registered against Mehak Mirza Prabhu at Colaba police station," the official said. An FIR had been registered against Prabhu at Colaba police station in south Mumbai under section 153 B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). About 2,000 people, mostly college students, had gathered at the iconic Gateway of India on January 7 to protest against the attack by masked goons on the Jawaharlal Nehru Campus in Delhi as well as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. Images and videos of the woman, later identified as Prabhu, holding a large poster with the words "Free Kashmir" written in big bold letters, had gone viral on social media. In a related development, police on Monday filed a chargesheet against 36 persons in connection with the Gateway of India protest, another senior police officer said. Names of some city-based lawyers and activists who were part of the protest were mentioned in the chargesheet. So far, 29 accused persons in the case have been granted bail by a court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-submits-c-summary-report-over-free-kashmir-held-in-protest-against-jnu-violence-932851.html
29-12-2020||National||Transporters against E-Way bill validity period reduction from Jan 1||Transporters' apex body AIMTC on Tuesday said it is against reduction of E-Way bill validity period from January 1, and said that the move will disrupt supply chain and create chaotic condition. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the umbrella body of transporters that represents about 95 lakh truckers and entities. Acute adversities are faced by this sector and "there is yet another impractical scenario created from the government vide amendment in rule ...vide notification no 94/2020-Central Tax dated 22-12-2020, wherein the E-Bill validity period is halved. The said amendment is ill-informed, and ill-conceived. It is bereft of any consideration of the ecosystem of the road transport sector and is notified without any consultation with the stakeholders," the AIMTC said in a statement. It said this amendment may result in disrupting the smooth flow of supply chain and create chaotic conditions by impacting even essential supplies including medicines and perishable items. "The New Amendment in Section 138 (10) of the CGST halves the time period that is allowed for delivery of material. This is not as per ground realities and does not take into consideration the circumstantial reasons of delay and will open a pandora box leading to unforeseen conditions, disruptions and large number of non-compliances leading to disruption of smooth flow of supply chain," the AIMTC said. It said different category of commercial vehicles carry cargo ranging from 500 kg to 42,000 kg and have different speed and different operating conditions. Under the circumstances it said "validity of E-way Bill of one day for every 200 kilometer travelled is not practical... It takes transporters at least 4-5 days to collect goods from various agencies/suppliers and then carry it to the destined place" and cited various reasons like logistics challenges. "Entire policy needs to be reviewed and need detailed deliberations in light of amendments in MV ACT, 1988 and mandatory FASTag from 01-01-2021. The reviewing of the permissible transit time in terms of e-way bill validity requires a detailed discussion and deliberation with all stakeholders for smooth & better compliance of legal procedures," it demanded. It urged the government to do away with the amendment and restore the previous system of validity of bill for one day for every 100 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transporters-against-e-way-bill-validity-period-reduction-from-jan-1-932852.html
29-12-2020||National||Sikh organisation moves SC for declaring Guru Gobind Singh's birth anniversary as public holiday||A Sikh organisation, 'All India Shiromani Singh Sabha' has approached the Supreme Court for a uniform and non-arbitrary implementation of policy for declaring public holidays as against the whims and fancies of various political groups. The petitioner said it was aggrieved at the fact that the important patriotic and historical figure like tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh ji's birth anniversary has yet not been declared public holiday across the country, though Sikhism is the fifth largest religion in the world with 25.8 million believers. In India, there is no Public Holidays Act, except the Weekly Holidays Act, 1942, which provided for weekly holidays. In most cases, holidays were declared by the executive at the behest of political groups to appease a particular section of the society. However, in countries like New Zealand, the UK and the USA, the holidays were governed by the legislation, it said. In a writ petition filed through advocate Durga Dutt, the petitioner contended that the birth anniversary of the tenth Sikh Guru should be allowed to be celebrated as 'Prakash Parv' throughout the country to instil a sense of patriotism, nationalism and brotherhood among the people. Guru Gobind Singh ji stood against injustice and his teachings transcend time and will remain relevant in all times to come. It sought a direction for issuing guidelines for declaring public and gazetted holiday all over the country but not restricted to states and Union Territories where Sikhs are in significant numbers. Maintaining that the issue was of national importance, it said the plea was filed to protect fundamental rights to equality, right to life and freedom to practice one's religion. The organisation, which made the Union government as well as all states and Union Territories as parties to the plea, said a representation sent to the Ministry of Personal, Public Grievance and Pension, Union government was responded to casually that there is no proposal to declare Guru Gobind Singh Ji's birth anniversary as gazetted public holiday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-organisation-moves-sc-for-declaring-guru-gobind-singhs-birth-anniversary-as-public-holiday-932853.html
29-12-2020||National||Gujarat BJP MP resigns over concerns regarding tribal villages around Statue of Unity||In what seems to be a pressure tactic, Gujarat BJP parliamentarian and ex Union minister Manshukh Vasava on Tuesday announced his resignation from the party, adding that he will tender his resignation as an MP to Lok Sabha speaker in the coming budget session of the Parliament. Vasava recently wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi voicing his concerns regarding over 100 tribal villages around Statue of Unity at Kevadia in Narmada district, which has been notified as eco-sensitive zone. The locals have been protesting against the central government's move that allows government officials to interfere in the region, even on private properties. Last week, Vasava, a six time MP, had written to Modi alleging how "in the name of notification, the MoEFCC and state government officials are interfering in the private properties of local tribals." He also alleged that before notifying the area, the local population was not consulted leading to huge mistrust and said that it may become a law and order issue. He demanded withdrawal of the notification. The former Union minister of state for tribal affairs wrote to Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil, stating, "I have been loyal to the party. I have taken care of party's values. However, after all, I am a human bineg. A man makes mistakes knowingly or unknowingly. I am resigning from the party so that my mistake may not cause damage to party." "During the budet session, I will meet the speaker and hand over my resignation from the membership. Please convey this decision to the central leadership," he wrote in the letter which he upuloaded on his Facebook account. A BJP leader told reporters that "State president CR Paatil is in touch with Mansukh bhai. Both will resolve the matter."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-bjp-mp-resigns-over-concerns-regarding-tribal-villages-around-statue-of-unity-932855.html
29-12-2020||National||Mandatory FASTag from January 1: How to recharge and maintain the wallet||Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways has announced that FASTag will be made mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas effective from January 1.  FASTag is a card that is stamped on the windshield of vehicles from inside which contains a radio-frequency Identification (RFID) bar code. The code includes all the details of the vehicles and is valid for five years after the date of issuance. Every time a vehicle clears a toll plaza, scanners will detect the FASTag and charge the user electronically, given the wallet or the bank account linked to the service contains a balance.  How to recharge FASTag wallet: There are two ways to obtain a FASTag: through banks and mobile wallets such as PayTM. The user needs to submit vehicle registration document and personal ID (mandatory KYC) to use a FASTag. In case of banks, the toll plaza charge will be directly deducted from the account.  As for the mobile payment systems, such as PayTM, the user needs to recharge their wallet prior to the journey with the necessary amount. This can be done through UPI, credit or debit card, net banking, etc.  Several banks including State Bank of India and HDFC offer FASTag. Among e-wallets, PayTM and Airtel Payment are some of the prominent and convenient ways to use the service. The Ministry claims that FASTag will fasten the queues at the toll plazas and also eliminate the need for human contact, considering the coronavirus pandemic. It will also save fuel, the Ministry claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandatory-fastag-from-january-1-how-to-recharge-and-maintain-the-wallet-932858.html
29-12-2020||National||Farm laws protesters lathi-charged in Patna, several injured||Several people were injured on Tuesday in a lathi charge at a busy crossing in the heart of the city when police personnel tried to stop a procession, taken out in protest against the farm laws from heading towards the Raj Bhavan. Traffic was thrown out of gear as thousands of protestors, comprising members of various farmers organizations and pro-Left outfits, marched through Frazer Road before they were thwarted at the Dak Bungalow crossing. According to police, the crackdown at Dak Bungalow Crossing was preceded by skirmishes between the demonstrators and police and administrative officials at the Gandhi Maidan, the starting point of the rally, where agitators took exception to their entry being allowed inside the sprawling public ground only through one of the many gates. Police sources said the restriction was put in place to avoid a stampede-like situation. The demonstrators alleged that it was an attempt to suppress their voices. Later, when they reached the Dak Bungalow Crossing, about a kilometre and a half away, officials deployed there told the demonstrators that their march could not be allowed beyond that point. As the demonstrators insisted on walking right up to the Raj Bhavan, some three kilometres away, the police used force to prevent their march towards the restricted VIP area. An unspecified number of injured protestors were taken to hospitals for treatment while a few were rounded up, the police said. There was heavy deployment of forces at the Dak Bungalow Crossing, where some of the demonstrators sought to stand their ground raising slogans, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-protesters-lathi-charged-in-patna-several-injured-932871.html
29-12-2020||National||Genome sequencing for all Covid-19 positive international flyers who arrived in India from Dec 9 to 22||All international passengers who arrived in India from December 9 to 22 and tested positive for Covid-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre's strategy to detect the mutated coronavirus strain that has emerged in the United Kingdom recently. Others will be followed up by the state and district surveillance officers, and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines, even if asymptomatic, between fifth and 10th day of arrival, according to the Union Health Ministry's guidance document on genomic sequencing. "All the international passengers who have arrived in India during the last 14 days (from December 9 to 22), if symptomatic and tested positive, will be subjected to genome sequencing," the document stated. The presence of the new UK variant of the coronavirus has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore so far. The health ministry has established the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance and to expand the whole genome sequencing of the coronavirus in the country, aiding in the understanding of how the virus spreads and evolves. India has put in place a pro-active and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant of the virus. It includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till December 31 and mandatory testing of all UK returnee air passengers through RT-PCR test. Ten regional laboratories have been identified by the Centre where states will send five per cent of their Covid-19 positive samples for genome sequencing to detect the new coronavirus variant. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Epidemiological Surveillance and Response in the context of new variant of SARS-CoV-2 has already been issued by the Health Ministry. The purpose of this initiative is to ensure proper screening of international travellers arriving in India for early detection of new SAR-CoV-2 variant cases. Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23, will be conducted in the community through active follow up. Six people who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. All these people have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/genome-sequencing-for-all-covid-19-positive-international-flyers-who-arrived-in-india-from-dec-9-to-22-932873.html
29-12-2020||National||Over 60 Congress workers taken into custody in Uttar Pradesh||Over 60 Congress leaders and workers were taken into custody on Tuesday during their "Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao Yatra" here, police said. Around 60 to 70 Congress leaders and workers were taken into custody at Shahid Park here while staging a protest without permission, Circle Officer (Sadar) Anurag Singh said. They were staging a protest without permission and also violating the Covid-19 guidelines, the CO added. However, the district unit president of the Congress, Neelam Nishad, claimed that partymen were taking out the “yatra” in a peaceful manner when around 300 of them were taken into custody. Nishad alleged that BJP government had no concern for cows and farmers. Cows are dying in gaushalas due to starvation and farmers are committing suicide because of debts and other problems, Nishad said. The “yatra” was scheduled to be led by state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu from the district headquarter to Bharuwa Sumerpur town but police put him under house arrest in Lucknow on Monday evening, Nishad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-60-congress-workers-taken-into-custody-in-uttar-pradesh-932878.html
29-12-2020||National||Ahead of talks with Centre, protesting farmers defer proposed tractor march||Protesting farmer unions have deferred to Thursday their proposed tractor march against the contentious agriculture laws, so that the rally does not clash with their talks with the government on Wednesday. The unions have agreed to hold the next round of talks with the Central government on Wednesday, but insist the agenda of the meeting should include discussing modalities for repealing the three legislations. Earlier this week, Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of 40 unions leading protests at Delhi border points --- had announced a tractor march from the Singhu and the Tikri borders to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Highway on December 30. "In view of our talks with the government (on December 30), we have decided to defer our tractor march. The farmers will hold a march with their tractors on December 31," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Morcha, told PTI. He said that as farmer leaders would have a meeting with Central ministers on Wednesday, the protesting unions have decided to defer their proposed tractor march. Thousands of protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri --- for the last 31 days, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for minimum support price. On Monday, farmer leaders agreed to a government proposal for holding the next round of talks on the new agricultural laws on December 30, but remained firm on their agenda of scrapping the laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-talks-with-centre-protesting-farmers-defer-proposed-tractor-march-932885.html
29-12-2020||National||DGT announces results of All India Trade Test for Apprentices||The Directorate General of Training (DGT) has announced the result of the 110th All India Trade Test for Apprentices, and over 50,000 candidates have passed out of nearly 96,000 who appeared for the exam.  The examination was conducted in September 2020 that engaged close to 7,300 industries in over 200 trades.  "The overall percentages of girls and boys who passed are 58.41 per cent and 51.44 per cent, respectively, which stands testimony to increasing female participation in apprenticeship," an official statement said. The results were announced on Monday evening by the Directorate General of Training (DGT) under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.  "Sneha, IHMCT, Panipat-Haryana topped the evaluation scoring 95.96 per cent in the National Apprenticeship Certificate. Kalyan Rana, Texmaco Rail & Engineering Ltd, West Bengal and Thiruselvam M, BHEL-Pudukottai-Tamil Nadu ranked 2nd and 3rd in the examination, respectively," the statement said.  After completion of apprenticeship training, an evaluation through All India Trade Test  for National Apprenticeship Certificate is conducted twice in a year.  This training is under the Apprentices Act, 1961 and supported through National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme. The training is as per the course curriculum designed by the DGT in the designated trades, that provides an apprentice the opportunity to receive on-the-job training by key players in the industry and get stipend. Mahendra Nath Pandey, Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), said that over the years, DGT-MSDE has undertaken several measures to increase the number of apprentices hired by enterprises across the country. "We have brought significant reforms to the apprenticeship rules in 2019 to drive greater participation in the programme. National Apprenticeship Certificate (NAC) plays an integral role in our relentless efforts to strengthen the Indian apprenticeship ecosystem in order to rightly skill the youth and provide them opportunities for sustainable livelihood," he said. Neelam Shammi Rao, Director General (Training), DGT said, "With a 'new normal' in place, as market dynamics are rapidly evolving, enhanced focus on apprenticeship becomes all the more important for the future of jobs. Recognised for employment both nationally and internationally, NAC helps us ensure that our initiatives align with national as well global industry standards and requirements."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgt-announces-results-of-all-india-trade-test-for-apprentices-932886.html
29-12-2020||National||No evidence that vaccines will not work against new Covid-19 variants: Centre||Covid-19 vaccines will work against new variants of the virus and there is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against the SARS-CoV-2 mutants reported from the UK or South Africa, the government said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan said so far it has not been found that the new variant increases the severity of the disease. "There is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against Covid-19 variants reported from UK or SA. Most vaccines do target the Spike protein, in which there are changes in the variants but vaccines stimulate our immune system to produce a wide range of protective antibodies," he said. NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said there has been a consistent decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths which is reassuring given the current scenario across the world. "We are consistently showing a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases, active cases and deaths, which is very reassuring. It stands out particularly during this very period when several nations are facing a devastating situation," Paul said. He said majority of the population is still susceptible to the infection in the cold weather. "The UK variant has travelled to several other countries and also to India, this variant may have its own run and we have to very careful," Paul said. Giving a break-up on the basis of the gender and age of those infected with the novel coronavirus, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 63 per cent of total cases in the country have been reported in males and 37 per cent cases in females. "Eight per cent cases have been reported below the age of 17 years, 13 per cent in the 18-25 years age group, 39 per cent in 26-44 years group, 26 per cent in 45-60 years group and 14 per cent above 60 years," he said. Bhushan said 70 per cent of Covid deaths have been reported in men and 45 per cent fatalities due to this disease have been reported in those below 60 years of age. He said the number of active cases of Covid-19 has been registered at 2.7 lakhs after six months, and the cumulative positivity rate is at 6.02 per cent while the positivity rate during last week was 2.25 per cent. "Five states and UTs which account for 60 per cent of total active Covid-19 cases are Maharashtra, Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-that-vaccines-will-not-work-against-new-covid-19-variants-centre-932891.html
29-12-2020||National||Centre proposes mandatory airbag for front passenger seat in vehicles||The government on Tuesday said it has proposed to make airbag mandatory for the passenger in the front seat of a vehicle. The step aims at improving passenger safety in case of accidents. The road transport ministry has issued a draft notification in this regard. "In a significant measure to boost passenger safety, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways proposes to make it mandatory that an airbag be provided for the passenger seated on the front seat of a vehicle, next to the driver," the ministry said in a statement. The proposed timelines for the implementation of the move is April 1, 2021, for new models and June 1, 2021, for existing models. A draft notification to this effect has been published on the ministry's website, the statement said. "Comments/ suggestions are solicited from all stakeholders at the following email address: comments-morth@gov.inwithin 30 days from the date of notification," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-proposes-mandatory-airbag-for-front-passenger-seat-in-vehicles-932897.html
29-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rajinikanth not to launch political party||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Rajinikanth not to launch political party; India likely to extend a ban on flights from Britain; Madhya Pradesh Cabinet okays ordinance on the bill against religious conversion through fraudulent means, and Karnataka Legislative Council deputy chairperson S L Dharme Gowda found dead near a railway track.  Here is the top news of December 29, 2020:   India's Civil Aviation Minister on Tuesday said the country was likely to extend a ban on flights from Britain that it has imposed in a bid to contain a new strain of the coronavirus. "I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don't expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension," Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters. India last week suspended all flights from Britain until the end of the month.   Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced that he will not launch a new political party to contest the 2021 assembly elections, citing his poor health and Covid-19 as reasons for going back on the promise he made on the last day of 2017. In a three-page statement posted on his verified Twitter page, Rajinikanth apologised to his fans, supporters and people who stood by him over the past three years for his decision. He also said he would continue working for the people of Tamil Nadu without launching a political party. “I regret to announce that I am not able to take the political plunge by launching a political party. Only I know the pain that I go through while announcing this. This decision would come as a disappointment to my fans, and people. I apologise to everyone,” he said.   The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave nod to an ordinance on the bill against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators. The ordinance on the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, has been sent to state Governor Anandiben Patel for approval, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters.   64-year-old Karnataka Legislative Council deputy chairperson S L Dharme Gowda was found dead near a railway track at Gunasagara in Kadur taluk in the wee hours of Tuesday. It is suspected that he died by suicide. He had reportedly left his farmhouse at Sakharayapattana after 10 pm on Monday. After he failed to return home, family members began searching for him and found him dead on a railway track between Gunasagara and Kabli. According to sources close to Dharme Gowda, he had asked the driver of the car to park the vehicle near the railway track at Gunasagara and had reportedly told the driver on the pretext of meeting someone.   Karnataka on Monday decided to reject “outright” the K Kasturirangan Committee report on conserving the Western Ghats, just ahead of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) December 31 deadline for its implementation. A Cabinet sub-committee headed by Forest Minister Anand Singh took a stand against the implementation of the report. The Kasturirangan Committee has recommended that 20,668 sq km spread across 11 districts in the Western Ghats cradling 1,592 villages be declared as an Ecological Sensitive Area (ESA), which will come with restrictions that the government believes will hamper developmental works. Source: DHNS/PTI/Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajinikanth-not-to-launch-political-party-932901.html
29-12-2020||National||Farm laws: CITU to protest at over one lakh workplaces on Wednesday in solidarity with farmers||Workers affiliated with the Centre of Indian Trade Unions will organise nationwide protest actions in more than one lakh workplaces on Wednesday, and conduct gherao of district collectorates and 'jail bharo' (fill the jails) on January 7-8 in solidarity with farmers protesting against the contentious farms laws and demanding repeal of the "anti-worker" labour codes. Announcing the protest plans, CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen said these actions will be in addition to the support and solidarity actions already done by the CPI(M)-supported trade union. The CITU is demanding the repeal of the three farm laws, four labour codes, and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. Sen said the CITU and the entire working class movement have been supporting the farmers’ protests against the three farm ordinances, before the Bills were passed in Parliament violating all Parliamentary procedures and norms. "Repeal of the three Farm Acts was one of the major demands of the joint trade union movement on its general strike on November 26. CITU committees across the country have been actively supporting, through their physical participation, all the calls of the ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha', whether it was the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8 or the protests in front of Toll gates, Reliance Malls and petrol pumps across the country," he said. Sen said the CITU has now decided to further strengthen the struggle against these policies by further mobilising workers in support of the peasants’ demand to repeal the Farm Acts in their action programmes. During its protests, the CITU will also be demanding stopping privatisation and providing relief to the poor unorganised sector workers, agricultural workers through cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month, 10 kg free food grains per person per month to all needy, expansion of employment guarantee, universal free health, social security for all and other basic demands of the working people like enhanced minimum wage and decent employment among other things. "The CITU assures the working class will stand by its peasant brothers and sisters in their struggle against the BJP government's anti farmer, anti-worker and anti-national policies, meant to benefit the big corporate cronies like Ambani and Adani and others," Sen said. In a statement, the CITU also appealed to the working class to stand in active solidarity with the peasants and take the joint struggles of the workers and peasants to new heights of resistance and defiance and force a change in the policies that benefit a few corporates towards those that benefit the mass of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-citu-to-protest-at-over-one-lakh-workplaces-on-wednesday-in-solidarity-with-farmers-932906.html
29-12-2020||National||Indian scientists quell concerns on new Covid-19 variant, say staying cautious sufficient||Standard defense mechanisms such as masks, sanitisation and physical distancing will work to contain the coronavirus strain detected in six people who came from the UK, scientists said on Tuesday, giving assurance that the mutant is not clinically more severe and there is no need to worry. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said six people who returned to India from the UK recently have tested positive for the new mutated variant called VUI-202012/01, sparking worries that India’s fight against the disease has gotten more complex just as its daily Covid-19 count was falling. According to the Health Ministry, the SARS-CoV-2's UK variant genome was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Several scientists stepped in to assuage concerns and said there is no evidence yet that the variant is more deadly. Anurag Agrawal, director of New Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) was one of them.   “Staying cautious and following good practices should be sufficient (to tackle the variant),” Agrawal told PTI, adding that the UK, where the variant was identified first, has not reported any clinical indication of the variant being more severe. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) has said preliminary modelling results communicated by the UK on December 19 suggest the variant is 70 per cent more transmissible than previously circulating variants. However, it also said there is no indication of increased infection severity observed related to the variant with multiple mutations in the spike protein. The spike protein comes in contact with human cells to enter the body and infect. Virologist Upasana Ray agreed with the assessment that there is no cause for alarm because there is nothing so far to back concerns that the variant is more deadly. The senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, went a step further and said, "It has been said the transmission rate is more. However, for that also there is no laboratory based evidence." Ray also noted that a check on travel has already been suggested and said tests have been recommended for anyone entering the country from the UK. "The most important step required is implementing the basic precautions like using masks (that many people have stopped using) social distancing etc. A watch on the variant is also important to monitor its transmission and pathogenicity," Ray told PTI. There should be no concerns on the vaccine front as well. Asserting that it has so far not been found that the new variant increases the severity of the disease, the government’s Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan said at a press conference, "There is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against Covid-19 variants reported from UK or SA.” “Most vaccines do target the spike protein in which there are changes in the variants but vaccines stimulate our immune system to produce a wide range of protective antibodies," he said. Rakesh Mishra, director of Hyderabad’s CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Microbiology added that there is no surprise to find the new variant of the virus in some of the samples tested in India. According to him, large-scale testing is required, and people need not worry too much about the new strain. "It  (new strain of Covid-19) is just fresh, otherwise, it is the same virus and not much of an issue. Same symptoms, mortality, everything is the same… we just have to take precautions," Mishra told PTI. Though the new variant is more transmissible, it has not shown to cause more severe infection compared to other mutants, agreed Divya Tej Sowpati, a scientist at CSIR-CCMB.   “Please note that though more transmissible, this strain is not shown to be clinically more severe. Also, the same defences work to contain the UK strain too - masks, sanitization, and social distancing,” Sowpati tweeted on Tuesday.   Immunologist Satyajit Rath said the variant is likely to be a cause for concern in terms of policy responses to Covid-19, but not in terms of individual risk of serious illness. “However, the basis for this concern remains somewhat circumstantial at this point, since it is based on the correlation between the increasing prominence of this variant with growing case numbers in southern England over the past few weeks. “More direct evidence, if any, is still awaited,” Rath from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII) said. He also expressed doubts about whether the new variant will have any impact on the accuracy of the standard RT PCR diagnostic tests for Covid-19 being conducted in India. “It is true that some tests are based on detection of regions that are a bit different in this variant, but those differences are not large enough, I think, for the tests to be affected to any substantial extent,” he explained.   Agrawal concurred with Rath, saying “no sweeping changes were needed” in RT-PCR diagnosis due to the new variant. A total of 16,432 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in little over six months, while the death toll increased to 1,48,153 with 252 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,07,569 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.92 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate is 1.45 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-quell-concerns-on-new-covid-19-variant-say-staying-cautious-sufficient-932915.html
29-12-2020||National||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination drive successfully conducted in 4 states: Health Ministry||A two-day dry run to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the Covid-19 immunisation drive, which is expected to begin soon, was successfully conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Assam, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The end-to-end exercise was undertaken in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh, Rajkot and Gandhinagar of Gujarat, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar of Punjab, and Sonitpur and Nalbari districts of Assam on Monday and Tuesday. Specific teams were formed for various tasks by the district administrations and activities like uploading of dummy beneficiary data, session site creation, vaccine allocation, communicating vaccination details to beneficiaries and vaccinators, and beneficiary mobilization were carried out, the health ministry said. Field feedback on the first day of dun run was reviewed on December 29 through video conferencing with state and district programme officers by the joint secretary (Public Health). "All the states expressed satisfaction in terms of operational approach and use of IT platform to ensure transparency and effective monitoring of vaccination processes expected to cover a large number of people across the country. "Additional suggestions on IT platform were also noted for further enhancement of Co-WIN platform. Detailed insights and feedback obtained will help enrich the operational guidelines and IT platform, and will strengthen the Covid-19 vaccination roll out plan," the ministry said. Backed with the experience of rolling out Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) and conducting nationwide multiple wide-range injectable vaccination campaigns such as measles-rubella and adult Japanese Encephalitis campaign, required steps were being undertaken to vaccinate priority population groups such as healthcare and frontline workers, and people above 50 years for Covid-19, it stated. The exercise tested the Covid-19 vaccination process, including planning and preparations according to operational guidelines; creation of facilities and users on Co-WIN application, session site creation and mapping of sites, uploading healthcare workers data, receipt of vaccines and their allocation by districts, session planning, deployment of vaccination team, logistics mobilisation at session sites, mock drill of conducting the drive, and reporting and review meetings at block, district and state levels. The objective of the dry run was also to undertake and confirm field implementation of the Co-WIN and guide the way forward prior to its implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-successfully-conducted-in-4-states-health-ministry-932930.html
29-12-2020||National||70% of total Covid fatalities registered in men, 45% deaths in those below 60 years: Health Ministry||About 45 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported in those below 60 years of age while 70 per cent of total fatalities from the infection were registered in men, the Health ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 63 per cent of the total cases were reported in males and 37 per cent cases in females.   "Eight per cent cases have been reported below the age of 17 years, 13 per cent in the 18-25 years age group, 39 per cent in 26-44 years group, 26 per cent in 45-60 years group and 14 per cent cases above 60 years," he said. Bhushan further said 45 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths so far have been reported in those below 60 years of age and 70 per cent of total fatalities from the infection were registered in men. About 55 per cent Covid-19 deaths were reported in those aged 60 and above, 33 per cent in the age group of 45 to 60 years, 10 per cent in the age group of 26-44 years and one per cent each in those aged between 18-25 years and in those below 17 years, according to the data presented by Bhushan. He said the number of active cases of Covid-19 has been registered at 2.7 lakhs, sliding to a low after six months. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 6.02 per cent while the positivity rate during last week was 2.25 per cent. "Five states and UTs which account for 60 per cent of total active Covid-19 cases are Maharashtra, Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh," he said. Bhushan further said India's rate of cases per million population -- at 7,408 -- is among the lowest in the world while the number of deaths per million population stood at 107. In the last seven days, 110 new cases and two deaths per million population have been reported while the number of active cases per million has been registered at 194, Bhushan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-of-total-covid-fatalities-registered-in-men-45-deaths-in-those-below-60-years-health-ministry-932932.html
29-12-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin can work against mutated coronavirus: Bharat Biotech||Covaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by Bharat Biotech for Covid-19, can offer protection against mutations of coronavirus, Chairman and Managing Directorof the city-based vaccine maker Krishna Ella said on Tuesday. He also said the company has approached regulatory authorities seeking approval for an emergency license to use the vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology and now undergoing phase 3 trials. "It (coronavirus) is expected to have a lot of mutation and you can be rest assured this vaccine will also protect against that (mutated) virus because of two hypotheses... "So you have these two components in the inactivated vaccine. It will also take care of those mutations," Ella said during a virtual programme organised by CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology. He was replying to a query on the new strain of coronavirus that was detected in the United Kingdom recently. Ella said mutation was not unexpected and the virus mutates on its own to reach more number of people as it is a non-living organism. The executive said Covaxin, now undergoing Phase 3 trials involving about 20,000 volunteers, balances both safety and efficacy. Six people who returned to India from the UK have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The presence of the new UK variant of the coronavirus has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-can-work-against-mutated-coronavirus-bharat-biotech-932938.html
29-12-2020||National||Begin talks with repeal of farm laws, protesting farmers tell Centre||Ahead of talks with the Centre, farmers agitating on the borders of Delhi have asked the government to stick to the chronology of the issues listed by them by spelling out the modalities or repeal of the three farm laws. In a letter to the government on December 26, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha – the umbrella organisation leading the 34-day agitation – had listed out four issues – modalities for repeal of the three farm laws, legal guarantee for procurement of farm produce at minimum support price, relaxation in penalties for stubble burning and shelving amendments to the Electricity Act. “It is important that the talks follow the above agenda for a logical solution to contemporary issues,” the leaders of the 40 farmers' organisations said in a letter to Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Food & Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal met Home Minister Amit Shah to finalise the government strategy for the meeting with farmers' organisations on Wednesday. The Centre has ruled out repeal of the three farm laws, but has expressed readiness to address their concerns regarding minimum support price, Agriculture Produce Market Committees by giving a written assurance on continuation of the two measures. It had also expressed readiness to amend the laws related to contract farming and creating additional trade avenues for selling farm produce to address some issues flagged by them during the previous rounds of talks. The farmers' leaders have held five rounds of talks with government representatives, including Tomar and an informal round of discussions with Shah. For the past 34 days, thousands of farmers – mostly from Punjab and Haryana have been camping on the borders of the national capital demanding repeal of the The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act contending that they were designed to benefit corporate sector and not farmers. Groups of farmers from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have been camping at Rajashthan-Haryana border at Shahjahanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/begin-talks-with-repeal-of-farm-laws-protesting-farmers-tell-centre-932942.html
29-12-2020||National||Laws and ordinances against religious conversions in BJP ruled states violate Constitution: Asaduddin Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday hit out at BJP governments for bringing laws and ordinances against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, claiming these violated the fundamental rights under the Constitution. He also described the Centre's agri-marketing acts as 'draconian' and dared the Narendra Modi government to come out with laws on providing minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers, employment and unemployment dole. Owaisi said an adult can marry anyone they want and alleged the intention of the BJP in bringing such laws against religious conversions was to make a mockery of the Constitution. He was referring to recent promulgation of an ordinance by the Uttar Pradesh government against forcible or 'dishonest' religious conversions and the Madhya Pradesh cabinet giving its nod for a similar measure on Tuesday. "These laws and ordinances issued and given nod by some BJP-ruled states are against the Constitution and the BJP is creating an atmosphere of hate against the Muslim community," the Hyderabad MP told reporters here. He claimed that such laws were a blatant violation of Article 14,21 and 25 of the Constitution related to right to equality, right to life and personal liberty and right to freedom of religion respectively. "I challenge the BJP that why don't you make a law on providing MSP to the farmers that is the need of the hour. For so many weeks thousands of farmers are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the draconian laws passed by the Modi government," he said. Instead of doing it, they (the BJP) were bringing these ordinances against religious conversions, he claimed. Owaisi welcomed the Allahabad High Court order quashing quashed an FIR against a Muslim man over a marriage with a Hindu woman and ruling that she had a right to live her life on her own terms. The court has clearly reiterated that no government has any role to play in the personal life of an Indian citizen, he said, adding the Supreme Court had also given a similar ruling. Replying to a question, Owaisi said his party will fight elections be it local body polls in Madhya Pradesh or in Gujarat or other places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/laws-and-ordinances-against-religious-conversions-in-bjp-ruled-states-violate-constitution-asaduddin-owaisi-932951.html
29-12-2020||National||Stamps on Chhota Rajan, Munna Bajrangi due to violation of norms by customers: India Post||India Post on Tuesday said customers violated norms to get stamps featuring underworld don Chhota Rajan and slain gangster Munna Bajrangi. Twelve stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed under the 'My Stamp' scheme, which was launched by the department a few years ago. Under the scheme, customers can get stamps printed with photograph of himself, family member, friends or relatives, on occasions like birthdays, retirement and greetings. The Department of Posts said that customers have to sign a declaration stating that the photograph submitted does not contravene the law or erode any moral values of the society and are not against the interest of any third party, country or India Post. In particular, the image shall not contain or imply or suggest anything illegal, offensive, insulting or immoral, anything dishonest, deceptive or unpatriotic, any religious or political content. "In this (My Stamp on alleged criminals) case, the above conditions have been breached by the customer. In the application form also, no declaration has been given by the customer about the photographs he submitted," India Post said in a statement. It added that all the concerned have been advised to follow the instructions to avoid such occurrences in future. Pictures of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed in Kanpur under 'My Stamp'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stamps-on-chhota-rajan-munna-bajrangi-due-to-violation-of-norms-by-customers-india-post-932963.html
29-12-2020||National||Nirav Modi's remand in UK extended till January 7||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi appeared via videolink for a routine 28-day remand hearing on Tuesday before Westminster Magistrates' Court in London, where he was further remanded in custody until January 7 in the new year to conclude hearings in his extradition case. The 49-year-old has been behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest last year following India's extradition request for the diamond merchant wanted in connection with the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The final hearings in the extradition case are scheduled over two days, on January 7 and 8 next year, when District Judge Samuel Goozee is scheduled to hear closing arguments from both sides before he hands down his judgment a few weeks later. At the last full hearing in the case in November, Judge Goozee heard the arguments for and against the admissibility of certain witness statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) and ruled that the evidence to establish a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the fugitive diamantaire is broadly admissible. He concluded that he considered himself “bound” by the previous UK court rulings in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had stressed that the evidence, including witness statements under Section 161 of the Indian Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), meets the required threshold for the UK court to determine whether Modi has a case to answer before the Indian judicial system. “The argument that this is a very specific case, distinguishable from Mallya is frankly nonsense,” said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm. That Mallya has a case to answer in India in his fraud and money laundering case has cleared various levels of the UK judicial system and is currently undergoing a “confidential” legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition. Modi’s barrister, Clare Montgomery, who was also the defence counsel in Mallya’s case, however, disputed that the Section 161 witness statements qualify as similar. “The government of India case is not as strong as it was in Mallya,” said Montgomery, as she also raised a specific issue over a witness who was said to speak no English in his testimony for the CBI but signed a statement in English for the ED. Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of "Letters of Understanding" (LoUs or loan agreements), and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” added to the CBI case. The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down. The charges against him centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB or LoUs. The CPS, on behalf of India, have told the court during the course of two separate set of hearings in May and September that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure the LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. Modi’s defence team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems and jewellery trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. His severe depression has also been raised as part of the arguments against extradition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modis-remand-in-uk-extended-till-january-7-932971.html
29-12-2020||National||Hema Malini pitches for farm laws, says it offers farmers more options to sell crops||Actor-politician Hema Malini on Tuesday pitched for the three new agri-marketing laws, saying the Narendra Modi government has now given farmers more options to sell their crops. “Ever since the BJP-led government came to power, it is making every effort to increase the farmer’s income,” Mathura’s BJP MP told reporters through a video link. Earlier, she also talked to officials here through video conferencing. Chanting the “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” slogan, Hema Malini praised both soldiers and farmers. She appealed to farmers and their unions to give up their protest over the new farm laws and sit across the table with the government to remove their apprehensions. She asked them to have faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling him their well-wisher. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at Delhi’s borders over the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre. Farmer unions claim the laws will end up eroding the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the government says the MSP will stay and the laws give farmer more options to sell their produce. “I am proud of the farmers of Brijbhumi for joining hands with the farmers of the country who are lauding reforms by the Union government,” she said, implying that the farmers in her constituency were not against the controversial laws. She condemned the “politics” played over the new laws by the opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hema-malini-pitches-for-farm-laws-says-it-offers-farmers-more-options-to-sell-crops-932973.html
29-12-2020||National||Green jalebi, marriage procession: Farmers look at unique ways to grab eyeballs||Serving 'green jalebis' to taking out a 'baraat' (wedding procession), farmers protesting at Singhu border here are using innovative ways to communicate their grievances and demands to the central government. A group of farmers from Mohali in Punjab have been serving special green jalebis (sweet), saying it symbolised the colour of their crops and the prosperity associated with it. "We have been distributing green jalebis from the last few days. Nearly five quintals of the sweet are distributed everyday," Jasvir Chand, a protesting farmer, said. "The green colour of the sweet symbolises Green Revolution as well as peace and tranquillity," Chand's companion Baldev Singh (65) said at the protest site. "We have been peacefully protesting against the three new farm laws of the central government for over a month. Although the government has not accepted our demand, we are determined to continue the protest peacefully," he said. Notably, many curious people queued up to taste the 'green jalebi' which is usually available in golden colour. Meanwhile, some youths from Karnal in Haryana took out a marriage procession at the protest venue to draw attention towards their agitation. "We thought a marriage procession will be an interesting way to communicate to the people and the government our demands and issues with the farm laws," said 22-year-old Jagdip Singh from Dabri village in Karnal. The procession with a protester wearing the full attire of a groom and sitting on a tractor passed through the crowded highway attracting lot of merriment from the protesting farmers camping there for over a month. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month to demand repeal of the three agriculture laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. "We are requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government to give legal status to minimum support price (MSP) to empower the farmers. The government should also address our genuine concerns over the three farm laws," Chand said. "If anyone is employed by the government, his salary is regularly revised, similarly there should be legally guaranteed purchase of crops since farmers invest not only their hard work, but also whatever scarce resources are there at their disposal," he said. The new farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-jalebi-marriage-procession-farmers-look-at-unique-ways-to-grab-eyeballs-932982.html
29-12-2020||National||Delhi govt school students to get dry ration for 6 months: Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide dry ration to the students of its schools for a six-month period under the mid-day meal scheme, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. The move comes in view of the continued closure of schools since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "When the schools were closed, we decided to send the money for mid-day meals to the parents' accounts, but now, it has been decided that we will give dry ration for six months," Kejriwal said at a dry ration distribution event at a government school in the Mandawali area. Under the scheme, dry ration kits containing wheat, rice, pulses and oil will be provided to all eligible students of Classes 1-8 in the Delhi government schools. "All this while we tried to provide the corresponding amount of the mid-day meal provided to the students in the bank accounts of their parents. But today, we are starting ration distribution at the request of the parents. Each student will be provided with an adequate ration for a period of six months -- July to December, 2020 -- so that there is no lack in providing nutrition to children," the chief minister said. "We tried our best to provide food to everyone during the lockdown. The Delhi government provided food to 10 lakh people every day and the arrangements for the same were made in all the schools across Delhi, including the central government and MCD schools. Around 10 lakh people were provided lunch and dinner every day and we used to serve them as if we were serving at langars since we had our religious sentiments. We continued with the distribution till people stopped coming for food," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader added. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states on October 15. However, the Delhi government has announced that schools will not reopen in the national capital till a vaccine for the coronavirus is available. "The last nine months have been extremely difficult and we cannot see an end to this difficulty. The vaccine has been made and I hope it will reach our country soon. I pray to god for the vaccine to bring an end to our misery so that our lives can get back on track. But till the time the vaccine does not come, we have to find solutions. "The most distressed in the last nine months were children. They cannot remain locked up in a room. They have energy and want to play and go to school, but we had never thought that our children will have to study in front of phones and computers because schools will be closed. The whole system has changed," Kejriwal said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the non-availability of mid-day meals due to the closure of schools posed a challenge. "There were many families that were finding it hard to have enough on their plates. Massive unemployment due to Covid-19 has aggravated the issue. We experimented by transferring money directly to the students' accounts. It was the chief minister's idea that it is better to distribute ration rather than transferring money. Hence, we are now providing dry ration to more than eight lakh students in the government and government-aided schools in Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-school-students-to-get-dry-ration-for-6-months-arvind-kejriwal-932990.html
29-12-2020||National||FASTag mandatory from January 1: Which FASTag should you buy?||With FASTag being mandatory for vehicles from January 1, 2021, the NHAI has made all necessary arrangements to provide seamless movement of vehicles at toll plazas, according to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. FASTag, an inclusive technological tool for toll collection on highways, is ensuring safety of commuters during Covid-19 times, the NHAI said. Here is all you need to know about what is FASTag and which one should you buy: What is FASTag? How does it work? FASTag is a brand name owned by Indian Highways Management Company Ltd (IHMCL), which carries out electronic tolling and other ancillary projects of National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI). The Ministry of Road and Highways said that National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), IHMCL and NHAI are working together to make state and national highway toll payments completely digital. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said that FASTag will be useful for commuters as they will not have to stop at toll plazas for cash payments. Besides, it will also help save time and fuel, he added. Are FASTags compulsory? FASTags will be mandatory for vehicles from January 1, 2021, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Dec 24. As per Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheeler vehicles since December 1, 2017 and is being supplied by the vehicle manufacturers or their dealers. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas as fee payment would be done electronically. The government also said that a valid FASTag is mandatory while getting a new third party insurance through an amendment in FORM 51 (certificate of Insurance), wherein the details of FASTag ID shall be captured. This shall be applicable w.e.f. April 1, 2021. How do you buy FasTags? There are two different types of FASTags, NHAI tags and bank-specific tags. FASTag is pre-fitted in automobiles produced and sold after December 1, 2017, that comes with the registration. If you own a vehicle, which is older than this period, you can get the FASTag with a linked payment method. What is My FASTag App? NHAI's mobile app ‘My FASTag App’ enables users to purchase FASTags for their vehicles. The service is bank-neutral and not connected to any government or private bank. The NHAI updated the app with a new feature to ‘Check Balance Status’ by simply entering the vehicle number," NHAI said in a statement. KYC documents will not be needed as they will be linked to the existing bank account the vehicle is registered with. What are the bank-specific FASTags? As for bank-specific FASTags, 22 banks at designated branches and toll plazas provide the required services. The opted issuer banks connect the purchased FASTags to a prepaid wallet service. ICICI Bank on Monday announced its collaboration with Google Pay for issuance of FASTag through UPI on the payments app. "This initiative ensures the safety of the applicants as they do not have to visit merchants or toll locations to buy a FASTag. With this, ICICI Bank becomes the first bank to join hands with Google Pay for issuance of FASTag," according to a statement. Other banks that offer the service include: Axis Bank, IDFC Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, Karur Vysya Bank, EQUITAS Small Finance Bank, PayTM Payments Bank Ltd, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Syndicate Bank, Federal Bank, South Indian Bank, Punjab National Bank, Punjab & Maharashtra Co-op Bank, Saraswat Bank, City Union Bank, Bank of Baroda, Induslnd Bank, Yes Bank, Union Bank, Nagpur Nagarik Sahakari Bank Ltd. What are the documents required to register for FasTag? The four-wheeler vehicle owners should submit these documents mentioned to buy FASTags: 1. A xerox copy of their vehicle's Registration Certificate 2. Two passport size photographs of the owner 3. For ID and address proof, produce KYC documents such as: Driver's License, PAN card, Voter ID, Passport or Aadhaar card Can I buy them on other online services? FASTag can also be purchased online through e-commerce website Amazon and on Paytm. The service will also be bank-neutral and may not require KYC documents. What are the advantages of FASTag? FASTag uses radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology, which provides the users with a smooth crossover at toll plazas without halting. The payment is made digitally through the FASTag linked to the bank wallet. NHAI said that as social distancing has become the new norm, commuters are increasingly looking at FASTag as a toll payment option since it is contactless. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fastag-mandatory-from-january-1-which-fastag-should-you-buy-933016.html
29-12-2020||National||Body of Naxal zonal commander carrying Rs 10 lakh reward found in Chatra||The body of a Naxal zonal commander carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head was found under mysterious circumstances in Jharkhand's Chatra district, police said Tuesday. Chatra Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Vachan Dev Kujur said the body of Naxal zonal commander Paramjit alias Sonu Das was recovered from the forest near Tikda village under the jurisdiction of Lavalong police station. The SDPO said Paramjit had set up his own outfit in the name of JJMP. More than a dozen cases are registered against Paramjit in Chatra, Latehar and Palamu districts. The police suspect that Paramjit was killed by a rival Naxal group as his body bore bullet injuries. The body has been sent to Chatra District Hospital for postmortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-naxal-zonal-commander-carrying-rs-10-lakh-reward-found-in-chatra-933019.html
29-12-2020||National||Any serious conflict with India does not suit China's global aspirations: IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday said any serious conflict with India does not suit China's global aspirations and "grand plans" and the trigger for the Ladakh face-off could be the result of a variety of reasons including a "military dominated misadventure" that escalated following the rapid trust deficit faced by the neighbouring country due to the coronavirus pandemic. In an address at a seminar, the IAF Chief said China resorted to heavy deployment of radars, surface-to-air and surface-to-surface missiles as well as other air assets to support its army in view of the border standoff in eastern Ladakh but at the same time asserted that India took every action required to deal with the situation. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has been focusing on developing capabilities to counter the global dominance of the US and it could lead to security implications for India. The online seminar was organised by leading think-tank Vivekananda International Foundation. The IAF Chief cited a number of possible reasons for China to have triggered the eastern Ladakh border stand-off that included efforts to synergise its new military structure and technology in a war-like scenario to engage with India in the border talks from a new position. The border stand-off between India and China erupted in eastern Ladakh in early May. "The important question for all of us is - any serious Indo-China conflict is not good for China. If Chinese aspirations are global, then it does not suit their grand plans. Then what could be the possible Chinese objective for their actions in the North. This is important to understand," he said. "Was it simply military signalling, was it domination efforts focused on the region with adequate control to escalate...was it deployment and training of their western theatre forces in a real war like scenario wherein the Galwan incident was an overreach or was it to fine tune and enhance the military technologies and fill their gaps to get their forces to synergise with the new structures and technologies," he said. The Air Chief Marshal further said, "In any case, what has actually happened is all of the above irrespective of what was the starting objective. It could also possibly be a totally military dominated misadventure that escalated given the rapid trust-deficit post Covid-19". He said India has been "thwarting" continuous attempts by its adversary to breach its territories and sovereignty on many occasions. "As India expands its global interests and reach, there is even a compelling case to focus adequately on hard power. The importance of air power in the larger security matrix has grown manifold," the IAF Chief said. He said China has been expanding its military bases in its quest to end global dominance of the US and its impact could be felt by India as well. The IAF Chief also said Pakistan has become a pawn of Chinese policy and its dependence on China would increase further in future. He said India needs to understand the interplay of some major events in its vicinity that would impact the security scenario of the region. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan could result in upsurge in violence as regional powers are jockeying for increasing influence in the country. "Pakistan has already jumped ships to take advantage of the shifting scenario to become more relevant in Afghanistan," he said. Developments in West Asia and strengthening of old geopolitical and military alliances including among Pakistan, Iran and Turkey may have security implications for India, he said, adding Pakistan getting access to Turkish technology could pose a threat for India. The IAF Chief said India needs to focus on boosting its overall military capability to ensure a rapid and effective response mechanism. At the same time, he added the IAF is fully capable of dealing with any scenario but pitched for enhancing the country's overall air power considering the evolving regional security architecture. "This would require a focused approach especially with respect to China as they have invested heavily in research and development and have grown manifold in capabilities and technologies," he said. He also extensively deliberated on the rapidly changing nature of warfare and referred to the potential threat emanating from drone technology that was in full display during the recent conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia, Syrian war as well as in the attack on oil installations of Saudi giant Aramco. "The texture of these conflicts are a reflection of future warfare. There are important lessons for us and we will factor in all these as we move forward," he said. He said the IAF is actively pursuing niche technology in the field of space-based capabilities, artificial intelligence, big data analysis in making the force's targeting cycle highly effective. His force is actively pursuing anti drone and swarm drone technologies for a highly networked air battle scenario. "The IAF is completely capable of dealing with the changing nature of warfare. We have reoriented our capability requirement for future wars based on developments in recent past," he said. He also strongly pitched for indigenous platforms and weapons for the armed forces to maintain a technological edge, saying due to the long wait in arrival the imported ones become obsolete by the time they are delivered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-serious-conflict-with-india-does-not-suit-chinas-global-aspirations-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-933028.html
29-12-2020||National||Man of many firsts, true visionary: Indian fashion community remembers Pierre Cardin||The first futurist designer, a thought leader and an empowered person who led radical changes in fashion is how Indian fashion community remembers legendary French designer Pierre Cardin, who died on Tuesday at the age of 98. An out-and-out pioneer, Cardin was a visionary who made a brave move deemed controversial in the late 1950s when he decided to start licensing products, such as pens, wallets and furniture, using his brand name. He was also one of the few first international designers who brought their clothing lines to India where he was a popular name in the 1980s and '90s. Celebrated designer Rina Dhaka said when she started reading fashion magazines as a young girl in the 1980-90s, if there was one global name she knew it was Cardin's, a thought also echoed by FDCI Chairman Sunil Sethi who has fond memories of attending his show in Delhi's Hauz Khas Village in 1994. Dhaka said post 1990s, one saw Cardin not so much on catwalks for fashion for women or men but more in accessories. "He became renowned down to the fact that 'I own a Pierre Cardin pen in India or wherever I could be'. He was in many ways a great example of how we as designers can adapt to changing times, bifurcate or diversify and still be able to continue a brand over so many decades," Dhaka told PTI. Veteran actor-host Simi Garewal said Cardin was always in the "forefront in designing". Recalling her rendezvous with the iconic designer at the Venice Film Festival premiere of her 1972 film "Siddhartha", the actor said a leading French magazine Paris Match wanted to click her and Cardin together for an 'East meets West' push photo-op. "I was dressed in a sari. In French, he kept saying I looked beautiful during the photo shoot," Garewal told PTI. Years later when Cardin came to India, the actor said, when they met she was in a western dress. "He asked me, 'Where is that sari?' He loved sari so much." Cardin was an inspiration for couturier Rahul Mishra, who described the fashion icon as a "complete designer" whose work transcends eras. "He was one of the most renowned designers in both luxury and life. From pens to caps, he was the one who started licensing products using the brand name. "He was the first modernist designer the world has seen. The designs he created in the 1950s look as if they are from the year 2050. He used all the new-age technology," Mishra told PTI. When Mishra was studying at the Milan-based Istituto Marangoni, the private Italian school of fashion and design, the designer said one of his faculties used to address Cardin as "Pierre Cardini, because he was originally an Italian. "It was his father who removed the 'i' in Cardini when they went to Paris in his early days. He was a haute couturier in the 1950s. An undisputed thought leader and disrupter who changed fashion. He was a complete designer - be it clothes, pens, furniture, etc," he added. Veteran designer Tarun Tahiliani said the first ever fashion show he watched as a young man living in Mumbai was Cardin's and recalled how his wife Sailaja was selected as one of the models for the icon's show. "That's how I ended up seeing my first ever fashion show of any consequence. And I sketched for a day and night. I then knew this is what I wanted to do," he told PTI. Tahiliani said he met Cardin around two decades ago and told the designer about how he inspired him. "I said 'It's all because of you'. Had I not seen the show who knows what my path would have been because at that time there was no real fashion in India, it was a textile industry." The couturier also said turning to licensing made him "one of the richest designers and perhaps even ruined his name towards the end because it was on everything". Sethi too had a Cardin anecdote to share - the designer's show in Delhi. "He did a fashion show in 1994 in Hauz Khas Village and for us it was the event to go to. I remember the excitement of attending the show. Even today, how many international brands have had the courage to come here with their full collection and launch it while they launch their international collections?" Sethi told PTI. Pierre Cardin defined "aspiration" for his generation, he said, adding that French fashion always held fascination for Indians and Cardin was the one who brought it to the country. "There can be a debate on whether he should have diluted the brand or not, but the credit of showing other designers how a fashion designer's brand equity can be leveraged, goes to him," Sethi added. Fashion designer Samant Chauhan said one of Cardin's most important contributions was combining the 'mini' and the 'maxi' skirts of the 1970s. "In the 1970s, fashion was more exclusive and couturiers in Paris still had a very limited clientele. The whole market is very secretive. At that time, it was brave of him to move from haute couture to ready to wear," Chauhan told PTI. Designer Amit Aggarwal said Cardin's death is "one of the biggest losses" he has experienced in fashion in the last few years. "He was the original futurist when it came to creating clothes, the vision he created back in the day is still relevant. It spoke of a far more empowered person, radical changes in fashion. His passing away is a dark day for fashion," Aggarwal told PTI. Celebrity designer Manish Malhotra called Cardin's death "the end of an era". "Pierre Cardin's finesse and appeal has revolutionised fashion and style since seven decades, and will continue to do so in many years to come," Malhotra told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-of-many-firsts-true-visionary-indian-fashion-community-remembers-pierre-cardin-933029.html
29-12-2020||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu kicks up row by wearing shawl bearing religious symbols||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday asked Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu to tender an apology for allegedly hurting the sentiments of Sikh community by wearing a shawl bearing some religious symbols. The Jathedar of the Akal Takht, supreme temporal seat of Sikhs, described Sidhu's act as “highly unfortunate and against the traditions of Sikh tenets”. He said the sentiments of Sikh community were hurt by this act of Sidhu. “He should immediately apologise,” Singh said.  The Akal Takht Jathedar said he had received complaints from some members of the community, drawing his attention in this regard. The Congress MLA from Amritsar East allegedly wore the shawl having embroidery of Sikh religious symbols “ik omkar and khanda”. He had uploaded a video on his YouTube channel 'Jittega Punjab' a few days ago in which he could be seen wearing the shawl during a meeting with some farmers in a village in Jalandhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-kicks-up-row-by-wearing-shawl-bearing-religious-symbols-933031.html
29-12-2020||National||Vardhan releases 'Action Agenda for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat' report||Minister of Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday released a report titled "Action Agenda for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (AAAN)", prepared by the Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC). The comprehensive report is a follow-up of the TIFAC's white paper on "Focussed Interventions for Make in India: post COVID-19", which was released in July by Vardhan, a statement by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) said. The white paper highlighted the thrust sectors -- healthcare, machinery, ICT, agriculture, manufacturing and electronics -- that would be critical for the country's economic growth post COVID using technology stimulus and captured sector-specific strengths, market trends and opportunities. Speaking on the occasion, Vardhan said, "We have been able to beat the virus, we have even left behind the professional acumen of the world. We have shown to the world that when India decides, it does." Appreciating the diligent efforts of the TIFAC, he said the ideas contained in the AAAN report should be taken forward with the implementing agencies. "The ultimate outcome of the report has to be addition to quality of life and how our efforts can contribute to an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," the minister said. A roadmap should be drawn for implementing the key suggestions in the report by August 15, 2022, the 75th anniversary of the country's independence, he advised. DST Secretary Ashutosh Sharma said the aim of the action report is to create a sense of scientific social responsibility and lay down imperatives for the future of technology in India. It looks at the challenges, possibilities and how to find solutions, he said. This comprehensive action plan (AAAN) has been structured with reference to a timeline, highlighting short, medium and long-term interventions in various identified sectors. The document also specifically defines overarching policy recommendations with reference to technological inputs, focussing towards local to global, thereby reviving the Indian economy in the identified domains of innovation and technology development, technology adoption or diffusion, boosting up manufacturing and productivity, trade and globalisation, internet policy and data management and education and training, artificial intelligence (AI) among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-releases-action-agenda-for-an-aatmanirbhar-bharat-report-933035.html
29-12-2020||National Politics||Win 30 seats in West Bengal first, then dream of 294 seats: Mamata Banerjee challenges BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday challenged the BJP to first win 30 Assembly seats in the state and then dream of of winning all the 294 seats. Alleging that the BJP “bought” few Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLAs Mamata said that the saffron party was making a big mistake if they thought that they could buy the TMC. “They (BJP) think they can buy TMC just by purchasing few MLAs. When TMC was founded it was a little sapling but now it has become a huge banyan tree... Let them get 30 seats first, then they can dream of 294 seats. It’s not that easy,” said Mamata. She also said that BJP leaders only visit Bengal ahead of elections and were otherwise not bothered about the state. She was addressing a TMC rally at Bolpur in Birbhum district. Her comments come days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a rally in Birbhum and said that BJP would come to power in Bengal by winning more than 200 seats in the Assembly elections. Taking a veiled dig at Shah’s claim that BJP would build a 'Sonar Bangla' (Golden Bengal) if voted to power in the state, Mamata said that Tagore had already set up 'Sonar Bangla' and no one else should dream about doing it again. Dubbing the BJP as a “party of outsiders” bringing “hate politics” to Bengal the Chief Minister said that the “land of Rabindranath Tagore” would never accept it. The Chief Minister also lashed out at Visva-Bharati University's vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty, alleging that he was a “BJP man” and was planning to destroy the rich heritage of the institution by bringing in divisive politics. “I feel pained to see that there are plots to bring in communal and divisive police in Visva-Bharati. The Vice Chancellor is a BJP man trying to malign the image of the University by resorting to communal politics,” said Mamata. She further alleged that outsiders were being sent to villages to incite the people against her government. “Outsiders have been sent to villages. These outsiders are going door to door telling villagers that ‘Mamata has done nothing; there is no development and so you join the BJP’” said Mamata. She urged people to lodge a police complaint whenever they see “outsiders” in their neighborhood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/win-30-seats-in-west-bengal-first-then-dream-of-294-seats-mamata-banerjee-challenges-bjp-932887.html
29-12-2020||National Politics||In 2020, Rajya Sabha witnessed highest productivity in 11 years||The outgoing year may have just two sessions with the Winter Session of Rajya Sabha being dispensed with for the first time after 1984 but the Upper House created a sort of record in 2020 clocking the highest annual productivity of 82.27% in the past 11 years despite having the lowest number of sittings. Rajya Sabha altogether held 33 sittings with both the Budget Session (23 sittings) and the Monsoon Session (10) being impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic with each session losing eight each sitting. The high productivity should also be seen against the backdrop of the Upper House meeting for the lowest number of sittings in a year due to the impact of the pandemic. Three other occasions when the Rajya Sabha met for less than 50 sittings in a year were 1999 (48 sittings) and in 2004 and 2008 (46 sittings each). The pandemic had led the government to dispense with the Winter Session, which is usually held in November-December every year. This is the fourth time that the Winter Session sittings of Rajya Sabha are not happening, the last being in 1984 while the previous ones were in 1975 and 1979. On the productivity side, 2020 recorded the highest productivity since 2010. The productivity of Rajya Sabha during 2010-2020 ranged from 35.75% in 2018 to 78.42% in 2019 and 82.27 this year. With the recent sessions witnessing high productivity, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had earlier observed that the trend indicates the "ship of Rajya Sabha sailing through stormy waters is being steadied". The House spent a high of 57% of the functional time of the House on legislative work during the monsoon session this year as against the general average of 28%. A total of 39 Bills ---- 12 during the Budget Session and 27 during the Monsoon Session -- have been passed by the Rajya Sabha during 2020. The Bills which cleared the Rajya Sabha hurdle included three Bills related to farm sector reforms, Direct Taxes Vivad Se Vishwas Bill, Bills amending salaries and allowances of Ministers and Members of Parliament. While the Monsoon Session was held in September owing to a surging pandemic, it witnessed high drama in Rajya Sabha during the passage of the contentious farm Bills. Seven Opposition MPs, who trooped into the well along with others, damaged the Chair's mike and threw papers, were suspended after they protested against the way in which the Bill was being passed. It also saw the Opposition boycotting the Session demanding revoking the suspension while they also submitted a notice for the removal of Deputy Chairman Harivansh, which was rejected by the Chairman. The Opposition had accused Harivansh of not allowing the division of votes during the passage of the bill, an allegation rejected by the Chair. The suspended MPs also sat on an indefinite dharna near the Gandhi statue in Parliament House complex demanding the withdrawal of the Bills. The Winter Session was also unique in Rajya Sabha's history as it functioned from six locations with members seated in the Chambers of the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and four galleries of Rajya Sabha. Naidu also took a keen interest in the working of the Parliamentary Standing Committees under the Rajya Sabha and regularly kept in touch with floor leaders to nudge them to ensure attendance in panel meetings. The average attendance in the meetings of the eight Standing Committees for the first time crossed 50% of the total membership of the committees during 2020. The average duration of the meetings also crossed two hours for the first time in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-2020-rajya-sabha-witnessed-highest-productivity-in-11-years-932929.html
29-12-2020||National Politics||PM-CARES now under 'gov.in' domain; Centre still says it is not public authority||It has also come to light that the letter from the PMO was sent on March 27 and the approval for use of the official domain reserved for a few government departments and agencies for the PM-CARES came on the same day. The fund, which has attracted criticism from the Opposition and activists over charges of opaqueness a reluctance to come under the RTI regime citing that it is not a public authority and that is not controlled by the government, had come into being on March 27, the date on which it was registered as well as it got IT exemption. On a query from the NIC, whether it can reveal the letter by the PMO seeking approval for the domain as it treated it as third party information, the PMO had asked the NIC to refer to its response to an RTI query in August in which it had said that PM-CARES was not a public authority. Besides the Prime Minister, the Home Minister, the Defence Minister, and Finance Minister are the trustees of the PM-CARES Trust. The NIC has said that the application for the domain for PM-CARES did not fall under the exception category and was handled as an application from the apex office. This could be interpreted as the PMO taking a position that the website for PM-CARES should get the official domain name. "How can a Public Charitable Trust that is private in nature be equated with apex body just because it is located in the premises of PMO?" Batra told DH. On Monday, DH had reported that response to Batra's appeal by the Income Tax Department said that the PM-CARES is a body "owned by, controlled by and established by" the government but cannot come under the RTI regime as it is administered by "private individuals" as trustees and financed by donations from individuals, organisations, and PSUs.  "This fund is completely financed by donations received from individuals/organisations/CSRs (Corporates)/foreign individuals/foreign organisations/PSUs and not at all financed by the appropriate government and administered by private individuals as trustees, which is a compulsory condition to invoke section 2(h) of the Right to Information Act, therefore, PM CARES fund cannot be considered a public authority," the RTI reply dated December 24 by the Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) has said. The Narendra Modi government has been stone-walling RTI queries on PM-CARES citing that it is not a public authority. The Trust deed dated March 27, publicised recently, said that the PM-CARES was "not created by or under the Constitution of India or by any law made by the Parliament or by any state legislature". It also went on to say that the Trust is "neither intended to be nor is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any government or any instrumentality of the Government".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-cares-now-under-govin-domain-centre-still-says-it-is-not-public-authority-932943.html
29-12-2020||National Politics||Congress to celebrate 50th anniversary of Bangladesh Liberation Day||Facing a leadership crisis, the Congress has decided to go all out to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War and highlight the legacy of 'iron lady', the then prime minister Indira Gandhi. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday constituted a committee chaired by former defence minister A K Antony to plan and coordinate the party's activities to commemorate the historic 50th anniversary of the war. Praveen Davar has been made convenor of the committee which includes Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and former Union minister Jitendra Singh. Former president Pranab Mukherjee's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee, who is the national spokesperson of the party, has also been included in the panel. Other members of the committee include former Haryana minister Kiran Choudhry, Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and Major Ved Prakash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-celebrate-50th-anniversary-of-bangladesh-liberation-day-932981.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||10 more UK-returned persons test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi; total 31||Ten more contacts of people who recently returned to Delhi from the United Kingdom, where a super-spreader strain of coronavirus has been reported, were found to be COVID positive, officials said on Monday. With this, the total number of infected persons, including those who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) and their contacts, has gone up to 31. "Eight people who came in contact with the UK-returned infected persons tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Two more contacts tested positive on Monday," a senior Delhi government official said. Earlier, the father of a UK-returned person who tested positive for Covid-19 contracted the disease, he said. All the 31 people have been admitted to a special ward set up at LNJP hospital for the UK-returned and their contacts found positive for the virus. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether they have been infected with the mutated strain in the UK or the one prevalent locally. "The genome report is expected to be submitted on Tuesday or Wednesday," a senior health department official said. Out of the 31 infected persons, 11 tested positive following the RTPCR test conducted at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport here after their arrival from UK. Nine other UK-returned people were found positive in the city government's district-level door-to-door contact and testing drive. The district-level teams contact those who had returned from the UK after November 25 and test them for the virus. Extensive contact tracing is also underway to identify and test those persons who came in their contact and have developed any symptoms, officials said.  Out of over 13,000 passengers who landed at IGI airport, around 1,400 have been identified as Delhi residents. The list of passengers provided by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security is being sorted and all the Delhi residents who returned from the UK are being contacted, they said. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain had last week said tracing and testing of all those who travelled to Delhi from the UK in the past weeks would be ensured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-more-uk-returned-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-total-31-932656.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' stir: Protesters do yoga on highway, submit memorandum to Noida administration||Farmers demonstrating against the Centre's new farm laws on Monday performed yoga on the Delhi-Noida Link Road at the Chilla border where they have been camping for 28 days now. The road remained closed for Noida to Delhi movement but was open for commuters travelling from Delhi to Noida, according to a police official. At the Dalit Prerna Sthal, farmers belonging to BKU (Lok Shakti) and hailing from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh continued their agitation and submitted a memorandum of their demands addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration. "The memorandum has been submitted to Additional District Magistrate Diwakar Singh and mentions the demands of our farmers' union including the withdrawal of the three new farm laws, legislation on minimum support price (MSP) of crops and formation of a 'kisaan aayog' among others,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. BKU (Bhanu) and BKU (Lok Shakti) are not part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers unions, which are leading the charge at Delhi's border points in Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur, but have extended their support to the protest. Additional District Magistrate Diwakar Singh, along with Noida City Magistrate Uma Shankar, met the protesters at the Dalit Prerna Sthal. Singh told the protesters that misinformation has been spread that corporations would usurp the land of farmers under contract farming and clarified this is not going to happen. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-protesters-do-yoga-on-highway-submit-memorandum-to-noida-administration-932660.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Kalpwasis will have to undergo Covid-19 test at Magh Mela: UP govt||All the "kalpwasis" visiting Magh Mela 2021 in Prayagraj will have to undergo the Covid-19 test, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday. Chairing a review meeting regarding the preparations of Magh Mela 2021, state Chief Secretary RK Tiwari said all the "kalpwasis" coming to the event will have to mandatorily undergo the RT-PCR test. He said the devotees coming daily to the Magh Mela should also undergo the rapid-antigen test and thermal screening. "If any devotee is found to be Covid positive, he or she should be rushed to a hospital in a dedicated Covid-19 ambulance," Tiwari said. He said sanitisation of the mela area should be carried out on a regular basis and there should be adequate medical facilities, including ambulances, in the mela area. The chief secretary also stressed the importance of an effective crowd-control mechanism during the event, a statement issued by the Uttar Pradesh government said. The "kalpwasis" are regarded as the most faithful pilgrims, who vow to live an austere and minimalist life on the banks of the Ganga for a month, Ashutosh Varshney, the convenor of the Ram Naam Bank and the Ram Sewa Trust, who put up camps at the Magh Mela, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalpwasis-will-have-to-undergo-covid-19-test-at-magh-mela-up-govt-932701.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Ex-Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta Kumar tests positive, wife Santosh Shailza succumbs to Covid-19||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar's wife, Santosh Shailza, succumbed to Covid-19 in the early hours of Tuesday, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said. Shailza was undergoing treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, in Kangra district of the state. In a Facebook post, the minister prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the family members to bear the irreparable loss. Santosh Shailza was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. Kumar was admitted to the Tanda hospital on Saturday, a day after he tested positive for the disease. His four other family members, his personal secretary, security officer and driver have also tested positive for Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him on Sunday to enquire about his and his family members' health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-himachal-pradesh-cm-shanta-kumar-tests-positive-wife-santosh-shailza-succumbs-to-covid-19-932744.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Amid cold wave, mercury dips to 3.6 degrees Celsius in Delhi||Delhi reeled under a cold wave on Tuesday as icy winds sweeping through the city brought the minimum temperature down to 3.6 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a low of 3.6 degrees Celsius as against 5.6 degrees Celsius on Monday. The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius and 2.7 degrees Celsius respectively, it added. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The IDM said the mercury may drop further by New Year's Eve. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next three days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a western disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, he said. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Tuesday morning. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 237 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 253 on Monday, 396 on Sunday, 337 on Saturday, 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday and 433 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at IMD said favourable wind speed, up to 15 kmph, aided in dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-cold-wave-mercury-dips-to-36-degrees-celsius-in-delhi-932756.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Kashmir valley sees moderate snowfall; Gulmarg records lowest temperature at -7.5 degree Celsius||There was moderate snowfall at most places in Kashmir on Tuesday, bringing cheer to those associated with tourism and trade as they expect business to pick up in New Year's Eve. Officials said snowfall started in Srinagar around 7 am, several hours after it had begun in neighbouring Budgam and Pulwama districts. Snowfall was also going in Kulgam and Anantnag districts of south Kashmir, they said. The officials said the ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded seven inches of fresh snowfall, while Pahalgam resort in the south and Sonamarg resort in central Kashmir received around three to four inches of snow each. Gurez in north Kashmir recorded three inches of fresh snowfall, they said, adding that there are reports of snowfall in other areas in the upper reaches of the Valley as well. The officials said the area around the Jawahar Tunnel – on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway – also received snowfall since Monday but the arterial road was open for vehicular movement. The snowfall ahead of the new year has seen many domestic tourists and locals rushing to Gulmarg and Pahalgam, they said. The officials said Gulmarg saw more then 1,200 domestic tourist arrivals on Monday, while over 2,500 locals from various parts of the Valley were also in the skiing resort. The numbers are expected to swell over the next two days,  they added. Pahalgam resort also was seeing brisk footfall ahead of the new year celebration. Meanwhile, overcast conditions meant that the night temperature in the city remained around freezing point. The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — was 0 degree Celsius on Monday night. They said the mercury in Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir settled at minus 3 degrees Celsius, minus 7.5 degrees Celsius in Gulmarg, minus 0.4 degree Celsius in Qazigund, minus 1 degree Celsius in Kupwara and minus 3 degrees Celsius in Kokernag. The ski-resort of Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Meanwhile, Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the Valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 – will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-valley-sees-moderate-snowfall-gulmarg-records-lowest-temperature-at-75-degree-celsius-932767.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||10 months on, Delhi govt doesn't have clear assessment of property loss during Delhi riots||Delhi government appears not to have a clear assessment of the loss of property during the riots in February this year while one of the three sub-divisions in the district has said that it has disbursed Rs 6.72 crore as compensation to victims. This was disclosed in RTI responses to queries filed by Madhya Pradesh-based transparency activist Vivek Pandey in March this year. He received responses between March 26 and September 8 this year while his wait for responses from departments to which the RTI was forwarded continue. Pandey had sought the estimated cost of damages or loss of property in the riots that rocked north-east Delhi between February 23 and 26 in which over 50 people were killed and hundreds injured. He also sought details of money spent by the government for security arrangements at the protest site in Shaheen Bagh. In his reply, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Headquarters) of the north-east district said on March 26, a month after the riots, that the loss of property has not been estimated till date. Pandey has not received any updated information about this. While he had filed the query on March 4, he had received a response from the Karawal Nagar sub-division in the district about the claims for compensation it received and disbursed till September 2 this year while two other subdivisions Yamuna Nagar and Seelampur have not provided information so far. According to the RTI response, the sub-division had received 1,712 claims for compensation, including 967 cases of damages to residential buildings and 588 cases of damages to commercial enterprises. However, the authorities rejected 754 cases after inspection teams reported no losses in 463 claims while 255 were cases of duplication. It showed that there were 15 cases of deaths in which one application, which is disputed, was rejected. Of the 967 claims on damages to residential buildings, a whopping 529 were rejected of which 350 were due to inspection reports showing that there were no losses. Nineteen of the 112 claims for compensation were rejected. Five of them were duplicated while in 15 cases, addresses mentioned were not found or there were no documents of the medico-legal case (MLC) registered. Out of the 92 cases of injury, 81 cases were processed before March 24. Of the 588 claims for compensation due to damages to commercial enterprises, 195 were rejected. Here too, inspection reports showed that there were no losses in 105 cases. The RTI response showed that compensation was paid in 785 cases while sanction to release the amount was issued in 173 cases as of September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-months-on-delhi-govt-doesnt-have-clear-assessment-of-property-loss-during-delhi-riots-932787.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan in 2020: Pilot’s rebellion shakes Congress, state sees 'resort politics'||The coronavirus pandemic might have been the one claiming lives, but for weeks in 2020 Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s main battle seemed to be with the enemy within. A rebellion by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who was also the state Congress president, appeared to have brought his government in Rajasthan on the brink of collapse. Gehlot got the Congress MLAs loyal to him to hole up together, first at a hotel on the outskirts of the state capital and then at another resort in Jaisalmer, keeping them away from the alleged temptation to switch over to the rebels. Every MLA, including the two from the Bharatiya Tribal Party and independents, counted then. But later in the year, the BTP withdrew support to the ruling Congress, accusing it of ditching it during the election to the zila pramukh’s post in Dungarpur district. This was also part of the panchayat polls in which the Congress suffered an unexpected setback. The first case of coronavirus in the state was detected in March. An Italian couple, part of a 23-member tourist group, tested positive, triggering a massive contact tracing exercise across travel destinations in Rajasthan and in Agra. In the early days of the pandemic, the state earned praise nationwide for the “Bhilwara model” of “ruthless containment”, which included screening 24 lakh people for symptoms and sealing the district’s borders. But the state’s initial efforts at containing the virus in Jaipur’s walled city weren’t that successful. Altogether, over three lakh people have tested positive for the virus in the state and about 2,700 died so far. Going by the trend in Rajasthan, the party in power wins the elections to Panchayati Raj Institutions. But the results this year in 21 districts went against expectations of the barely two-year-old Congress government. The BJP won 1,989 out of the 4,371 seats in 222 panchayat samitis and the ruling party 1,850. Of the 636 zila parishads seats, the BJP got 353 and the Congress 253. The BJP ended up controlling 13 of the 21 district boards, the Congress just five. The BJP and the Congress headed 98 panchayat samitis each out of the 222. The results came amid the protests by farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws. The Narendra Modi government claimed that the results of these, largely rural elections, showed that the farmers are still with it. “This is a farmers’ mandate and a vote for farm reforms,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. A few days later, in the elections to 50 urban local bodies, the Congress did much better, beating the BJP as expected. Earlier in November, the Rajasthan Assembly passed three Bills of its own to “counter” the central laws, a largely symbolic gesture meant to show support for the protests. They are yet to get the Governor’s assent. Farmer groups in Rajasthan have been blocking the Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Shahjahpur in support of those protesting at Delhi’s borders. But compared to the protests by Punjab and Haryana farmers, this appears to be a token gesture. The state’s Gurjar community too resorted to an agitation this year, blocking rail tracks in Bharatpur on the Delhi-Mumbai route. They demanded reservation for them in government jobs and educational institutes enshrined in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. The stir led by Kirori Singh Bainsla lasted over 10 days. Two years after quitting the BJP over difference with former chief minister Vasundhra Raje, Rajasthan stalwart Ghanshyam Tiwari returned to the party-fold in December. But Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktrantik Party has withdrawn support, citing the farm laws. The Congress won two Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan during the biennial elections to the Upper House. But not without some drama. Going by the numbers, the Congress was set to win two seats and BJP one from the state. But when the BJP fielded a second candidate, the Congress feared that it was planning to poach its MLAs and encourage cross-voting. Ashok Gehlot shifted all Congress MLAs to a resort for eight days, ahead of the polling. This proved to be a precursor to more “resort politics” later in the year. Sachin Pilot, upset since being denied the chief minister’s in 2018, staged a rebellion in July. Including him, 19 Congress MLAs stayed away from legislative party meetings, defying the chief minister and the party. Gehlot lodged his loyalists at hotels till the time the party leadership in Delhi intervened and Pilot gave up the revolt. The CM won a trust vote in the assembly. But even getting Governor Kalraj Mishra to summon the assembly session for the vote of confidence involved high theatrics, with loyalist Congress MLAs at one point occupying the lawns of the Raj Bhawan for about five hours. Gehlot accused the BJP of engineering the month-long crisis but he minced no words when speaking about Pilot, who was sacked from his posts in the state government and the party after the rebellion. He described the rebel leader as “nikamma”, a derogatory Hindi word meaning “useless.” But for now, the Gehlot-Pilot truce holds. When questioned recently by reporters, the CM said, “Forget and forgive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-in-2020-pilot-s-rebellion-shakes-congress-state-sees-resort-politics-932810.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||My refusal to crack down on Jamaat-e-Islami reason for fall of PDP-BJP alliance: Mehbooba Mufti||Regional PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday revealed that her refusal to crack down on Jamaat-e-Islami Jammu and Kashmir and allow bodies of militants to be buried without families was a major reason for the fallout with the BJP. "The alliance (PDP-BJP) crumbled after I was told by the BJP to sign a pact that the bodies of slain militants won't be handed over to their families for last rites and a crackdown will be launched against the Jamaat," she said while addressing party workers, here. "I refused to agree to this plan which led to the fall of PDP-BJP alliance in J&K,” the PDP chief claimed. While justifying the PDP's alliance with the BJP in 2015, she said, "Late Mufti (Mohammad Sayeed) sahab had joined hands with BJP only to cage a jin in a bottle so that Article 370 won’t be touched. It was done after an agreement between PDP and BJP that Article 370 won’t be touched, historic roads will be opened and a dialogue with Hurriyat leaders and Pakistan would be held. That was the Agenda of the alliance." Mehbooba also said that closing doors to Parliament delegation by the Hurriyat leaders in September 2016 set a bad precedent across the country. "While the PDP was in alliance with the BJP, a golden opportunity was lost when Hurriyat leaders shut their doors to the Parliament delegations. This set a bad precedent about Kashmiris across India,” she said, adding that after that another opportunity was lost by not responding to the repeated offers of Union Home Minister who stated “My doors are open for everyone.” The PDP chief while training guns at BJP led government in New Delhi said that history is witness whenever any party comes to power, it invites other smaller parties to join them to run the governance but “We are seeing reverse of everything.” “BJP made country’s top agencies as its partners including NIA, ED, CBI only to suppress people and intimidate them,” she alleged. The former CM alleged that in the past two months, there is hardly any PDP worker who wasn’t intimidated, threatened, warned and now “DDC winners are being blackmailed to join other parties.” "A person who was caught along with three guns in his car was let go and his case was withdrawn as he became BJP’s proxy,” she claimed, adding that on the contrary PDP youth president Waheed Para was put behind bars by the NIA. “Waheed is the same person who brought 6,000 youths to former Home Minister of India’s rally in Kashmir. Despite court orders, he wasn’t allowed to take oath in jail. How can he be linked with militants if he was working to bring youth to the mainstream?” she asked. Accusing the BJP-led regime of choking Kashmir’s economy and tarnishing the J&K’s constitution by scrapping Article 370, Mehbooba said: “We will fight for our rights. We are not the ones who would raise white flags. No matter how far BJP goes in choking Kashmir's economy and making us dependent on all fronts, we will not bow."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-refusal-to-crack-down-on-jamaat-e-islami-reason-for-fall-of-pdp-bjp-alliance-mehbooba-mufti-932843.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||India's first pollinator park comes up in Uttarakhand's Haldwani||The country's first pollinator park with over 40 species of butterflies, honeybees, birds and insects has been developed over four acres at Nainital's Haldwani. Developed by the research wing of the Uttarakhand Forest Department, the colourful park was inaugurated on Tuesday by renowned butterfly expert Peter Smetacek, Chief Conservator of Forest (Research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi said. The objective behind developing the park is to conserve various pollinator species, create awareness among people in general about the importance of conservation of these species and to promote further research on various aspects of pollination, including threat to habitat and impact of pollution on pollinators. There are at present 40 species of pollinators at the park, including common jezebel, common emigrant, red pierrot, common sailer, plain tiger, the common leopard, the common moron, common grass yellow, common blue bottle, common four ring, peacock pansy, the painted lady, pioneer white, yellow orange tip and lime butterfly. Suitable habitat has also been created for various pollinators at the park by planting nectar and pollination producing saplings, mostly local ones in clusters, like marigold, rose, hibiscus, jasmine for various honeybee and butterfly, bird and moth species besides host plants to provide shelter to eggs, larvae and pupa, like curry leaf plant, citrus species, cassia species and lantana, Chaturvedi said. Seasonal flower plants like salvia, aster, cosmos for winter and sunflower, guinea for summers have been planted, he said. To attract bird and butterfly species, bird feeders and nests have been placed throughout the park with foodgrains and also cut fruits which attract certain butterfly species. Fruit trees like jamun and shelter trees like neem and semal for various bird species have also been grown at the park. Water bodies have been created and also arrangements have been made for mud puddling for butterflies. Through mud puddling, butterflies and certain insects like leafhoppers seek out certain nutrients like salt and amino acid from moist substances, Chaturvedi explained. Dead and dry trees at the park have been left as they are because they serve as important habitat for various types of pollinators like birds, insects and squirrels, he said. Use of all type of chemicals, including pesticides and insecticides, has been totally stopped at the park and in the nearby areas. Pollinators provide pollination services to over 180,000 different plant species. Without them, existing populations of plants would decline, even if soil, air, nutrients, and other life-sustaining elements were available. "Pollinators affect 35 per cent of global agricultural land, supporting the production of 87 of the leading food crops worldwide, and thus forming the basis of our life," Chaturvedi said, adding that pollinator population is declining mostly due to loss in feeding and nesting habitats. The importance of pollinators was recognised long back in the west and to conserve pollinators, parks, gardens, strips and pathways were created on a large scale in countries like the USA, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-first-pollinator-park-comes-up-in-uttarakhands-haldwani-932847.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Free WiFi hotspots to be set up at Singhu for protesting farmers: AAP's Raghav Chadha||Free WiFi hotspots will be set up at Singhu border for the protesting farmers, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, he said the decision has been taken by "farmers' 'sevadar Arvind Kejriwal". "We want the farmers to stay in touch with their family. We have identified a few spots to install the WiFi hotspots. This is an initiative of Arvind Kejriwal and the party," Chadha said. He said more such hotspots will be installed if there is more demand. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, he had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the AAP-led city government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-wifi-hotspots-to-be-set-up-at-singhu-for-protesting-farmers-aaps-raghav-chadha-932848.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Ammonia concentration in Yamuna beyond permissible level; Raghav Chadha blames Haryana Government||Haryana has not stopped discharging industrial pollutants into the Yamuna despite repeated reminders, Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday as he urged the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take immediate remedial measures. Ammonia concentration in the river at the Wazirabad barrage has increased to 7 ppm (parts per million) against the permissible limit of 0.8 ppm which is likely to affect the water supply, he said. "Discharge of industrial pollutants in Yamuna through Rohtak X-Regulator and DD6 has not stopped despite repeated reminders to the Haryana govt," Chadha said in a tweet. "Such irresponsible behaviour of Haryana govt adversely impacting the water supply in Delhi must be dealt with sternly," he added. Discharge of Industrial Pollutants in Yamuna through Rohtak X-Regulator & DD6 has not stopped despite repeated reminders to the Haryana Govt. Chadha urged the CPCB and the Upper Yamuna River Board to take immediate cognisance of the "nonchalant" attitude of the Haryana government and take remedial measures. The DJB on Monday said water supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants would remain affected till the ammonia level in the river reduces to a treatable limit. These plants supply drinking water to Central, North, West and South Delhi. The CPCB had earlier this month raised concerns over pollution and frothing in the river and asked Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure effective sewage treatment. According to a CPCB statement, the monitoring of 22 drains in Delhi has found 14 drains "untapped and discharging sewage". In the past, the CPCB had observed froth formation and increase in ammonia levels in the Yamuna because of discharge of untreated sewage, non-operation of existing STPs, improper functioning of effluent treatment plants installed by the industries and common effluent treatment plants located on the banks of the river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ammonia-concentration-in-yamuna-beyond-permissible-level-raghav-chadha-blames-haryana-government-932859.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Dense fog delays flight departures, arrivals in Jammu Airport||Four flights to and from the Jammu airport were cancelled and seven more delayed as dense fog engulfed the region on Tuesday, a day after high-altitude areas, including the Vaishno Devi shrine, received the season's first heavy snowfall, officials said. Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria said flight operations were yet to begin due to "poor visibility" caused by foggy conditions. "Four morning flights -- three scheduled to operate on Srinagar-Jammu-Srinagar route and one on Jammu-Srinagar-Jammu -- have been cancelled, while seven other flights are delayed," Beuria told PTI. He said visibility was zero at the airport at 9 am, and it improved to 500 metres at 1 pm. "We are waiting for the visibility to improve to the required level (1,000 to 1,200 metres) to restart the flight operations," the director said. Normal life was been hit across the Jammu plains by the dense fog and chilly weather, the officials said. The fog cleared in most parts by noon, providing some sort of relief to the people, they added. The minimum temperature in Jammu fell by over two notches compared to the previous night to settle at 3.7 degrees Celsius, which is 3.7 degrees below the normal during this part of the season, a spokesperson of the Meteorological department said. He said the city had recorded a maximum temperature of 13.2 degrees Celsius on Monday, which was 5.8 degrees below the season's average. The day and night temperatures plunged below the season's average following moderate to heavy snowfall in the high-altitude areas in most parts of Jammu region during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The Vaishno Devi Shrine in Reasi experienced its first snowfall, while other high-altitude areas, including Patnitop hill station in Udhampur and the upper reaches of Doda, Kishtwar, Rajouri, Poonch, Kathua, Reasi and Ramban, also experienced fresh snowfall. While the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained open for traffic, Mughal Road, which connects the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region with south Kashmir's Shopian district, was closed after Peer Ki Gali and adjoining areas witnessed heavy snowfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dense-fog-delays-flight-departures-arrivals-in-jammu-airport-932866.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi prepared to face new coronavirus strain: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday reassured the city's residents by asserting that the national capital is prepared to deal with the new mutant strain of the novel coronavirus. “Delhi has witnessed three waves of coronavirus and the third wave was an intense one when cases went up to 8,500 (fresh cases reported daily) but we managed to control it. We are fully prepared to deal with it,” Kejriwal told reporters in response to a question on preparedness for the new strain of Covid-19 that first emerged in the UK a few days ago. Delhi recorded 564 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in seven months (on May 26, 412 fresh cases were reported), and 21 more fatalities due to the disease on Monday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.98 per cent, according to the Health Department's data. The city's caseload mounted to 6,23,415 and the death toll due to the coronavirus infection rose to 10,474, the authorities said, adding that over 57,463 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-prepared-to-face-new-coronavirus-strain-arvind-kejriwal-932868.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Allahabad High Court orders inquiry into assault on lawyer||A day after the Supreme Court Bar Association condemned the alleged police attack on a lawyer, the Allahabad High Court on Tuesday took a Suo Motu cognisance and ordered an inquiry into the December 21 incident at Etah district of western Uttar Pradesh. A bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Etah "to make a necessary inquiry by availing all relevant facts including audio visual electronic documents and submit a complete report". "The District Magistrate, Etah as well as Senior Superintendent of Police, Etah are directed to co-operate the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Etah and they shall supply all relevant facts and documents as desired by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Etah to furnish report of the incident to this court," the bench said. The HC acted on a letter sent by the statutory body, Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh to the Chief Justice with a request to take appropriate action in relation to the incident said to have taken place at Etah on December 21, 2020. The court noted as per the averments, Rajendra Sharma, a practicing advocate at Etah was beaten and manhandled by the police and his relatives too were harassed and humiliated. The High Court Bar Association as well as other advocates have also raised the issue through letters and e-mail. The SC Bar Association on Monday raised concern over the "brutal assault of the lawyer by the UP police, who entered his house and assaulted him and family members and lodged them in jail". The district police, for their part, claimed the matter related to illegal occupation of a property where the local court had ordered for maintaining status quo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-high-court-orders-inquiry-into-assault-on-lawyer-932872.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||5,100 ceasefire violations by Pakistan in 2020; 36 people dead, 130 injured: Security officials||There were 5,100 instances of ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in 2020 in Jammu and Kashmir, the highest in nearly 18 years, that claimed 36 lives and left more than 130 people injured, according to security officials. They said the "very heavy" shelling and firing by Pakistani troops virtually made the 2003 India-Pakistan border truce "redundant". "Pakistani troops repeatedly targeted forwards posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border (IB) to create fear among the people and destabilise the peace along the borderline," a senior police officer said. "Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire 5,100 times in 2020 with an average of 14 cases daily," an official source said. In these ceasefire violations, 36 people including 24 security personnel were killed and 130 injured, according to the compiled data. Fifteen of the soldiers died along the LoC in the Jammu region. There were 3,289 ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army along the Indo-Pak border in 2019, they said. Of these, 1,565 ceasefire violations took place since August 2019, after the Indian government abrogated Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories. In 2018, Jammu and Kashmir had recorded 2,936 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan with an average of eight cases daily, in which 61 people were killed and over 250 injured. The number of ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops in 2020 was over five times that of 2017 when 971 cases were reported in which 31 people -- 12 civilians and 19 security forces personnel -- were killed, and 151 suffered injures. Before the ceasefire agreement, as many as 8,376 incidents of shelling and firing by Pakistani troops were reported in 2002. For three years - 2004, 2005 and 2006 - there was not a single such violation on the border. However, there had been a gradual increase in ceasefire violations by Pakistan since 2009. People living near the border in Jammu, Kathua, Kupwara and Baramulla, Samba, Rajouri and Poonch districts were also severely hit by firing and shelling by Pakistani troops during the year. The officials said that due to shelling and firing incidents, people had to migrate to safer places three times which affected education and farm activities. To protect border residents in the wake of increasing ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir, the central government sanctioned Rs 415 crore for constructing over 14,400 underground bunkers along the LoC and the IB. As many as 7,777 bunkers have been constructed under the programme in Rajouri, Poonch, Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts and tenders have been floated for more such shelters, the officials said, adding the rest would be constructed soon. Giving details of the ceasefire violations, they said that in 2015, 405 cases of ceasefire violations were reported while 583 such instances were recorded in 2014. The corresponding figures for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 347, 114, 62, 44, and 28. There were 77 violations in 2008, 21 in 2007 and three in 2006, according to official data. The Indian government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into the ceasefire agreement with Pakistan on November 26, 2003. India shares a 3,323-km border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5100-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-in-2020-36-people-dead-130-injured-security-officials-932875.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Union Territory of Ladakh gets its own meteorological centre||A meteorological centre was inaugurated in the Union Territory of Ladakh on Tuesday which would provide localised weather forecasts thus strengthening weather-related early warning system for the region. At 3,500 metres, this meteorological centre is the highest such facility in India, Union Earth Sciences Minister Harsh Vardhan said at the inauguration of the facility. He said it will provide short range (three days,) medium range (12 days) and long range (one month) forecast for the two districts -- Leh and Kargil -- of the Union Territory. The region is unique in terms of weather, climate, culture, topography with extreme temperatures, ranging from minus 40 degrees Celsius in Drass to scanty average precipitation of 10 centimetres annually, which makes the region a distinct cold desert, he said. Ladakh also experiences various kinds of extreme weather events like cloud bursts, flash floods, glacial lake outbursts, avalanches and drought. "To avert losses due to such weather events in the future, the Government of India felt the need to establish a meteorological Centre at Leh to strengthen weather-related early warning system in Ladakh. At 3,500 metres, Meteorological Centre, Leh, will be the highest meteorological centre in India," Vardhan said. The centre will also give weather forecasts about tourist places such as Nubra, Changthang, Pangong Lake, Zanskar, Kargil, Drass, Dha-Baima (Aryan valley), Khalsi, he said. Some important services are highway forecast, forecast for mountaineering, trekking, agriculture, flash flood warning, information on gusty winds, low and high temperatures. "Keeping in mind the geo-strategic importance, harsh environment, changing climate and vulnerabilities to various natural hazards and disasters affecting the region adversely, the government felt the need to open a state-of-the-art meteorological centre in Leh," the Union Minister added. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said the new centre will help augment the weather services. Ladakh has four Automatic Weather Stations (AWS), two each in Leh and Kargil, of which one is at Drass, the coldest place in India. To improve the network of observations, IMD plans to install more AWSs next year at the remotest of places like Nubra, Zanskar, Changthang, Parkachik and others, thus covering the whole of Ladakh, Mohapatra said. To begin with, the India Meteorological Department established a surface observatory at Leh for reporting daily meteorological parameters like pressure, humidity, temperature, snowfall, etc. With the availability of quality data from Ladakh, IMD will generate city-specific forecasts based on numerical models, the MeT department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-territory-of-ladakh-gets-its-own-meteorological-centre-932894.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||RJD extends olive branch to Nitish, says make Tejashwi CM and become Oppn PM candidate||Two days after Nitish Kumar resigned as the JD(U) national president and reiterated that he was not keen on becoming the Bihar chief minister in November, the main Opposition party—RJD—has extended an olive branch to Nitish. “Dump the NDA and join hands with us. Make Tejashwi Bihar chief minister and you play a national role by becoming Opposition prime minister candidate for 2024 polls,” opined senior RJD leader and former Assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary. Incidentally, Choudhary, a known Dalit face in Bihar, has worked closely with both Nitish as well as Lalu Prasad and was Bihar Assembly Speaker from 2005 to 2015, when he was in the JD(U). The fresh offer from the RJD, a former ally of Nitish, comes close on the heels of the BJP poaching JD(U) and making six out of its seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh to join BJP. Two days later, Nitish relinquished the post of JD(U) national president and made public his anguish of “not interested in Bihar CM post.” The winter of discontent within the NDA was quite palpable when the JD(U) sent a stern message to the BJP that it should not demand a ‘love-jihad’ law in Bihar as “the Indian Constitution allows any two consenting adults to chose a partner of his/her choice and opt for inter-faith marriage.” The JD(U) national general secretary K C Tyagi went to the extent of ringing an alarm bell when he averred: “An attempt is being made in the country to create mistrust and hatred in the name of love jihad. There will be no such law in Bihar.” Fishing in turbulent waters of Bihar, the RJD on Tuesday asked Nitish to beware of the BJP design as the saffron camp was gradually weakening Nitish under a design and would decimate him if he continued to stay within the NDA. “It’s still not too late. Read the writing on the wall. Be a large-hearted leader and appoint Tejashwi as the next chief minister. The time has come for you to play national-level politics. We will support you as Opposition’s prime ministerial candidate for the next Lok Sabha polls,” the senior RJD leader and Lalu confidant Uday Narayan Choudhary said here on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rjd-extends-olive-branch-to-nitish-says-make-tejashwi-cm-and-become-oppn-pm-candidate-932934.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Cold wave intensifies in Himachal Pradesh||Cold wave conditions in Himachal Pradesh intensified on Tuesday as minimum temperatures decreased by one to two notches, the Meteorological Department said.  Keylong, Kalpa, Dalhousie and Kufri shivered at sub-zero temperature, Shimla Met centre director Manmohan Singh said, adding that Keylong also received 0.6 mm snowfall. Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 10.3 degrees Celsius, Singh said.  Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 6 and minus 3.1 degree Celsius, respectively, he added.  The minimum temperature in Dalhousie, Manali, Kufri, Seobagh, Solan and Bhuntar settled at minus 2.9, minus 2.6 and minus 0.2 degrees Celsius, minus 1.5, minus 0.4 and minus 0.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.  Shimla recorded a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-intensifies-in-himachal-pradesh-932936.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||166 locals among 203 militants killed in 2020 in Jammu & Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded the elimination of 203 terrorists including 166 local militants by security forces in 2020, while 43 civilians were killed and 92 others injured in the union territory, official sources said. The security forces have also arrested 49 terrorists and ensured surrender of nine militants during the year, they said. This is the result of the coordinated efforts of the Army, Police and the CRPF working in the joint security grid, the officials said. As many as 203 terrorists were killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year and of these 166 were locals and 37 were from Pakistan or of foreign origin, they said. There have been 96 terror-related incidents in 2020. While 43 civilians were killed, 92 others suffered injuries in these incidents, they said. The civilian casualties have come down as in 2019, 47 civilians were killed and 185 persons injured, they said. During 2020, there was recovery of 14 IEDs as compared to 36 recovered in 2019, they said. In 2019, 152 terrorists, including 120 locals and 32 of Pakistan-origin were killed by the security forces in J&K. In 2018, 215 terrorists were neutralized by security forces. A total of 257 terrorists, 91 security personnel and 39 civilians were killed in 614 terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, as per the report. In 2017, 213 terrorists, 80 security personnel and 40 civilians were killed in 342 terror incidents in the state, the report said. In 2016, a total of 150 terrorists, 82 security personnel and 15 civilians were killed in 322 terror incidents, while in 2015, 108 terrorists, 39 security personnel and 17 civilians were killed in 208 terror incidents, it said. A total of 110 terrorists, 47 security personnel and 28 civilians were killed in 222 terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir in 2014, the report said. According to the sources, South Kashmir has seen the maximum number of encounters where the highest number of terrorists were eliminated. Areas like Shopian, Kulgam and Pulwama which have seen instances of recruitment of local youths by terror groups have recorded maximum encounters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/166-locals-among-203-militants-killed-in-2020-in-jammu-kashmir-932941.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Former Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta Kumar's wife dies of Covid-19||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar's wife Santosh Shailja died due to Covid-19 in the early hours of Tuesday, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said. She was 83. She was cremated as per coronavirus protocols at a crematorium in Kangra's Palampur. Shailja was undergoing treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College in Kangra's Tanda. She was admitted to the facility after testing positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda and Health Minister Rajiv Saizal prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the family members to bear the loss. The chief minister also visited the residence of Kumar at Palampur to convey his condolences to the bereaved family. Thakur said Shailja was an educationist, writer and social worker who always stood for the cause of poor and downtrodden people. Himachal Pradesh BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap also expressed their grief. Kumar was also admitted to Tanda hospital on Saturday, a day after he tested positive for the disease. His four family members, personal secretary, security officer and driver had also tested positive for Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him on Sunday to enquire about his health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-himachal-pradesh-cm-shanta-kumars-wife-dies-of-covid-19-932950.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Food and drug adulteration to attract life sentence in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved an ordinance that has a provision for life sentence for those found guilty of food and drug adulteration in the state, an official said. A separate section has been introduced in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to provide for five years imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both for those selling food items beyond their expiry date. The Penal Laws (Madhya Pradesh Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, was cleared at a cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who described adulteration of food items and medicines as a "dreadful crime", said the Public Relations Department official. Earlier, a bill to this effect was cleared by the cabinet but it could not be introduced in the assembly as its three-day winter session, scheduled to start from December 28, was postponed due to the Covid-19 situation. In this backdrop, the BJP government took the ordinance route to notify the law aimed at checking adulteration of food and drugs in the state. The law on food adulteration was among 12 ordinances, one of them on religious freedom, which were approved by the cabinet, the official said. They have been sent to the governor for assent. After the approval of the ordinances, Chouhan, in a statement, said, Adulteration is a dreadful crime. There have been reports of adulteration in food and medicines. "There were reports of adulteration even in the plasma used to treat coronavirus patients and in vaccine. Could there be a bigger crime than this? Chouhan said the practice of adulteration will not be allowed in Madhya Pradesh at any cost. "For this, an ordinance was approved in the cabinet meeting. Sections 272, 273, 274, 275 and 276 of the Indian Penal Code (related to public health & safety) have been amended to replace 6 months imprisonment and fine up to Rs 1,000 with life imprisonment. "Adulterators will now face life imprisonment, the chief minister said. The person directly engaged in adulteration and the owner of premises where such activities are taking place will be punished and not the trader selling contaminated items, the statement said. A new section 273 (a) has been added. Under this, a provision of five years imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both on sale of food items after their expiry date has been made. "This law will become a great medium to stop adulteration, Chouhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/food-and-drug-adulteration-to-attract-life-sentence-in-madhya-pradesh-932954.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Forced by 'panchayat' to lick his spittle man hangs self in Bihar||A young man was found hanging from the ceiling of his home in Bihar hours after being forced to lick his own spittle by a kangaroo court that accused him of harassing a girl he was supposedly in love with, a senior police official said on Tuesday. The incident took place in Chainpur police station area of this west Bihar district where the body of Shivshankar Gupta (22) was found hanging from the ceiling of his house on Monday night, Dilnawaz Ahmed, Kaimur district Superintendent of Police, told reporters. According to an FIR lodged by the father of the deceased, trouble began on the intervening night of Saturday-Sunday when Gupta went to the house of the girl, who stayed nearby, to get back his mobile phone. The complainant has claimed that the girl had run away with the phone following a tiff with her boyfriend but when Gupta reached her house, her family members pounced on him alleging that he had come to molest her. The matter, which involved families of two different castes, triggered tension in the area and, subsequently, a "panchayat" sat in judgement, pronounced the boy "guilty" and ordered him to spit on the ground and lick it by way of punishment. Crestfallen by the humiliation that he had to suffer in public, Gupta returned home with his family members, and on Sunday night, bolted the door of his room from inside while going to sleep, the SP said quoting the FIR. He was found hanging from the ceiling next morning by family members who prised open the door when Gupta did not respond to repeated knocks. In the FIR, the bereaved father has named family members of the girl and those who sat in the self-styled "panchayat", accusing them of abetment to suicide. No arrests have been made so far and the matter is under investigation, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forced-by-panchayat-to-lick-his-spittle-man-hangs-self-in-bihar-932956.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Snowfall in Kashmir valley brings in hordes of visitors seeking break from Covid-19 gloom||Tourists are making a beeline to Kashmir. The famous twin resorts of Gulmarg and Pahalgam are witnessing a heavy influx of New Year revellers and most hotels are booked for weeks ahead, with the battered industry rejoicing over the return of the “good old days”. With regular operations of international flights suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic, travellers from across the country have set their sights on the Kashmir valley which seems to be better placed when it comes to dealing with the spread of the virus. The union territory has been witnessing an average of new 250-300 cases per day – much lesser than other states in the country. The recent heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir is also an attracting factor as the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir is hosting around 700-800 visitors, including locals, daily. Amidst the snow-capped mountains, white-carpet meadows and eye-catching icicles, the resort offers a wide range of winter activities like skiing which are an added advantage to the joy of experiencing snow. The tourist resort at an altitude of 8,000 feet, 50 km north of the summer capital Srinagar, has virtually been sold out with most of the hotels registering cent per cent bookings for about the first two weeks of January – some even for the whole month. Often described as the 'heartland of winter sports in India', Gulmarg will play host to a number of activities in the days ahead much to the delight of holiday makers – a number of whom are already camping in one of best ski-destinations of the world -- braving sub-zero temperatures. The Tourism Department is going an extra mile to make the beginning of the New Year a memorable one for the visitors and has lined up a number of activities. “We have a number of programmes planned for New Year eve. We will have a musical evening which will be followed by a firecracker show to welcome the New Year. There will also be night skiing – torch skiing,” Assistant Director Tourism, Gulmarg, Javed-ur-Rehman told PTI. He said seven sporting events will also be held on the next day. The official said the ski-resort was packed with tourists and the hotels were sold out for the first two weeks of January. While 8,41,202 domestic and foreign tourists visited the Kashmir valley in 2018, the numbers went down to 4,99,584 in 2019. The Tourism Department did not reveal this year's figures, saying they were being compiled. However, sources said while no tourist visited the valley in April, May and June 2020 because of the lockdown, the arrivals started in the month of July and gradually picked up in September. The arrivals picked up pace in November and December with over a thousand tourists arriving daily for the last few days. The influx of tourists has brought cheer to the thousands of Kashmiris associated with the tourism sector. The sector has reeled under twin lockdowns for over a year now – first in the aftermath of the revocation of Article 370 and then due to the pandemic. “The arrival of tourists is a good sign and bodes well for Kashmir. We are hopeful of having a good season if all goes well,” Asif Burza, a hotelier who has properties in Srinagar, Pahalgam and Gulmarg with some having a tie-up with ITC Hotels, told PTI here. His hotels in the twin resorts are fully packed for the New Year's eve. Burza said Kashmir is a preferred destination for tourists and as the union territory has been able to contain the virus spread rather successfully than other states, the tourists are looking at no other place. “It is after a long, long time that we have business like this on the New Year's eve. We have film-makers coming here in good numbers for shooting movies or web-series. It looks like the good-old-days of tourism are back,” he said. The hotelier said tourism has a force-multiplier effect and good arrivals have an effect on the overall situation and economy in the Kashmir valley. “Tourists not only help the tourism sector, but other sectors as well. The business here gets fillip, it helps local produce and arts and crafts to grow. Tourism also promotes people to people contact,” Burza said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-in-kashmir-valley-brings-in-hordes-of-visitors-seeking-break-from-covid-19-gloom-932972.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||Protesting farmers, sympathisers continue to target telecom towers||Dozens of telecom towers in Punjab continued to be damaged by protesting farmers and sympathisers on Tuesday, ignoring the state government order to crackdown on those vandalising telecommunication masts. Power supply to towers belonging to Reliance Jio was snapped and cables cut in parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the three new farm laws. Neither Ambani's Reliance group nor Adani's companies are in the business of procuring food grains from farmers. Sources with knowledge of the matter said as many as 63 towers were damaged on Tuesday. Jio repaired some of the towers that were damaged over the past few days, they said, adding 826 sites were down as of Tuesday afternoon. The masts damaged were in places such as Amritsar, Bhatinda, Chandigarh, Firozpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Patiala and Sangrur, the sources said. Jio has 9,000 plus towers in the state. On Monday, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked police to take action against vandalisers. The "use of violence could alienate the protesters from the masses, which would be detrimental to the interests of the farming community," he had said in a statement. Asserting that he will not let Punjab plunge into anarchy at any cost and nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands, the chief minister had said he has been forced to toughen his stance as his repeated appeals to perpetrators of such acts had been ignored. Industry body COAI "strongly condemned" the sabotaging of the telecom network infrastructure and disruption of services as a form of protest. Terming telecom services as "lifeline" for lakhs of customers, COAI's Director-General SP Kochhar said disruption of telecom services is causing immense inconvenience to the common man, for whom mobile services are "essential". "While we respect people's right to protest on any issue, sabotaging the telecom network infrastructure and disrupting telecom services as a form of protest by anyone is strongly condemned," COAI said in a statement. Apex industry body Cellular Operators' Association of India (COAI) members include Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea. COAI said telecom services are the lifeline of lakhs of customers, including students taking online classes, professionals working from home, and people going for online health consultations in the tough time of COVID-19. "The disruption of telecom services, which are considered 'essential' under various enactments, is causing immense inconvenience to the common man for whom the mobile services are so essential," Kochhar said. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for over a month now against the three farm laws, which they see would end the minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of farm produce like wheat and paddy. The government has denied the apprehensions, saying MSP will continue and the new laws only provide farmers an alternative market to sell their produce. Talks to break the deadlock are scheduled for Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-sympathisers-continue-to-target-telecom-towers-932987.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||17 flights cancelled as dense fog engulfs Jammu||Seventeen flights to and from the Jammu airport were cancelled as dense fog engulfed the region on Tuesday, a day after high-altitude areas, including the Vaishno Devi shrine, received the season's first heavy snowfall, officials said. Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria said all but one flight scheduled for the day were cancelled due to “poor visibility”. “Only one flight could land at the Jammu airport around 3 pm, while rest of the 17 flights scheduled to operate to and from Jammu were cancelled,” Beuria told PTI. He said the poor visibility remained the major problem throughout the day. “The visibility was around zero at 9 am and remained much below the required level (1,000 to 1,200 metres) during the day, prompting the cancellation of all the flights. Only one flight could land when the visibility improved for a brief period,” the director said. Normal life was hit across the Jammu plains by the dense fog and chilly weather, the officials said. The fog cleared in most parts by noon, providing some relief to the people even as the winter Sun remained hidden behind the clouds, they added. The minimum temperature in Jammu fell by over two notches compared to the previous night to settle at 3.7 degrees Celsius, which is 3.7 degrees below the normal during this part of the season, a spokesperson of the Meteorological Department said. He said the city recorded a maximum of 12.5 degrees Celsius against the previous day's 13.2 degrees Celsius, which is also 6.5 degrees below season's average. The cold wave intensified after the day and night temperatures plunged below the season's average following moderate to heavy snowfall in the high-altitude areas in most parts of Jammu region during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The Vaishno Devi Shrine in Reasi experienced its first snowfall, while other high-altitude areas, including Patnitop hill station in Udhampur and the upper reaches of Doda, Kishtwar, Rajouri, Poonch, Kathua, Reasi and Ramban, also witnessed fresh snowfall. While the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained open for traffic, Mughal Road, which connects the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region with south Kashmir's Shopian district, was closed after Peer Ki Gali and adjoining areas witnessed heavy snowfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-flights-cancelled-as-dense-fog-engulfs-jammu-932988.html
29-12-2020||North and Central||5 UK returnees to Haryana test positive for Covid-19||Five people from Haryana who returned to India from the United Kingdom recently have tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check whether it is a new strain detected in the UK, an official said Tuesday. As many as 1,740 people have returned to Haryana from the UK recently, he said. “From the list given to us by the Bureau of Immigration, we followed up on 1,740 people who had returned to the state. Around 800-900 have been tested so far," Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Health Department) Rajeev Arora told PTI.   Out of these, five have been found positive for Covid-19. Now, their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to CSIR lab to check if any of them carries the new mutated strain of coronavirus, he said. "The lab results will tell whether these five found positive have the original Covid strain or the mutant strain,” he said. All those found positive have been quarantined, officials said. India had earlier suspended all passenger flights from the UK till December 31 in the wake of the emergence of the mutated variant of coronavirus. Moreover, passengers coming from the UK through flights are being tested for Covid-19 at airports. Six people who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.         It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS)-Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-uk-returnees-to-haryana-test-positive-for-covid-19-933017.html
29-12-2020||Oasis||Move up from religion to spirituality||Life experiences, education, religion and spirituality are all constituent but delicate steps of a ladder uniquely set for each individual by the divinity. Used discretely, they bestow the bliss of eternal peace. If misused or not used, one will either stagnate at one of the steps or stumble to the abyss of misery and eternal agony.      Spirituality and religion are often confused to be synonymous.  While there are many common factors between the two, there are glaring contrasts and contradictions.  While religion creates bondages, spirituality leads to liberation.  Some common features of all religions are sacred images and symbols, ecstasies and emotions, manifold rules and regulations, several dos and don’ts, all supported by a set of beliefs and practices based on their respective scriptures and interpreted (often wrongly/misleadingly) by religious leaders.  Religion restricts free thinking and questioning in pursuit of truth, often obsessed with an extreme love of oneself and hate of others ending up in fanaticism, discrimination, conflicts and destruction.   Spirituality is private but one for all humanity. It has no rigid rules/regulations and not dogmatic.  It is more an experience and conviction that there is only one Reality and all of humanity is one. It makes you feel happy and contented, without being harmful to others. Spirituality is self-regulated and self-assessed, but infinitely more rigorous. In Sanskrit, spirituality is known as Adhyātma. There are many paths to realise the soul or reach God and the individual should choose the one path that is most appropriate for his upbringing, intellectual maturity and living style.    However, practising spirituality is not easy and demands a tough grinding at all stages. After tasting the bliss of spirituality, no one likes to come back. Lord Krishna affirms this, saying yam labdhvachaaparamlaabhaumanyatenaadhikamtatah….(6/22), meaning ‘having gained such a stage, the devotee doesn’t reckon any other gain greater and, wherein established, not shaken even  by the greatest disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/move-up-from-religion-to-spirituality-932700.html
29-12-2020||Oasis||A society full of contradictions||We live in a contradictory world where on one hand some people show a lot of interest in building a value-based society and they talk of strengthening the value-system. So, there is a section of people who talk of moral development or what is called human resource development. On the other hand, there are people who talk of scientific and technological development, economic development or rural development. The paradigm that these people have is more or less often in serious contradiction to the norms of moral development. Not only that, scientific and technological development or economic and industrial development is often in clash with other parameters of development. For example, industrial development aims at producing and marketing more and more cars, scooters, jeeps, trucks, etc. and such other things without caring as to what effect it will have on the environment, the health of the people and their habits and lifestyles etc. However, they don’t realize that a large addition of motor vehicles every year would also add to the smoke that is hazardous for the people and it would badly affect the health of the people. Similarly, those people who are concerned with social welfare, open more charitable hospitals and add more beds without caring as to why more and more diseases are spreading and the number of patients visiting hospitals, is increasing. Again, the cities are now expanding and the villages are being transformed into cities. As a result, the agricultural fields are being converted into residential, commercial or industrial buildings. This also is called development.  People think that a country which has many hospitals, courts, industries, etc. is a developed country. They hardly realise that a developed country in real terms is one where people commit very little or no crime and where a very large number of people are healthy. So, there is a need for a proper paradigm in which the constituting elements are not in conflict with one another. Hence, humankind now needs a model that is simple, inspiring, uplifting, natural and without any inner conflicts or contradiction. It is the model of a value-based society in which all kind of development is at its peak and is in harmony with development of other aspects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-society-full-of-contradictions-933041.html
29-12-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 pandemic: 2020’s regrets should be 2021’s lessons||By Faye Flam If what you’re doing isn’t working, you need to correct course — not double down on the same losing tactic. That’s been the case for some time with the US efforts to contain Covid-19.  In the last couple of weeks, I’ve asked a number of experts what they know now that they wish they’d known in the spring, and where they think public health got things wrong. Two big trends emerged: lockdowns (too blunt) and testing (too slow). With months left to go before vaccination can curtail the pandemic, 2020’s regrets should be 2021’s lessons. University of Minnesota epidemiologist Michael Osterholm, a member of Biden’s advisory board, said one March mistake was closing businesses in places in the middle of the country that had seen almost no cases. “Was it appropriate to shut down so many things back then when there was so little, if any transmission? I think you can argue now that probably was not the best use of resources … it clearly alienated the very populations that we needed to have work with us,” he says. The time was squandered and so was public trust. He compares the situation to hurricane warnings. People take them seriously because they are usually right. In many Midwest states, people went into emergency mode at the wrong time. Last spring’s approach left the public full of rancor and deeply divided, with some seeing the restrictions as tyrannical and others convinced, just as wrongly, that if people weren’t “selfish” the control measures would have eradicated the virus. That’s never been feasible in a country where so many people live in crowded housing and can’t afford to stay home. Risk communication consultant Peter Sandman had it right last summer when he said any policy people don’t follow is a bad policy. Although containment strategies matter as much as ever, because it could take months before a vaccine relegates this crisis to history, politicians and public health officials have squandered people’s willingness and ability to stay home. Last April, public health experts recognized that lockdowns were never going to eradicate the virus from the US. Once hospitals were no longer in danger of being overwhelmed, they argued that the purpose of continuing to restrict businesses and schools was to buy time to get a good testing strategy in place. But that didn’t happen. Harvard epidemiologist Michael Mina’s assessment of our testing program is damning. “We’re getting almost no effectiveness from a public health standpoint,” he says. “Our contact tracing and testing program is failing before our eyes.” Testing is his expertise — he’s trained as a pathologist and oversees diagnostics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. Covid-19 tests work for diagnosing people who get extremely ill, but they aren’t well suited to finding infected people before they transmit the virus. “This virus has a very acute window — a very short window when people are able to spread,” he says. Those who get a positive result back are probably past their most contagious period, and those with a negative result may not still be negative if they don’t get the results back for days. The more politicians and the media encourage testing, the more people line up for them, the longer the results take and the less useful they become. Labs are overwhelmed with swabs, Mina says, and so they sit for days. He says it would be better for labs to refuse to take swabs if they can’t process them in 24 hours. Better to process half the samples in an actionable time window than none of them. “There’s no reason to stick a swab in someone’s nose if what we’re doing with the results isn’t useful anymore,” he says. Cheap home tests that take minutes would help, and they are actually being manufactured faster than people are using them, he says, because public health hasn’t laid out a strategy for them. Mina worries that we’re not getting a usable testing strategy because there’s a history of paternalism in public health. There’s an attitude that if we empowered people to find out their status, they would go out and party. The same thing happened with at-home pregnancy tests, he said, with public health officials initially not trusting women to use them correctly. He has advocated regular testing — at least once and preferably twice a week with easy, rapid tests, as some colleges have done to keep cases low. Moreover, testing is something people want, he says. They want to know their status much more than they want to wear masks or avoid other people. A smarter approach to testing and lockdowns would go a long way toward saving lives — and making 2021 more bearable than 2020. After spending hundreds of hours in 2020 talking to experts, I’ve come away recognizing that they don’t know how to control a coronavirus pandemic — that they’re making recommendations as they go along. That’s the best anyone can do, as long as they stop repeating the same mistakes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-pandemic-2020-s-regrets-should-be-2021-s-lessons-933030.html
29-12-2020||Panorama||Are we losing focus on influenza? ||There has been a consistent increase in the need for medical attention during the winter season, especially for cardiovascular diseases and respiratory infections. The latter plays a significant role in morbidity in the country. One such seasonal infection impacting over 3.5 million severe cases globally is Influenza. In fact, about ~99,000 to ~200,000 deaths can be directly attributed to influenza. It is evident that the current pandemic has burdened the healthcare infrastructure. With the onset of winters, respiratory illnesses such as seasonal influenza is a looming threat on the already burdened healthcare system.  Influenza and Covid-19 have similar symptoms such as cold, cough, fever, and loss of appetite making it difficult to diagnose. With the increasing number of Covid cases, air pollution and on-going festivities, it is important for everyone to be safe and healthy.  Importance of Influenza vaccination As a tropical country, Influenza is more important in India as it circulates year-round. Denser air in winters and increasing population pollution or population intensify the risk of infection. Fortunately, there is a combat mechanism to contain this vaccination.  Vaccination is the most effective strategy for infections and the current pandemic has reinforced its value as never before. According to WHO, Influenza vaccination must be prioritised for pregnant women, children (special precaution must be taken for the age group of 6 months to 5 years), elderly, individuals with chronic medical conditions like diabetes, heart conditions, and healthcare workers.  Even during the ongoing pandemic, Influenza vaccination is safe to be administered and can prevent severe disease and complications from the latest strains. The risk of catching flu reduces to 0.9% as compared to 7% without vaccination.   The co-morbid correlation Influenza as a condition is an additional threat for people who are living with existing co-morbidities like Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs), Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD). In winters, due to the cold weather and brooding air pollution, the condition may worsen leaving the individuals in a vulnerable state. Coupled with influenza their conditions might deteriorate causing a compromise in their quality of life or may even be fatal. Furthermore, influenza also contributes as a trigger to Non-Communicable Diseases such as heart attacks and strokes. As it happens, influenza vaccination can also help reduce the risk of heart attack by 15-45%. Hence, as these individuals are more susceptible to Influenza, they should be administered with the latest strain of influenza vaccine on priority.  Additionally, the elderly or people in the high-risk group who are unable to visit hospitals/clinics should opt for home services that are provided by hospitals and ensure they do not miss their annual influenza vaccination.  Given the current pandemic, we need to prevent and be protected from influenza. We as a country need to observe this threat of influenza and take an immediate preventive measure.  As we all know, vaccines help the immune system develop a protection shield in our body against diseases. An influenza vaccine is far long developed and despite the pandemic, it is indeed the right time to immunize ourselves for better precaution in such crucial times. (The writer is HOD and Consultant, Pulmonology, Sleep Medicine Specialist, in a hospital in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/are-we-losing-focus-on-influenza-932698.html
29-12-2020||Panorama||Hunger pangs on the rise||The data on malnutrition, stunting, and wasting in children across states in India emerging from the first phase of the National Family Health Survey 5 (2019-2020) is Dickensian in scope and sentiment. The spectre of hunger and starvation, worsened by the ongoing pandemic and the subsequent loss of livelihoods, is spawning Oliver Twists, who subsist on thin gruels, with little nutrition thrown in. Almost 90% of the human brain said to develop by age five, studies point to the key role of nutrition in early years for optimal brain development. Essentially, neuroscientists term the first five years of a child’s life as a critical period for brain development and learning. Changes in the brain’s structure during this period due to malnutrition can result in irreversible consequences.  Wasting and stunting Malnutrition in children is often associated with wasting and stunting. While wasting signifies low weight for height, stunting signals low height for age. Wasting is attributed to acute food shortage and/or disease. Similarly, stunting is caused by long-term insufficient intake of nutrients. The effects of stunting, such as delayed motor development and impaired cognitive functions, are largely irreversible. Stunting and wasting are marked by reduced muscle mass and fat mass. Though these are different forms of malnutrition, they often coexist in the same vulnerable population, and unfortunately, in the same children. Alarming numbers Though the first phase of the survey covered only 17 states and 5 union territories (UTs), the statistics on the nutritional state of children is alarming. Compared to the earlier survey (NFHS 4) in 2015-2016, the proportion of children who are severely wasted has gone up in 14 states and 3 UTs. These include rich states, such as Maharashtra (up by 1.5%) and Gujarat (up by 1.1%) and poor states such as Bihar (up by 1.8%) and Assam (up by 2.9%), among others. Though some states have ducked the national trend as far as severe wasting of children is concerned, they are in the red with regard to the data on stunting of children. Thus, while Goa has recorded a rise in stunted children by 5.7%; Kerala has registered a rise by 3.7%, compared to the numbers in the last survey. The findings of the current survey reinforce the concerns of nutritionists and social workers that under the pandemic, India is reversing the gains made under POSHAN Abhiyaan, the government’s flagship national nutritional mission, launched in 2018. Karnataka fares well The only state which has beaten the downward national trend is Karnataka. While the state has reined in the proportion of children who are wasted by 6.6%, the percentage of children severely wasted has declined by 2.1%, compared to NFHS 4. The graph of stunted children has also declined by 0.8%. Several on-ground policy measures have helped the state swim against the general tide. The state pioneered the World Bank-supported Multisectoral Nutrition Pilot Project in backward taluks to reduce undernutrition and micro-nutrient deficiency. This project is now being transitioned to the production and marketing of low-cost fortified energy food Shakti Vita, made from locally produced ragi, corn, soya, wheat, green gram, and ground nut across the state. The state also appointed nutritional volunteers in each village to create awareness about the care and nutrition of newborns, the importance of maintaining a healthy body mass index (BMI), and consumption of local fruits and vegetables. The government has also partnered with the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), a research-based think tank, to develop a state-of-the-art digital platform, SNEHA, which provides a comprehensive solution—from detection to cure—for malnutrition management. Undoubtedly, the repercussions of the pandemic have been grave for the vulnerable sections of the society. With schools staying shut, millions of children were robbed of their only nutritional meal in the day—the mid-day meal (MDM) scheme in government schools, which provides free lunches to 120,000,000 children in the country. Though the government made provisions for extra food ration, including pulses, under the Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana, implementation of the scheme was mired in controversies due to discrepancies in the distribution network. Further, the closure of Anganwadis that ensure supplementary nutrition to children under six, besides pregnant and lactating mothers in the country, has aggravated the situ Predictably, the recently released 2020 Global Hunger Index (GHI) ranks India 94 in its list of 107 countries for which data was collected. The GHI estimate gives the country a score of 27.2, tagging India in a level of hunger that is “serious”. Solving India’s complex malnourishment challenge and achieving the second UN Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger will involve concerted pro-active measures, such as instilling nutritional awareness at the village level, targetting the supply and distribution of supplementary nutrition among vulnerable sections, constant monitoring of the nutritional status of severe malnutrition cases, and ensuring a balanced diet for pregnant and lactating mothers through dietary supplements. Our children are our future. We need to fortify the foundation on which our future will be built. (The writer works with the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy, a research-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hunger-pangs-on-the-rise-933040.html
29-12-2020||Right in the Middle||The faces of life||For the last many months or so all nations of the world have been facing the monster of Covid-19 with varying degrees of deftness and resilience. Some like New Zealand and Australia did extremely well in containing it in time while all others have witnessed situations which we wish humanity never had to face.  Misconceptions, panic, fear of contagion, getting affected and then racing for hospitalisation, competing for life-saving procedures, slow recoveries and fast casualties in some countries…all these have played havoc on the human psyche these months. Mankind is almost in a precarious condition where the victim does not know where he will be attacked.  However, in the midst of such a glum scenario, there are examples of exceptional positivity. Lakhs of workers from UP, Bihar, Orissa, Bengal, Jharkhand and  Chhattisgarh who scripted the prosperity for the great citadels of the industry in India felt that they were left high and dry by their employers and landlords to fend for themselves in the moment of dire need, it was an unfortunate exodus in times of a deluge. At the same very time appeared numberless inspired voluntary groups, organizations and individuals who came to help these less fortunate brethren marching on foot for their native villages. They offered food round the clock to these people. There is the case of a middle-class father spending all his savings of five lakh rupees, saved for his daughter’s wedding, in offering food and masks to the hapless workers and their families. There is the outstanding case of a determined fourteen-year-old girl, Jyoti, from Bihar ferrying her injured and convalescing father on a bicycle all the way from Gurugram to her village in Darbhanga--a distance of 1200 kilometres in just seven days. In Mumbai, a group named Unity and Dignity has been supplying oxygen cylinders free of cost at home to people who fail to get this service anywhere else. Now we also have the other face of society. People who usually sold groceries and toys or vegetables are also now also selling face-masks and hand sanitisers. In a matter of days, thousands took to the manufacturing of these two new items and created an opportunity to get rich while the season prevails. Politicians are trying to project figures to prove that they have done better than their counterparts elsewhere. Their concerns are simply statistical and not human. Such are the myriad faces of my India today in a moment of crisis!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-faces-of-life-932697.html
29-12-2020||Second Edit||What the Narendra Modi govt should worry about||India’s low ranking on the United Nations’ Human Development Index (HDI) and persistent failure to move up the ranks through the years has reflected poorly on the country, even as the economy has grown and there was progress in many areas. For the past many years, India’s ranking has been in the 130-135 range among 189 countries and it was in the bottom third for most parameters that go into the making of the index. This year, the country has slipped by one rank to 131, and though it is stated that this is not because India did not do well but other countries did better, that is poor consolation. The poor performance is especially disquieting because it involves the living standards and welfare of hundreds of millions of people.  The HDI is a measure of a nation’s health, education and standard of living. Bhutan and Bangladesh have rankings similar to India’s, but Nepal and Pakistan have lower rankings. All are in the ‘medium’ human development category and have a lot of distance to cover and much to do before they can be said to ensure minimum standards of life and wellbeing for their people. India’s gross national per capita income, based on purchasing power parity, fell to $6,681 in 2019 from $6,829 in 2018. The country also has a ranking near the bottom on the World Hunger Index. The report pointed out, like other reports have done, that there are more malnutrition-related issues among children and that girls are affected more than boys. It also underlined the need for greater empowerment of women by ensuring better financial security for them and giving them ownership of land. Year after year, the HDI comes as a reminder of the challenges the country has to face in providing a better life to the people, and unfortunately, the next year’s index fails to cheer again.  This year’s report covers 2019 only and does not account for the impact of Covid-19. So, next year’s report is bound to present a much worse picture. This year, the report has introduced a new metric, called the Planetary Pressures-adjusted HDI, to reflect the impact caused by each country’s per-capita carbon emissions and their material footprint. This is a relevant measure in the time of climate change, and India would move up eight ranks if this is taken into consideration. It would change many other rankings, and Norway, which tops the index now, would fall 15 places. As many as 50 countries would drop out of the high development group if this metric is used. It will clearly gain more importance in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/what-the-narendra-modi-govt-should-worry-about-932693.html
29-12-2020||Second Edit||Is the deal worth the Brexit?||The biggest positive of the Brexit deal, entered into by the European Union (EU) and Britain after years of tough negotiations, is that it is better than no deal. There was a final deadline of December 31 and failure to clinch the deal would have created serious trade problems, economic chaos and political repercussions. Britain, and its present government, wanted to show that it gained from Brexit, but the EU was determined not to give anything away that would encourage other members to leave the union. This contradiction and the complexities of politics delayed the accord. The deal needs to be ratified this week by the British parliament, and by the European Union later, and probably it was taken to the brink so that there is not enough time to study its provisions. The agreement has a 1,250-page text of fine legal print which defies easy examination. The brinkmanship may also have been a tactic used by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to claim credit for snatching a deal in a difficult situation. The agreement is basically on tariffs and free trade and mainly concerns goods. Services, which account for the major part of the British economy, are not covered. It provides a roadmap for EU-UK relations after Britain leaves the single market and customs union, but the details are not clear. Britain will have tariff-free access to Europe’s market but will have to abide by the EU’s rules on competition and environment. Britain will have to check some of its plans, like the idea to further develop London’s financial services sector. An important issue that defied resolution till the last minute was the fishing rights of European fishermen off the British coast but that was settled with the granting of limited access during a transition period. People from one side can no longer move freely and live and work on the other side. While normally trade deals make trade easier, this deal seeks to regulate it. Moreover, due to Brexit, Northern Ireland will have a different relationship with the EU than the UK Orderly implementation of the deal will be a major challenge, and it is likely that the provisions may be interpreted differently by both sides. Boris Johnson has rhetorically said that “we have taken back control of our destiny’’, but a judgement will have to wait. It is estimated that Britain will lose 4% of its GDP and a fall in per capita income over the next 15 years. Scotland may have a rethink on its status in the UK. Most importantly, there are challenges like the climate crisis and the pandemic which are bound to change the global situation and attitudes in the coming years, and so the impact of the deal may also change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/is-the-deal-worth-the-brexit-933036.html
29-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth misses date with politics, decides not to launch political party||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced that he would not launch a new political party to contest the 2021 Assembly elections, citing his poor health and Covid-19 as reasons for going back on the promise he made on the last day of 2017.   In a three-page statement posted on his verified Twitter page, Rajinikanth apologised to his fans, supporters and people who stood by him over the past three years for his decision. He also said he would continue working for the people of Tamil Nadu without launching a political party. “I regret to announce that I am not able to take the political plunge by launching a political party. Only I know the pain that I go through while announcing this. This decision would come as a disappointment to my fans, and people. I apologise to everyone,” Rajinikanth said. Rajinikanth's announcement comes two days before he was scheduled to announce the date of launch of his political party on December 31. The actor had on December 3 announced that he will launch a party in January, 2021 and contest the assembly elections after dithering several times even after a definite announcement in this regard on December 31, 2017. The development two days after he was discharged from Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad where he was admitted on December 25 due to “severe fluctuations” in blood pressure. The actor spent three days at the hospital though he tested negative for the novel coronavirus after four crew members of Annatthe, his latest film, tested positive for Covid-19. Rajinikanth cited his vulnerability to contracting Covid-19 owing to the renal transplant he underwent in 2016 and the second wave of coronavirus as reasons for going back on his promise. Contending that his hospitalisation was “a warning from the God”, Rajinikanth said he cannot bring about the change he wanted to among the people by campaigning through social media. “I may have to meet lakhs of people during the campaign and I had to be under the observation of doctors for three days after being among 120 people. The coronavirus is now taking a new shape and there is chance of a second wave,” he said. Rajinikanth said his fans and supporters may have to face a slew of consequences, including psychological and financial, if he falls ill during the campaign for the 2021 elections. “I do not want to make a scapegoat of the people who have believed in me by entering to politics andnot caring about my health just because some people will criticise me for my decision,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-misses-date-with-politics-decides-not-to-launch-political-party-932771.html
29-12-2020||South||How the CPM-led Left Front is setting the stage for Kerala Assembly polls||Giving a communal tag to the political opponents, rolling out a slew of welfare measures, and now wooing the young voters who dominate the electoral rolls, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front seems to be way ahead in setting the stage for the Assembly elections set to happen within five months in Kerala. The upper hand received by the Left Front was quite significant as there were a series of serious allegations against the ruling Pinarayi Vijayan government like nexus with gold-smuggling accused, CPM top leader's son's arrest in drug peddling related case and corruption allegations. Having received a shot in the arm with the local body election results, the CPM has started setting the stage, aiming for a second term for the Left Front in Kerala, which is quite crucial for the CPM also as Kerala is the lone state where the party is in power now. Giving prominence to youngsters in local body positions is the latest step in this regard. Apart from making a 21-year-old college girl, Arya Rajendran, the mayor of Thiruvananthapuram city, several youngsters like another 21-year-old, Reshma Mariam Roy, who was the youngest contestant in the local body polls in Kerala, were given prominent posts. Reshma was made president of the Aruvappulam panchayat near Konni in Pathanamthitta district. As per the current voters' list, of the 2.6 crore voters in Kerala,1.6 crore are in the 18- 49 age group, which comes to around 63 per cent. Hence by giving prominence to youngsters, the CPM hopes to make considerable influence among the young voters who dominate the electoral rolls. Veteran political analyst B R P Bhaskar said that even as being young was neither a qualification nor a disqualification for being elevated to key posts, the CPM's present move was indeed sending a political message to the youth and it may help in influencing the young voters. However, what matters is the performance of the youngsters who get the key posts. Experience is a key factor, he said. Another political analyst, Joseph C Mathew, said that even as the decision to elevate youngsters received much attention for the CPM, only time will tell the intentions behind such decisions, whether it was a compromise candidate or whether the aim is back-seat driving. He also feels that age alone should not be the parameter for appointments to key posts as experience does matter. Even in all political parties, among the veteran leaders, there are many with very youthful and sharp perspectives, he said. The foremost political move of the CPM, especially Vijayan, soon after the local body polls was to take advantage of the unrest in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) by accusing the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)  of dictating terms to Congress. Later on, CPM leaders have termed IUML as a communal party. With this, the CPM seems to be trying to distance the secular vote base of Kerala as well as the Christian vote banks from the Congress-led UDF. The Left Front had attributed the upper hand it received in the local polls, despite the adverse political scenario, to the welfare measures the Vijayan government initiated, especially free ration to all during the lockdown, housing scheme for poor, and enhancing social welfare pensions that touched the people at the grass-root levels. Hence the government already announced extending free ration for a few more months, enhanced welfare pensions by Rs 100 each, and announced that 50,000 more jobs would be created. The upcoming budget, which would be the last budget of this government, might also see a slew of welfare measures aiming at the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-the-cpm-led-left-front-is-setting-the-stage-for-kerala-assembly-polls-932797.html
29-12-2020||South||One UK returnee tests positive for new variant of coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: State govt||One person who returned to Tamil Nadu from the UK has tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus, a top health department official said on Tuesday. He has been isolated in a separate room in the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research here while his co-passengers and other contacts have been tested and found negative for Covid-19, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. "The Centre has confirmed one person from the state has been affected by the UK strain," he told reporters here. The person was being treated in a separate room in a separate wing at the institute on the directions of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he added. The Union Health Ministry earlier in the day said six people who returned to India from the UK have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus. Radhakrishnan said more than 2,200 people had arrived in Tamil Nadu from the UK after November 25 and all of them underwent RT-PCR tests. As of Tuesday, 17 returnees have tested positive for Covid-19. As far as treatment and existing testing protocol, he said the Union Health Ministry has informed there was no requirement for any modification. "All those people including senior doctors, nurses are in separate wing. We have set up 120 specialised beds...", he said. Reiterating that there was no need for any panic because of the new strain, he said RT-PCR test was being done for all returnees from the UK. Those found positive are being treated in separate rooms even though results of their genomic sequencing were awaited from the National Institute of Virology in Pune. "Therefore, the chances of spread of the virus in Tamil Nadu is less", the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-uk-returnee-tests-positive-for-new-variant-of-coronavirus-in-tamil-nadu-state-govt-932869.html
29-12-2020||South||UK-returned Rajahmundry woman first case of mutated Covid-19 strain in Andhra Pradesh||A UK returned Anglo-Indian woman who reportedly dodged quarantine in New Delhi and traveled by train to Rajahmundry last week was found to be infected with the UK strain of Covid-19. The middle-aged woman, who gave a fright to the health authorities with the 28-hour rail journey, is the only person confirmed till now in Andhra Pradesh with the mutated virus. Officials have identified 1,423 persons in the state as recent returnees from the European nation. 1,406 people were traced while 17 persons are still “missing.” 12 out of the 1,406 persons who underwent RT-PCR tests tested positive. Further, 6364 primary contacts of these 1,406 people were tested and 12 of them also tested positive. Samples of all these 24 positive cases were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad for genome sequencing. “While CCMB declared that UK strain was found in the sample of the Rajahmundry woman, we are yet to receive the reports of the remaining 23 samples,” said Katamneni Bhaskar, commissioner, health and family welfare. Officials are appealing to the public not to panic, as “there is no evidence of expansion of the UK strain in AP.” “There is no spread of the virus from the woman. Even her son who traveled with her had tested negative. Please do not believe any rumours as the situation is continuously monitored by the government,” the senior health official said. The 47 year old woman had tested Covid-19 positive upon her arrival at the New Delhi airport on 21 December, but took a train journey of about 28 hours to reach Rajahmundry on 23 December late night. The woman, a teacher in a private school in Rajahmundry, visited the UK recently, as the family had plans to move there. Her husband is in the UK. Her 22-year-old son went to Delhi and accompanied her back on the New Delhi-Visakhapatnam train. Alerted about her journey by the authorities in New Delhi, AP health officials picked her and her son from the railway station and lodged them in a government health facility. "The UK returned lady continues to be asymptomatic and is in a stable condition. She is kept in a 14-day institutional quarantine,” one East Godavari district health official told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uk-returned-rajahmundry-woman-first-case-of-mutated-covid-19-strain-in-andhra-pradesh-932920.html
29-12-2020||South||I don't aspire for Chief Minister's post, says Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday said he does not aspire for the high post of CM but considered himself as "in-charge" having overall responsibility to "execute the task" people assign to him. His role as chief minister was only to serve the people as what remained everlasting is one's good deeds. The chief minister who launched "Vetrinadai Podum Tamizhagam" (Tamil Nadu leading the way), his poll campaign in Rasipuram in this district, said the people are the real chief ministers. "Earlier I was introduced as the chief minister. But I see everyone of you as chief minister. The people are the real chief ministers because you gave me this post which I accepted as in-charge to serve you, to execute the task you assign to me. Like others, I dont aspire for the chief ministers chair because as one hailing from a village I wish to work hard," Palaniswami said amid thunderous applause from party workers who had gathered in large numbers. He said he came up in life through sheer hard work. "I came up by working hard and thank our leaders (Late chief ministers) M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa for this. What remains everlasting is our achievements. This is what both our leaders have left behind through their good deeds," Palaniswami, whom the ruling AIADMK has announced as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 polls, said. He is also the AIADMKs co-coordinator. Training his guns against DMK chier M K Stalin, the chief minister accused him of spreading misinformation that AIADMK party men are involved in door-to-door distribution of tokens for collecting the Pongal gift of Rs 2,500. Stalin was spreading false information as he was unable to digest the fact that the Pongal cash gift scheme received overwhelming response from the people, he ed. His government had announced a Pongal cash gift of Rs 2,500 and hampers to all rice cardholders in the state, as the poor people are affected due to COVID-19 pandemic. "He is doing so because the AIADMK will earn a good reputation among the people," he said. Last year, the DMK went to the court seeking to stall the distribution of Rs 1,000 cash to ration cardholders as that party disliked doing good things for the people, Palaniswami said, adding, he had announced Rs 2,500 cash gift to enable the affected people celebrate Pongal happily. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa always desired that poor people should live happily and hence the present AIADMK government is fulfilling their desire. Palaniswami, who earlier offered prayers at the Anjaneyar Temple in Namakkal, appealed to the people to cast their votes in favour of the Two Leaves, the AIADMK symbol, in the next year's Assembly elections, due in April-May. He campaigned while sipping tea at a house and interacting with traders and vendors at the temple premises. Electricity minister P Thangamani, Transport minister M R Vijayabaskar and Social welfare minister Dr V Saroja and MLAs were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-dont-aspire-for-chief-ministers-post-says-palaniswami-932935.html
29-12-2020||South||Nilgiri Mountain Railway services to resume from December 31||The Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) train services in the entire Mettupalayam Udagamandalam (Ooty) section will resume on daily basis with effect from December 31. NMR services on resumption will be operated as Fully Reserved Special Trains, a railway release said Tuesday. One pair of fully reserved special train will be run between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam and three pairs of fully reserved special trains between Coonoor and Udagamandalam. All the Covid safety protocols will be strictly followed and passengers are requested to cooperate with Railways and adhere to the norms such as wearing of face masks and social distancing,it said. Only Reserved passengers will be allowed to travel in the NMR train services and advance booking is open, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nilgiri-mountain-railway-services-to-resume-from-december-31-932940.html
29-12-2020||South||Dispute over land claims couple's life in Kerala; children dig grave for parents||A dispute with neighbour over three cents of land has ended up in the death of a couple and their two teenaged children orphaned had to even dig the grave for parents themselves. The heart-rending incident took place at Neyyatinkara on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram and the state government has now decided to provide housing for the children, while many political outfits offered to take care of the children. Rajan, 47, and his wife Ambili, 40, suffered serious burns on December 22 after they caught fire while staging a protest by dousing themselves in petrol when police and revenue authorities turned up to evict them from their house situated on around three cents of land that was caught up in an ownership dispute with neighbour. Both succumbed to the burns on Monday. When their children, Renjith and Rahul, conveyed the last wish of their parents that they should be buried in the disputed land itself, no one was ready to prepare the grave owing to the land dispute. Hence the children themselves prepared the grave in the disputed property where they have been living for years. The children alleged that they were cheated by their lawyer and hence the neighbour got a court order in her favour over the land. The left-front government was in the defensive over the incident as the children alleged that the police were responsible for the death of their parents. It was when police tried to grab a lighter from Rajan's hand that the couple accidentally caught fire. The children also alleged lapses on the part of the police in rushing the two to hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dispute-over-land-claims-couples-life-in-kerala-children-dig-grave-for-parents-932948.html
29-12-2020||South||Kerala CM welcomes PM Modi's efforts to resolve church dispute||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts in initiating discussions to resolve the dispute between two warring factions of the Malankara church over possession of around 1000 odd churches and their properties. "The dispute between the two factions of the Malankara church is a serious matter which has created law and order issues. The Prime Minister's decision to intervene and find a solution to the vexed issue is welcome," Vijayan told reporters here when asked about the matter. "I do not think there is any politics involved in the PM's intervention",Vijayan said. The representatives of the Orthodox faction had held talks with the Prime Minister on Monday, while the Jacobite faction met him on Tuesday. Both factions issued separate statements today, describing the meetings as 'cordial and fruitful.' Vijayan had also held talks with the two groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-welcomes-pm-modis-efforts-to-resolve-church-dispute-932957.html
29-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth's decision to not enter politics pushes BJP back to square one in Tamil Nadu||It is no secret that the BJP was hoping to piggyback on the popular star to make inroads into Tamil Nadu, the Dravidian state that has so far kept the saffron party at arm's length. With all their earlier strategies for Tamil Nadu failing big time, the BJP had bet heavily on Rajinikanth. Though the BJP scoffs at suggestions that they were behind Rajinikanth's political plans, party leaders went out of their way to welcome the actor's announcement on Dec. 3 about launching a party. The leaders failed to hide their glee and that gave away the secret. Also, the BJP's rhetoric against their ally the AIADMK sharpened in the days and weeks after Rajinikanth's announcement. The national party refused to categorically acknowledge Edappadi K Palaniswami, the AIADMK's pick for the Chief Minister's post, as the alliance's nominee. The developments led to intense speculations that the BJP might ally with the superstar's party and ditch their ally or even try to break the AIADMK before the election.   Rajinikanth's call to appoint Ra Arjunamurthy, a BJP office-bearer, as his adviser made things even more clear as to who was behind the actor's political plunge. As if these were not enough, RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy let the cat out of the bag when he appeared on television channels and welcomed Rajinikanth's announcement. He also likened the superstar's entry into politics to that of the legendary M G Ramachandran, the matinee idol who went on to become three-time chief minister of the state. That MGR was an established politician – who worked for the DMK for 20 years and was a two-time MLA – when he launched the AIADMK was a fact that every 'change agent' or their proponents in Tamil Nadu like to forget conveniently. The BJP believed that Rajinikanth's promise to practice "spiritual politics" would bring anti-DMK and Hindu votes into his fold and an alliance with his party could lay the groundwork for the party's "grand entry" into Tamil Nadu. This is because all the BJP strategies have simply failed to make inroads into what the party believes is a "leaderless" state after the deaths of M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa in the past few years. "With a limited cadre base and voter support in the Dravidian land, the BJP was hoping to ride on the shoulders of Rajinikanth to mark its significant presence in the Tamil Nadu Assembly this election," senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. "That dream has now collapsed. Rajinikanth may have thought it was time to stop the pendulum play and keep his fans and supporters waiting for eternity. The hospital stay seems to have made Rajinikanth wiser to reality." In a state where personality and cult politics have mattered for over half a century, the BJP thought that Rajinikanth's immense popularity would catapult him to the position of kingmaker, if not the king, thereby indirectly helping the party. Rajinikanth's decision takes the BJP back to the drawing board and they will have to revise their strategy yet again for a state whose politics they barely understand. They are also placed at the mercy of their ally, the AIADMK. For the BJP, contesting alone would not be the best option, politically speaking, given their disastrous performance in the last Assembly elections where they drew a blank. However, the BJP would still try to seek their pound of flesh not just because they rule at the Centre, but also due to the AIADMK's vulnerability to political pressure. "Now it is back to the status quo," said political analyst P Ramajayam. "The BJP does not have any new options rather than sticking with the AIADMK. The alliances that existed during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls will more or less remain the same. It will be a bipolar fight yet again."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanths-decision-to-not-enter-politics-pushes-bjp-back-to-square-one-in-tamil-nadu-932961.html
29-12-2020||South||Test more, expand genome surveillance, says CCMB chief over mutated Covid-19 strain from UK||An extensive genome surveillance programme is needed now to assess the spread of mutated strain detected in UK returnees and emergence of other coronavirus variants in India, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, Director, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). On Tuesday, the central government has confirmed the presence of the mutated strain in India, after tracing and testing of about 33,000 passengers who flew in to India from the European nation since last month. CCMB is one of the ten research institutes across the country involved in the confirmation of the new variant. The Hyderabad based lab has till now detected three UK strain infected cases - one from AP and two from Telangana. The new variant of coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 - that causes Covid-19 B.1.1.7 is believed to be 71% more transmittable than other variants. First reported in the UK in September 2020, this variant makes up for 60% of all the Covid-19 infections there. To stem its spread, many countries including India have temporarily suspended flights from UK. “Surveillance at airports is not enough. Now that the virus is detected to have made way into our country, we need to ramp up our daily Covid-19 testing to higher numbers. And at least two per cent of all the positive cases detected from now on in the country should undergo genome sequencing to get the full picture,” Dr Mishra told DH. As of now, not even 0.05% of the positive samples are subjected to genome sequencing, which is 10 fold less than the WHO recommendations. “For next six or so months, we have to be very watchful on the emergence of more variant strains as India at present has the second largest population infected by the Covid-19 virus," Dr Mishra said. Strain's divergence detected in UK The variant shows 17 mutations in its genetic material. Of these, eight affect its spike protein, which expresses on its outer surface, and binds to the ACE receptors in the human cells. One of the mutations is believed to enhance the binding between the virus and receptors, thus making the entry into the host cells easier. The favorable aspect is that the mutations have not worsened the existing symptoms or disease outcomes and are not an impediment to the vaccine development, CCMB experts say. The testing protocol for the new strain also remains the same. “The only problem is that the new variant spreads more easily than the others.” “(As the situation needed), we have expedited the viral genome sequencing efforts, to check for the new variant presence. We have employed the traditional Sanger sequencing method as well as the modern Next-Gen Sequencing tools for the purpose”, said Dr Divya Tej Sowpati, leading the Coronavirus genome sequencing work at CCMB. Dr Mishra said that the measures to avoid infection still remain the same. “Using masks in presence of others, avoiding crowded places, maintaining physical distance are the most effective, feasible ways for preventing Covid-19 virus, including the new variant,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/test-more-expand-genome-surveillance-says-ccmb-chief-over-mutated-covid-19-strain-from-uk-932964.html
29-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth: From a definite announcement to the withdrawal||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth ended decades-long suspense on the last day of 2017 by announcing his entry into politics. On December 31, 2017, he announced that his new political party would contest the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Though he dithered several times even after the announcement, Rajinikanth declared on December 3 that he will keep his date with politics. However, on Tuesday, he pulled out of the game citing ill-health. Here is the chronology of the three-year suspense: December 31, 2017: Rajinikanth announces his entry into politics January 2, 2018: Rajinikanth meets press informally, explains his decision to take the political plunge March 5, 2018: Rajinikanth makes his first political speech by promising to usher in MGR's rule May 29, 2018: Rajinikanth makes controversial statements on anti-Sterlite protests in Thoothukudi February 17, 2019: Rajinikanth announces that he will not support any political party in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls March 5, 2020: Rajinikanth tells his fans he does not want to be Chief Minister March 12, 2020: Rajinikanth puts the onus on the people for him to join politics October 29, 2020: Rajinikanth admits he underwent a renal transplant and indicates he may have to shelve political plans November 30, 2020: Rajinikanth meets district secretaries of his Rajini Makkal Mandram December 3, 2020: Rajinikanth announces he will launch his own political party in January 2021 December 14, 2020: Rajinikanth resumes shooting for his film Annatthe in Hyderabad December 25, 2020: Rajinikanth admitted to Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad due to “severe fluctuations” in BP December 27, 2020: Rajinikanth discharged from hospitals; flies to Chennai December 29, 2020: Rajinikanth announces his decision not to take the political plunge, apologies to his fans and people||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-from-a-definite-announcement-to-the-withdrawal-932965.html
29-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth's fans disappointed; but wish him 'good health'||Hours after Tamil superstar Rajinikanth announced he was not launching a political party as promised, a handful of his fans marched towards his palatial bungalow here and held a sit-in. They asked the superstar to reconsider his decision and launch the political party. While these fans felt the need to demonstrate their opposition, the majority of them rued their leader's decision in private, though many agreed that Rajinikanth's health was of prime importance. The feeling of the fans can be understood as they have been waiting for decades together for Rajinikanth to enter politics. Rajinikanth's first major political statement came in 1996 when he declared that “even God cannot save Tamil Nadu” if the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa returned to power. From 1996 to 2017 till he announced that he will launch a party, Rajinikanth teased his fans for 21 long years. The fans thought the suspense has finally ended but it was not so. In March this year, the actor almost announced his exit from politics, which he never entered actually, by putting the onus on people for him to take the plunge. He wanted a “resurgence for change” among people visible for him to launch the party. Months later, he cited “ill health” and postponed the decision to December. However, all seemed good when Rajinikanth promised to keep his date with politics through a Twitter post on December 3. Exactly 26 days later, the announcement was withdrawn. “What is there to say? We kept waiting for years and we were happy for the past few weeks that we can bring the change that the people of Tamil Nadu have been yearning for long. People are still ready to vote for him. We are certainly disappointed,” a district secretary of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), an extension of his fans' club, told Deccan Herald. Another RMM functionary said the fans have done “tremendous groundwork” anticipating the launch of the political party. “We have been working on the ground hoping to make an impact. But today's decision is something that we unexpected though we knew our Thalaivar is not in the best of his health. We wish him good health, but we will be less than honest if we say we are not disappointed,” he said. However, N Ravi, Secretary of RMM, Vellore District, said fans will stand like a rock behind Rajinikanth irrespective of his decision. “Our Thalaivar's health is more important than politics. We want him to live long. We will never question his wisdom and decision,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanths-fans-disappointed-but-wish-him-good-health-932975.html
29-12-2020||South||Arya Rajendran: From the dream of becoming an IPS officer to a mayor||A young girl who dreamt of becoming an IPS officer has now become the youngest mayor of the country and the biggest question that she is now facing is whether a 21-year old girl, who is just doing a second-year degree course, is capable enough to be the mayor of a city. But Arya Rajendran, who was sworn in as mayor of Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram told DH that she doesn't want to give any reply to such criticisms through words but through her deeds. Excerpts of an interview with Arya Q. The big question doing the rounds about your elevation to mayor post is whether a 21-year old girl is capable of holding a mayor post. What do you say? A. A person's capability should not be weighed by age alone. I do not want to reply to such criticisms through words, but through my work as mayor. Being active in organisational activities through SFI and 'Balasangam', a CPM-backed children's outfit, I am quite confident that I will be able to effectively discharge my duties as mayor by understanding the needs and priorities of people. Moreover being mayor does not mean that I alone would be taking all decisions. I will have the support and advice of senior and well-experienced colleagues and supporters. Above all, the minimum age for contesting elections is  21 and hence anyone who wins elections can hold the mayor post too. Q. Your childhood dream was to become an IPS officer and now you became a mayor. We have seen many bureaucrats later entering politics. Do you have any desire to be a politician-turned IPS officer? A. It was mainly the attraction towards the uniformed service that triggered a desire of becoming an IPS officer while I was in school. But now I entered politics and I wish to be in politics in the future also. Q. What is your political ambition? A. I don't see politics as a job but as a service to society. Hence I am not ambitious to reach any specific posts in politics but to be a good political worker working for the welfare of people and keeping people together. As mayor, I will ensure that there were no sorts of discrimination towards any wards irrespective of the political lenience of the councillor of the ward. Q Apart from you, another 21-year old CPM worker was made a panchayat president. Do you feel that the prominence being given by CPM to youngsters will help the party in the coming Assembly elections? A. Rather than age factors, good governance decides people's mandate. Even now the CPM-led Left Democratic Front got a spectacular victory in the local body elections despite the massive misleading campaigns against the ruling left-front government in Kerala. It means that the people have rejected the lie campaigns and voted for the development and welfare initiatives of the government.   Q. As mayor, do you have any priorities apart from the overall development of the city? A. Being a woman, I wish to make the city women-friendly, especially during the night. Women should be able to move around fearlessly at night also. I will try to initiate steps in this direction. The immediate priority would be to ensure the hygiene of schools and colleges as schools and colleges are reopening after a long time from January. Water tanks of schools need to be cleaned with priority. Garbage treatment is a major crisis being faced by all cities and I think creating awareness among the people about the proper disposal of waste could address the issue to a large extent as even well-educated people could be seen discarding waste unscientifically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arya-rajendran-from-the-dream-of-becoming-an-ips-officer-to-a-mayor-933024.html
29-12-2020||South||Telangana: Rao announces salary hike for all state govt employees||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday decided to increase the salaries of all government employees, raise their age of superannuation and to makerecruitments in all government departments as a new year gift to them. The salary hike would benefit government employees and different types of employees, including Grant-in Aid employees, daily wage employees, Home Guards, Anganwadi workers, contract employees, outsourcing staff, ASHAs, those receiving honorariums and pensioners, he said. All categories of employees put together would be 9,36,976 and the salary hike would be extended to all these employees, he said, according to an official release. Rao also announced that besides the salary hike, increasing the age of retirement, effecting promotions and transfers, formulation of simplified service rules, providing all benefits on the day of retirement to the employees and all other employee-related matters would be resolved by the end of February. Rao said recruitment would be taken up from February after identifying all the vacant posts in the government. He appointed a three-member committee, headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, to study all the issues concerned and to hold discussions with the employees' unions, the release said. The committee would study the PRC (pay revision commission) report in the first week of January and hold a meeting with the employees' unions in the second week, it said. The committee will advise the government on salary revision to be made, increasing retirement age, preparing service rules and other issues, it said. Later, the state cabinet would meet and take final decisions on the issues concerned, it added. The employees' unions hailed the decision of Rao to hike salaries and to increase retirement age. The leaders of some unions met the Chief Minister and thanked him. Meanwhile, state BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged that Rao is trying to "cheat" the employees with announcements. How can the Chief Secretary-led committee complete the work in two months whereas the PRC could not do so in two months, he claimed in a statement. The attempt is to please the employees in view of MLC elections in February, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-rao-announces-salary-hike-for-all-state-govt-employees-933033.html
29-12-2020||State||New coronavirus strain: BBMP seals apartment after residents resist shifting to quarantine centres||A multi-storey apartment complex in South Bengaluru's Kumaraswamy Layout became a contentious place on Tuesday after BBMP officials tried to send 37 residents to institutional quarantine or hotels. It had to backtrack after residents opposed the move.  A woman and her six-year-old daughter, who returned from the UK and tested positive for the new strain of the novel coronavirus, live in the apartment.  As per BBMP records, officials took the nasopharyngeal swabs of 35 apartment residents — the neighbours of this Covid-positive family, who qualify as secondary contacts — for RT-PCR testing on December 23 and December 24. All tested negative.  One of the neighbours, 30-year-old Jayanth Kumar, a fashion designer and stylist, was surprised to see an ambulance parked in front of his apartment on Tuesday morning. "The family that tested positive lives on the fourth floor and I have never personally interacted with them. We learnt about them only when it came in the news. We had all tested negative and were surprised that the BBMP has come to take us to institutional quarantine."  "We don’t know what we’ll be exposed to at these hotels or quarantine facilities so we unanimously requested them to allow us to stay back at our respective homes. On Tuesday, our blood sugar and oxygen saturation levels were tested. A BBMP volunteer has been stationed here to get groceries. A camp has been set up at the entrance with policemen too,” Jayanth added.  Residents said they had not been told how long they would be in-home quarantine. Barricades have been placed near the entrance on the road leading to the apartment. The apartment residents will be considered secondary contacts of the mother-daughter duo as they’ve all used common areas like lifts and staircases.  Dr Vijayendra B K, Chief Health Officer, Public Health, BBMP, said: "We’ve been asked by the government to shift primary contacts of Covid-positive UK returnees to institutional quarantine, that is, hotels. Till last night, there were 45 primary contacts of 16 Covid patients from the UK in the city. Previously, they were in home quarantine.”  Dr G K Suresh, Deputy Health Officer, BBMP, Bommanahalli, who was at the apartment, said: "Since the apartment dwellers did not agree to be shifted, we have sealed the apartment. As many as 37 people are residing in 12 houses here.”  M Ramakrishna, Joint Commissioner, Bommanahalli, confirmed to DH that they were not shifting families out. “We are just keeping all primary and secondary contacts in their respective homes."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-coronavirus-strain-bbmp-seals-apartment-after-residents-resist-shifting-to-quarantine-centres-932816.html
29-12-2020||State||Ambulance breakdown causes death of woman, allege villagers||Villagers of Yachenahalli, under Bannur hobli of T Narsipur taluk, alleged that an ailing woman died as the ambulance, that arrived to fetch her to a hospital, broke down on Tuesday morning. As Boramma (55) was suffering from low BP, her family members called an ambulance on the 108 helpline. The ambulance arrived, but Boramma could not be shifted to a hospital, due to the breakdown. Thus, her family members arranged a private vehicle and shifted Boramma to a hospital in Mandya city. The villagers alleged that Boramma died due to the delay caused by the breakdown of the ambulance. They said, the negligence of both, the Health Department and the Ambulance driver, caused the death of the woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ambulance-breakdown-causes-death-of-woman-allege-villagers-932827.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt scrambles to track down 247 'missing' UK returnees||As many as 247 out of the 2,406 passengers, who flew into Karnataka from the United Kingdom before flights were suspended, have gone silent and are listed as “not traceable”. The situation arises as the government scrambles to contain a potential outbreak of the new UK-origin version of the coronavirus, dubbed B.1.1.1.7. Health Commissioner Pankaj Pandey confirmed that the original number of non-traceable people was 732. “Currently, 240 of them are in Bengaluru. The remaining seven are from other districts,” he said. While the government has assembled a profile of all 2,406 fliers, the missing individuals have rejected moves from the government to get in touch with them. “It has become frustrating,” said Dr P R S Chetan, Officer Commanding Headquarters, Civil Defence, whose people have been trying to trace 30 fliers in Bommanahalli Zone. A total of 207 non-traceable fliers fall within the BBMP’s jurisdiction. “These fliers are generally well educated and sophisticated. We expected them to partner with the government. Instead, many are absconding,” Dr Chetan said. The issue has prompted the Department of Health and Family Welfare to seek police help. On Monday, Minister of Health Dr K Sudhakar suggested that swift action be taken against those continuing to hold out in the face of government efforts to reach them via phone numbers, email and social media. “I request the UK returnees to cooperate with us as responsible citizens. You have to get tested. If you do not get tested and switch off your phone, it is a crime in the true sense,” Sudhakar said. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said that a Special Task Force has been set up to trace the uncooperative fliers. “We received the mandate to do so today. The DCP Central has been appointed as nodal officer for the tracing operation,” Pant said. Meantime, Pandey said that law enforcement authorities are also considering other measures such as cell tower triangulation. The most common excuse among untraceable who have been found is that they received no notification on their UK-origin phone numbers, according to Dr Chetan. However, official data for 2,158 passengers shows that all but 91 had an Indian phone number. Containment failure fears There are fears that a small number will evade the police dragnet. “We have information that some passengers have gone out of the state,” said a senior source in the BBMP. This could affect containment. “These people are generating primary contacts wherever they are. In Bengaluru, we have tested 43 primary contacts of passengers. Two tested positive, including a person in Dasarahalli and a person in West Zone,” the official said. The Palike said that 15 primary contacts are from Mahadevapura, 11 from Bommanahalli, nine from West Zone, three each from Dasarahalli and East Zones and two from SouthZone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-scrambles-to-track-down-247-missing-uk-returnees-932665.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IISc researchers turn stubble into ethanol||At a time when pollution from stubble burning has become a concern, researchers from IISc have devised a way to extract ethanol from it which is a valuable fuel.  Professor T V Ramachandra and his doctoral student Deepthi Hebbale presented the result of their experiments at Lake 2020, the 12th biennial symposium of the Energy Wetlands Research Group of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). Deepthi said 100 kg of paddy straw can produce 36 litres of ethanol while wheat stalk of the same quantity can produce 53 litres. “There is wide scope for biofuels as only a fraction of crop residue, especially stalk and straw is utilised as fodder. Tonnes of such biomass is burnt leading to pollution and waste of valuable resources,” she said. India produced 103 million tonnes of wheat and 116 million tonnes of rice in 2019. One kg of rice leaves a residue of 1.5 kg straw and 0.2 kg husk. For a kg of wheat, it is 1.5 kg stalk and 0.3 kg of husk.  “We came up with a pre-treatment process that helps hydrolysis and fermentation. Making ethanol is essentially breaking down the poly sugar content in crop residue into simple sugar and then converting it into ethanol through fermentation,” Ramachandra said. They used marine cellulolytic bacteria for hydrolysis and fermentation was done with isolated yeast strain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/iisc-researchers-turn-stubble-into-ethanol-932667.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government gears up to reopen schools on January 1||Schools for classes 10 and 12 in the state will reopen on January 1 as per schedule, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar confirmed again on Monday. He has written to district in-charge ministers, requesting them to monitor the preparations and ensure that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are followed. "It is necessary to reopen schools and engage children in continuous learning. We need your support throughout the year. Reopening of schools is not an activity restricted to a day or month, it's a year-long process," the minister said in his letter. He also assured parents that schools will be "safety centres". "They can send their kids without any worries," he said. The minister has requested district in-charge ministers to communicate with district administrators and chief executive officers of Zilla panchayats to ensure that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are followed. Some government schools are even sending messages to parents, requesting them to send their wards from January 1. Some school management have asked the parents to send consent letters too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-gears-up-to-reopen-schools-on-january-1-932668.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Venkaiah Naidu to launch new facilities at Indian Institute of Astrophysics||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu will visit the Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA) campus in Hoskote on Tuesday to inaugurate two units which are set to play a critical role in larger multinational astronomy projects. Dr Annapurni Subarnamanian, the director, IIA, described the VP’s visit as being an academic engagement that will see Naidu inaugurate a large segment polishing facility for the Thirty Metre Telescope (TMT), a proposed extremely large telescope due to take shape on Mauna Kea on the island of Hawaii. The second unit is the Environment Test Facility (ETF), which has been set up at the M G K Menon Laboratory for Space Sciences, a state of the cleanroom. The ETF will help with the integration and calibration of space payloads.  “The UltraViolet Imaging Telescope (UVIT) onboard India’s multiwavelength space mission was tested, calibrated, and integrated at this facility,” IIA said, adding that the Visible Emission line Coronagraph is also being built in the lab, which will be deployed in Aditya-L1 soon. Dr Annapurni said that the institute now plans to set up a new state-of-the-art National Large Solar Telescope in the Himalayas. “With this facility and the Aditya-L1 space telescope, India will be in the forefront in understanding the Sun and the space weather,” she said. The IIA’s Center for Research and Education in Science and Technology (CREST) at Hoskote, 35 km northeast of Bengaluru, also houses the control room for the Two Metre Himalayan Chandra Telescope (HCT) at the Indian Astronomical Observatory (IAO), Hanle, Ladakh. Naidu will also witness the remote operation of the Two Metre Chandra Telescope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/venkaiah-naidu-to-launch-new-facilities-at-indian-institute-of-astrophysics-932670.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Autonomy for colleges: Doreswamy suggests criteria||The adviser to the state government (education) Prof M R Doreswamy has recommended criteria for granting autonomy for colleges in the state. In a press release, Prof Doreswamy said that the autonomous status of the college should reflect its capacity for self-governance in terms of admissions, designing innovative curricula, financial stability and management, and competence to navigate the institute towards excellence in education.  He said that institutions accredited by NAAC as Grade A+ successively for two times should be granted autonomy forthwith. He urged the minister ministers and departments concerned to implement this recommendation as a policy to take the quality of governance in education to the next level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/autonomy-for-colleges-doreswamy-suggests-criteria-932672.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislative Council deputy chairperson Dharme Gowda found dead||Sixty-four-year-old Karnataka Legislative Council deputy chairperson S L Dharme Gowda was found dead near a railway track at Gunasagara in Kadur taluk in the wee hours of Tuesday. It is suspected that he died by suicide. He had reportedly left his farmhouse at Sakharayapattana after 10 pm on Monday. After he failed to return home, family members began searching for him and found him dead on a railway track between Gunasagara and Kabli. According to sources close to Dharme Gowda, he had asked the driver of the car to park the vehicle near the railway track at Gunasagara and had reportedly told the driver on the pretext of meeting someone. All necessary arrangements have been made at District McGann hospital in the Shivamogga for autopsy. Police security has been beefed up around the hospital. MLC R Prasanna Kumar, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraju, district in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa and other elected representatives are present at the hospital. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed shock over the incident, terming it "unfortunate". He lauded the MLC for efficiently conducting the legislative council as its deputy chairman. JD(S) patriarch and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, in a tweet, expressed shock over Dharme Gowda's death and remembered him as a gentleman politician. His death is a loss to the state, Deve Gowda added. JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said Dharme Gowda was like a brother to him. "His death has caused a shock to me. He was an upright politician," Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. S L Dharme Gowda was born on December 15, 1955, at Sarapanahalli to S R Lakshmayya and Krishnamma. He completed his primary and secondary education at Sakharayapattana and later completed his graduation at Chikkamagaluru. He was close to the family of JD (S) Supremo H D Deve Gowda. He started his political career as the member of Bilekallahalli Mandala Panchayat. Dharme Gowda was elected as MLA from Birur Assembly constituency in 2004 and served in the cooperative sector for several years. He had in the past served as the President of Janata Bazar, President of Chikkamagaluru DCC Bank and director of Milk union. Dharme Gowda is survived by his wife Mamatha, son Sonal and daughter Saloni. His brother S L Bhoje Gowda is also an MLC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislative-council-deputy-chairperson-dharme-gowda-found-dead-932728.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to set up more medical colleges under PPP model: K Sudhakar||Karnataka needs more medical colleges to meet the demand for doctors and the government was willing to establish them under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP), said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Tuesday.  He was speaking to the media after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa inaugurated the new building of the Atal Behari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre at Shivajinagar here. "Establishing a medical college requires Rs 600 crore to Rs 700 crore. If it is built under the PPP model, it reduces the burden on the state exchequer and helps to provide affordable medical education and treatment to the needy. This model is being adopted in Gujarat and the same will be implemented here also," said Sudhakar. As per WHO guidelines, there should be one doctor for every 1,000 population. "But in our country, there is a doctor for every 10,000-12,000 population. Therefore, there is a necessity to increase the number of medical colleges in order to produce more doctors. The central government has the vision to set up 22 AIIMS in the country, one in each state," said the minister. "We are committed to bringing AIIMS to our state too. The process of obtaining permission is in progress and soon, there will be an AIIMS functional here. There will be a new health and medical education policy in the state soon," he added. The Atal Behari Institute of Medical Sciences can take in 150 students for MBBS, the minister said.  "We are increasing the bed capacity of district hospitals, providing better infrastructure and constructing hostel facilities in districts where there are no medical colleges," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-set-up-more-medical-colleges-under-ppp-model-k-sudhakar-932893.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka tops investment proposals amid coronavirus: State Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar||Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday said the state ranked first in the country in terms of attracting investment proposals despite coronavirus pandemic related hardship. He said, according to the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIT) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, as many as 95 investment proposals have been registered in the state amounting to Rs 1,54,937 crore. "This has made our state the first in the country in terms of investment proposals," Shettar was quoted as saying by his office in a release. He was speaking after inaugurating a webinar on "Procurement of cheaper electricity for industries through open access in Karnataka" organised by ASSOCHAM. The Minister said that between August 2019 and December 2020, the State High-Level Committee and the State High-Level Single Window Clearance Committee have approved 410 new projects. These proposals would bring in an investment of Rs 82,015 crore in the state, which would create 2,27,147 jobs, he said. Stating that efforts were being made to make the state an industrial friendly state in the country, Shettar said, Karnataka is self-reliant in power supply and the demand for electricity is increasing for sectors like EVs and data centres. There are ample opportunities for improvement in the state's energy sector, he said, adding that we are studying the usage of electricity in the industrial sector. The Minister said that the state was working with electricity supply companies (Escoms) and have identified things like cross subsidy surcharge and wheeling charges. "At present, we rely on grids for uninterrupted power supply and this is not possible due to technical problems," he said adding the problem could be overcome by building a new battery storage facility near the grids||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tops-investment-proposals-amid-coronavirus-state-industries-minister-jagadish-shettar-932925.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 662 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Karnataka has reported 662 new cases of Covid-19 and four related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,17,571 and the death toll to 12,074, the Health department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 1,344 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 662 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 370 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of December 29 evening, cumulatively 9,17,571 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,074 deaths and 8,93,617 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 11,861 active cases, 11,655 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 206 are in ICU. Out of the four deaths reported on Tuesday, two each were from Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 370, followed by Tumakuru (38), Dakshina Kannada (35), Kolar (31), Hassan (25), Mysuru (23), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,87,278, followed by Mysuru (52,312) and Ballari (38,835). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,75,221, followed by Mysuru (50,812) and Ballari (38,031). A total of over 1,38,58,850 samples have been tested so far, out of which 86,399 were tested on Tuesday alone, and 10,155 among them were rapid antigen tests. Till date, tests have been conducted on 1,903 UK passengers who have come to the state, of them 29 are positive, 1,599 are negative and results of 275 are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-662-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-932983.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Gram Panchayat polls: Counting of votes underway||Counting of votes for the recently-concluded gram panchayat elections In Karnataka is underway. The gram panchayat polls are important as they are deemed to reflect the mood of citizens in rural Karnataka.  The gram panchayat elections were held in two phases - December 22 and December 27 - that recorded a voter turnout of over 80%. The elections saw 2.22 lakh candidates vying for some 82,000 seats.  According to the State Election Commission, the model code of conduct will remain in effect till 5 pm on December 31 in the gram panchayat limits that went to polls.  Although these elections were not fought on party symbols, a bulk of the candidates are backed by either one of the three parties - BJP, Congress and the JD(S).  As many as 8,074 candidates were elected unopposed amid reports that some seats were auctioned.  Dakshina Kannada The counting of votes cast in gram panchayat (GP) election commenced in seven taluks in Dakshina Kannada. Elections were held for 220 gram panchayats for 3,181 seats. As many as 7,275 candidates are in the fray already 91 candidates have been elected unopposed. Counting is being held for 624 seats in 37 GPs of Mangaluru, 186 seats in 12 GPs of Moodbidri, 822 seats of 57 GPs of Bantwal, 631 seats in 46 GPs in Belthangady, 343 seats in 22 GPs in Puttur, 282 seats in 25 GPs in Sullia, and 285 seats in 21 GPs in Kadaba. Belagavi Counting of votes for Gram Panchayat elections in 14 taluks in the district commenced in respective taluk headquarters on Wednesday. The fate of 20,728 candidates contesting in the election from 477 Gram Panchayats will be decided. Counting of votes will be conducted for one Gram Panchayat at a time. As the counting agents move out after the completion of one Panchayat, counting for another local body will commence. Kalyana Karnataka Counting of votes polled in the Gram Panchayat polls began in Kalyana Karnataka on Wednesday. A total of 10,190 candidates are in the fray for 3,790 seats of 242 Gram Panchayats in the Kalaburagi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-counting-of-votes-underway-932998.html
29-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12 Karnataka districts report lowest deaths in last 4 weeks||The number of Covid-19 deaths has seen a dramatic decline in recent days, to the point that several districts have either reported zero to a few fatalities in the last 30 days. According to the data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, three districts - Yadagir, Shivamogga, and Gadag - have reported no Covid-19 deaths at all in the last four weeks, while an additional 10 districts, such as Bagalkot, Belagavi, Chikkamagalur, Davangere, Haveri, Koppal, Mandya, Raichur, Ramanagar and Udupi have reported just one or two deaths. Shivamogga’s turnaround comes in spite of it being one of the districts at the focal point of Karnataka’s Covid-19 outbreak. The district had 21,489 cases on November 27. By December 27, this had risen by 2.2% or 492 cases. According to Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, district health officer, Shivamogga’s first Covid-19 case was discovered on May 9. “By June, we had 125 cases and the numbers began to multiply. The deaths began to rack up. Between July and September when we were seeing slightly under a dozen deaths per day,” he said. Dr Suragihalli attributed the sharp decline in cases and deaths in recent days as a product of winning public confidence.  “By scaling up of medical infrastructure, especially in the number of oxygen beds, plus liberal use of Remdesivir to treat patients (about 33% of patients were treated with Remdesivir), we were able to build public confidence to the point that hesitancy among people to report symptoms was reduced. Consequently, deaths due to late diagnosis were cut down,” he added. While several officials confirmed that Remedesvir had been vital to saving lives, Dr Ravindra Mehta, a veteran pulmonologist at Apollo Hospitals and a member of the State Covid Technical Committee, added that the reduction of ICU cases had been the key factor. “With approximately 5% of all Covid-19 patients requiring ICU support, the decline in new Covid-19 cases means reduced demand for ICU. This has benefitted medical resource management,” he said. According to the official data, districts, where case numbers have not seen a precipitous decline, continue to report sizable deaths. Bengaluru Urban is at that end of the spectrum. The city (Bengaluru) accounts for 50% of all new daily cases. Its cases, over a 30-day period, have seen a 5% increase, with 185 deaths reported during that period. But intriguingly, in Mandya district, where the case increase is also high (4.9%), the death increase has been minimal. Just one death was recorded in the last 30 days. Even Mysuru district, the second worst-hit district in Karnataka, added just 15 deaths in the last one month.  “Mask-wearing has helped. We have seen a decline in respiratory diseases, in general, this year in the district when compared to 2019,” said Dr Chidambaram, the acting district health officer in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-karnataka-districts-report-lowest-deaths-in-last-4-weeks-933010.html
29-12-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Activists guard Kannada flag during sit-in before BCC||Kannada activists after hoisting a Kannada flag in front of the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) continued to guard it by staging a sit-in overnight till Tuesday morning. They bore chilling temperature overnight fearing that the Kannada flag could be removed by the District Administration and City Police in the wee hours as their efforts to convince them (Kannada activists) had not yielded results on Monday evening. Kannada activist Srinivas Talukar who led the installing of the Kannada flag said, "We are sitting guard and do not want the administration to remove it," adding, "Kannada flag is symbol of our pride and we want it to remain in the place wherein it has been installed."(sic) Police too maintained vigil overnight and continued during the day to avoid any untoward incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/activists-guard-kannada-flag-during-sit-in-before-bcc-932734.html
29-12-2020||West||Sanjay Raut's wife to appear before ED today||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's wife will appear Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Tuesday. The ED has summoned Varsha Raut for questioning in the PMC Bank money laundering case. Raut on Monday alleged Central agencies were being used to "destabilise" the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra and claimed BJP leaders had been in touch with him for over a year to effect this plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-rauts-wife-to-appear-before-ed-today-932739.html
29-12-2020||West||Sanjay Raut's wife seeks time till Jan 5 to appear before ED||Even as Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha skipped the summons of the Enforcement Directorate seeking more time, the Shiv Sena leader continued to attack the BJP for targeting political opponents. “We have sought time of four more days,” Raut, a Rajya Sabha member and executive editor of Saamana, told reporters in Mumbai. This is the third time that she has skipped the summons. Asked about the notice, he said: “I have not seen the notice…it is not with me.” While BJP leaders had claimed that the notice was in respect of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank (PNB) scam and transactions with Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), Raut has stated it was for a Rs 50 lakh loan that his wife had taken from a friend 12 years ago for construction of a house. “We respect the central agencies,” he said, however, adding that the ED notice was an action emerging out of political vendetta. “I am a lawmaker…I am a Rajya Sabha member. I will respect the law despite some people holding it hostage and managing to evade action,” said Raut. “We are not worried, we will respond accordingly,” he said. The ED has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, who was arrested recently. Guruashish is a subsidiary of HDIL, whose other directors Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan have already been arrested in connection with the scam. Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said: “This is the third summons of ED. Sanjay Raut’s family is not appearing before the ED. Why are they running away? The ED is investigating transactions of crores of rupees between PMC Bank, HDIL, Pravin Raut family and Sanjay Raut family. What are the special relations of the two Raut families.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-rauts-wife-seeks-time-till-jan-5-to-appear-before-ed-932761.html
29-12-2020||West||Covid-19: Dummy vaccination conducted in Gujarat's dry run programme||Identified 'beneficiaries' are undergoing dummy vaccination at various centres in Gandhinagar and Rajkot districts of Gujarat on the second day of the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Tuesday, officials said. The two-day end-to-end dry run was being carried out to test the laid out mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccination and to provide insights into any gaps to be addressed before the commencement of the actual vaccination drive. Gujarat is one of the four states chosen by the Central government to conduct the mock Covid-19 vaccination drive. Health workers are among the first 'beneficiaries' identified for the mock vaccination drive being conducted at four health centres in Gandhinagar city. Explaining the procedure, an official said a dummy vaccination was dispatched from an Urban Health Centre (UHC) to these four booths. "At each booth, three rooms, each identified for the purposes of waiting, vaccinating and observing, are readied for the beneficiaries who are given dummy vaccination," an official said. The Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) has identified 125 'beneficiaries' in the city. The COVID-19 vaccination dry run consists of several steps like the time taken for dispatch of a vaccine from a centre to a booth; scrutiny of beneficiary details in Co-Win software developed by the Union Health Ministry; training vaccinators; creating facilities for vaccine store among others, officials said. "We received a list of beneficiaries from Co-Win software. Trained vaccinators have been deputed in three rooms created for different purposes at these booths (identified for the mock drill)," said Dr MH Solanki, Chief District Health Officer, Gandhinagar. A beneficiary said that the process was easy to understand and everything went smoothly. "As per the SMS sent to me, I arrived here at 9 am. I first went to the waiting room, where my details were verified. After vaccination, I was given a slip mentioning details, such as my name, time at which I was administered vaccine, contact details in case I need emergency help," a woman health worker told reporters. She said a vaccinator explained to her various aspects like the timing of the second dose of vaccine and the Covid-19 protocol she is expected to follow strictly. I was then directed to a waiting room where I remained under observation for nearly half an hour, the health worker said. Earlier in the day, the dummy vaccine was dispatched from the UHC located in sector-2 in Gandhinagar to four vaccination centres located at PHC, CHC, civil hospital and a private hospital. World Health Organisation (WHO) representative Dr Aniket Rana said the dry run was vital and it was being conducted as per the training protocol related to actual vaccination. "As you know, preparation for vaccines (through the dry run) is important. As part of the training protocol, we offered training for preparedness on aspects like how the software developed for the purpose will work, and other operational aspects to see what all hurdles come in the way and how to resolve them, so as to ensure smooth run when the actual vaccine arrives," he told reporters. He said public participation remained the biggest challenge. "Even if we are fully prepared, but if people's participation is not proper, the exercise will fail. We need to build confidence among people so that they can approach us for vaccination with confidence. Operationally, we are prepared...The dry run is aimed to build confidence among the public," Dr Rana said. The Gujarat government has identified 19 sites to conduct the dry run. The Central government will be informed if any gaps are detected during the programme. In Gandhinagar, a total of 1500 vaccinations have been trained for the purpose. The state government has already identified 4.31 lakh health workers, 6.93 lakh frontline workers, 1.03 crore citizens above the age of 50 and 2.67 lakh citizens under the age of 50 but with severe comorbidities, such as Thalassemia and heart problems, for the first phase of the actual Covid-19 vaccination. Gujarat has 2,195 cold chain points at present that can store upto 1 crore doses of coronavirus vaccine, the government had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-dummy-vaccination-conducted-in-gujarats-dry-run-programme-932812.html
29-12-2020||West||Madhya Pradesh cabinet gives nod to ordinance on 'Love Jihad' bill||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave nod to an ordinance on the bill against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators. The ordinance on the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, has been sent to state Governor Anandiben Patel for approval, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters. "Several ordinances including Freedom of Religion Ordinance were approved in the virtual cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday," he said. He said these bills could not be presented in the state Legislative Assembly as the session was deferred due to the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-gives-nod-to-ordinance-on-love-jihad-bill-932815.html
29-12-2020||West||Gujarat BJP MP Mansukh Vasava quits party||Gujarat BJP MP and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava, who has been vocal on tribal issues, on Tuesday quit the party and said he would resign from Lok Sabha in the budget session of Parliament. Vasava had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week seeking withdrawal of a Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notification declaring 121 villages of Narmada district as eco-sensitive zone. A six-term MP from Bharuch, Vasava in his letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil said, "I am resigning so that the image of the party is not damaged because of my mistakes. I have been a loyal worker of the party, so please forgive me." In the letter to Paatil dated December 28, Vasava said he will resign as Bharuch MP after meeting the Lok Sabha Speaker during the budget session of Parliament. Vasava said he tried his best to be loyal to the party and assimilate the party's values in his life, adding he is human and prone to mistakes. "I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I resign from the party, whose forgiveness I seek," the tribal leader said in the letter to Paatil. BJP state spokesperson Bharat Pandya said the party has received the resignation letter through social media. "Paatil has spoken to him and assured him that any issue he has will be resolved. Vasava is a senior MP from Gujarat and we will resolve all his issues," Pandya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-mp-mansukh-vasava-quits-party-932820.html
29-12-2020||West||At 15 degree Celsius, Mumbai records coldest day of season||Mumbaikars woke up to chilly morning on Tuesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 15 degree Celsius in the city, the lowest in the season, an IMD official said. The trend of cool breeze and chill will continue for the next 48 hours, he said. Santacruz observatory in Mumbai recorded the temperature of 15 degree Celsius this morning, which is the lowest in this season so far, said K S Hosalikar who heads regional meteorological centre, Mumbai. Meanwhile, the minimum temperatures have dropped in various parts of Maharashtra. "The fall in temperatures is mostly due to the cold northerly to north westerly winds from the norther plains in association with the passage of western disturbance," Hosalikar said, adding that the fall in temperature would continue for the next couple of days. Elsewhere in the state, Nashik recorded the minimum temperature of 11.8 degree Celsius, Pune 13 degree Celsius, and Thane recorded 17 degrees. Aurangabad recorded the minimum temperature of 12.4 degree Celsius, Nanded 12.5 degree Celsius, Nagpur 14.2 degree Celsius, and Amravati 14.8 degree Celsius, Hosalikar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-15-degree-celsius-mumbai-records-coldest-day-of-season-932842.html
29-12-2020||West||Mumbai airport introduces express Covid-19 testing facility, gives results in 13 mins||The city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Tuesday said it has introduced a new 24X7 COVID-19 testing facility, which gives test results in flat 13 minutes at a cost of Rs 4,500. Since its launch on December 15, CSMIA has witnessed an average of 30-35 such tests per day, CSMIA said in a release. A total of 400 express tests have been carried out at the airport till December 28, which include passengers who had connecting flights to destinations outside Maharashtra, it said. In compliance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards, CSMIA is the first airport to adopt the express test method by Abbott 'ID Now, which is aimed at providing arriving passengers with quick and accurate diagnosis, CSMIA said in the release. The round-the-clock testing facility option is available for all international arriving passengers at the airport at a cost of Rs 4,500, CSMIA said. The rapid molecular testing technology by Abbott is a tool to help fight the pandemic by allowing fast, highly sensitive and accurate diagnosis, the private airport operator said. The test reduces the wait time for reports and provides early detection of the virus in time for passengers to take necessary measures to prevent disease transmission, thereby, creating a safer environment for travellers and airport staff, it said. Passengers can also opt for a regular RT-PCR test which takes around 6-8 hours for the result, CSMIA added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-introduces-express-covid-19-testing-facility-gives-results-in-13-mins-932892.html
29-12-2020||West||No approval given for ganja cultivation in Goa: Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said a proposal has been moved before the state government to allow cultivation of marijuana, but no approval has been granted in the matter. His statement came a day after Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai claimed there was a proposal to cultivate marijuana (ganja or grass) in the state for medicinal purposes. Talking to reporters here,Sawant said a file on marijuana cultivation in the state has been moved before the government, but it has not been approved. "There is a proposal, but that does not mean we have given approval. It is for the government to take a decision. "That way, there are many things which are proposed to the government, but are never approved, he said. Sardesai, a former Goa Deputy Chief Minister, on Monday asked how the government will ensure that cultivation of marijuana will be limited to medical purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-approval-given-for-ganja-cultivation-in-goa-pramod-sawant-932899.html
29-12-2020||West||Goa mulls legal plantation of marijuana for ‘medicinal reasons’||Infamous as one of the country’s top narco-tourism destinations, Goa is now considering legal farming of marijuana, strictly for medicinal reasons. Even as Goa’s Law Minister Nilesh Cabral has confirmed that his ministry has processed the file and that the proposal to allow controlled farming of marijuana could be placed before the cabinet for a decision, the Opposition has slammed the move, calling it irresponsible and dangerous for the youth in the state. Cabral has said that the move was aimed at facilitating marijuana in limited quantities to the pharmaceutical companies located in Goa. The proposal, he said, was sent to the Law ministry by the Health Ministry which is anchoring the proposal.  Health Minister Vishwajit Rane was unavailable for comment. The Opposition has slammed the move, saying it bodes ill for the youth of the state. “This is a decision which can harm the youth of Goa. How can the government even consider a proposal like this, which is potentially harmful to the coming generations,” Goa Forward party president and former deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai said. Interestingly, multiple Goa Police agencies, including the anti-narcotics cell and the Crime Branch have raided nearly a dozen illegal plantations in the coastal state growing marijuana. Several foreigners, especially from Russia have also been arrested for growing marijuana in controlled climate within villas and large apartments. Currently, illegally growing marijuana attracts stringent penalties under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substance act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-mulls-legal-plantation-of-marijuana-for-medicinal-reasons-932939.html
29-12-2020||West||Mumbai police drops charges against Mehak Mirza Prabhu in 'Free Kashmir' poster case||The Mumbai police on Tuesday dropped charges against Mehak Mirza Prabhu for allegedly showing the 'Free Kashmir' poster during an anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest at the Gateway of India in January 2020. The Mumbai police has filed a ‘C Summary’ report in the case. A ‘C-Summary’ report is filed before a Magistrate’s court when the case is neither true nor false, or, when the criminal case was filed due to a mistake of facts or the offence complained about is of a civil nature. During the protests in Mumbai that coincided with protests in Delhi, Mehak, a professional storyteller, raised a ‘Free Kashmir’ banner, leading to a furore on social media. The Mumbai Police had filed an FIR against her under Section 153 B of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with “….imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration”. Mehak's statement was also recorded at the Colaba police station. Soon after the development, the BJP launched a massive attack on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Mehak Mirza Prabhu defies the unity and integrity of our country and Thackeray sarkar files closure report against her.  An act of treason is no offence, says Thackarey sarkar,” BJP leader and lawyer Vivekanand Gupta said. BJP leader Ram Kadam said that the police was forced to register the case after BJP protested. “The Maharashtra government that comprises three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) will never be forgiven by the people of the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-drops-charges-against-mehak-mirza-prabhu-in-free-kashmir-poster-case-932944.html
29-12-2020||West||Gujarat government announces new solar power policy||The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced a new solar power policy comprising provisions to encourage small and medium scale solar projects on residential, commercial and industrial premises. Under the new policy, the state government has scrapped the condition that the installed capacity of a solar project needs to be 50 per cent of the sanction load or contract demand. Now, an individual or industry can produce solar power in their premises as per their requirements and without any limit on the capacity, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said, while unveiling the "Gujarat Solar Power Policy 2021". The policy will remain in effect for five years and solar projects, which come up during this period will be eligible for various benefits for a period of 25 years, a government release about the policy stated. "Under this policy, people can even give their terraces or premises to other developers on lease and earn an income on it. With no limit on the installed capacity, industries can produce more solar power and bring down their overall production cost," Rupani said. This policy will make Made in Gujarat products more competitive globally, he said. To encourage people to opt for solar panels, the state government has also announced that additional electricity from roof-top residential projects and captive MSME units will be purchased at Rs 2.25 per unit for a period of five years, it was stated. Moreover, a group of industries can also come together to set up a captive solar project at one place and distribute power as per their share in the investment, state energy minister Saurabh Patel said. At present, solar project developers need to pay a security deposit of Rs 25 lakh for each megawatt of installed capacity to distribution companies under the Power Purchase Agreement, he said. Under the new policy, the deposit amount has been slashed to just Rs 5 lakhs for a megawatt, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-announces-new-solar-power-policy-932989.html
29-12-2020||West||Schools, colleges in Mumbai not to reopen till January 15||Citing the fear of a second wave of coronavirus, the Mumbai civic body on Tuesday said schools and colleges in the city will not reopen till January 15, 2021. Earlier, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had decided to keep schools and colleges closed till December 31. In a fresh circular issued on Tuesday, the BMC said it decided to keep all --government and private -- schools and colleges closed till January 15 due to the second wave of COVID-19 in other countries and the situation in some states in the country. The pandemic is under control in the Mumbai municipal limits though, it noted. The BMC also allowed the American Consulate School and other consulate schools in the city to reopen from January 18, but did not specify when exactly other educational institutes can reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-colleges-in-mumbai-not-to-reopen-till-january-15-932994.html
29-12-2020||West||Ahead of 2022 BMC polls, Congress launches mass outreach drive||Ahead of the 2022 BMC polls, the Congress on Tuesday announced a 100-day-long mass contact programme during which party representatives will interact with citizens in all the 227 wards of the Shiv Sena-ruled civic body. AICC in-charge of Maharashtra H K Patil said the drive is aimed at strengthening the Congress in Mumbai and address the grievances of local residents. The Congress, which is part of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in the state, is in opposition in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), being ruled by the Uddhav Thackeray-led saffron outfit for almost three decades. In the 2017 polls, the Shiv Sena had won 84 seats and inducted six MNS corporators later. The BJP, which fought the polls alone, had won 82 seats in a house of 227. The next elections of the country's richest civic body are due in early 2022. Patil, speaking at a function here, said, The drive will be a 100-day-long campaign in the city where the Congress will hold interactions in all the 227 wards of the BMC to know the grievances of citizens. "We want to strengthen the Congress in entire Mumbai and this drive is part of it." Newly appointed Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap said, "There were times when the Congress used to win around 70 seats in BMC polls. We want to make the party stronger to win more than that. "The drive will help in reconnecting with Congress sympathisers. It will also help us to convince senior leaders to go solo in BMC polls." The Congress currently has less than 30 seats in the BMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-2022-bmc-polls-congress-launches-mass-outreach-drive-932995.html
29-12-2020||West||At 6, Mumbai logs lowest Covid-19 death count since May||Mumbai reported 537 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, the lowest single-day fatalities since May, while 486 more patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, the city civic body said. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)'s updated data, the tally of Covid-19 cases increased to 2,92,008, while the death toll rose to 11,094. The financial capital has reported less than 600 cases for the fifth day in a row. Mumbai had reported five Covid-19 fatalities on May 1. Earlier this month, the city had reported seven deaths on a single day. According to the data, the number of recuperated patients increased to 2,71,870, around 93 per cent of the tally, with 486 more people getting discharged from hospitals. Currently, the city has 8,186 active Covid-19 cases. The city has a Covid-19 doubling rate of 365 days, while the growth rate is 0.21 per cent, the civic body said. With 13,860 more Covid-19 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the number of samples examined so far increased to 23,25,363, it said. According to the BMC's data, the city has 290 containment zones and 2,561 sealed buildings at present. The civic body seals a building or declares a containment zone after one or more patients from there test positive for the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-6-mumbai-logs-lowest-covid-19-death-count-since-may-933002.html
29-12-2020||West||Raut's statements about UPA can bring down Maharashtra govt: Athawale||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's comments on the United Progressive Alliance's (UPA) leadership can destabilize the Maharashtra government, Union minister Ramdas Athawale claimed here on Tuesday. Raut's statements have irked the Congress which is part of the ruling Sena-led coalition in the state, Athawale said while speaking to reporters. Raut had said last week that all anti-BJP parties should join the UPA. He had also said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar was capable of leading the UPA, currently headed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. "Raut said that Sharad Pawar should lead the UPA, which has made Congress leaders angry. As a result Congress can withdraw support and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government may collapse," Athawale, an NDA ally, said. "We have no plans to topple this government. But if it falls, NDA will certainly form a government in the state," the RPI(A) leader added. On the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoning Raut's wife in an alleged money laundering case, Athawale said, "The ED is a government organization, but it is independent. The government does not have any motive to harass anybody through the ED." The ongoing farmers' agitation against the new agriculture laws does not have support in the entire country, the Union minister claimed. "There is a provision of amending a law and it can be done after dialogue with farmers. Sharad Pawar has been in government for many years and he should interact with leaders of opposition parties and tell the government about the amendments they want. The government will welcome their inputs," Athawale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rauts-statements-about-upa-can-bring-down-maharashtra-govt-athawale-933022.html
