30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Deep foundation provided to Kannada flag at BCC in Belagavi||Kannada activists after installing the Kannada flag on a flag pole in front of Belagavi City Corporation (BCC), provided a foundation to the flag pole to ensure that it wasn't removed in their absence on Tuesday night. Kannada activists had put their stay surrounding the flag pole overnight on Monday to ensure that it wasn't removed by the District Administration and City Police and had continued to sit surrounding it on Tuesday. As police officials moved away from the BCC for a couple of hours for their other works, Kannada activists used the opportunity and dug the foundation for the flag pole. They laid bed concrete and installed the flag pole and also built around the support structure beside it. Srinivas Talukar who led the installing of the Kannada flag and other activists continued to guard the flag pole for the second consecutive night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deep-foundation-provided-to-kannada-flag-at-bcc-in-belagavi-933063.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Gram Panchayat polls: Counting of votes begins in 14 taluk headquarters in Belagavi||Counting of votes for Gram Panchayat elections in 14 taluks in the district commenced in respective taluk headquarters on Wednesday. The fate of 20,728 candidates contesting in the election from 477 Gram Panchayats will be decided. Counting of votes will be conducted for one Gram Panchayat at a time. As the counting agents move out after the completion of one Panchayat, counting for another local body will commence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-counting-of-votes-begins-in-14-taluk-headquarters-in-belagavi-933133.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Entry to Dakshina Kannada beaches banned for two days||The district administration has banned the entry of visitors to beaches in District Kannada from 12 pm on December 31 to 12 pm on January 2 to avoid large gatherings to check the spread of Covid-19. This comes as an additional precaution after some returnees from the UK tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 virus. Accordingly, entry to Ullal, Someshwara, Mogaveerapattana, Panambur, Thannirbavi, Sasihithlu, Surathkal beaches is prohibited. Only traditional fishermen will be allowed to enter the sea shore, said DC Dr Rajendra K V.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/entry-to-dakshina-kannada-beaches-banned-for-two-days-933139.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fear grips Shivamogga after 4 of a family test positive for new Covid-19 strain||Fear has gripped Savarkarnagar in the city after four of a family, who had returned to Shivamogga from the UK recently, tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus. The family's house has been sanitised and officials of the city corporation and health department are asking residents of the area to follow Covid-19 guidelines such as wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. Speaking to DH, Vinay, a resident of Savarkarnagar, said, a few months ago, the area was sealed down after Covid-19 cases were reported. Now, cases of a new strain of Covid are being reported. So, residents of the area are going through anxious moments. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar has asked people not to panic after the four UK returnees tested positive for the new strain.  As many as 25 persons have returned to Shivamogga from the UK recently. Fve had tested positive for Covid-19 out of whom four were identified with the new strain and are currently undergoing treatment at the McGann Teaching District Hospital in the city. The four were kept in an isolation ward after they returned from the UK and the throat samples were sent to Bengaluru. They did not come in contact with others in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-grips-shivamogga-after-4-of-a-family-test-positive-for-new-covid-19-strain-933273.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada: Cops to verify pro-Pak slogan video||The police is verifying a video wherein slogans, allegedly in favor of Pakistan, can be heard outside the counting center in Ujire in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada. The video, showing activists with SDPI flags on the road allegedly shouting pro-Pakistan slogans, is being circulated widely. The pro-Pakistan slogan was heard after three seconds at the beginning of the video. A case has been registered and investigation will be taken up, said SP BM Laxmi Prasad. The Belthangady police have registered a case against 10 to 15 activists belonging to the SDPI under IPC Sections 143, 124 A and 149 It was said that all the party workers were celebrating outside the counting center when their candidate's name was announced as the winner in the election. When this celebration reached its peak, suddenly pro-Pakistan slogans were heard. When the celebrations by various party workers continued, Circle Inspector Sandesh rushed to the spot and dispersed the gathering. Later, even security was also strengthened. The police has sought videos available with the public that would help them in carrying out the investigation. People with videos on the incident can send them to the district control room at 9480805300.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-cops-to-verify-pro-pak-slogan-video-933382.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||GP polls conclude with a few interesting results||The election process of Gram Panchayats concluded successfully on Wednesday. The counting of votes completed in Mysuru region, comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajangar district. The elections were held in two phases at all the four districts. In Mysuru, the elections were held for 250 GPs and a total of 230 GP went for polls in Mandya district. Similarly, the electionswere held for 245 GP in Hassan district and polls for 77 GPs held in Chamarajanagar district. In Mysuru, there are 4,232 seats, but the elections were held for 4,007 seats as 205 members elected unanimously and no candidates file papers for 20 seats. In Mandya, the elections were held for a total 3,797 seats of 1,481 wards in 230 GPs. Of all, 548 seats were declared unanimously. Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda’s brother G T Yuduvara won GP polls. He had contested from Gungral Chatra in Mysuru taluk. He won the polls with a margin of 678 votes. It was a tough fight between the candidates backed by the JD(S)-Congress parties. BJP supported candidates pushed to third position in majority of the panchayats. While majority of the JD(S) backed candidates elected in K R Pet, Nagamangala, Maddur taluks, the candidates supported by the Congress won the polls in Malavalli and Mandya taluks. In Hassan, except 22 Gram Panchayats, which are yet to complete their term, 245 GPs went for the polls in two phases. A 26-year-old Arun Kumar tried to end his life as his mother Kumara, who contested from Bagivalu GP in Holenarasipur taluk in Hassan district, defeated in the polls. Arun Kumar consumed poison. The result of Kundur GP in Channarayapatna has withheld for temporarily due to certain reasons. A mother-in-law won polls against her sister-in-law in just three votes. Sombamma won the polls against Pavithra from H Byrapur ward of Heragu GP in Hassan taluk. Mamatha, who contested against her mother Nagamma, from Valagerehalli GP in Maddur taluk of Mandya district, defeated her mother. Mamatha won the polls with a margin of 96 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gp-polls-conclude-with-a-few-interesting-results-933398.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||GP polls: Covid-19 norms go for a toss near vote counting centres||Amidst growing fear over a new Covid-19 variant spreading in the United Kingdom and other nations, people seemed not bothered- as they neither wore masks nor maintained social distance, during the counting of votes of the Gram Panchayat elections. The counting was held at all taluk headquarters across the district. Despite warnings from the Health department officials, people had gathered in huge numbers, near the counting centres. The police personnel, deputed on poll duty, said that they had turned into mute spectators, as a large number of people gathered near the centres. “We were not able to manage the crowd and the people did not bother about safety. We were asking them to maintain social distance, but in vain,” said a policeman. Shankar, who was near the counting centre, violating Covid-19 norms, said that he forgot to get his mask, as he was exited about the election results. “My cousin has contested the election and I was busy with him in the arrangements. Thus, I forgot the mask,” he said. A police officer said that the department had taken several measures, to ensure Covid-19 guidelines. “But, we need people’s cooperation to follow the guidelines. The Police department has ordered not to celebrate the victory. We had also barred large gatherings. But, the people are reluctant to follow. We are helpless at this point of time,” the officer said. The Police department had deputed 850 men near the counting stations across Mysuru district and had pressed into service mobile squads for sensitive areas. After counting, additional men were deputed at sensitive areas, to maintain law and order, said an officer. However, the police could not prevent the supporters of the candidates, who won the polls, from celebrating the victory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gp-polls-covid-19-norms-go-for-a-toss-near-vote-counting-centres-933399.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Officer on poll duty dies of cardiac arrest||A PWD engineer, who was on election duty at Periyapatna in Mysuru district, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday. Boregowda (52), an assistant executive engineer (AEE), was on Gram Panchayat election duty at Pushpa Convent counting centre at Periyapatna. He had served as GP election officer of N Shettahalli. He developed the health issue at 7.30 am and the authorities concerned rushed him to a hospital in Periyapatna, where the doctors advised shifting him to Mysuru. Boregowda died in an ambulance on the way to Mysuru. A native of KR Pet taluk in Mandya district, he was residing at Kushalanagar of Kodagu district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officer-on-poll-duty-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-933401.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||New attractions at Mysuru Rail Museum||Two new attractions have been unveiled at the recently renovated Rail Museum, Mysuru. President of South Western Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SWRWWO), Hubballi, Sujatha Singh unveiled the life size figurines of two of the most familiar faces in a Railway environment -- member of the Indian Railway Protection Force Services (earlier known as RPF) and Sahayak (earlier known as porter). According to a press note from Priya Shetty, Divisional Commercial Manager, the new attractions in the Rail Museum will help visitors to get a sense of how these two distinctly different set of people have been significantly helping the railways, over the years. Kalika Agarwal, president, SWRWWO, Mysuru, and other office- bearers were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, General Manager, South Western Railway, A K Singh, accompanied by Divisional Railway Manager, SW Railway, Mysuru Division, Rahul Agrawal inspected Chamarajapuram Railway station and commissioned the computerised Passenger Reservation System (PRS). The PRS at Chamarajapuram Railway Station will operate from 10 am to 12 noon and 3 pm to 6 pm on all week days. On Sundays, the PRS will be open from 10 am to 12 noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-attractions-at-mysuru-rail-museum-933403.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Don’t install Vishnuvardhan’s busts, statues’||Actor Bharathi Vishnuvardhan, also wife of late Vishnuvardhan, on Wednesday, expressed displeasure over installation of her husband’s busts and statues on many streets. Bharathi was speaking to reporters, after offering puja to the under-construction memorial of Vishnuvardhan, at Halalu village near Udbur in Myusru taluk. Vishnuvardhan was not happy with installing busts or statues on streets. “If anybody want to install his statue, it should be done in a proper way. A few people think that they will get popularity by making comments on Vishnuvardhan. Now, people have damaged Vishnu’s bust. It is better not to speak about the persons, who have damaged the bust,” she said. Her daughter Keerthi said, “It is not possible to taint the image of my father. His fans remain as fans.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/don-t-install-vishnuvardhan-s-busts-statues-933405.html
30-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Counting day: BJP, Congress both claim victory in Karnataka Gram Panchayat polls||The BJP and Congress both claimed that candidates backed by them were winning in Karnataka gram panchayats even as the State Election Commission (SEC) took exception to news channels projecting party-based victories during the counting of votes on Wednesday. Counting of votes started 8 am and continued late into the evening. Just hours into the process, however, a section of media began calling the election in the favour of some political parties. The SEC had to step in and remind the media that the gram panchayat elections are apolitical in that candidates did not fight them on party symbols. Candidates, however, are backed by political parties. Panchayat elections are often seen as a measure of the mood of the electorate. Earlier in the day, BJP national general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh congratulated his party. “Of 82616 wards in GP elections in Karnataka, BJP is ahead with victory in 5,344 wards (48%) as of now. Great going...Congratulations,” he said in a tweet. Similarly, BJP’s Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje tweeted party-wise results for 30,418 wards, according to which the BJP had 12,795, Congress 9,545, JD(S) 4,301...Saffron continues to surge, development is leading against appeasement!” she wrote.   Results of Karnataka Gram Panchayat Elections 2020: (30,418/82,616) BJP- 12,795 INC- 9,545 JDS- 4,301 IND- 3,777 But Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah claimed otherwise. “Reports suggest that Congress-supported candidates are winning,” he tweeted. “Rural India is frustrated by the policies implemented by BJP. Farmers are against anti-farmer laws and they found gram panchayat elections as the perfect opportunity to teach BJP a lesson,” he charged.Siddaramaiah further claimed that rural India “has always supported Congress” in gram panchayat elections. “Tradition of winning has continued,” he said. The Congress leader also accused the BJP of “trying to lure our candidates” with threats and money. “This is a challenging time for Congress. BJP leaders are frustrated that they could not win the hearts of rural India,” he said. The 2-phased gram panchayat polls had 2.22 lakh candidates in the fray. State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju told DH that officials were still compiling the results. “Every ballot paper will contain more than one vote. So, every vote will have to be counted, which is a time-consuming process,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/counting-day-bjp-congress-both-claim-victory-in-karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-933354.html
30-12-2020||Mysuru||Karnataka Gram Panchayat Election: Vote counting commences in Mysuru||Counting of votes cast in gram panchayat elections commenced at respective taluk headquarters in Mysuru. The elections for 250 gram panchayats were held in two-phases across the district. While the first phase was on December 22, second phase of election was held on December 27. To maintain law and order, the district police have beefed up the security across the district. As many as 850 men were deputed near vote counting centres at respective taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-gram-panchayat-election-vote-counting-commences-in-mysuru-933144.html
30-12-2020||Mysuru||J B Xavier Diocese of Mysore Vicar General passes away||J B Xavier (82), who served as Vicar General of the Diocese of Mysore, passed away on Tuesday evening due to a cardiac arrest. He was a professor of Liturgy and Church History at St Peter’s Pontifical Seminary, Bengaluru. He also served there as Rector for three years and as Registrar of St Peter’s Pontifical Institute. He was also the director of Organization for Development of People (ODP), Parish Priest at Ganjam, Kollegal and Yadavagiri. As secretary for Karnataka Regional Commission for Liturgy for several years, he has done extensive work in translating liturgical books to Kannada. He was a member of the Ecumenical Bible Translation Committee and translated the New Roman Missal, Book of Blessings in Kannada, and prepared the Kannada Lectionary. He was working on a project of translating the Catholic version of the Bible in Kannada, a book of Gospels and Sacramental Rituals in Kannada. His body was kept at St Mary’s Minor Seminary, Opposite to LIC Building, Millennium Circle, Bannimantap, Mysuru for public homage. The cortege was be moved to St Joseph’s Cathedral, Mysuru on Wednesday for a solemn Requiem Mass by K A William, Bishop of Mysore. The body was taken to Our Lady of Rosary Church, Shettihalli, Hassan district, his birthplace, to be interred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/j-b-xavier-diocese-of-mysore-vicar-general-passes-away-933166.html
30-12-2020||National||Pakistan has become pawn in Chinese policy: IAF chief RKS Bhadauria||Pakistan has increasingly become a pawn of China and the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan has opened options for Beijing to expand its influence in the region through Islamabad, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday. In an address at a seminar organised by think-tank Vivekananda International Foundation, he said Pakistan's dependence on China is going to increase as the country is set to reel under a Chinese debt-trap. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said that India's "most important" national security challenge is to understand China, its "possible game plan" and the deepening and evolving Sino-Pak relationship. "Pakistan has increasingly become a pawn in Chinese policy. Under an increasing CPEC (China-Pakistan Economic Corridor) related debt trap, we are going to witness further military dependencies in the future," he said. "The US exit from Afghanistan has opened increased options for China in the region -- both direct and through Pakistan -- allowing it a possible entry into Central Asia, a region that they have been eyeing for long," the IAF chief added. The Air Chief Marshal said that coercion and economic dependence are being used as tools for making weaker countries accept one-sided actions, in an apparent reference to China. "We are now witnessing a rise in attempts to alter the status quo through wanton disregard or selective interpretation of established international laws and norms. Coercion and economic dependence are being used as tools for making weaker countries accept one-sided actions, thereby undermining the established order itself at the international level," he said. "Fragile states find it convenient to align with dominant powers to ensure regime survival, thereby affecting the regional security scenario further and something we need to increasingly factor in in our national security matrix," he added. Replying to a question on possible military cooperation among India, the US, Japan and Australia under the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition, he did not rule out such a possibility and indicated that discussions are underway. "Quad, as a kind of execution, has not happened so far. But as a plan of action, it is possible," he said. Without naming China, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also referred to the "debt-trap diplomacy" to achieve geopolitical goals by ensnaring the recipient countries with loans that cannot be repaid. He said it has allowed "foreign created and controlled" ports and facilities very close to the Indian mainland and island territories. "With the new PLA doctrines underscoring the importance of developing force projection capabilities to counter US global dominance, there is a direct impact of such development on our security matrix," he said. "For example, what happens if China was to use one of such launching pads for action against us in a conflict situation? Does the third country port or launching pad become a target for us or not? What are the implications? It is something we need to factor in, it is something that needs to go into our planning process and thinking process," he said. Talking about national security challenges, the IAF chief said there are very few major states that still have unsettled borders to the extent India does to its north. "On our northern borders, the Himalayan barrier, which separated South Asia from China, has been literally flattened by the massive infrastructural development and the time it takes to travel large distances has really shrunk," he said. "The western border has been active from the day Pakistan was created. In addition to the terrorism inflicted upon us through proxy actions, we have been thwarting continuous attempts by our adversary to breach our territory and sovereignty on many occasions," he said. The IAF chief said the Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific regions are witnessing a tectonic shift in the strategic sphere as the maritime trade and the economic centre of gravity drift towards them. "With the West and the US in a strategic retreat for the last couple of years, it has opened up a window of opportunity for a geo-strategic realignment and this is being largely shaped by China. China's rapid economic growth and expanding economy has allowed it to invest heavily into military technology and research and development," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-has-become-pawn-in-chinese-policy-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-933051.html
30-12-2020||National||Ex-Delhi Congress minister's daughter rescued from her father's residence: DCW||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday said that it rescued the daughter of former Congress minister Rajkumar Chauhan from his Paschim Vihar residence on Monday night. Chauhan, a four-time former MLA, was a minister in the Sheila Dixit government. The complainant, through a letter, sought help and requested the authorities to rescue her from her paternal residence, the DCW said in a statement. The woman wrote that she was being held captive and was often mercilessly beaten up by her father and brother. Taking cognisance of the matter, a DCW team visited the address along with the Delhi Police, the statement said. After reaching the location, they met the woman, who informed them that she married a man in 1999, but for the last 10 years, has been living separately at her parents' house in Delhi due to some differences with her husband. The woman has two daughters and a divorce case is pending before a court in Chandigarh for years. The woman alleged that her father does not want the case to be settled and that her husband has married another woman, the statement said. She wants to start a new life but is unable to do so because of the prestige issues of her family, according to the statement. The complainant alleged that her father illegally confined her in his house, did not allow her to go out and often beat her up mercilessly. It was also confirmed by her younger daughter, the statement said. The DCW and the police rescued the woman and took her to the Paschim Vihar West police station. The woman has mentioned in her statements that she does not want to live with her parents anymore and wants action to be taken against them for the alleged violence committed on her. After the completion of the formalities, she was shifted to a shelter home, the statement said. The Delhi Police has registered only a DD entry in the matter. The DCW has issued a notice to the police, asking them for reasons for not registering an FIR and the steps taken by them considering the strong political background of the complainant's father, the statement said. Chauhan denied the allegations. According to the police, the DCW made a PCR call on Monday saying it needs the help of the police in a case of domestic violence. The DCW team and the police reached the Bhera Enclave and met the complainant. An enquiry revealed that the complainant was living with her two daughters on a separate floor in her father's house. The allegations levelled by the complainant were denied by her daughters, a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-delhi-congress-ministers-daughter-rescued-from-her-fathers-residence-dcw-933054.html
30-12-2020||National||DH Toon | Rajinikanth says 'no to party politics'||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced that he will not launch a new political party to contest the 2021 assembly elections, citing his poor health and Covid-19 as reasons for going back on the promise he made on the last day of 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rajinikanth-says-no-to-party-politics-933091.html
30-12-2020||National||20 UK returnees in India have new coronavirus strain||A total of 20 people in India now have the new coronavirus strain, according to ministry data on Wednesday. This includes results of the six who tested positive and were announced to have the new strain on Tuesday. The samples that tested positive for the new strain were 8 from NCDC, Delhi; 7 from NIMHANS, Bengaluru; 2 from CCMB, Hyderabad; 1 from NIBG Kalyani near Kolkata; 1 from NIV, Pune and 1 from IGIB, Delhi. A network of 10 laboratories has been set up to carry out the genetic sequencing of not only those who returned from the UK but also 5% of other RT-PCR positive samples to detect other mutations of the virus that may be circulating in India. The ministry on Tuesday said six UK returnees were found positive for the mutated UK variant genome and that all these people have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. "Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the ministry had said. While those who have tested positive with the new strain on Tuesday would have to stay at government isolation facilities for the next 28 days, efforts are on to track down nearly 33,000 individuals who came back from the UK between November 25 and December 23 so that they and their contacts can be screened for the new strain, which according to the WHO is 40%-70% more transmissible than the strains circulating currently. The presence of the new UK Variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of the virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, the ministry said. This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till December 31 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs i.e. INSACOG. Also, a meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on Covid-19 was held on December 26 to consider and recommend testing, treatment, surveillance and containment strategy. Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22. The entire issue was examined at length by the NTF on December 26 and the NTF concluded that there is no need to change either the existing National Treatment Protocol or existing testing protocols in view of the mutant variant. The NTF also recommended that in addition to the existing surveillance strategy, it is critical to conduct enhanced genomic surveillance, the ministry had said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-uk-returnees-in-india-have-new-coronavirus-strain-933099.html
30-12-2020||National||Status-quo not a positive development: Rajnath Singh on India-China issue||India's Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that while talks with China have been ongoing for a while, no meaningful outcome has come out of it. In an interview with news agency ANI, the Minister said, "There will be a next round of talks on military level which can take place anytime. But no meaningful outcome has come and there is status quo. I don't think status-quo is positive development." "If a country is expansionist and tries to occupy our land, then India has the strength, capability and power to not let its land go into anyone's hand, whether it is any country of the world," he said.   India and China are engaged in a bitter stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May. The countries are currently engaged in a dialogue both at military and diplomatic levels to ease the tensions at the border.  On being asked if this year's incident at the border was a result of possible collusion between China-Pakistan, he said, "India has a sharp focus. ‘Jo hume chedega hum usse chhorenge nahi’. We want to maintain peaceful relations with all nations."  Hailing the Prime Minister, Singh said that while he does not want to question previous governments but "since PM Modi took office, national security has been a number one priority and we are providing maximum facilities to our defence forces." Singh further added that China has been doing a lot of infrastructure development in its border areas but "India is also developing infrastructure at a fast pace for people at the border and for soldiers there. We are not developing infrastructure to attack any country but for our people." More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/status-quo-not-a-positive-development-rajnath-singh-on-india-china-issue-933107.html
30-12-2020||National||Coronavirus new strain: Centre bans UK flights till Jan 7, curbs on New Year celebrations||The Centre on Wednesday asked states to impose restrictions on New Year celebrations to prevent such events from turning into “super spreaders” of Covid-19, as infections from the new UK strain of coronavirus rose to 20. “Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. He said that after January 7 flights would resume in the “strictly regulated” manner and details about it would be announced “shortly”. The government also extended the ban on flights to and from Britain till January 7 and on other international operations till January 31. However, bilateral arrangements through ‘air bubbles’ and cargo flights would continue to operate as sanctioned by the civil aviation regulator DGCA. India had imposed a ban on flights to and from Britain from December 23 to 31, after it reported a new strain of the virus that was highly contagious and unveiled a new protocol to screen passengers from that country. As of Wednesday, the health ministry had found 20 persons who had returned from Britain to be infected with the new strain of coronavirus. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also wrote to chief secretaries of all the states and union territories, asking them to maintain “strict vigil” to prevent new year celebrations from turning into super-spreader events. “You would appreciate that in the wake of New Year and various celebratory events associated with it as well as on-going winter season, a strict vigil is required to be maintained to curb all potential "super spreader" events and places where crowds may gather," the letter read. The letter, however, said that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Bhushan recalled that the Ministry of Home Affairs had asked States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, to impose local restrictions such as night curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Health Secretary also urged the States to promptly assess the local situation and consider the imposition of appropriate restrictions on December 30 and 31, 2020 as well as on January 1, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-new-strain-centre-bans-uk-flights-till-jan-7-curbs-on-new-year-celebrations-933150.html
30-12-2020||National||Suvendu Adhikari's brother removed from civic body post||BJP leader and former West Bengal minister Suvendu Adhikari's brother Soumendu has been removed from the post of the chairman of the board of administrators of the Kanthi Municipality in Purba Medinipur district, TMC sources said on Wednesday. Soumendu Adhikari had not participated in the recent political programmes of the ruling Trinamool Congress in Purba Medinipur and a section of the party leaders alleged that he was supporting his brother's mass contact programmes in the district in the last two months, they said. His other brother and TMC MP Dibyendu Adhikari termed the decision as "unfortunate, unexpected and unfair." The Tamluk MP said he will remain a "loyal foot soldier" of the party but will take up the matter with Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. "She is my leader. I have full faith in her," he said. The parliamentarian, however, said he will no longer operate out of the Kanthi Municipality building, where he had his MP office. The development comes close in the heels of Suvendu Adhikari asserting that "lotus will bloom in his family". His father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are TMC MPs. Suvendu Adhikari, a former state transport minister, joined the BJP along with nine MLAs, five of them from the TMC, and a party MP during Union Home Minister Amit Shah's rally in Medinipur on December 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suvendu-adhikaris-brother-removed-from-civic-body-post-933155.html
30-12-2020||National||India's Pfizer, Moderna Covid-19 vaccine shot deals hit roadblock||Officials in the know informed the publication that doubts about Pfizer's capacity to manufacture a large number of doses for India exist after it received orders from US, UK, EU, Mexico, Canada among other countries. “From our discussion, it seems Pfizer might not have the required capacity to address India’s demand,” an anonymous source told the news coronavirus. The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation or CDSCO, the authority that examines applications for new vaccines asked Pfizer to submit its application couple of weeks ago, but the drug major requested for more time to fill in its application for an emergency use authorisation. Despite delays in submitting an application, Pfizer is in touch with NAGVAC, the Centre's expert committee on vaccine administration, a senior official told the website. “But any co-production in India would also entail a fresh round of trials in this country as per our drug laws. And that would mean additional costs,” the person added. Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine requires specialised logistics and cold-storage solutions to transport and store the vaccine at -70 degree Celsius. The American major's Covid-19 vaccine would almost cost much more than alternate vaccines such as those made by Sputnik, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-pfizer-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-shot-deals-hit-roadblock-933161.html
30-12-2020||National||Covid-19: India reports 20,549 new cases||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,02,44,852 with 20,549 new infections being reported in a day while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.34 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent,  according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,48,439 with 286 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,34,141 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 2,62,272 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.56  per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,09,22,030  samples have been tested up to December 29 with 11,20,281 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-reports-20549-new-cases-933165.html
30-12-2020||National||Strict vigil ahead of New Year 'super spreader' events: Health Secy to states||The Union Health Ministry has asked all states to keep a strict vigil on New Year celebrations that could be potential Covid-19 super-spreader events and also to curb crowding as a precautionary measure during the winter season. In a letter to states and Union Territories, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated that the number of active Covid-19 cases has been declining steadily in the country for the last three-and-half months. Keeping in view the fresh surge of coronavirus cases in Europe and the Americas, there was still a need for maintaining comprehensive precaution and strict surveillance within India, he underlined. "You will appreciate that in the wake of New Year and various celebratory events associated with it as well as ongoing winter season, strict vigil is required to be maintained to curb all potential 'super spreader' events and places where crowds may gather," Bhushan said in the letter. The recent advice and guidance to the states by the Home Ministry has also been reiterated by the Health Secretary. The Ministry of Home Affairs has mandated that states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19.  The Home Ministry has also stipulated that there shall be no restriction on the interstate and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Drawing attention to this, the Union health secretary has urged the states to "promptly assess the local situation and consider the imposition of appropriate restrictions on December 30 and 31, as well as on January 1, 2021."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strict-vigil-ahead-of-new-year-super-spreader-events-health-secy-to-states-933171.html
30-12-2020||National||Air, water pollution disputes kept NGT busy in 2020 amid Covid-19||Apex environment adjudication body NGT handled disputes involving multi-disciplinary issues relating to air and water pollution through a smooth digital workflow despite the novel coronavirus pandemic this year resulting in a nationwide lockdown. The National Green Tribunal, though working with a handful of Judicial and Expert Members, that too via video conferencing, made its presence felt in 2020 by dealing with various sensitive issues related to environment and ecology. Before the lockdown, Chief Secretaries of 15 states and three Union Territories participated in Chamber meetings on compliance issues relating to waste management, sewage treatment, air quality management in 122 non-attainment cities, rejuvenation of 351 polluted river stretches and regulation of sand mining. The tribunal also dealt with several thorny cases through the year including coastal pollution, restoration of water bodies, industrial wastewater and sewage treatment, noise pollution, protecting environment along the highways, compliance of environmental norms by restaurants/hotels, regulation and control of pet coke use and guidelines for dairy stock rearing. Besides, it passed several path-breaking orders and cleared many pending projects such as Subansiri Hydroelectric Power, Mumbai Trans Corridor, Alang Ship Breaking activities, Pollavaram Lift Irrigation Scheme and Kutchh Camel, balancing growth and environment. As of November, the NGT, which marked 10th year of its establishment, had 5,073 matters to deal while it disposed of 2,372 cases leaving 2,701 for consideration, with 943 lying undecided at the principal bench at New Delhi. As the country went into the lockdown, the tribunal, headed by Chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, expressed dissatisfaction over the slow progress and lackadaisical approach of authorities and government agencies on key issues relating to public health and hygiene and emphasised on recovering compensation from polluters. The year also saw the tribunal taking an unprecedented stand on banning use of firecrackers during festive period in National Capital Region (NCR) and in those cities where air quality fell in poor category. Besides, noting that dust is a significant component of air pollution, the NGT directed all municipal corporations and local bodies in the NCR and other cities where air quality is ''poor'' to ensure that water is sprinkled on roads before sweeping them. The tribunal took cognisance of gas leak incidents in Andhra Pradesh as also the fire in Assam's Baghjan oil well and observed that such disasters occurred on account of mishandling of operations, lack of skilled supervision and unprepared system to deal eventualities. Holding that public-oriented schemes do require environment clearance, the NGT passed direction on such requirement for Purushothapatanam Lift Irrigation Scheme, Andhra Pradesh, which involved lifting of water from river Godavari. Noting that air pollution kills millions of people every year, the tribunal asked brick kilns, which emit particulate matter, to adopt the environment-friendly zig-zag technology. It got an assessment done through CPCB by finding out the ambient air quality and carrying capacity. The green panel slammed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) for non-utilisation of over Rs 800 crore meant towards Environment Relief Fund for victims of accidents in the process of handling hazardous substances and directed that compensation needs to be provided to them on urgent basis through District Collectors. The NGT also took note that the Covid-19 related biomedical waste in the country is about 101 tonne per day, and said that segregation of this waste from others is a must to avoid further contamination adversely affecting public health. During the latter part of the year, the tribunal dealt with the issue of protecting endangered Great Indian Bustard (GIB) which has been facing fatalities on account transmission lines. The NGT directed that bird diverters be installed and transmission lines may be put underground. The NGT said rivers in states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka were being unscrupulously exploited for sand mining without any regard for the environment and ordered that such projects be executed with due caution in accordance with mining plan. On the issue of groundwater extraction, the NGT said that water withdrawal cannot be at the cost of the environment and ignoring intra and inter-generational, sustainable development principles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-water-pollution-disputes-kept-ngt-busy-in-2020-amid-covid-19-933188.html
30-12-2020||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu tenders apology for hurting Sikh sentiments||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday tendered an apology after the Akal Takht Jathedar asked him to do so for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community by wearing a shawl bearing some religious symbols. Sidhu said he is apologising for unknowingly hurting the sentiments of Sikhs. “Shri Akal Takht Sahib is Supreme, If I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even One Sikh, I apologise !! ... Millions wear the revered Symbols of Sikhism on their Turbans, Clothes and even carve Tattoos with Pride, I too as a humble Sikh wore the Shawl unintentionally,” Sidhu said in a tweet. Shri Akal Takht Sahib is Supreme, If I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even One Sikh, I apologise !! ... Millions wear the revered Symbols of Sikhism on there Turbans, Clothes and even carve Tattoos with Pride, I too as a humble Sikh wore the Shawl unintentionally 🙏🏼 On Tuesday, Giani Harpreet Singh, the Jathedar of the Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, had described Sidhu's act as “highly unfortunate and against the traditions of Sikh tenets”. He had said the sentiments of the Sikh community were hurt by this act of Sidhu. “He should immediately apologise,” the Jathedar had said.  The Akal Takht Jathedar said he had received complaints from some members of the community. The Congress MLA from Amritsar East allegedly wore the shawl which had Sikh religious symbols embroidered on it. He had uploaded a video on his YouTube channel Jittega Punjab'' a few days ago in which he could be seen wearing the shawl during a meeting with some farmers in a village in Jalandhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-tenders-apology-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments-933192.html
30-12-2020||National||Farmers protesting at Delhi borders firm on demands ahead of talks with Centre||Thousands of farmers agitating against the three new central agriculture laws stayed put at their agitation venues near Delhi, which is going through a harsh spell of winter, unrelenting in their demand of withdrawal of the farm laws. On Wednesday, a cold wave swept Delhi as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, the India Meteorological Department predicted, as dry and icy winds barrelled through the plains. The farmers protesting against the new agri laws had reached Singhu border over a month ago. The Centre and the protesting farmer unions will resume stalled talks on Wednesday with the latter sticking to their hardline position that the parleys will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points where the farmers have been camping. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protesting-at-delhi-borders-firm-on-demands-ahead-of-talks-with-centre-933193.html
30-12-2020||National||Expert panel to consider SII's emergency use approval for Covid-19 vaccine||Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of Drugs Controller of India is set to hold a meeting to consider Serum Institute of India's application for emergency use approval of its Covid-19 vaccine, says a government official, according to news agency ANI. Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of Drugs Controller of India to take a meeting to consider Serum Institute of India's application for emergency use approval of its COVID19 vaccine, says a government official This comes after the United Kingdom gave its nod to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine on Wednesday as it battles a major winter surge driven by a new, highly contagious variant of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-to-consider-siis-emergency-use-approval-for-covid-19-vaccine-933212.html
30-12-2020||National||RJD seeks to fish in troubled NDA waters in Bihar||Defection of JD(U) MLAs to the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh and the resultant cold vibes between the partners in the ruling coalition in Bihar, seem to have kindled fresh hopes in the RJD which has ended up heading the opposition here despite being the single largest party. Shyam Rajak, a former national general secretary of the JD(U) who joined RJD shortly before the recent assembly elections, on Wednesday sought to fish in the troubled waters with the claim that 17 MLAs of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party were willing to cross over. "They are all feeling stifled in the current dispensation where the CM appears to have capitulated before a domineering BJP. They are willing to switch sides as soon as possible," Rajak, who was the JD(U)'s deputy leader in the previous assembly, said here. He claimed en masse defection of the JD(U) MLAs has been put on hold since the RJD hoped that more would like to follow suit soon which would "raise the number sufficiently enough to cause a split, tenable under the anti-defection law" in the party which has 43 MLAs. Rajak's claim is the latest in a series of averments by RJD leaders, following the defection of six of the seven JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh to the BJP. At the JD(U) national executive meeting here on Sunday, the party adopted a resolution condemning the "violation of the spirit of coalition politics" in the northeastern state. KC Tyagi, the party's outspoken national general secretary and spokesman, asserted that events in Arunachal will not cast a shadow in Bihar but admitted that the JD(U) had felt "aahat" (hurt). BJP leaders here have insisted that the party "did not poach" the JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh where legislators recently switched sides of their own accord. However, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary has maintained that a common link ran through the Arunachal Pradesh defections and the rebellion by Chirag Paswan's LJP in Bihar. "The LJP could not have done what it did in the assembly polls without the BJP's tacit approval. And the JD(U) bore the brunt, finishing with a tally that is less than that of the BJP," Tiwary, who was formerly with the JD(U), said. The veteran socialist has been of the view that the BJP was trying to "settle old scores" with Nitish Kumar who had snapped ties with it in 2013 disapproving of the ascendance of Narendra Modi "a man who does not forget and forgive". Tiwary had said that if the chief minister chose to pull out of the NDA, there will be a realignment between the RJD and the JD(U), "but the ball is in his court, he has to decide what matters to him his dignity or the trappings of power". Recently, Uday Narayan Chaudhary, another former confidant of Nitish Kumar who has been with the RJD for the past few years, decided to up the ante. "Nitish Kumar should give up the chief minister's chair and pull out of the NDA. He should help Tejashwi Yadav form the new government and the RJD would return the favour by backing him as prime ministerial candidate in 2024," Chaudhary, a former state assembly speaker, had said. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari was quick to assert "as the party's authorised spokesman I can say this is a personal opinion. Whom to support as a prime ministerial candidate is a decision only the national leadership can take". He, however, said he agreed with Chaudhary's contention that Kumar should help Yadav become the chief minister. "The NDA is unstable and our leader is bound to form a government in the not so distant future. It will only be appropriate for Nitish Kumar to be on the right side of history," said the RJD spokesman. Meanwhile, the NDA in Bihar has expressed bemusement at the buoyancy in the RJD camp and accused the opposition party of being "desperate for power". "They are doling out offers of prime ministership despite having themselves been rejected by the people. They should give up their antics and consult a good astrologer instead," said JD(U) MLC and spokesman Neeraj Kumar. BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said most of the noise in the RJD camp is emanating from leaders who are feeling short-changed by the party leadership which cares little for those not belonging to the family of its jailed supremo Lalu Prasad. "Their bizarre offer of supporting prime ministerial candidature (of Nitish Kumar) also begs the question what to make out of their professed loyalty towards the Congress?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-seeks-to-fish-in-troubled-nda-waters-in-bihar-933229.html
30-12-2020||National||SC stays release of 10 women naval officers seeking grant of permanent commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the release of ten women naval officers, who are seeking grant of permanent commission (PC), from the services as scheduled on December 31 this year. A vacation bench comprising justices Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose took note of the submissions of senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for the women naval officers, and granted the interim relief. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench said the Centre and the Chief of Naval Staff can file their replies to the petitions of the women officers and fixed their pleas for further hearing on January 19. "We will direct that the matter be listed on January 19 along with pending writ petitions. In the meanwhile, there will be a stay on order of December 18 (on release/retirement of women officers)," it said. The bench said the interim order would not result in any equity in favour of the officers. Senior Advocate R Balasubramanian appeared for the Centre in the matters. The two separate petitions have been filed by ten women Short Service Commission (SSC) officers including Annie Nagaraja and CDR Vijayeta seeking grant of permanent commission in the Indian Navy. They were to be released from services on December 31. Earlier, the top court, in a landmark verdict on March 17 this year, had asked the Centre and the Navy to grant PC to Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers in the Indian Navy and had asked them to complete the modalities within three months. Later, it extended till December 31 the deadline for implementation of its judgement on grant of PC to women SSC officers in Navy after the Centre had moved the plea in June for extending the deadline by six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Prior to this, the apex court, on February 17, had granted the same relief of PC to SSC women officers in Army saying that women and men officers should be treated equally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-release-of-10-women-naval-officers-seeking-grant-of-permanent-commission-933230.html
30-12-2020||National||Centre extends suspension of scheduled commercial international flights till Jan 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till January 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-suspension-of-scheduled-commercial-international-flights-till-jan-31-933234.html
30-12-2020||National||Falling market rates forcing farmers to sell crops below MSP: Farm union leaders||As farmers' protest against three new farm laws continues, union leaders on Wednesday said peasants in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands. "After new farm laws were implemented in Uttar Pradesh, prices of crops have fallen by 50 per cent. Crops are being bought at below MSP. Paddy is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal. We will raise these issues in the meeting," Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said. Before entering the venue of the sixth round of talks between farmer groups and the government, Tikait told reporters that farmers will continue their stir if the government does not agree to our demands. "We will not leave Delhi till our demands are met. We will celebrate New year at borders" he said. Punjab farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa came for the meeting carrying placards of media reports of fraudulent cases reported in Guna and Hosangabad after implementation of the new laws. "We don't have any new agenda. The government is maligning us by saying farmers are not coming for talks. So we gave December 29 date for talks. We have given them our clear agenda but the government is insisting that laws are beneficial for farmers," Sirsa said. Showing media reports, he said more fraudulent cases are being reported after the implementation of the new laws and these issues will be raised in the meeting. The meeting between three union ministers and representatives of 41 farmer groups began at around 2.30 pm at Vigyan Bhawan. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar is heading the government side, which also included Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab. The sixth round of talks between the two sides is being held after a huge gap. The fifth round of talks was held on December 5. The protesting farmer unions are sticking to their position that the discussions will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. On Monday, the Centre invited the unions for the next round of talks on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a "logical solution" with an "open mind" to the prolonged impasse over the three new agri laws that were enacted in September. But in its letter on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation which represents the farmer unions, said the modalities for repealing the three contentious laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) must be part of the agenda. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/falling-market-rates-forcing-farmers-to-sell-crops-below-msp-farm-union-leaders-933238.html
30-12-2020||National||Union ministers meet farmer groups to break deadlock over new Farm Laws||Three union ministers met a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting against three farm laws on borders of the national capital for the sixth round of negotiations on Wednesday to break the over one-month-long deadlock on the contentious issue While the government hoped it would be a decisive meeting and the protesting farmers would return from Delhi borders to their respective homes to celebrate the New Year, farmer leaders insisted they are prepared to continue their agitation till the government agrees to their demands, including repeal of the laws. After around two hours of discussions, the union ministers joined farm leaders to share 'langar' food arranged by protesting farmers. The 'langar' (community kitchen) food arrived in a van at the meeting venue, Vigyan Bhawan just before the two sides took a break for tea and snacks. Sources present at the venue said that Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash joined the farmer leaders to share their langar food during the break. Farmer leaders said that the talks were continuing and they were going 'agenda wise'. While talks resumed after the break, some leaders said not much headway was made in the first session, sources said. Before the meeting, Parkash, himself an MP from Punjab, said he was hopeful that it would be a decisive meeting and the government wanted the protesting farmers to return to their respective homes to celebrate the new year. Previously, Tomar had also said he was hopeful that a solution would emerge before the year 2020 ends. Some union leaders, however, said that farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands. "After new farm laws were implemented in Uttar Pradesh, prices of crops have fallen by 50 per cent. Crops are being bought at below MSP. Paddy is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal. We will raise these issues in the meeting," Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters before entering the meeting venue. "We will not leave Delhi till our demands are met. We will celebrate New year at borders" he said. Punjab farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa came for the meeting carrying placards of media reports of fraudulent cases reported in Guna and Hosangabad after implementation of the new laws. "We don't have any new agenda. The government is maligning us by saying farmers are not coming for talks. So we gave December 29 date for talks. We have given them our clear agenda but the government is insisting that laws are beneficial for farmers," Sirsa said. Showing media reports, he said more fraudulent cases are being reported after the implementation of the new laws and these issues will be raised in the meeting. The meeting between three union ministers and representatives of 41 farmer groups began at around 2.30 pm at Vigyan Bhawan. Tomar is heading the government side, which also included Goyal and Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab. The sixth round of talks between the two sides is being held after a huge gap. The fifth round of talks was held on December 5. The protesting farmer unions are sticking to their position that the discussions will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. On Monday, the Centre invited the unions for the next round of talks on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a "logical solution" with an "open mind" to the prolonged impasse over the three new agri laws that were enacted in September. But in its letter on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation which represents the farmer unions, said the modalities for repealing the three contentious laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) must be part of the agenda. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-ministers-meet-farmer-groups-to-break-deadlock-over-new-farm-laws-933251.html
30-12-2020||National||Indian armed forces displayed firm resolve in blunting Chinese aggression in 2020||In many ways, 2020 was a watershed year for Indian armed forces as they displayed boldness in standing up to unprovoked Chinese military aggressions in eastern Ladakh and remodelled the national security doctrine in view of China intensifying the geo-political rivalry with India with an apparent goal to effect a radical realignment of balance of power in South Asia. The death of 20 Indian soldiers during a fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades, triggering large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both the armies in the friction points. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but there was no official word from Beijing. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The overall situation further deteriorated following multiple attempts by the Chinese military to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in late August where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 45 years. Since the faceoff began in early May, both sides held multiple rounds of diplomatic and military talks, but have not yet been able to reach any concrete breakthrough, leaving both the armies to face each other in sub-zero temperatures in the Himalayan region. "In these testing times our forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude. They fought the People's Liberation Army (PLA) with utmost bravery and forced them to go back. The coming generations of this nation will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said earlier this month without elaborating. As the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Indian Air Force deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. In sync with the national security doctrine, the Indian Navy too significantly increased its deployment of warships, submarines and other assets in the Indian Ocean Region, in an attempt to send across a message to China that the Indian armed forces are fully prepared to deal with any challenge in all the three domains of land, air and water. The Navy had deployed its Poseidon-8I anti-submarine and surveillance aircraft to carry out surveillance on the movement of Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese military muscle-flexing forced the top military brass to readjust the national security doctrine that included greater focus on tri-services convergence and boosting the overall combat capabilities of the armed forces to deal with all possible future security challenges. The government has started work on long-term goals that included procurement of futuristic weapon systems, platforms and extensive use of artificial intelligence. In a boost to strike capability of the Indian Air Force in the midst of the standoff, the first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India in July, nearly four years after the government signed an agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. A second batch of three Rafale fighter jets joined the IAF in November. The Rafale jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The newly- inducted fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh. The armed forces also confronted cross-border terrorism with a firm hand as Islamabad continued to push terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir. An attempt by Pakistan-based terrorists to carry out a major attack in Nagrota in Jammu and Kashmir was foiled in November. In 2020, the government also ushered in a raft of military reforms aimed at enhancing the overall combat capability of the armed forces. On January 1, Gen Bipin Rawat took charge as India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) with a mandate to bring in convergence in functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's overall military prowess. A key mandate of the CDS was to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. A high-level committee set up to examine the gaps in India's security system in the wake of the Kargil war in 1999 had recommended appointment of the CDS as a single-point military adviser to the defence minister. In the last one year, Gen Rawat along with the top brass of the three services carried out ground work to establish an air defence command and a Peninsula command initially. The IAF will helm the air defence command and all-long range missiles as well as air defence assets will come under it. According to plan, Indian Navy's Eastern and Western commands will be integrated into the Peninsula command. The government also majorly focused on boosting the domestic defence production and set a target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore (USD 25 billion) in turnover in defence manufacturing by 2025. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around USD 130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. In May, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rolled out a number of reform measures for the defence sector including making separate budgetary outlay to procure Indian-made military hardware, increasing FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route and generating a year-wise negative list of weapons which will not be allowed to import. In early August, Defence Minister Singh announced that India will stop import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. Subsequently, the defence ministry released the first list of items, with detailed timeline, which will not be allowed to import. The decision was aimed at promoting the domestic defence industry. In a related development, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) identified 108 military systems and subsystems like navigation radars, tank transporters and missile canisters for the domestic industry to design, develop and manufacture. India's defence and security cooperation with the US, Australia, Japan and several other countries also witnessed major expansion in 2020. In the midst of growing concerns over China's military muscle-flexing in the Indo-Pacific region, India hosted the Malabar naval exercise. Following India's invitation, Australia also participated in the exercise effectively making it a drill by all the Quad member nations. The Quad, comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan, is aimed at ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific. China has been suspicious about the purpose of the Malabar exercise as it feels that the annual war game is an effort to contain its influence in the Indo-Pacific region. In October, India and the US signed a landmark defence pact called Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) that provides for sharing of high-end military technology, geospatial maps and classified satellite data between their militaries. The pact was sealed during the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue between the two countries. In June, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies, besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation. India and Japan signed a similar pact in September. In the last few months, India carried out test firing of a number of missiles and other weapons. In a major milestone, India successfully test fired a new generation anti-radiation missile from a Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force in October. The missile can destroy a wide-variety of enemy radars and air defence systems from large stand-off ranges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-armed-forces-displayed-firm-resolve-in-blunting-chinese-aggression-in-2020-933258.html
30-12-2020||National||Akhilesh Yadav claims ground level BJP workers want withdrawal of new farm laws||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday claimed that the ruling BJP's ground level workers also want withdrawal of three new farm laws as they feel they will not be able to face the people. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three new laws. In a tweet in Hindi, the SP chief said, “The BJP government should not 'cheat' farmers of the entire country for the benefit of a few rich friends and in today's talks, withdraw the agriculture laws. The truth is that the ground level worker of the BJP also wants the same because he is not able garner the courage to go among the general people. Political leadership of India has never been so barren.” The government has invited the protesting farmers for the sixth round of talks on Wednesday in connection with the ongoing agitation The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by "weakening" the MSP and mandi system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-claims-ground-level-bjp-workers-want-withdrawal-of-new-farm-laws-933269.html
30-12-2020||National||Dismal representation of women in CBI, NIA: Police Data||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) may be the country's premier investigating agencies but a strong glass ceiling appears to be in place in these institutions where the number of women personnel are at a dismal low. Overall, there is an increase in the number of women personnel -- 2.15 lakh women out of 20.91 lakh personnel who are in the force. The number of women increased by 16.05 per cent, but they are now 10.30 per cent of the force, way behind the target of 33 per cent set by the Centre. The NIA has just 37 women in its ranks, which is just 4.64 per cent of the total strength of 796, while the CBI has 475 in its various wings, which is 7.96 per cent of 5,964, as on January 1, 2020, according to the Data of Police Organisations released on Tuesday. In the NIA, the top most rank a woman occupies is that of a Deputy Inspector General (DIG). Two out of nine DIGs in the agency are women, while not one out of four Inspectors General is a woman. It has eight women out of 223 Constables and three out of 127 Head Constables. There are one woman Inspector and five women Sub Inspectors but not a single woman Assistant Sub Inspector, the report prepared by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) said.  When it comes to the CBI, the top ranking woman -- one out of 19 -- is an Inspector General officer. One out of 10 DIGs is also a woman, while there are 29 women among the 656 Inspectors. Among women in the CBI, six (out of 85) are Superintendents of Police, three (out of 76) are Deputy SPs, 29 (out of 656) are Inspectors, while 12 (out of 389) are ASIs. Out of 1,779 Constables, 393 are women. In its earlier reports, the BPRD had said that there is a tendency to engage women police only in situations like security checks and other specialised duties relating to women, but unless they are assigned mainstream duties in the police stations, there would not be adequate impact on the community. Senior women police officials had also earlier said in a survey in 2014 that they were given less important posts “just because they are women”. An analysis of the report also showed that there were just 207 personnel from the Scheduled Castes at the ranks of Sub Inspector and below in the CBI, 80 from the Scheduled Castes and 171 from the Other Backward Classes (OBC). In the NIA, there are just 39 Scheduled Caste personnel, 27 Scheduled Tribe personnel and 119 OBCs. In the state police forces, there are 3.01 lakh personnel (from Constable to DySP) from the Scheduled Castes, 2.42 lakh from the Scheduled Tribes and 5.19 lakh from the OBCs. The highest quota for SCs is 25 per cent in Punjab, followed by 22 per cent each in Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal. For the STs, the highest quota is in Nagaland where it is 100 per cent, followed by 80 per cent in Meghalaya. The highest reservation for OBCs is 50 per cent in Tamil Nadu, followed by 43 per cent in Sikkim, according to the BPRD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dismal-representation-of-women-in-cbi-nia-police-data-933270.html
30-12-2020||National||Plea for emergency travel as India extends UK travel ban over mutant coronavirus||Indian student groups in the UK on Wednesday urged the Indian government to consider emergency travel options in extremely exceptional cases during the current suspension of air travel imposed to try and block out a fast-spreading mutant strain of coronavirus detected in Britain. As the Union Civil Aviation ministry announced that the suspension will be extended by another week until January 7, the groups sought some emergency intervention after being contacted by individuals desperate to get to India due to a family crisis or bereavement. "I hope this time emergency travel arrangements can be made for Indian travellers with a family member critically ill or just passed away. I’ve seen first-hand the plight of those unable to travel due to bans – another just last week," said Sanam Arora, Chair of the National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK (NISAU-UK), a representative group for Indian students in the UK. "I'm in desperate need of help for flying to India from the UK. My mom is very critical and it is imperative for me to (be) able to fly to Bangalore," said Netal, one of those affected, in a Twitter plea to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and other senior Indian ministers. "Urging MEA India to please help!!! There have to (be) exceptions to the rule," she said. NISAU-UK has also issued an advisory for Indian students hoping to start an academic term in the New Year and confirmed that under UK Home Office rules, their applicability for the new Graduate or post-study work visa will not be impacted adversely. "If students are required to either continue their current studies or commence a new course by distance or blended learning due to COVID-19, they will still be eligible to switch into the Graduate route on a concessionary basis if they spent some time studying outside the UK," the advisory notes. "Students who are completing their course in summer 2021, including those who commenced a one-year Masters programme in September 2020, will benefit from this concession if they enter the UK on or before April 6, 2021 and complete the final semester of their studies in the UK," it adds. While a majority of Indian students had managed to fly out of the UK for what is a customary Christmas and New Year holiday period, a handful of them were caught out by the cancellation of the India-UK air bubble arrangement from December 22 after England recorded a worrying spike in coronavirus cases as a result of a new highly-transmissible variant of the deadly virus. "As per our analysis, around 70-78 per cent of students who had planned to go to India for Christmas break had already left for India before December 22. The remaining students, till date, are not reporting any serious concerns due to the travel ban or a possible extension," said Prerit Souda, spokesperson for the Indian National Students Association (INSA) UK. "Students who were planning to return to the UK for January intake or next-session start are taking a wait and watch approach with possible travel by mid or late January if the travel ban is removed. There have been two cases that have come to our attention wherein a family crisis had created a need for emergency travel. We have passed on these cases to relevant authorities," he said. The Indian High Commission in London said that it is on standby for any "emergency visa" requirements. However, organising flights during a travel ban will prove a challenge for anyone desperate to travel to India. Meanwhile, the UK Home Office updated its visa advisory on December 23 to confirm that anyone concerned about overstaying their UK visa during the current air travel suspension can apply for an "exceptional assurance" by email. "If you intend to leave the UK but have not been able to do so and you have a visa or leave that expires between December 1, 2020 and January 31, 2021 you may request additional time to stay, known as ‘exceptional assurance’," the Home Office said. "We are considering all requests and we will contact you to let you know the outcome as soon as we can. During this time, you will not be treated as an overstayer or suffer any detriment in any future immigration applications for this consideration period," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-for-emergency-travel-as-india-extends-uk-travel-ban-over-mutant-coronavirus-933278.html
30-12-2020||National||UK approval of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine positive news, waiting for India's approval: SII||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Thursday termed the approval for the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in the UK as encouraging news and said that the company would now wait for the final nod for the medication in India. Earlier in the day, the UK approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by scientists at Oxford University and produced by AstraZeneca for human use, the second coronavirus vaccine to be cleared for rollout in Britain after the Pfizer/BioNTech jabs. The Oxford vaccine, which also has a tie-up with the SII, was being evaluated by the British regulator - the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) - after the final cut of data was submitted by the government last week. "This is great and encouraging news. We will wait for the final approval from Indian regulators," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a statement. In order to introduce an urgently needed vaccine against Covid-19 in India, SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. The Pune-based company has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccine in the country. The company has already stockpiled around 50 million dosages of the vaccine and aims to produce up to 100 million dosages per month by March next year. Besides SII, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have also applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines. The approval for the vaccine by the MHRA means the vaccine is both "safe and effective" and the government's Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said that the National Health Service (NHS) will prioritise giving the first of the two-dose vaccine to those in the most high-risk groups quickly. The vaccine, codenamed AZD1222 or ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, was developed at Oxford University with support from the British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. Britain has ordered 100 million doses of the Oxford jab, with 40 million expected to be available by the end of March. ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 is made from a virus (ChAdOx1), which is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees, that has been genetically changed so that it is impossible for it to replicate in humans. Once inside a human cell, the genetic instructions for the spike protein need to be "photocopied" many times, a process known as "transcription". Once the spike protein is made, the immune system will react to it and this pre-trains the immune system to identify a real Covid-19 infection. So, when the person vaccinated is confronted with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, their immune system is pre-trained and ready to attack it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-approval-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-positive-news-waiting-for-indias-approval-sii-933281.html
30-12-2020||National||Diplomatic talks with China on; stuck Indian sailors to reach India soon: Mansukh Mandaviya||The government on Wednesday said 39 Indian sailors stuck in China will be brought back soon as diplomatic talks are on with the neighbouring country. Two cargo vessels with a total of 39 Indians on board have been on anchorage in Chinese waters as they were not allowed to unload their cargo though some other ships have managed to do so. "Diplomatic talks are going on for this successfully. Our seafarers will come to India soon," Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in reply to a query about sailors being stuck in China for the last seven months during Cabinet briefing. China on December 25 had said that there is no 'link' between stranded Indian ship crew on its Chinese ports and its strained relations with India and Australia. The statement had come a day after the External Affairs Ministry had said that two cargo vessels with a total of 39 Indians on board have been on anchorage in Chinese waters as they were not allowed to unload their cargo. "There is a considerable amount of stress on the crew members on account of this unprecedented situation," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said. Srivastava said bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand is on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13 and it has 23 Indian sailors. Another vessel, MV Anastasia with 16 Indian nationals as its crew, is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20, waiting for discharge of its cargo, he had said at a media briefing. "Our Embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China, requesting that the ships be allowed to dock and/or the crew be allowed to be changed," he had said. Asked about India’s concern relating to the Indian crew members of the ships and whether China’s decision on this issue has related to the current situation between India, China and Australia, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin last week had told a media briefing that "we stated repeatedly that China has clear stipulations on quarantine measures". "Concerning this, China has stayed in close communication with the Indian side and responding to their requests as well as providing necessary assistance for them,” he had said. "As far as I understand, China allows the crew change while meeting certain quarantine conditions. But this Jingtang port is not in the list for such crew changes,” he had said but did not refer to the 16 crew members of Caofeidian port. China last month had blamed the freight forwarder of Jag Anand' ship for the impasse, saying he is not letting the ship to leave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diplomatic-talks-with-china-on-stuck-indian-sailors-to-reach-india-soon-mansukh-mandaviya-933285.html
30-12-2020||National||Centre-farmers meeting: Union Ministers join union leaders to share langar food arranged by protesting farmers||Three union ministers joined farm leaders on Wednesday to share 'langar' food arranged by protesting farmers during their sixth round of talks to resolve the deadlock over new farm laws. The 'langar' (community kitchen) food arrived in a van at the meeting venue, Vigyan Bhawan, after around two hours of discussions had taken place and the two sides took a break for tea and snacks. Sources present at the venue said that Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash joined the farmer leaders to share their langar food during the break. Farmer leaders said that the talks were continuing and they were going 'agenda wise'. Before start of the meeting, some union leaders had said farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands. "After new farm laws were implemented in Uttar Pradesh, prices of crops have fallen by 50 per cent. Crops are being bought at below MSP. Paddy is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal. We will raise these issues in the meeting," Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters. "We will not leave Delhi till our demands are met. We will celebrate New year at borders" he said. Punjab farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa came for the meeting carrying placards of media reports of fraudulent cases reported in Guna and Hosangabad after implementation of the new laws. "We don't have any new agenda. The government is maligning us by saying farmers are not coming for talks. So we gave December 29 date for talks. We have given them our clear agenda but the government is insisting that laws are beneficial for farmers," Sirsa said. Showing media reports, he said more fraudulent cases are being reported after the implementation of the new laws and these issues will be raised in the meeting. The meeting between three union ministers and representatives of 41 farmer groups began at around 2.30 pm at Vigyan Bhawan. Tomar is heading the government side, which also included Goyal and Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab. The sixth round of talks between the two sides is being held after a huge gap. The fifth round of talks was held on December 5. The protesting farmer unions are sticking to their position that the discussions will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. On Monday, the Centre invited the unions for the next round of talks on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a "logical solution" with an "open mind" to the prolonged impasse over the three new agri laws that were enacted in September. But in its letter on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation which represents the farmer unions, said the modalities for repealing the three contentious laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) must be part of the agenda. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-farmers-meeting-union-ministers-join-union-leaders-to-share-langar-food-arranged-by-protesting-farmers-933290.html
30-12-2020||National||Centre approves Rs 3,000 crore project for Odisha's Paradip port||The government on Wednesday said it has approved a Rs 3,000 crore project to turn Paradip Port into a world-class port by setting up a dock. The decision to set up a western dock was taken by the Union Cabinet in its meeting held on Wednesday, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said. "The Cabinet has approved setting up of Western dock at Paradip port at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore which will transform the port into a world-class and modern port. ....The decision has been taken with a futuristic approach as Prime Minister has been laying emphasis on development of eastern states," Mandaviya said briefing the media after the Cabinet meeting. Paradip port in Odisha is one of the 12 major ports under the control of the Centre. Mandaviya said that the port handles the cargo of about 115 MT which is likely to increase substantially to about 400 MT by 2030 and the decision to set up western dock was taken to attract large vessels with capacity of handling 1.5 tonne cargo. He said the port after the project can easily handle very large vessels for which 18 metre draft is required and these ship can dock here resulting in reduction in logistics cost. The minister said this was the need of the hour to boost EXIM trade in the current global competitive environment and will provide employment to lakhs of people. He said based on the prime minister's stress on "waste to best", it has also been decided to sell the dredging material and dredging material worth Rs 86 crore have already been sold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-rs-3000-crore-project-for-odishas-paradip-port-933293.html
30-12-2020||National||SC stays release of 10 women Navy officers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the impending release of 10 women short service commission officers on December 31 from Indian Navy. Acting on their plea for permanent Commission, a vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose granted the interim relief to women officers. The top court sought a response from the Centre and the Chief of Naval Staff on two separate petitions and fixed the matter for consideration on January 19. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for the petitioners Annie Nagaraja, Cdr Vijayeta and others, submitted a petition seeking similar relief for Army officers and it has been listed for consideration on January 19. She sought a stay on the orders issued on December 18 for release of the officers. After a brief hearing through video conferencing, the bench ordered, "We will direct that the matter be listed on January 19, 2021, along with pending writ petitions. Meanwhile, there will be a stay on order of December 18." The court, however, said the interim order would not result in any equity in favour of women officers. The bench ordered a separate plea filed by Lt Cdr Shibu Devasia and others for listing before a regular bench on reopening of courts on January 4. The court restrained the authorities from discharging the officers on December 31 in this case as well. The court clarified that this order was without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties and the petitioners would not claim any equity on the basis of the interim direction. On October 29, the court set a new deadline of December 31, 2020 for the Union government to grant permanent commission to eligible women Navy officers. In its March 17 verdict, the court allowed permanent commission to serving women officers in Indian Navy, saying that there cannot be gender discrimination with women officers in Navy after statutory bar was lifted by Centre to allow their entry in the force.  In June, the Centre filed an application in the top court for extension of the deadline by six months in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-release-of-10-women-navy-officers-933296.html
30-12-2020||National||Transparency activists find fault with Search Committee's short-listing for appointments in CIC||Transparency activists have accused the Search Committee set up under the instructions of the Prime Minister to shortlist candidates for the post of Information Commissioners in the Central Information Commission of "vitiating" the appointment process by going beyond its mandate and considering people who had not applied for the posts. After a perusal of the files uploaded by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on the recent appointments in the CIC, the Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS) said it did not reveal the criteria used by the Search Committee headed by the Cabinet Secretary to consider names from outside the list of applicants while remaining silent on who all were considered. In its analysis of the documents, the SNS highlighted that the RTI Act does not provide for the setting up of a Search Committee and it is constituted on the directions of the Prime Minister, who heads the Selection Committee. It said the note from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) recording the approval of the Prime Minister for setting up the Search Committee reiterated that it is being constituted “for short-listing of candidates for the post of Information Commissioners in the Central Information Commission”. A separate Search Committee with the Cabinet Secretary as the head was also set up for short-listing candidates for the post of Chief Information Commissioner. The SNS said the role of the Search Committee was "limited to creating a shortlist" from among the persons who have applied in response to the advertisement issued by the DoPT but it did not restrict itself to short-listing from among those applied and considered names of other persons as suggested by members of the committee. "Not only is this beyond the explicit mandate for which the search committee was constituted, but it also vitiates the whole appointment process by allowing it to be manipulated arbitrarily and opens it up to external influence," it said. Quoting the documents, the SNS said seven persons were shortlisted for six vacancies and one of them was journalist Uday Mahurkar, who had not applied. "It is not clear on what basis the committee determined his interest for the post. Finally, he was selected as an Information Commissioner by the Selection Committee headed by the PM despite the dissent note given by the leader of the Opposition who is also a member of the panel," it said. Referring to the February 2019 Supreme Court judgment, the SNS said it would be "appropriate" for the Search Committee to make the criteria for short-listing the candidates public so that it is ensured that short-listing is done on the basis of objective and rational criteria. However, the SNS said, a perusal of the records shows that no such objective or rational criteria were recorded in the deliberations. DH had on December 25 reported that Congress' Leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is a member of the Selection Committee, had objected to the appointment of Mahurkar claiming that he was an "open supporter" of the ruling BJP and demanded that the Cabinet Secretary should explain whether he was under pressure to include him in the shortlist. Chowdhury had also questioned the way the short-listing was done and how Mahurkar found his way into the short-list. The SNS said the Selection Committee failed to fill all the vacancies despite knowledge about the same. It said at the time of deliberation of these appointments, the post of the Chief and five posts of information commissioners were vacant in the CIC. As the committee chose an incumbent commissioner Y K Sinha for the post of the chief, the vacancies had risen to six but the committee recommended only three names for the post of information commissioners leading to 50% of the vacancies remaining unfilled. As of Wednesday, it said, over 38,000 appeals and complaints are pending in the CIC and it takes around two years for a matter to come up for hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transparency-activists-find-fault-with-search-committees-short-listing-for-appointments-in-cic-933299.html
30-12-2020||National||Cabinet nod to opening Indian missions in Estonia, Paraguay, Dominican Republic||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the opening of Indian missions in Estonia, Paraguay and Dominican Republic, a move that will help promote trade and cultural relations with these countries, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always pitched for maintaining good relations with all countries and the move was part of the efforts to further strengthen ties with other nations. An official statement said the opening of Indian missions in these countries will help expand India's diplomatic footprint, deepen political relations, enable growth of bilateral trade and investment and facilitate stronger people-to-people contacts. It said the decision will also bolster India's political outreach in multilateral fora and help garner support for the country's foreign policy objectives. "The objective of our foreign policy is to build a conducive environment for India's growth and development through partnerships with friendly countries. There are presently missions and posts across the world which serve as conduits of our relations with partner countries," it said. The statement said the decision to open the three new missions is a forward-looking step in pursuit of India's national priority of growth and development or 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas'. "Enhancement of India's diplomatic presence will, inter-alia, provide market access for Indian companies and bolster Indian exports of goods and services.  This would have a direct impact in augmenting domestic production and employment in line with our goal of a self-reliant India or 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'," it said. The statement said Indian missions in these countries will also better assist the Indian community and protect their interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-nod-to-opening-indian-missions-in-estonia-paraguay-dominican-republic-933305.html
30-12-2020||National||CDSCO expert panel to reconvene on Jan 1 to consider emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccines||Indian drug regulators on Wednesday did not grant emergency approval to any of the three vaccine manufacturers who approached the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) seeking such permission for the early roll out of their Covid-19 vaccine in India. The applications of Pfizer; Serum Institute of India, Pune; and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, were reviewed by a subject expert committee of the CDSCO. While Pfizer sought more time to present their case, additional data submitted by the SII and Bharat Biotech were perused by the panel, but no decision was taken. "The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) in the CDSCO met today in the afternoon to consider the emergency use authorisation (EUA) request of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech Pvt. Ltd," Union health ministry said in a statement. “The analysis of the additional data and information is going on. The SEC will convene again on January 1, 2021,” the ministry said. "Further time was requested on behalf of Pfizer. The additional data and information presented by SII and Bharat Biotech Pvt. Ltd was perused and analysed by the SEC. The analysis of the additional data and information is going on. The SEC will convene again on January 1, 2021," it said. The CDSCO meeting took place on the same day when the UK Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency gave its approval to the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. This is the same vaccine that would be manufactured and sold by Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest producer of vaccines, with the brand name 'Covishield'. While the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is halfway through the third phase of the clinical trial, the Serum Institute has not published the results of its clinical evaluation on 1,600 Indians. Pfizer, on the other hand, sought a waiver from an Indian trial. SII had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for Covishield on December 6 while the Bharat Biotech had sought a similar nod for its indigenously developed Covaxin on December 7. Pfizer had applied for a similiar approval for its vaccine on December 4.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-expert-panel-to-reconvene-on-jan-1-to-consider-emergency-use-authorisation-for-covid-19-vaccines-933308.html
30-12-2020||National||Bihar RJD leader Shyam Rajak claims 17 JD (U) MLAs ready to join party||A day after it urged Nitish Kumar to play an active role at the national-level politics and appoint Tejashwi Yadav as the Bihar chief minister, the RJD on Monday claimed that 17 out of 43 JD(U) MLAs were in touch with the party and “ready to cross over the fence for greener pastures.” Senior RJD leader and former minister Shyam Rajak, who earlier this year crossed over from the JD(U) to RJD, made the claim. “At least 17 JD(U) MLAs are ready to join the RJD. But we have adopted a wait and watch approach as they (defectors) may lose membership of the House under the anti-defection law. We have told them that at least 28 JD(U) MLAs would be required to cross over the fence to escape the anti-defection law,” said Rajak, who was industries minister in Nitish’s Cabinet. The statement comes a day after another senior RJD leader Uday Narayan Choudhary asked Nitish to dump the BJP-led NDA as the saffron party was trying to weaken him under a well-crafted design. “Making six JD(U) MLAs join the BJP in Arunachal is just one such example of how the saffron camp wants to make you irrelevant. Before you are decimated, join hands with us. Make Tejashwi Bihar chief minister and we (Opposition) will project you as the Opposition’s prime ministerial candidate for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” Choudhary, a former associate of Nitish, but now in the RJD, told Nitish. However, the JD(U), which admonished the BJP for causing defections in its party in Arunachal, is not very happy over the RJD offer. “The JD(U) is united. Under the leadership of Nitish, Bihar is making progress by leaps and bounds. The statements by certain RJD leaders are a figment of their imagination,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad. Notably, the JD(U) had won 43 seats in the 243-member House, while the RJD emerged as the single largest party with 75 MLAs in the last month poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-rjd-leader-shyam-rajak-claims-17-jd-u-mlas-ready-to-join-party-933325.html
30-12-2020||National||Union Cabinet approves export of Akash missile system||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the export of indigenous Aakash surface-to-air missiles to friendly countries with the aim of boosting India’s defence export that remained at a minuscule level for years. The move comes four decades after defence scientists led by then DRDO chief APJ Abdul Kalam proposed developing five indigenous ballistic missile systems including Aakash to make India self-reliant in missile technology. With a range of 25 km, the Akash air defence missile was inducted by the Indian Air Force in 2014 and by the Indian Army a year later. Akash is country’s important missile with over 96 percent indigenisation. Akash is a Surface to Air Missile with a range of 25 Kms. The export version of Akash will be different from System currently deployed with Indian Armed Forces. The export version of Akash will be different from the system currently deployed with Indian armed forces. “After its induction, interest has been shown in Akash missile by many friendly countries during international exhibitions Def-Expo and Aero India shows. The Cabinet approval will facilitate Indian manufactures to participate in the RFI/RFP (tendering process) issued by various countries,” a defence ministry spokesperson said in a statement. So far, Indian defence exports were limited to the supply of parts and components as export of big platforms was minimal. The Cabinet decision, according to an official, would help the country improve its defence products and make them globally competitive. Though India remains the world's second-largest importer of arms, its position as an exporter comes at the 23rd spot out of the world’s top 25 arms exporters, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute that tracks arms trade around the world. Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius are the three biggest recipients of Indian arms. A panel comprising the Ministers of Defence and External Affairs and the National Security Advisor has also been set up to approve high-value platforms like missile, aircraft and radars on a case-by-case basis. Besides Akash, interest has been shown for coastal surveillance systems, radars and air platforms. After successfully exporting Dhruv advanced lightweight helicopters to a handful of nations, the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited now plans to woo other countries to buy the home-made Tejas light combat aircraft, Dhruv ALH and its armed version, Rudra. The Cabinet decision comes ten months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi set up a target of $5 billion worth of defence export in the next five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-export-of-akash-missile-system-933328.html
30-12-2020||National||Cabinet approves MoU between India and Bhutan on cooperation in peaceful uses of outer space||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Bhutan on peaceful uses of outer space, a statement said. The MoU, which was signed between the two sides on November 19, shall enable India and Bhutan to pursue cooperation in potential interest areas such as remote sensing of the earth, satellite communication and satellite-based navigation, space science and planetary exploration, use of spacecraft and space systems and ground system and application of space technology. "This MoU would lead to setting up a Joint Working Group, drawing members from DOS/ISRO and the Ministry of Information and Communications (MoIC) of Bhutan, which will further work out the plan of action, including the time-frame and the means of implementation," the statement said. Cooperation with Bhutan through this MoU would lead to a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity, it added. India and Bhutan have been discussing establishing formal space cooperation.  A template for inter-governmental MoU for space cooperation was shared with the Ministry of External Affairs in November 2017 for taking it up further with Bhutan.  This draft was discussed along with other cooperative proposals during the bilateral meeting in February. After a few iterations through diplomatic channels, both sides arrived at a workable draft of the MoU and it was processed for internal approvals.  After obtaining necessary approvals, the MoU was signed on November 19 by both sides and exchanged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-mou-between-india-and-bhutan-on-cooperation-in-peaceful-uses-of-outer-space-933332.html
30-12-2020||National||SC refuses interim stay on rules of 3 year practice to be Civil Judge||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay the changes in rules making it mandatory for an advocate to practice for three years before appearing as a Civil Judge (junior division) in the state. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose, however, issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh government and the High Court's registrar general on a writ petition filed by Regalagadda Venkatesh. The petitioner sought a direction to allow submission of his application, saying there used to be a time when the law was the last option. To this, the bench said, "fortunately, the law has become one of the most competitive subjects of late". Senior advocate N K Mody, appearing for the petitioner, sought a stay on the notification issued on December 3 whereby applications were invited for appointment to the post of Civil Judge (junior division) in the Andhra Pradesh State Judicial Service.  The petitioner challenged the validity of Rule 5(2)(a)(i) of Andhra Pradesh State Judicial Service Rules, 2007, as notified and amended on July 28, 2017, bringing in three years of practice as eligibility criteria for being violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. He questioned the eligibility requirement of three years of practice as an advocate. He also said that the last date for submission of applications was January 2, there should be a stay on the notification. The counsel said that a fresh law graduate should also be allowed to appear in the examination, in terms of the Supreme Court's 2002 judgment in 'All India Judges Association' wherein the recommendation made by the Shetty Commission for three years practice for Civil Judge (junior division) was done away with. The court, however, said, "there was no such urgency to entertain this petition during the vacation". It fixed the matter for consideration on January 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-interim-stay-on-rules-of-3-year-practice-to-be-civil-judge-933333.html
30-12-2020||National||Farmers' stir: Deadlock persists, Centre offers to set up committee for better implementation of MSP system||The government and farmers on Wednesday claimed forward movement on the latter's concerns over the amendments to the electricity act and on decriminalising stubble burning, raising hopes of a resolution to the 35-day agitation on the borders of the national capital. However, there was no immediate solution in sight on the main demands of the farmers for the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farm produce. The next meeting is scheduled for Jan. 4. The Center has made it clear to the farmers' unions that the three laws will not be repealed but expressed readiness to address specific concerns about the laws. The agitating farmers were expected to consult lawyers on Friday over the possibility of accommodating their concerns without repealing the three laws. "Issues related to stubble burning and electricity (Act) were sorted out in today's meeting," Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters after the sixth round of formal talks with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Prakash. Speaking to reporters after the five-hour meeting, Tomar said there was an agreement on decriminalizing stubble burning and retaining the subsidy on electricity given to farmers for irrigation whenever the related laws are amended. Tomar also renewed the appeal to the farmers to allow elders and children among the protesters to return home given the cold wave conditions prevailing in the national capital. "Talks were positive today. The government has been saying that we should end agitation and form a committee. But we did not listen to them. We won't take back our movement," Balkaran Singh Brar, president of the Punjab unit of All India Kisan Sabha, told reporters. "There is still deadlock over the repeal of the three farm laws and a consensus could not be reached on MSP," Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-deadlock-persists-centre-offers-to-set-up-committee-for-better-implementation-of-msp-system-933334.html
30-12-2020||National||CBI arrests 3 GST officials, Odisha-based education trust functionary in Rs 10 lakh bribery case||The CBI has arrested three GST officials and a private individual in a Rs 10-lakh bribery case involving tax issues of an Odisha-based education trust, officials said Wednesday. They said the agency laid a trap to take into custody GST and Central Excise Superintendents -- Artabhanjan Kar, Pradip Kumar Acharya and NN Sahoo -- and Accounts Officer of Centurion Institute of Technology in Jatni, Khurda, Ashutosh Padhy, they said. They were caught exchanging the alleged bribe of Rs 10 lakh between them, the agency officials said. Detailing how the case unfolded, the officials said the CBI has registered a case alleging a notice was issued to the Centurion Institute, imparting higher education in Management, Engineering etc, for submission of some documents for the financial year 2017-18. The accused officials then went for an inspection and audit of the institute in the third week of December. "It was further alleged that the accused demanded a bribe of Rs 10 lakh from the concerned official of the said Institute to settle the GST issues at a very less amount of tax and not to raise violation matters," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. He said searches were conducted at the premises of the accused at Jatni (Khurdha) and Bhubaneswar during which incriminating documents were recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-3-gst-officials-odisha-based-education-trust-functionary-in-rs-10-lakh-bribery-case-933346.html
30-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Govt extends ITR filing deadline for third time; farmers' meet with Centre makes no headway||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Govt extends the ITR filing deadline for the third time; the government-farmers’ meet makes no headway; The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till January 31 and European Union and Chinese leaders meet to approve a major investment pact.  Here are the top news of December 30, 2020: The government on Wednesday offered to set up a committee on better implementation of the MSP procurement system and also put on hold proposed laws on electricity charges and stubble burning penal provisions, but union leaders stuck to their main demand of the repeal of three contentious farm laws as their sixth round of negotiations continued for more than four hours. The meeting between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting against three farm laws on borders of the national capital saw the two sides breaking the bread, but not the ice. While the ministers joined the farmer leaders to share their langar (community kitchen) food during the lunch break, the union representatives accepted the beverage offered by the government during the evening tea break. Extending the deadline for the third time, the government on Wednesday allowed individuals to file income tax returns for the 2019-20 fiscal till January 10. The deadline for companies and individuals who need to get their accounts audited too has been extended by 15 days till February 15, the finance ministry said in a statement.The due date for filing income tax returns (ITR) by individuals and companies was December 31, 2020, and January 31, 2021, respectively. The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till January 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday."However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. European Union and Chinese leaders meet by videoconference Wednesday to approve a major investment pact that Brussels hopes will open up lucrative opportunities despite concerns about Beijing's rights record. The EU said its chiefs Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel will talk with China's President Xi Jinping to "conclude in principle the negotiations" on the accord, after seven years of painstaking bargaining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-govt-extends-itr-filing-deadline-for-third-time-farmers-meet-with-centre-makes-no-headway-933355.html
30-12-2020||National||Digital India delivered outcomes effectively, substantially amid pandemic: Prasad||The efficacy and strength of `Digital India' were proven during the pandemic as the programme delivered the outcomes "effectively and substantially", IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Wednesday. Prasad said the programme's role in bridging the digital divide and bringing in inclusion was "so evidently" in play during the challenging times of pandemic. "Digital India is a transformative programme, launched in 2015...five-and-a-half years down the line, the pandemic was a big opportunity to test the efficacy of Digital India. "I would never say that everything was completely extraordinary but the Digital India ecosystem delivered very effectively and substantially," Prasad said speaking at Digital India Awards' virtual ceremony. He said it is a mark of accomplishment that Digital India Awards 2020 are being conferred digitally this time. Lauding the communications and IT sector for its role in enabling business continuity during the pandemic, Prasad said the Centre, states, various government agencies, and district administration all ensured digital delivery of services. Total 22 digital governance initiatives/ products by government entities under six categories received Digital India Awards 2020 for designing and implementing innovative citizen-centric solutions and improving the ease of living for citizens. President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the Digital India Awards via video conferencing. Awards under Jury Choice were given to Arogya Setu and eOffice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-india-delivered-outcomes-effectively-substantially-amid-pandemic-prasad-933359.html
30-12-2020||National||PM Modi reviews projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore in 'Pragati' meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed a number of projects with a total cost of nearly Rs one lakh crore in 10 states and union territories as he chaired the 34th 'Pragati' meeting on Wednesday. A number of programmes and grievances were also reviewed, an official statement said, adding that the projects of the ministries of railways, road transport and highways, and housing and urban affairs were discussed. These projects pertained to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. During the interaction, two centrepiece government programmes -- Ayushman Bharat and Jal Jeevan Mission -- were also reviewed and grievances related to the consumer affairs ministry came up for discussion as well, the statement said. The prime minister directed officials to ensure and expedite comprehensive resolution of the grievances, it said. For the projects being reviewed, he asked the chief secretaries of the respective states and UTs to ensure early resolution of pending issues and target completion by the due date. He said all states should strive for 100 percent enrolment in Ayushman Bharat at the earliest. He also encouraged states and UTs to draw a roadmap for achieving the targets in Mission Mode under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the statement said. In the 33 Pragati meetings so far, 280 projects along with 50 programmes and schemes besides grievances across 18 sectors have been taken up, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-projects-worth-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-in-pragati-meeting-933370.html
30-12-2020||National||India cannot accept any unilateral change of LAC: Rajnath on continuing border standoff with China in Ladakh||As the over seven-month-long border standoff with China showed no signs of solution, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said India cannot accept any unilateral change of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and hoped the Ladakh deadlock will be resolved through talks. Asserting that India has always been in favour of peace, Singh also said the country can never compromise on its dignity and self-respect. The defence minister said there was a possibility of more talks at the military and diplomatic levels. India and China are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May and have held multiple rounds of diplomatic and military parleys without any concrete outcome. "No, how can this happen? The situation will remain the same as before. India cannot accept unilateral change," Singh told PTI-Bhasha when asked whether China was trying to change the LAC to make it a permanent one. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. "The talks are going on....There is a possibility of more talks at the military and diplomatic levels. India has always been in favour of peace. So, we hope a solution will be found out through talks," Singh said. The defence minister also said India wants to maintain good relations with all the neighbouring countries. "China is our neighbour and there should be no aggression on their part. We want to maintain good relations with neighbouring countries. The history of India has also been that we have never attacked any country or occupied one inch of land of others. But it is also a fact that India can never compromise on its dignity and self-respect," he said. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the armies of India and China in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. India and China held the last round of diplomatic talks on December 18 during which they agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the "earliest". It was agreed at the talks that the next round of military dialogue should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of troops in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols. However, dates for the ninth round of military talks are yet to be finalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cannot-accept-any-unilateral-change-of-lac-rajnath-on-continuing-border-standoff-with-china-in-ladakh-933384.html
30-12-2020||National||High level panel to guide INSACOG consortium formed to track coronavirus strains||A high-level inter-ministerial steering Committee will guide Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), formed to ascertain the status of a new variant of the coronavirus, Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, said on Wednesday. The committee will have a Scientific Advisory Group for technical guidance, she said. The government had launched the INSACOG, comprising 10 labs, in the wake of the new strain of the coronavirus being detected in the UK. Twenty cases of the new strain have been detected so far in India, prompting the government to ramp up genome surveillance. The overall aim of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium is to monitor the genomic variations in the virus on a regular basis through a multi-laboratory network. This vital research consortium will also assist in developing potential vaccines in the future, the DBT said. “Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary DBT, informed that INSACOG will have a high level Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee which will provide guidance and oversight to the consortium specially for policy matters and it will have a Scientific Advisory Group for scientific and technical guidance,” a DBT statement said. The consortium will ascertain the status of new variant of SARS-CoV-2 (SARS-CoV-2 VUI 202012/01) in the country, establish sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implication, and determine the genomic variants in the unusual events and trends (super-spreader events, high mortality/morbidity trend areas). Coordinated by the DBT along with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, ICMR and CSIR, the strategy and roadmap of the INSACOG has been prepared. The new variant, which was found in the UK, especially in the London region, is defined by multiple mutations in the spike region, as well as mutations in other genomic regions.   In the backdrop of the emergence of the newly identified variant of the novel SARS-CoV-2 Virus in the UK, South Africa and some other parts of the world, the government has taken action to accelerate virus surveillance, genome sequencing and characterisation, the DBT said. These mutations are rapidly increasing the number of variants of the virus. This variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated potential to increase the reproductive number with an estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70 percent, the DBT said. INSACOG will monitor the genomic variations on a regular basis through the multi-laboratory network. Knowledge generated through this vital research consortium will also assist in developing diagnostics and potential therapeutics and vaccines in the future, the statement added. DBT-NIBMG, as the coordinating unit of the genome sequencing consortium, will closely work with a nodal unit of NCDC on activities like SOPs, data annotation, data analysis, data release. The NCDC will maintain a database of all samples of the new variants of public health significance. The data will be epidemiologically analysed, interpreted and shared with state/district for investigation, contact tracing and planning response strategies. All the genomic sequencing data will be maintained in a national database at two sites, DBT-NIBMG, Kalyani and CSIR-IGIB, New Delhi. The virus isolated will be deposited in the notified SARS-CoV-2 virus repository Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad and NIV, Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-level-panel-to-guide-insacog-consortium-formed-to-track-coronavirus-strains-933402.html
30-12-2020||National||DRDO, Indian Navy conduct successful maiden trial of SAHAYAK-NG air-droppable container||The DRDO along with the Indian Navy has conducted a successful maiden trial of the SAHAYAK-NG air-droppable container from an IL-38SD aircraft off the coast of Goa, an official statement said on Wednesday. SAHAYAK-NG is India's first indigenously designed and developed air droppable container, said the Defence Ministry's statement. It is aided by GPS, can carry a payload of up to 50 kg and can be dropped from a heavy aircraft, the ministry said. Two labs of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and private company Avantel were involved in its design and development. "The trial was conducted by the Indian Navy to enhance its operational logistics capabilities and provide critical engineering stores to ships which are deployed more than 2000 km from the coast," the ministry mentioned. It reduces the requirement of ships to come close to the coast to collect spares and stores, the ministry stated. SAHAYAK-NG is an advanced version of SAHAYAK Mk I air droppable container.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-indian-navy-conduct-successful-maiden-trial-of-sahayak-ng-air-droppable-container-933417.html
30-12-2020||National||ISRO chairman K Sivan gets one year extension||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K Sivan has been given a year’s extension by the appointments committee of the Union cabinet. Sivan was due for superannuation on January 14, 2021. Besides the chairmanship of ISRO, Sivan will now also continue as Secretary, Department of Space till January 14, 2022. He had taken charge of the posts from A K Kiran Kumar on January 14, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-chairman-k-sivan-gets-one-year-extension-933419.html
30-12-2020||National||Beijing reminds New Delhi 2003 Vajpayee-Wen declaration, claims India already recognised Tibet as part of China||Invoking a 2003 joint declaration signed by India’s then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and his counterpart Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, Beijing on Wednesday reminded New Delhi that it had already recognized Tibet Autonomous Region as part of the territory of the communist country. The Embassy of the People’s Republic of China issued a statement denouncing the Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) 2020, which the United States President Donald Trump signed into law recently. The TPSA 2020, which was passed by the US Congress earlier this month, reaffirmed the rights of the Tibetan Buddhists to choose the next incarnation of the Dalai Lama without any interference of China. It also acknowledged the legitimacy of the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE) elected by the exiled Tibetans as well as the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGiE). The TPiE as well as the TGiE, which is formally known as the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), are based in India. “In 2003, China and India signed the Declaration on Principles for Relations and Comprehensive Cooperation Between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of India, in which India recognizes that Xizang Autonomous Region is part of the territory of the People's Republic of China and India does not allow Tibetans to engage in political activities against China in India,” said Ji Rong, the spokesperson of the embassy of the communist country in New Delhi. “This commitment was reaffirmed in subsequent bilateral documents between the two countries.” The declaration was signed when Vajpayee visited Beijing from June 22 to 27, 2003 on an invitation from Wen. The two leaders signed the declaration on June 23, 2003. India did recognize the Tibet Autonomous Region as part of the territory of China in the declaration. It also reiterated that it did not allow Tibetans to engage in anti-China political activities in India. The declaration also had Beijing expressing its appreciation for the position of India on the issue and reiterating that it was firmly opposed to any attempt and action aimed at splitting China and bringing about “independence of Tibet”. Beijing on Wednesday stated that the media in India should take “an objective and fair stance on issues concerning sovereignty and territorial integrity of China, and grasp the “highly sensitive” nature of issues related to Xizang (Tibet). It stated that the media should look at the economic and social progress of Tibet Autonomous Region objectively, and do more to help China-India bilateral relations move forward instead of advocating playing ‘Tibet Card’ to meddle in China’s internal affairs and further damage the bilateral relations. The TPSA 2020 passed by the US Congress last week has been hailed by the Tibetans, who were concerned over the possibility of the Chinese Government making an attempt to install someone loyal to it as the 15th Dalai Lama after the death of the incumbent and use him as a puppet to fizzle out the global campaign against its repressive rule in Tibet. The incumbent and the 14th Dalai Lama has been living in exile in India since his 1959 escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 1950-51. He has been an icon for the movement for “genuine autonomy” for Tibet and the Tibetans. But as the Nobel laureate Buddhist monk turned 85 on July 6 this year, speculation is rife over the fate of the movement beyond his lifetime. New Delhi, however, has not officially made any comment on the TPSA 2020 that the American President recently signed into law, empowering the US authorities to impose sanctions on the Chinese Government officials, who might try to interfere in the process of selecting the next incarnation of the Dalai Lama, just as they had done in case of the 11th Panchen Lama in 1995. Beijing still invoked the 2003 Vajpayee-Wen declaration – apparently to dissuade India from making any change in its position to exert pressure on China on the issue of Tibet. The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE or the CTA on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he escaped from Tibet and arrived in India. The CTA calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Beijing accuses the Dalai Lama and the CTA of running a separatist campaign against China. Though New Delhi publicly maintains that the Dalai Lama is an honoured guest of India, it never formally acknowledged the CTA as the exiled government of the erstwhile independent Tibet. China, however, has always been objecting to India’s tacit support to the CTA and often demanded its closure. China’s aggressive moves in late April and early May to unilaterally change the status quo along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh resulted in a military stand-off and took the relations between the two nations to a new low. The stand-off also triggered calls in India for the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to review New Delhi’s position and speak up against China’s rule and violation of human rights in Tibet and thus to put pressure on China. A section within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s mentor Sangh Parivar as well as some former diplomats and strategic affairs experts also called upon the government to send out a strong message to China by conferring India’s highest civilian award – Bharat Ratna – on the Dalai Lama. Beijing dismissed the TPSA 2020 as an attempt by the US to interfere in internal affairs of China. It stated that reincarnation of living Buddhas including the Dalai Lama must comply with Chinese laws and regulations and follow religious rituals and historical conventions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-reminds-new-delhi-2003-vajpayee-wen-declaration-claims-india-already-recognised-tibet-as-part-of-china-933426.html
30-12-2020||National||Centre lifts import curbs on porcine intestinal mucosa||The commerce ministry on Wednesday lifted import restriction on porcine intestinal mucosa which includes guts and bladder. The import is subject to obtainment of sanitary import permit from the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. "Import of only porcine intestinal mucosa [guts, bladders and stomach of animals (other than fish), whole and pieces thereof, fresh, chilled, frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked] is free," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said in a notification. It, however, added import of other items under HS Code 05040039 (guts of other animals for natural food casings) will continue to remain in the restricted category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-lifts-import-curbs-on-porcine-intestinal-mucosa-933427.html
30-12-2020||National||Won't accept piecemeal deals on border, India tells China||India has conveyed to China that it would not accept any proposal for withdrawal of troops from the “friction points” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in a piecemeal manner.  Even as the two sides are in touch to schedule the ninth meeting between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) to end the eight-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi has made it clear to Beijing that only a comprehensive deal for complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the LAC would be acceptable to it. The PLA wanted the Indian Army to pull back troops from the dominating heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso before the mutual process of disengagement could start on the northern bank of the lake or elsewhere along the LAC, a source in New Delhi said.  The Indian Army, however, rejected the Chinese PLA's proposal for disengagement of troops in a piecemeal manner and argued that the two sides should rather work together to reach an agreement for complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the LAC, including Depsang Y junction and Gogra Post and of course both sides of Pangong Tso, the source told DH. New Delhi conveyed to Beijing that the complete disengagement of the front-line troops by both sides from the entire stretch of the LAC in the western sector was the key to the full restoration of peace in India-China border areas.  The Indian Army also turned down the Chinese PLA's proposal for creating a moratorium on patrolling between Finger 3 and Finger 8 on the northern bank of the lake.  Though India and China had agreed upon a roadmap for a mutual withdrawal of frontline troops from the face-off scenes along the LAC in early July, the process had come to a halt within a fortnight, with the Chinese PLA declining to completely pull back soldiers from several "points of friction" along the LAC. The senior military commanders of the two sides had held the fifth round of talks on August 2, but they had failed to end the stalemate. After External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had a meeting in Moscow on September 10, the military commanders of the two nations had again met on the LAC on September 21 - ending an almost six-week-long hiatus. They had agreed to stop further deployment of soldiers on the face-off points but had not been able to reach an agreement to restart the stalled process of pulling back troops already deployed on the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-accept-piecemeal-deals-on-border-india-tells-china-933432.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||BJP alleges 'Cong-backed conspiracy' to paralyse communication, public services in Punjab||BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh on Tuesday alleged that there is a "Congress-backed conspiracy" in Punjab to break down the communication system in the border state, after over 1,500 mobile towers were targeted during the farmers' stir.           “The Amarinder Singh government has been covertly supporting disruptive elements in the state who in the garb of farmers' agitation have brought about urban Naxalism in Punjab. "Besides damaging communication towers, such elements would block roads and rails, paralyse toll plazas... there is a Congress-backed conspiracy in Punjab to break down the communication system," he alleged in a statement here. On Monday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said that 1,561 mobile towers were "impacted" in the state during the farmers' stir, and directed the police to take strict action against vandalisation and disruption of telecom services.         Asserting that he will not let Punjab plunge into anarchy at any cost and nobody can be allowed to take the law into their hands, the chief minister had said he has been forced to toughen his stance as his repeated appeals had been ignored.        Chugh asked why the Amarinder Singh government "has not taken action" against those involved in destroying telecommunication towers.         “The Congress-supported disruptive elements have adversely hit students dependent on online education and other professionals like bankers and businessmen,” he said.          “The Amarinder government is playing havoc with the state and the Centre should immediately take action against it,” Chugh demanded.          A total of 1,561 mobile towers have been impacted in the state, according to an official statement on Monday. The state has 21,306 mobile towers spread across its 22 districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-alleges-cong-backed-conspiracy-to-paralyse-communication-public-services-in-punjab-933052.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||Personally do not approve of conversion: Rajnath Singh on 'Love Jihad' law||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday supported the anti-conversion legislation passed by the Uttar Pradesh government, saying that he does not support the idea of conversion for marriage. “I want to ask why there should be a conversion. The practice of mass conversions should stop. As far as I know, in the Muslim religion, one cannot marry someone from another religion. I personally do not approve of conversion for marriage,” Singh said in an interview with ANI. The BJP leader was asked about the misuse of the 'love-jihad' law, which is being brought in by other BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh or Himachal Pradesh. To this, the leader said there is a difference between “natural marriage” and forceful conversions in the pretext of marriage. “In many cases, you may have seen that the religious conversion is being done forcefully and sometimes it is done under greed. I think governments which made these laws have considered all these things,” he explained. The minister said India is the only country that has delivered the message of ‘Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam’, which means ‘the whole world is a family’. “I believe that a true Hindu will not do discrimination based on caste, religion and sects. Our religious scriptures do not give permission for this,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/personally-do-not-approve-of-conversion-rajnath-singh-on-love-jihad-law-933157.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||J&K: 2020 records highest ceasefire violations by Pakistan in 17 years||Pakistani troops made the highest number of ceasefire violations along the border in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 in the last 17 years, amounting to over 4,000 instances or an average of over 11 violations daily. Last year 3,233 ceasefire violations were reported along the International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC) in the union territory. This number was 2,936 in 2018 and 971 in 2017, reflecting a massive surge in tensions along the borders, official data reveals. Only 405 ceasefire violations were reported in 2015, while the number was 583 in 2014. The Indian government, led by the then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan in 2003, before which almost 5,800 ceasefire violations were reported in 2002. Following the agreement, however, no ceasefire was reported for the next three years. In 2007, Pakistan violated the bilateral agreement and 21 ceasefire violations were reported followed by 77 in 2008. There was a gradual increase in violations by Pakistan between 2009 and 2013. The corresponding figures for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 347, 114, 62, 44, and 28 respectively. According to a senior army official, shelling and firing by Pakistani troops in the last few years has been so heavy that it has virtually made the 2003 truce redundant. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir. “Besides helping infiltration, Pakistani troops repeatedly target forward posts and villages along the LoC and the IB to create a fear psychosis among the border residents. The frequent shelling and firing incidents this year forced thousands of border residents to migrate to safer places,” he said. To protect the border residents from the increasing ceasefire violations, the Centre sanctioned Rs 415 crore for the construction of over 14,400 underground bunkers along the LoC and the IB in J&K. But the border residents say, the construction work is moving at a snail’s pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jk-2020-records-highest-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-in-17-years-933223.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||Raids conducted at incarcerated PDP youth president’s house in Pulwama||Counter Insurgency Wing of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police Wednesday raided the residence of Waheed Para, the incarcerated Youth President of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Reports said the sleuths of Counter Insurgency Kashmir (CIK), accompanied by the paramilitary CRPF, conducted searches at the residence of Para, who was arrested by the NIA in November over alleged links with militant outfit Hizbul Mujahideen. He is currently under judicial custody in Jammu’s Amphalla jail. Other locations in the district were also raided by CIK personnel, but no arrests were made in these raids. Hailing from the restive Pulwama district, Para is considered as one of the leaders, who had contacts with separatists when the PDP was in alliance in J&K with the BJP from 2015 to 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raids-conducted-at-incarcerated-pdp-youth-president-s-house-in-pulwama-933232.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||2020 recap: BJP's dislodging of TRS; thrust to power in Telangana||BJP's emergence as the ruling TRS' main challenger, further decline of the Congress and nature's fury that unleashed an unprecedented deluge made 2020 an unforgettable year for the people of Telangana, which was also affected by the Covid-19 wave. The world seemed to look up to this city for its vaccine solutions to fight the deadly coronavirus, manifested by the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and over 60 foreign envoys to different pharma labs here in a year when the infections peaked across the globe. The vaccine development process by Bharat Biotech, Biological E Ltd and Aurobindo Pharma are currently in various stages,while Dr Reddy's and Hetero have tie ups to manufacture the antidote for one of the most feared contagions so far. On the political front, BJP seemed to have gained the most in 2020, from its close, yet surprise win over incumbent TRS in Dubbak Assembly bypoll, following that up with a stupendous show in the GHMC elections. The party invested every asset at its disposal to make inroads in Hyderabad, which has a significant number of Assembly seats up for grabs in the 2023 elections. Top party bosses-- national President J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, besides Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath hit the campaign trail for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections and the efforts paid rich dividends. The BJP bagged 48 out of the total 150 wards, a sharp rise from the four it had won in the last city polls in 2016. The ruling TRS secured 56 wards, a major dip from its 2016 tally of 99, though it emerged as the single largest party, followed by the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM. Bolstered by its success in the GHMC polls, BJP has now set its eyes on the 2023 Assembly elections, aiming to bring a second southern state under its kitty, after Karnataka. The party has one MLA in the present Assembly. During the year, TRS supremo and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao slammed the NDA government at the Centre over its disinvestment in PSUs and alleged anti-farmer policies and announced a plan to convene a conclave of opposition leaders to fight on the issue. The Congress, bruised and battered in the previous years following poor Assembly and Lok Sabha elections and defections of its MLAs to the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led Telangana Rashtra Samiti, had little to cheer about in 2020. The main opposition party could manage to win only two wards in the GHMC polls, an outcome that came as a further setback to the grand old party. Congress now faces the two-fold challenge of taking on the ruling TRS and a buoyant BJP to strengthen itself in the state. With incumbent PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy resigning from his post following the party's poor show in the GHMC polls, the Congress is now dealing with the issue of appointing a successor to him. AICC in-charge of party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore, a party Lok Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, had held consultations in Hyderabad with as many as about 160 leaders, right from the district level, on choosing the new PCC head and submitted a report to party president Sonia Gandhi. The TRS and the opposition clashed over the former's plans to construct a new Secretariat building, with both Congress and the BJP targeting the incumbent over the matter, though the ruling dispensation stood firm on its decision, even as the demolition of the old structure began. It said the new complex is required to effectively cater to present day requirements and also as a symbol of prestige to the newly-formed state. Hyderabad, an IT hub, was at the receiving end of nature's fury when torrential downpour led to a deluge of unseen proportions, with visuals of vehicles being washed away in gushing waters and flooded streets showing a grim picture of this famed city. Besides wreaking havoc in the capital, the heavy rain in October caused crop losses at different places in Telangana. The state government had put the losses, as per preliminary estimates, at over Rs 5,000 crore. At least 70 people died in rain-related incidents in Hyderabad and other parts of the state. Though Telangana was not spared of the Covid-19 impact, it, however, seemed to fare better compared to many other high prevalence states though the state government initially came under flak for its alleged low testing. As of December 29, the tally of positive cases and fatalities in the state stood at 2.85 lakh and 1,535 respectively. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.53 per cent, while it was 1.4 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 97.36 per cent, while it was 95.9 per cent in the country, according to the latest government figures. As preparations and measures for distribution of Covid-19 vaccine are underway across the world, Hyderabad is poised to emerge as a major supplier of the much needed antidote. As many as five firms based in the city are racing to bring out a vaccine. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad in November to review Covid-19 vaccine development work. Later in December, about 60 foreign envoys visited Bharat Biotech and Biological E in the city where they were apprised of the country's vaccine development programmes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Telangana and its sibling Andhra Pradesh, both known for their love for cinema, suffered a loss in September when their beloved son of the soil and legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam fell prey to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai. The multilingual singer had crooned many hit Telugu numbers, endearing him to the masses of these two states, who speak the same language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2020-recap-bjps-dislodging-of-trs-thrust-to-power-in-telangana-933267.html
30-12-2020||National Politics||Farmers don't trust PM Narendra Modi: Rahul Gandhi over new Farm Laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers do not trust Prime Minister Narendra Modi due to his long history of "asatyagraha" and shared an online survey asking people why the PM was not repealing the farm laws. "'15 lakh in every bank account and 2 crore jobs every year', 'Give me 50 days time, else...', 'We will win war against corona in 21 days', 'Neither has anyone intruded into our territory nor took over any post'. Farmers don't trust Modi ji due to his long history of 'asatyagraha'," he said in a tweet. “15 lakh in every bank account & 2 crore jobs every year” "Give me 50 days time, else..." "We will win war against Corona in 21 days" "Neither has anyone intruded into our territory nor took over any post” Farmers don’t trust Modi ji due to his long history of ‘asatyagraha’. The former Congress president also shared the online survey, asking, "Mr Modi is refusing to repeal the anti-farmer laws because he is:" and gave the options "anti-farmer", "run by crony capitalists", "arrogant" or "all of the above". Mr Modi is refusing to repeal the anti-farmer laws because he is: Gandhi is currently abroad visiting an ailing relative and also meeting his maternal grandmother. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged in a tweet said that duping and deceiving farmers was the "new normal". "Dupe and deceive the Anndata is the 'new normal' in India as complicit BJP governments look sideways. Tragedy is that they still shamelessly bat for the 'three black laws' as a section of media applauds them. Let every Indian rise and question," he said. The Congress has been demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and have supported the farmers agitation against the legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-dont-trust-pm-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-over-new-farm-laws-933331.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Two more contacts of UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Delhi||Two more contacts of people who were found infected with Covid-19 after returning from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the disease, officials said on Tuesday. With this, the total number of infected persons, including those who returned from the UK and their contacts, has gone up to 33, a Delhi government official said. "All the 33 persons admitted to a special facility in LNJP hospital were stable. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether they were carrying the new UK strain or not," he said. Out of the 33 infected persons, 11 were tested through RT-PCR tests at the IGI airport on their arrival from the UK. Nine other UK returnees were found positive in the Delhi government's district-level door-to-door contact and testing drive. The district-level teams contact those who had returned from the UK after November 25 and test them for the virus. Extensive contact tracing is also underway to identify and test those persons who came in their contact and have developed any symptoms, officials said.  Out of over 13,000 passengers who landed at the IGI airport, around 1,400 have been identified as residents of Delhi. The list of passengers provided by the Bureau of Civil Aviation is being sorted and all the Delhi residents who returned from the UK are being contacted, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-contacts-of-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-delhi-933059.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||UP minister's brother booked for using photos of PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath to promote mobile brand||A case of cheating has been registered against the brother of an Uttar Pradesh minister for allegedly using photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to promote a mobile phone brand. Police officials requesting anonymity said an FIR was registered against Lalit Agarwal on December 26 at the Hazratganj Police Station in this regard. Lalit Agarwal is the brother of Kapil Dev Agarwal, UP's Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Vocational Education and Skill Development. The opposition Congress has demanded a CBI probe into the matter. When contacted, Kapil Dev Agarwal told PTI, "My brother is being made a soft target. There is no merit in the case, and he will be cleared of all the charges." According to reports, Lalit Agarwal, who runs an advertising agency, had put up the photographs of Prime Minister Modi and UP Chief Minister Adityanath on a hoarding in the run-up to launching of a mobile phone brand. The launch took place on December 22. As questions were raised about the photos, they were removed from the hoarding by the advertising agency on December 26. It had also apologised over the matter. Meanwhile, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu demanded that the matter be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation. "The way in which in the garb of 'vocal for local', a minister held a press conference on the launch of a mobile phone, and told the public that along with being fully 'swadeshi', it is part of the skill development scheme (kaushal vikaas yojana), proves that corruption is at its peak in Uttar Pradesh," he said in a statement in an apparent reference to Kapil Dev Agarwal. "This incident should be probed by the CBI, and people behind the scene should also be unmasked," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-ministers-brother-booked-for-using-photos-of-pm-modi-yogi-adityanath-to-promote-mobile-brand-933147.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed during police encounter in Srinagar||Three unidentified militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Wednesday. The gunfight erupted on Tuesday evening in Lawaypora area on Srinagar-Baramulla highway. “Since past many days, intelligence inputs have been pouring in about the movement of the terrorists in the area. Yesterday (Tuesday), we developed leads and came to know that terrorists are hiding in a house,”(sic) General officer Commanding (GoC) of Kilo Force, Major General H S Sahi told reporters. He said when the presence of militants got established Army’s 2- Rashtriya Rifles, J&K police and the CRPF repeatedly asked them to surrender.  “However, the militants fired indiscriminately and lobbed grenades as well. The operation was put on a halt as the night approached but the cordon layers were tightened. With the first light of the morning the firefight resumed and militants used heavy ammunition against security forces,” General Sahi said, adding that in the ensuing gunfight three militants were killed. “As forces zeroed in on the suspected spot, they fired at the forces triggering a fierce gunfight. The two sides kept firing intermittently during the night as security forces tightened cordon layers around the area and sealed all entry and exit points to prevent militants from fleeing,” he said and added all the three ultras hiding in a house were neutralised Wednesday morning. He said that the slain trio was planning a “big strike” on the national highway to gain publicity. “The nature of ammunition used by the terrorists in today’s gunfight, suggests they were planning a big strike on the highway,” the army commander said. However, he didn’t reveal the identity of the dead and their group affiliations of the slain militants. “It has been an hour only since the encounter ended, police is verifying their identity and affiliation,” General Sahi said. However, unconfirmed reports said that the slain militants were all locals from south Kashmir and had joined militancy recently. Reports said some youth pelted stones on the security forces while the operation was underway. However, they were chased away by the police and the paramilitary CRPF. The highway had been closed since last evening and traffic to north Kashmir was diverted to other areas. This was the 10th encounter in Srinagar since May in which 22 militants, including Hizbul Mujahideen commanders Junaid Sehra and Saifullah Khalid have been killed. The encounters come as a reminder from the militants that their presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago, considered a zero-militancy zone. A senior police officer said because of a huge security footprint and intelligence network in south Kashmir, militants were shifting their bases to Srinagar. “As a result, more gun battles are happening in Srinagar. The militants also ambushed security forces several times this year in and around Srinagar, suggesting they were on the move,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-during-police-encounter-in-srinagar-933149.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||'UP epicentre of politics of hate': 104 ex-IAS officers write to Yogi Adityanath on 'Love Jihad' law||A group of former civil servants have written to the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, demanding that the latest 'Love Jihad' law be withdrawn and "those Indians that have suffered from its unconstitutional enforcement be suitably compensated." The recently-promulgated ordinance nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion. The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert. It was promulgated amid assertions by BJP leaders that a strict law was needed against "love jihad", a term coined by right-wing activists to discredit interfaith marriages by describing it as part of an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to convert Hindu women in the guise of love. "The anti-conversion ordinance of your state is being used as a stick to victimise especially those Indian men who are Muslim and women who dare to exercise their freedom of choice," the letter to the chief minister states. The Uttar Pradesh police made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. "What is worse is that your law enforcement machinery, with the active backing of your government, is playing a role reminiscent of the secret police in authoritarian regimes. You can pose no greater threat to the nation than by turning its own citizens against one another, a conflict that can only serve the country’s enemies," the former civil servants wrote in the letter. A PIL has been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the ordinance, contending that it impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. Pointing that even though various high courts have ruled "unequivocally that choosing one’s life partner is a fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution," the letter states that Uttar Pradesh "is blithely undermining that very Constitution." The Cabinet in BJP-governed Madhya Pradesh has passed a Bill which provides for a prison term of up to 10 years and fine of Rs 1 lakh for conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. The Bill in some ways is similar to an Ordinance notified by the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. Other Indian states — Haryana, Karnataka and Assam — have also said that they are planning to bring in similar anti-conversion laws.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-epicentre-of-politics-of-hate-104-ex-ias-officers-write-to-yogi-adityanath-on-love-jihad-law-933164.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Voice phishing: People in Bhopal get scam calls over coronavirus vaccine||As India gears up to roll-out the much-awaited coronavirus vaccine, scam calls, also known as vishing or voice phishing, rear their ugly head, looking to seize this opportunity. On Monday, a man in Bhopal got a call asking him to pay Rs 500 to get his family registered and get vaccinated in the first phase. In another instance, a student approached the cyber cell and filed a complaint in a similar case. He mentioned that he received a phone call from an unknown person who asked for his bank account number and Aaadhar details for providing priority access to the vaccine. "Cyber fraudsters have found a new way to get bank account details, we have advised people not to share any OTP or other bank details and not to click on any link that promises a coronavirus vaccine shot. Online fraudsters are also sending phishing emails and links over emails, text messages and social media," Cyber Cell SP Dr Gurkaran Singh to NDTV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voice-phishing-people-in-bhopal-get-scam-calls-over-coronavirus-vaccine-933170.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Light at end of tunnel for Covid-hit Himachal Pradesh||The opening of the nine-kilometre Rohtang tunnel, the longest in the world at that altitude, was a bright spot in Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-marred year that saw tourist arrivals plummet and sittings of the state legislature cancelled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the strategically important Atal Tunnel in October, cutting travel time between Manali and Lahaul-Spiti by four to five hours. The tunnel also leads to the route to Leh. Not just tourism and economy, the pandemic took a toll on the proceedings of the state’s Vidhan Sabha. The Budget session in March was cut short as the fear of coronavirus spread. The notification for the winter session was issued in November, but the state government later backed out. Himachal Pradesh seemed to be doing very well in containing the pandemic in its early phase. In March, the government launched a campaign to screen its “entire population” for symptoms. On May 4, Himachal Pradesh had just one active coronavirus case, and Modi singled the state as a model to follow. In the remote Lahaul-Spiti district, untouched by coronavirus for long, there was initial opposition to “outsiders” bringing the virus. Local MLA and Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Minister Ram Lal Markanda was not allowed to enter the sub-divisional headquarter at Kaza by a group of protesting tribal women who wanted him to go into quarantine first. But cases did multiply in the months to come, forcing the state government to announce night curfews and stricter curbs on social gatherings. By the end of the year, about 55,000 people had tested positive and 900 died. Including Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, 12 MLAs of the 68-member assembly caught the virus. Indirectly, COVID-19 also cost state BJP chief Rajeev Bindal his job. He quit as the party’s Himachal Pradesh president on “moral ground” as he was close to one of the people who figured in an audio clip which purportedly revealed corruption in the health department. An official was accused of seeking a bribe from a private firm in Punjab for placing an order for COVID-protection kits to be used at government hospitals. Bindal, who was appointed the BJP state president after he resigned as the assembly Speaker earlier in the year, said he was stepping down so that the case can be investigated without any pressure. He got a clean chit later, but did not get his job back in the ruling party and there was also no spot for him when Thakur expanded the Cabinet, inducting three more ministers. At an event marking the third anniversary of his BJP government, the CM admitted that development had suffered because of Covid-19. The opposition Congress observed it as Black Day, accusing the state government of failure on all counts. The government followed the lead by other BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh to implement a new anti-conversion law. The Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019 was passed by the state assembly about 15 months earlier, replacing a less stringent 2006 version, but remained to be notified. That happened only this month, well after Haryana said it was studying the Himachal model for drafting its own law to deter religious conversions through force or fraudulent means. The idea of the Rohtang tunnel goes back a long way. Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee reportedly announced it at a public meeting at Lahaul-Spiti's Keylong in 2000. He laid the foundation stone for an approach road in 2002. A foundation stone was also laid by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi in 2010. So when Modi opened the Rs 3,200-crore tunnel in October, accusing the previous government of dragging its feet on the project, a controversy followed. The state Congress protested that the stone laid by their leader was removed ahead of the Modi event and lodged a police complaint. The Kullu Police got back, assuring that the stone is in safe custody and was removed from the original spot only to allow construction. On Christmas-eve, some rowdy travellers parked their cars in the middle of the tunnel and begun dancing there. Arrests followed, but the unsavoury incident also signalled the beginning of a return to the old days, when tourists thronged the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/light-at-end-of-tunnel-for-covid-hit-himachal-pradesh-933205.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Survey highlights change in educational needs of underprivileged children||With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing in a new normal by disrupting everyday lives, a survey has shown that the educational needs of the poor and underprivileged have undergone a change with more than half highlighting the need for textbooks and support system like mobile phone, internet and other accessories to continue the learning process with desired results. The survey commissioned by NGO Smile Foundation among students and families also showed that more among the poor and underprivileged in the southern parts of the country do not follow hygiene and precautionary measures to avoid Covid-19 compared to those in other parts of the country, indicating the need for a sustained action among the community. With schooling moving into the internet, the survey of 3,353 respondents claimed that only 51% are satisfied with current learning methods while 80% are waiting for schools to reopen due to altered work and home routine of parents who might be finding it difficult to adjust to the online learning schedules of children. One of the concerns was that the online classes were scheduled at a time the parents are out for work or they do have just one mobile phone while they have more than one child at home. The survey showed that 68% felt that the scheduling of the classes was a problem while 95% said that they have two or more children, which was posing a challenge in providing mobile phones to each one of them, with almost all classes scheduled at the same time for all children. One of the problems with online education highlighted by the respondents was that they were not able to access properly (68%) or guide their children properly (74%). It also said 44% do not have adequate availability of educational resources to facilitate home-based learning for their children. Highlighting the need for more orientation and support in terms of digital literacy, the survey showed that 48% of parents felt that they were not prepared or equipped to help their children's e-learning process. However, the survey claimed, 53% emphasised the need for adequate educational resources, inclusive of books and other teaching-learning materials. Other kinds of support mentioned include mobile phones, internet support and related accessories to continue the learning process with the desired results. "The above figure specifies the needs expressed by the respondents with the majority of them requesting for books and teaching learning materials to help facilitate their children’s learning. While 8% mentioned need for phones and 9% require internet support to follow the current mode of teaching extended by schools. Around 21% respondents prefer direct interaction with teachers where they visit homes and support the children on a one to one basis," it said. "Orientation and basic digital literacy to support academics would be absolutely essential in bridging the gap and continuing the learning process with better results. Lack of digital equipment, facilities and learning materials like phone, internet, data pack, notebook, charts and other resources is a crucial gap that needs addressal to accommodate an effective learning process," it said. The survey also showed that a majority of the respondents -- 83% in South and 79% in West, 58% in East and 48% in North -- "do not follow" the necessary Covid-19 norms "regularly". If one considers all Covid-19 norms are being followed, then South India stands at 53%, West 56%, East 47% and North 26%. When it came to washing hands regularly, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and consuming immunity-boosting food, the rural and urban folk in south India fared badly compared to other parts of the country. According to the survey results, 93% in rural and 77% in urban areas in the South did not wash hands regularly while it was 35% and 59% in the North respectively. Similarly, 77% in rural and 66% among the poor in urban localities in southern India were not wearing masks while 88% in rural and 94% in urban areas were also not maintaining social distancing. When it comes to consuming immunity-boosting food, all regions in the country fare similarly. The survey showed that 98-100% among those surveyed were not able to consume such food. "The survey data reveals that more than 50% of households still do not have access to proper nutritious food. It is observed that more than 51% respondents acknowledged that children feel hunger pangs occasionally as well as quite often. Almost 20% of the households are not able to have three full meals a day owing to the current situation. Around 53% face difficulty in accessing home-made food with 21% finding it challenging to have access to nutritional products like full meals, pulses, etc," the survey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/survey-highlights-change-in-educational-needs-of-underprivileged-children-933215.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Ex-bureaucrats' letter to Yogi work of anti-Modi gang: UP Deputy CM||Reacting sharply to the letter written by 104 ex-bureaucrats to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath stating that the state had become the ''epicentre of politics of hate and bigotry'', UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya on Wednesday said that it was the ''handiwork of the anti-Modi gang'' and an attempt to ''defame'' the state. ''Making such appeals and writing such letters have now become a fashion...the objectives of such letters are only to defame the government,'' Maurya said. ''Whenever the centre or the BJP governments in the state do anything for the benefit of the people, the award wapsi (return) gang and the tukde-tukde gang become active and start making appeals and write letters,'' the minister said. He said that these bureaucrats had retired and they now needed to take rest rather than advising the government. ''We have many serving bureaucrats to advise the government,'' he added. ''These people work at the behest of the anti-BJP and anti-Modi gang,'' the minister remarked. As many as 104 former IAS officers have written to Adityanath demanding withdrawal of the anti-conversion ordinance terming it unconstitutional. The letter has mentioned some incidents of arrest of Muslim youth on charges of allegedly luring of Hindu girls into marriage and conversion.  Several cases of alleged 'Love Jihad' were reported from different parts in UP since the new law came into effect.   At least two cases of 'Love Jihad' failed to pass the initial legal test in the state. In one of the cases, the court-ordered release of two arrested Muslim youth after the police failed to produce any evidence against them and in another, the court stayed the arrest of a Muslim man, who had been booked under the new law. The new law provided for a maximum imprisonment of ten years and also a fine for religious conversion through deceit, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means or for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-bureaucrats-letter-to-yogi-work-of-anti-modi-gang-up-deputy-cm-933224.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Kashmir reels under sub-zero temperatures, Gulmarg shivers at minus 11 degree celsius||Intense cold wave conditions swept Kashmir on Wednesday as the mercury fell below the freezing point across the valley, officials said. The cloud cover ahead of Tuesday's snowfall had kept the night temperature around the freezing point for two consecutive nights in most parts of the valley but the respite ended as the mercury plunged to minus 11 degrees in Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the officials said. They said Gulmarg tourist destination was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9 degrees Celsius -- a drop of six notches in 24 hours. The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — was minus 2.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded the minimum of minus 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-reels-under-sub-zero-temperatures-gulmarg-shivers-at-minus-11-degree-celsius-933227.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Cold wave engulfs Rajasthan, Mount Abu shudders at -4 degrees Celsius||Cold conditions persisted in parts of Rajasthan where the mercury dipped below freezing point at two places on Wednesday. Mount Abu shivered at minus 4 degrees Celsius, while in the plains Churu was the coldest, recording a minimum temperature of minus 1.5 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the mercury settled at 0.5 degrees. The temperatures of cities in the plains were recorded as follows: Bhilwara: 1.8 degrees Celsius Chittorgarh: 3.8 degrees Celsius  Ganganagar: 3.9 degrees Celsius  Kota: 4.4 degrees Celsius  Jaisalmer: 4.6 degrees Celsius  Jaipur: 5.1 degrees Celsius Ajmer: 6.8 degrees Celsius Jodhpur: 7.5 degrees Celsius||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-engulfs-rajasthan-mount-abu-shudders-at-4-degrees-celsius-933235.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij discharged from hospital||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij was on Wednesday discharged from Gurgaon’s Medanta Hospital where he had undergone treatment for Covid-19. Vij (67), a senior BJP leader, will now stay at his Ambala residence on oxygen support, he said in a tweet. Over the past some days, Vij had been showing steady improvement. He was admitted to Medanta hospital on December 15. “With God's grace, day and night efforts of doctors and your prayers today, I have been shifted from the ICU to a room. Thanks to all,” Vij, who also holds the Health Department portfolio, said in another tweet a week ago. Vij, a BJP MLA from Ambala Cantt, had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5. Initially, he was admitted to the Civil Hospital at Ambala and later shifted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, before being hospitalised at Medanta. I am discharged from Medanta Hospital today. Will stay at Home on Oxygen support. The firebrand BJP leader had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase three trials for Covaxin, an indigenous potential vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech against Covid-19. He was administered a dose on November 20 at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment. Bharat Biotech had said that clinical trials of the vaccine are based on a two-dose schedule, given 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined two weeks after the second dose, it said. Covaxin has been designed to be protective two weeks after volunteers receive the second dose. The Union health ministry had also stepped in to say that Covaxin is a two-dose anti-coronavirus vaccine and that Vij was given only the first dose a fortnight before he tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-discharged-from-hospital-933244.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Himachal sees tourist influx due to snowfall, new year celebrations||After recent snowfall in several places in Himachal Pradesh, people from various parts of the country especially from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are thronging its tourist hotspots to usher in the New Year.  Most hotels in major tourist areas including Shimla, Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri were fully booked from Christmas till December 27 and they are also expected to be totally occupied from December 31 till January 3, said Mohinder Seth, president of an association of Himachal Pradesh tourism industry stakeholders. Seth said the state government allowed the entry of tourists in July after an over three-month ban due to the pandemic, but the tourist hotspots of the hill state have witnessed the highest number of tourists on Christmas.  The tourism boom after the recent snowfall on December 27 comes at the end of a year that saw little or no business even at the state's highly popular holiday resorts due to the coronavirus pandemic. The entire hospitality industry in the state was shut for almost eight months due to the pandemic and has recently gained momentum in last month of the year.  As per government-owned Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) officials, almost all their properties are running on 100 per cent occupancy which is a remarkable feat amid the current pandemic situation. However, while the state's tourism industry is looking forward to doing brisk business in the coming weeks, the sharp spike in tourist arrivals has led to fears of increased spread of COVID-19. As on December 26, the state had 4,292 active COVID-19 cases and the death toll due to the disease reached 902. The state also reported 222 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the infection tally to 54,281, and 11 fatalities. Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar's wife Santosh Shailja also died due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. Shimla Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla said the police and administration are taking all steps to control the spread of the virus and all COVID-related protocols are being followed. Anyone found to be violating precautionary norms especially not wearing masks will be fined Rs 1,000, he said. There is also curfew in place from 10 PM to 6 AM in four districts -- Shimla, Kullu, Kangra and Mandi -- that are popular among tourists. Meanwhile, the police has divided Shimla city into seven sectors for security and eight sectors for traffic purposes to control the crowds of tourists on New Year, Chawla said.  A strict vigil will also be kept on the tourists through CCTV cameras and drones, he added.  In Manali in Kullu district, the Atal Tunnel has become the biggest attraction for tourists since its opening in October. The Mall Road of Manali is abuzz with tourists and the local shops are doing brisk business. President of Travel Agent Association of Himachal Pradesh Budhi Prakash Thakur told PTI that after a dull response in October and November, the arrival of tourists has increased recently.  “If the government gives a little bit more attention towards infrastructure development and better air connectivity, tourism in Manali will reach a higher level,” he said.  With the onset of New Year accompanied by heavy snowfall, the tourist influx to Dalhousie hill station in Chamba district has increased considerably. There is around 65 percent occupancy in hotels and other tourist-related establishments operating in this area, said Manoj Chadda, Chief Patron, Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association Dalhousie. He, however, said the heavy snowfall in this region has become an obstacle to vehicular traffic at many points, thereby reducing the number of tourists in the area. HPTDC Dalhousie-Chamba tourist circuit manager Vikas Datta said tourism occupancy in HPTDC hotels is hundred percent and tourists from different parts of the country are enjoying the snowfall in Khajjiar and Dalhousie. Khajjiar recently experienced over 30 cms snowfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-sees-tourist-influx-due-to-snowfall-new-year-celebrations-933257.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Kashmir reels under sub-zero temperatures, Gulmarg shivers at minus 11 degrees C||Intense cold wave conditions swept Kashmir on Wednesday as the mercury fell below the freezing point across the valley, officials said. The cloud cover ahead of Tuesday's snowfall had kept the night temperature around the freezing point for two consecutive nights in most parts of the valley but the respite ended as the mercury plunged to minus 11 degrees in Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the officials said. They said Gulmarg tourist destination was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9 degrees Celsius -- a drop of six notches in 24 hours. The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — was minus 2.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded the minimum of minus 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-reels-under-sub-zero-temperatures-gulmarg-shivers-at-minus-11-degrees-c-933264.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Congress workers detained in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba||Police allegedly resorted to a lathicharge on Congress workers taking out “Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao” yatra here on Wednesday and took several of them into custody. Party workers were taking out the yatra in a peaceful manner in the Kabrai area when police resorted to a lathicharge injuring over 20, district Congress chief Tulsidas Lodhi claimed. Over 150 party workers and leaders, including former Union minister Pradip Jain Aditya, were taken into custody and their two-wheelers were seized, claimed Lodha. ASP Rajendra Kumar Gautam, however, said 26 Congress workers staging the protest without permission were detained and taken to the Police Lines. He refused that police used force against the protesters. The Congress is taking out the yatra in the districts of the Bundelkhand region to highlight the alleged mismanagement of state-run gaushalas. The party has claimed that it has resulted in deaths of cattle in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-workers-detained-in-uttar-pradeshs-mahoba-933265.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||9 flights cancelled as fog reduces visibility at Jammu airport for 2nd day||Nine flights to and from Jammu Airport were cancelled on Wednesday as a dense fog cover enveloped the region for a second day, officials said, while the prevailing cold wave condition tightened its grip after the recent snowfall in the high altitude areas. Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria said so far nine flights have been cancelled due to “poor visibility” caused by the foggy conditions. This was the second day that the flight operations at the Jammu airport have been hit by poor visibility. As many as 17 flights were cancelled Tuesday and just one could land. Talking about the visibility on Wednesday, Beuria told PTI, “It was just 600 meters at 1 pm, thus not allowing the start of flight operations…Five more flights have been delayed (apart from the nine already cancelled).” A dense fog returned to Jammu city amid a drop in the night temperature which settled at 2.9 degrees Celsius, 4.5 notches below normal during this part of the season. However, the sun came out around noon provided some relief from the bone-chilling cold and improvement in the visibility in some areas. Bhaderwah in Doda district, which experienced heavy snowfall last week, was the coldest recorded place in Jammu region with a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius, a spokesman of the MET department said. He said Batote in Rmban districts along the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway also recorded subzero night temperature at minus 0.9, while Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Reasi district, was reeling under a minimum of 3.8 degrees Celsius. The shrine atop Trikuta hills and adjoining areas also experienced the first snowfall of the season on the weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-flights-cancelled-as-fog-reduces-visibility-at-jammu-airport-for-2nd-day-933280.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Two cases of new coronavirus strain detected in UP||Traces of a new strain of coronavirus were found in two people who recently returned from the United Kingdom, an Uttar Pradesh official said on Wednesday. The two cases were found in Meerut and Gautam Buddh Nagar and samples of their contacts are also being taken, Additional Chief Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. Tests of those returning from the United Kingdom after December 9 are continuing and till now around 2,500 samples have been sent to the labs, he said, adding that so far 10 people who returned from the UK have tested positive. Their gene sequencing is being done to ascertain the kind of virus, he said. As many as 2,112 people have tested negative, Prasad said. Prasad said during the upcoming Magh Mela in Allahabad and Sant Samagam in Vrindavan, people will have to bring a negative coronavirus certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-cases-of-new-coronavirus-strain-detected-in-up-933306.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Our sons were civilians and not militants, claim families of trio killed in Srinagar encounter||In a new controversy, the families of the militants killed in a gunfight in the Lawaypora area on the outskirts of Srinagar on Wednesday refuted the claims of the army and the police and claimed that they were civilians and not ultras. The families of Aijaz Ahmad Ganie, Ather Mushtaq Wani, both hailing from south Kashmir’s Pulwama district and Zubair Ahmad Lone from neighboring Shopian district, assembled outside Srinagar's Police Control Room and staged a protest against their killings. They claimed that the three weren't militants and two of them had left their homes only yesterday for some work. “Yesterday (Tuesday) at 10 am, he had tea with me and I swear about it. I don’t know where he was brought down from Sumo. Is this what is going to happen in Kashmir? Is this democracy? Is this the governor Raj? Kill me. Why did you kill him? He was a student,” said Bashir Ahmad Ganie, grandfather of Aijaz, one of the slain men. The families of slain Ather and Zubair claimed they had left home on Tuesday to get admission at a tuition center in Srinagar for class 12th. “Both are students and appeared in the class 11th examinations," cousin brother of Ather told reporters. The families demanded justice and appealed to the higher-ups to look into the matter.  The army, however, said that the slain trio was planning a “big attack” on the national highway to gain publicity and were killed in an overnight encounter. General officer Commanding (GoC) of Kilo Force, Major General H S Sahi told reporters that the nature of ammunition used by the trio in the gunfight “suggests they were planning a big strike on the highway.” A police spokesperson in a statement said that although the slain trio was not mentioned in their list of militants, “yet two of them were hardcore associates of militants.” “Pertinently, one of the two is a relative of top Hizbul Mujahideen commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017. Reportedly, the third might have joined very recently. Generally, parents don’t have an idea about the activities of their wards. Several over ground workers (OGWs) after committing crimes like grenade throwing and pistol shooting stay normally with their family,” the spokesman said.  Quoting an example, he said, “For instance, one student from Pulwama who was taking coaching in Srinagar was caught for lobbing a grenade with the help of CCTV’s footage. His parents were totally unaware of his militant activities.” However, he said police are investigating the case and after a thorough investigation will come to the conclusion soon on merits. “The trio killed in today’s encounter was given ample opportunity to surrender both yesterday evening and today morning but they didn’t and instead fired and lobbed grenades on the search party,” the spokesman claimed.  Earlier in July this year, three labourers from Rajouri district of Jammu region were killed by the army in Shopian and dubbed as militants. However, after an outcry, the Army and the Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. After months of investigations, an Army officer of the rank of captain and two civilians were found culpable in the killings. The police produced challan against captain Bhupinder of Army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Tabish Ahmad and Bilal Ahmad, both locals before the Principal and Sessions Judge, Shopian last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-sons-were-civilians-and-not-militants-claim-families-of-trio-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-933323.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Azharuddin, three others escape unhurt in road accident near Ranthambore||Former Indian cricket team skipper Mohammad Azharuddin escaped unhurt on Wednesday when an SUV in which he was travelling along with three other people overturned in Sawai Madhopur district near here, said police. Three other passengers of the vehicle too escaped unhurt but an employee of an eatery near which the SUV overturned received minor injuries, said SHO Chandrabhan Singh of Soorwal police station, Singh said the vehicle overturned into the adjoining field when the driver was negotiating the traffic near a roadside eatery and got too close to the edge of the road and got imbalanced. The accident occurred barely six km from Ranthambore, the SHO said. He said after the accident Azharuddin and his co-passengers along with the eatery staffer were taken to a hospital from where the former cricketer-cum-Lok Sabha MP and his three companions were discharged. The eatery staffer too was discharged after the first aide, the SHO said, adding Azharuddin later resumed his journey in another vehicle and reached his destination safely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azharuddin-three-others-escape-unhurt-in-road-accident-near-ranthambore-933344.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||On New Year's eve, exit from Rajiv Chowk station to close at 9 pm||Anticipating a large crowd of commuters on New Year's eve, Delhi Metro authorities have decided that exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed after 9 pm, officials said on Wednesday. Every year, revellers gather at Connaught Place, the heart of New Delhi, adjacent to the metro station, to ring in the new year. "To ease overcrowding on New Year's Eve (31 December 2020), exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed after 9 PM onwards. Entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of last train. Please plan your journey accordingly," the DMRC tweeted. The Rajiv Chowk station is an interchange facility between the Blue Line and the Yellow Line of the network. Covid-19 safety norms like wearing of mask and social distancing are in place in view of the pandemic, so the crowd should not get too big, a senior official said. The DMRC's current operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including NOIDA–Greater NOIDA line). On regular days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro is over 26 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-new-years-eve-exit-from-rajiv-chowk-station-to-close-at-9-pm-933347.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Republic Day parade likely to be shorter, to have smaller marching contingents and fewer spectators||The Republic Day celebrations at Rajpath next month are likely to witness a number of changes including smaller marching contingents, shorter distance for the parade and fewer spectators compared to the previous years in view of the coronavirus pandemic, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Every year, India displays its military might, rich cultural diversity and socio-economic progress during the Republic Day celebrations at the Rajpath -- the city's centrepiece boulevard. The people cited above said though the overall hue of the Republic Day parade will be maintained, its scale and size will be restricted to an extent in view of the coronavirus pandemic. India has invited British Prime Minister Boris Johnson as the Chief Guest for the Republic Day parade. The preparations for the celebrations are being made keeping in mind all Covid-19 protocols, said an official. The people said around 25,000 spectators will be allowed to witness the celebrations as against a normal crowd of around 100,000 people and that children below 15 years of age will not be allowed entry. Similarly, the size of the marching contingents is likely to be brought down from around 144 in each contingent to around 96. The parade is likely to be of shorter distance. It will start from Vijay Chowk and end at the National Stadium instead of the Red Fort, the people said. Sources said over 2,000 Army personnel have arrived in Delhi since late November for Republic Day and Army Day parades and they are being kept in a "safe bubble". The "safe bubble", created in the Cantonment area, comprises a large number of camps and those selected to stay in them will have almost "zero connectivity" with the outside world till the Republic Day celebrations on January 26 are over, sources said. The Army Day is celebrated on January 15. Similar arrangements have been made by the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force. Two contingents of the IAF have been selected for the parade and one of them will participate in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-parade-likely-to-be-shorter-to-have-smaller-marching-contingents-and-fewer-spectators-933350.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt to recruit 50,000 people till March 31; Cabinet gives nod to restructuring 10 departments||Kickstarting the process of recruitment to 50,000 government posts during the current fiscal, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved restructuring 10 departments, paving the way for boosting their functional efficacy through technical upgradation. At a meeting of the state cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, it was decided that new and more relevant posts would be created, where required, in place of the many redundant ones lying vacant for a long time. "The move marks a major shift towards modernisation of government departments to equip them to meet the contemporary operational challenges," an official statement said. The 10 departments to be restructured are: labour, technical education and industrial training, PWD (B and R), animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development, tourism and cultural affairs, local government, printing and stationery, sports and youth service welfare, defence services welfare, cooperation department. As part of the restructuring exercise, as many 2,375 posts will be abolished in these departments with another 785 to be created in the first go, the statement said. It also said, "The government will recruit 50,000 people in 10 departments by March 31." The Cabinet also approved certain amendments to the Punjab Civil Services Rules for granting new pay scales (matrix) on the pattern of the Seventh Central Pay Commission recommendations for all fresh recruits of the state government and its entities. The amendment approved by the Cabinet stipulates that the expression "fixed monthly emoluments" for the employees, appointed to the service before the July 17, 2020, means the amount drawn monthly by a government employee equal to the minimum of the pay band of the service or post to which he is appointed. The amount shall not include grade pay, special pay, annual increment or any other allowance, except travelling allowance drawn with reference to the grade pay of the relevant service or post. To "enhance efficiency in the functioning" of the Directorate of State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and District Institutes of Education Training (DIETs), the Cabinet gave approval for the creation of separate cadre of their personnel. It has been decided to notify separate rules for personnel of SCERT/DIETs, the statement said, adding the Cabinet accepted the proposal mooted by the School Education Department in this regard. Currently, all personnel of both SCERT and DIET are deputed from Directorate of DPI (School Education). Meanwhile, the Punjab government decided to strengthen the security mechanism for all cash transportation activities in the state by regulating all private security agencies engaged in such activities under the umbrella of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, (PSARA) 2005. The cabinet gave the go-ahead to notify the Punjab Private Security Agencies (Private Security to Cash Transportation Activities) Rules, 2020, in pursuance of PSAR Act, 2005, which did not specifically cover the activities of the cash transportation agencies. With the notification of the new rules, cash transportation agencies would be now required to obtain license from the State Controlling Authority. Also, persons entrusted with security of the cash in transit would be needed to be suitably recruited, verified and trained as per the rules/guidelines laid down under the PSAR Act 2005, and the Cash Transportation Rules, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-to-recruit-50000-people-till-march-31-cabinet-gives-nod-to-restructuring-10-departments-933365.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Punjab lifts night curfew from January 1||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to lift the night curfew from January 1 and advised people to follow coronavirus guidelines. Disclosing this here, an official spokesperson said restrictions regarding the night curfew in all cities and towns will remain until December 31. These restrictions will no longer be applicable from January 1 due to recent downtrend in COVID-19 cases, he said. The night curfew was reimposed in Punjab from December 1. The government had also restricted the number of people at indoor and outdoor gatherings up to 100 and 250, respectively. Now, it has been decided to further relax the restrictions to 200 and 500 people at all indoor and outdoor social gatherings, respectively. He said the district authorities will ensure strict implementation of all directives of the Centre regarding coronavirus. He said penalties will be imposed for the violation of the COVID-19 appropriate behavior. So far, the state has reported 1,66,239 coronavirus cases, including 5,331 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-punjab-lifts-night-curfew-from-january-1-933374.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Biting cold grips Delhi as min temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius; no respite for next 2 days||A cold wave swept through Delhi on Wednesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, it predicted, as dry and icy winds barreled through the plains.    The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.5 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 16.4 degrees Celsius. On December 18, Delhi had recorded a maximum of 15.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this season. The weather stations at Jafarpur and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, it said. During nighttime, "dense" fog reduced visibility to 50 meters in the Palam area. However, it improved to 400 meters by 9 am. The visibility at Safdarjung was 500 meters. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 meters, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 meters "shallow". In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next two days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barreling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down. According to IMD, a cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year so far is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Wednesday. The city's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 290. It was 265 on Tuesday, 253 on Monday, 396 on Sunday, 337 on Saturday, 357 on Friday and 423 on Thursday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said favourable wind speed, upto 15 kmph, aided in dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/biting-cold-grips-delhi-as-min-temperature-dipped-to-35-degrees-celsius-no-respite-for-next-2-days-933381.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Allow clubs, restaurants to serve liquor till 3 am in national capital: Delhi govt panel||Restaurants and clubs in the national capital may soon be allowed to serve liquor till 3 am, with a Delhi government panel suggesting this among several other measures as part of "excise reforms", official sources said on Wednesday. It has also recommended that retail liquor licenses other than to government corporation be allotted through lottery system once in every two years, a move that will allow flexibility in rules for new private liquor shops in the city. The panel, set up by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in September, has suggested lowering legal drinking age to 21 from the 25 in the national capital. Sisodia had constituted the committee under the chairmanship of the excise commissioner to recommend measures to increase excise revenue and ways to simplify liquor pricing as well as boost the hotel and restaurant industry. Restuarants and clubs having an excise license can currently serve liquor to their guests till 1 am in the national capital. At present, there is 24x7 excise licence offered to hotels, but with hefty fee. "In its report, the committee has recommended that restuarants and clubs should be allowed to serve till 3 am. It will also increase the government's excise revenue. The Delhi government's law department is examining the report," an official source told PTI. According to the recommendations, the number of dry days should be reduced to three in parity with the neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. It stated that there should be three liquor vends in each of 272 municipal wards in the national capital totalling 816 vends, besides one country liquor vend in each of 70 assembly constituencies. At Indira Gandhi International Aiport, six liquor vends should be set up, the committee said in its recommendations. "Ensuring equitable access of liquor supply to all residents in NCT of Delhi so that there are no un-served and under-served areas by ward-wise allocation of vends," it stated On liquor pricing, the committee said, "L-1 licensees (a license that is granted for the wholesale supply of Indian liquor) may be at liberty to declare the maximum retail price (MRP) instead of ex-distillery price (EDP) with fixed excise duty, VAT as applicable, assured retail margin of 8 per cent of the MRP and the remaining amount left of MRP would be wholesale Price for the manufacturer." Sources said that it also recommended hat brand registration fee should also be rationalised, a move that will encourage start-ups in the national capital. They said that at present, brand registration fee is almost the same for prominent companies and new company. If brand registration fee is rationalised, it will encourage start-up and they will not have to pay hefty fee which is applicable for prominent liquor, wine and beer brands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allow-clubs-restaurants-to-serve-liquor-till-3-am-in-national-capital-delhi-govt-panel-933387.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Encounters went up by nearly 65% in 2020; rapes, murders down: Noida Police||The Gautam Nagar district which switched over to the commissionerate system of policing in January saw a nearly 65 per cent rise in cases of gunfights between police and miscreants this year compared to the last, reveal official data. Reeling under the Covid-pandemic, the district, however, saw a significant drop in offences like murders, rapes, abductions, snatchings and vehicle thefts in 2020 compared to 2019, the data showed. The Uttar Pradesh government had in January this year set up commissionerate system of policing for Gautam Buddh Nagar and state capital Lucknow. Releasing the annual crime figures of the district, Gautam Budh Nagar Police Commissioner Alok Singh on Wednesday said his force has been on an “aggressive” mode of policing to keep citizens safe. The district saw a total of 135 cases of gunfights between police and miscreants in 2020, compared to 82 in 2019, resulting in arrests of 244 accused against 150 arrested in 2019. The gunfights this year also resulted in a higher number of 184 accused getting injured compared to 81 suffering bullet wounds in encounters with police in 2019, the figures revealed. The gunfights also led to arrests of 46 accused carrying rewards on their apprehension this year, compared to 36 nabbed last year. During 2020, a total of 398 cases affecting the human body, like murder, rape and abduction were registered across Noida and Greater Noida. In 2019, the figure stood at 511, according to the data. The outgoing year also saw the number of murder cases dropping to 72 compared to last year’s 88, attempts of murder to 94 from 142, deaths due to negligence to 19 from 20, rapes to 35 from 89 and abductions to 250 from last year’s 260. During the year, a total of 2,316 cases related to the property were registered, down 47 per cent from 2019 when 4,406 such cases were lodged across Noida and Greater Noida. The maximum cases under this head were those of vehicle thefts (1,160), snatchings (398), loot (64), dacoity (one) and 'others' (693). In 2019, there were 2,215 cases of vehicle thefts, 571 snatchings, 161 loots, three dacoities and 1,456 'others', according to the data. The district police also said ill-gotten properties, including movable and non-movable assets, of mafia worth over Rs 100 crore have been attached during the outgoing year as it launched a crackdown on organised crimes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounters-went-up-by-nearly-65-in-2020-rapes-murders-down-noida-police-933400.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Grenade attack on Kathua temple misses target, blast triggers panic||Jammu, Dec 30 (PTI) Terrorists lobbed a grenade on a temple in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir Wednesday evening but it missed the target and exploded nearby, creating panic among the people there, a senior police officer said. The attack comes within days of police arresting four militant associates and scuttling their separate plans to trigger grenade explosions in Poonch and Jammu districts at the behest of their handlers in Pakistan with the intention to disturb peace in Jammu region and harm communal brotherhood. "A grenade was thrown on a temple in Hiranagar sector around 7.30 pm but luckily it missed the intended target and exploded in an open area, without causing any damage or casualty," Kathua Senior Superintendent of Police Shalinder Mishra told PTI about the Wednesday evening attack. He said the whole area was immediately cordoned off and a massive operation was launched to nab the assailants. No one has been arrested so far, he said. Officials said the blast triggered panic among the people who ran for cover after hearing the loud noise. On Sunday, police had arrested a Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist with two grenades near Bagh-e-Bahu in Jammu, foiling his attempt to carry out an attack in the winter capital. A day earlier, three militant associates were arrested and six grenades were seized from them in Poonch district as police said they were planning to carry out a grenade attack at a religious place with the intention to harm the communal harmony in the border district. On December 25, two terrorists, hailing from south Kashmir and affiliated with 'The Resistance Force' (TRF), believed to be an offshoot of LeT, were arrested in Jammu with an AK assault rifle, one pistol and some ammunition .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grenade-attack-on-kathua-temple-misses-target-blast-triggers-panic-933421.html
30-12-2020||North and Central||Over 2.7K undertrials, 41 convicts released in J&K amid Covid-19||Over 2,700 undertrials and 41 convicts were released in Jammu and Kashmir as part of measures to ensure social distancing in jails amid the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. Two elderly prisoners died of Covid-19, while 533 other inmates recovered from the infection after successful treatment, the director general of prisons, V K Singh, said. "As many as 2,703 undertrials have been released on bail and 41 convicts on normal parole this year on the recommendation of a high-powered committee, which was constituted on the directions of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to ensure social distancing among the prisoners," Singh told PTI on the sidelines of an event at Amphalla jail in Jammu. The panel met eight times through video conference under the chairmanship of Justice Rajesh Bindal, the acting chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, and recommended the release of the undertrials and 41 convicts. A total of 536 inmates in various jails have tested positive for coronavirus so far. While 533 of them recovered, two elderly prisoners, both in their 70s, died, according to Singh. One prisoner, who recently tested positive for Covid-19 in Srinagar Central Jail is still under treatment, while 141 inmates are under quarantine across the prisons, he said. The nearly two-hour-long cultural programme saw a spectacular performance by jail inmates, prompting chief guest Justice Bindal suggesting a platform to allow them perform outside the prison as a special case. Justice Bindal appreciated the efforts made by jail authorities for the welfare of the prisoners. Earlier, jail superintendent Mirza Saleem Ahmad Beig underlined various steps being taken in the prison for reformation of prisoners and improving prison administration. He highlighted that the department is working towards making jails self-reliant and providing better living conditions and training facilities to the inmates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-27k-undertrials-41-convicts-released-in-jk-amid-covid-19-933428.html
30-12-2020||Opinion||New Year resolutions for unusual times||To begin with, a basic question. Do New Year (NY) resolutions even make sense? Resolution-skeptics believe January 1 is like any other calendar day, and therefore offers no added chance of success with self-improvement plans. There is data to support the argument. Most NY resolutions are binned – about 80 per cent by the second week of February, global data from fitness tracker Strava indicates – and only 8 per cent are accomplished. Is this a compelling reason to avoid NY resolutions though? No. It is alright if a specific dawn inspires us into improving ourselves. One estimate suggests that about 60 per cent of the world’s adults think the start of the year is a suitable time to embrace better habits and lifestyles. That’s a lot of hopeful people, and it can’t be a bad thing for the world. Better to have hoped and failed than never to have hoped at all. Now, NY resolutions are commonly about eating right, exercising more, meditating more, quitting smoking, prioritising expenses, spending more time with family, or picking up a new skill. While we are all entitled to decide what is best for ourselves, there’s a case for looking beyond this familiar menu in the coming days. 2020, the most tumultuous year most of us have seen, has been a warning against business-as-usual, and it would be wise to at least consider the lessons it has served in our contemplations for 2021 and beyond. Of these lessons, small and big, two may have the greatest import for the future. One: Human fortunes, despite all the divisions of geography, address, and identity we have created, are twined. This is not to suggest that everyone has suffered the same. Far from it. But  this year underscores that misery when it spreads beyond a point will breach moats and walls of privilege. Some may have coped better with the pandemic than others, but even the richest countries have seen pain, even the most insulated, deep-pocketed homes have had lives thrown out of gear, and even the most established of businesses haven’t escaped unhurt. The path to recovery in each case travels through a movement to a new, less unjust normal. For everyone. Two: Expertise needs to be respected. If the pandemic has spared many more lives than it has claimed and if we are a little more hopeful today than we were six months ago, we have the advances in modern medicine to thank. This is not to diminish traditional knowledge systems, lay person’s views, or the word of democratically-elected governments but to recognise that meaningful responses to the pressing issues of our time cannot be – should not be – developed without drawing on expertise accumulated via years of scholarship, experiment, debate, and experience. Important caveat: It is not just techno-managerial solutions that will do the job. Ensuring that such solutions are culturally-acceptable and delivered in an equitable manner requires other, often far more crucial insight streams to be tapped. For instance, the scientist’s work on the vaccine now needs to be taken forward by communication, economics, and logistics professionals (among others) to respond to issues around hesitancy, pricing, and delivery. Of course, at each stage, the voice of the ultimate client – the citizen – must shape experts’ schema and recommendations. A tone-deaf expert is no expert. Living the learnings of 2020 Consistent with these lessons, 2021 could kick-off with promises to self to help address the pain of the less well-placed and back ideas that domain experts back. Neither is easy – empathy doesn’t develop overnight and expert opinion is difficult to spot in times of truth decay – but that is insufficient reason to hold back. The dream of a better future is too important to be ceded without effort. Plus, aren’t NY resolutions meant to be challenging? The practice of ‘giving back’ via donations and volunteer time has been around in some circles for a while now. These are entirely acceptable ways to engage with issues of collective and societal import, provided the engagement is continuous and not after a fashion. That said, there are two under-explored areas those inclined to give-back may add to their effort-portfolio. A: Initiatives focused on addressing social fractures, in particular those promoting social harmony and fighting identity-based discriminations, need greater support than they get. B: The performance of the government – the largest player in matters of development – merits greater scrutiny. A healthy skepticism about achievement figures and stronger vocalisation of concerns around scheme design and implementation gaps, as also firmer endorsements of what works on ground, could go a long way. Backing expert opinion on complex issues requires, more than anything else, examining our relationship with social media, the now preferred arena for expressing, approving, galvanising, contesting, and discrediting opinion. At a time when experts differ (sometimes genuinely) and biases and political leanings determine positions and their amplifications, the common checks against fake news social media giants recommend are worth a try. So, we would do well to avoid believing and disseminating content that has been labeled misleading, debunked by fact checkers, or originates from dodgy publishers (tips to identify them are readily available). If some of this sounds like too much research, one rule of thumb, which like all such rules involves a trade-off, may be in order. Avoid sharing forwards and memes. Recognise that these are opinion manipulation tools, distilling selective information and preying on biases. If truth and fact are of paramount interest, if the idea is to earnestly engage with a public interest matter, and it is for these reasons a social media stance seems the thing to do, understand that being a propaganda tool is not civic engagement and invest time in understanding issues and perspectives. If there are still no clear answers, it is because there are complex issues to which simple answers aren’t always available. It doesn’t make those leaning towards answers different from our own naïve or traitorous. Happy New Year. May empathy and truth guide us all. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-year-resolutions-for-unusual-times-933219.html
30-12-2020||Opinion||We need a Paris Agreement for plastics||My entry into the ocean plastics crisis began when our organization, SoulBuffalo, ran the first ever activist-to-industry ocean plastics summit in May of 2019. To imagine the summit, picture 165 senior leaders from Coca-Cola, Dow, Greenpeace, the American Chemistry Council, the World Bank, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and representatives of some of the world’s 15 million informal waste pickers all stuck on a boat together in the middle of the Atlantic Garbage Patch for four days.  These stakeholders have wildly different strategies, visions and objectives. Our mission was to bring them together in the heart of the crisis to ignite new relationships and accelerate action. We snorkeled together in a sea of plastics and hosted boundary-pushing conversations between leaders that don’t usually sit in the same room. We saw up close the paradox of plastic, part wonder material, part environmental scourge. Lightweight and strong, plastic preserves food like no other material. Yet it breaks down into microplastics and nanoplastics, which can now be found everywhere in the world—from the deepest oceans to our very own bodies. Every day plastic is flowing into our natural environment at an unprecedented rate—a dump truck’s worth every minute into our oceans alone. As I wrote in Scientific American in August, the pandemic has made it worse. Enough masks are being made per year to cover the entire country of Switzerland. Confronting this reality together in the Atlantic Garbage Patch built bridges between the plastic industry and environmental NGOs. Five of the ideas workshopped during the summit are funded and up and running today (including the Plastic Pickers Operational Working Group). The summit made a powerful impact, but the crisis is far from resolved. The need for a complete overhaul of our broken system for managing waste is clear. The growing consensus is that the most effective way to do this is through a UN Global Treaty on Plastics. In 14 months at United Nations Environmental Assembly’s Fifth Session (UNEA-5), the UN will decide on whether to move a treaty forward. The 70-plus-member Ocean Plastics Leadership Network, the activist-to-industry network dedicated to the plastics crisis that was born on that ship in the middle of the Atlantic, is committed to accelerating the work towards a “Paris Agreement” for plastics. We are currently at work on a yearlong series of virtual dialogues during the 14-month groundwork period leading up to the UNEA5 decision in February 2022 on whether to develop a global plastics treaty. Our role is to help map consensus amongst major stakeholders to accelerate a plastics treaty. Traditionally, negotiations on global treaties are incredibly hard, and the vast number of stakeholders in the global plastics crisis only adds to the complexity of the task.  Among the stakeholders for a new global agreement on plastic pollution are 193 UN-recognized governments; thousands of companies dependent on plastic; trade and advocacy groups; activists and industry-facing nonprofits; waste pickers in the developing world who are responsible for picking plastic out of landfills and off beaches; and seven billion consumers who recycle on average 14 per centof the total amount of plastic they consume.  We’re under no illusion about the scope of this challenge. We must create a safe forum for tough conversations to take place among this vast and varied group in advance of the February 2022 decision to inform negotiators at the UN and help advance the treaty. In the words of Costa Rican diplomat Christiana Figueres, who was central to the realization of the Paris Agreement, we must employ “relentless optimism,” coupled with “radical collaboration.” Despite this complexity, we believe a meaningful global agreement can be reached and that we must make it happen faster than any treaty before. There are good reasons for optimism. In 1988, the International Maritime Organization ratified a global agreement titled MARPOL Annex V making it illegal for ships to dump plastic in the ocean anywhere in the world. It is still in effect today, proving there’s precedent for global agreements to preserve our oceans. All of the Caribbean nations, the Nordic countries and the Pacific Island states have called for a new global agreement. Sixty-eight countries have publicly expressed interest in a plastics treaty, as have a broad coalition of African countries, and the European Union. While the US has been notably silent on the topic, the groundswell of worldwide support is encouraging.  In November, the UK’s environmental minister declared the time to start negotiating a plastics treaty is now. "We have a chance now to tackle plastic pollution in the way that the Paris agreement has done for climate change.” said Lord Zac Goldsmith. There is also hope across the environmental community that the recently elected Biden administration will be a meaningful force on the plastics treaty, as the Obama administration was for climate.  Major reports released in 2020 from industry, NGOs and government also provide a useful blueprint to ground discussions. WWF, Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Boston Consulting Group laid out the business case for a global treaty, and 30 major companies have signed onto a "Business Call for a UN Treaty On Plastic Pollution." They urged others to join them in advocating for an international response that aligns businesses and governments and offers a clear approach to addressing the plastic crisis. Environmental NGO groups also voiced their support for a plastics treaty in a report from the Center for International Environmental Law, the Environment Investigation Agency and GAIA (Global Alliance for Incinerator Alternatives). The report has the backing of the Break Free from Plastic movement and Greenpeace. Finally, just a few weeks ago, the Nordic Council of Ministers rolled out a 148-page report that provides a suggested framework and positioning for a future treaty. These reports reveal that there is already alignment on some fundamental points. First, they all call for harmonized reporting on plastics throughout their life cycle, making it possible to account for everything that is being made and how it is handled. This requires a standardization of terms for all things plastic, so regions and stakeholders all speak the same language. Second, all the reports recommend national action plans, where each country sets up its own plans to manage waste based on minimum requirements, much as nations do with greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris accord. Finally, the reports agree that scientific panels should monitor progress globally, and a financial mechanism must support developing countries and distribute funds internationally. Bridging the Activist-Industry Divide While environmental organizations (like OPLN member Greenpeace) and industry groups (like OPLN member American Chemistry Council) may agree on some of the basic structures of a global agreement there are still challenging issues to address. Environmental groups call for mandatory plastic reduction goals and enforceable mechanisms in the treaty, as well as limits on new fossil fuel–derived virgin plastic production. Meanwhile, many industry groups believe a treaty can be successful without mandatory reduction goals and heavily emphasize the expansion of advanced recycling or chemical recycling technologies. Many environmental activist groups see the advanced recycling models as a license to continue with the status quo on consumption. A landmark report from the Pew Charitable Trusts, SYSTEMIQ and various academic partners, titled “Breaking the Plastic Wave,” points toward a way to help bridge this divide: we need to dramatically ramp up both upstream solutions such as reduction goals championed by environmental groups and downstream solutions championed by industry, including fixing our broken mechanical recycling system and investing in new technologies. Speeding Up Global Treaties How long will bridging this divide take? The road to the Paris Agreement actually began in 1991 with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and continued with the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, and the failed meetings in Copenhagen in 2009. The Paris Agreement was finally signed in 2016, 25 years after the first framework was agreed upon.  The Montreal Protocol, which has been instrumental in repairing our ozone layer, was signed in 1987, 14 years after CFCs were posited to pose a danger—speedy by UN standards. A high seas treaty to conserve marine biological diversity in international waters has been under discussion for 12 years now. However, there is a precedent for greater speed when the issue is plastic. The Basel plastic amendments included plastic waste in a legally binding framework to make global trade in plastic waste more transparent and better regulated. This was a major accomplishment, and the time between the first proposal and unanimous adoption by governments was just eight months, previously an unheard-of timeframe in which to negotiate an international agreement. Reports such as “Breaking the Plastic Wave” tell us we’re running out of time. We must rapidly accelerate both upstream and downstream solutions to have any chance of solving this crisis. If we delay dramatic action by just five years and maintain current government and industry commitments, an additional 80 million metric tons of plastic will end up in the ocean by 2040 (or about half of all the plastic that has accumulated from the start of the plastics era up to now). Preventing this disaster for ocean ecosystems and human health and well-being requires creating safe spaces for discussion between environmental and industry groups now. The only way forward is to approach the obstacles head-on in the belief that tension equals progress, and that all parties, regardless of their perspective and approach, should have a seat at the table.  If we are brave enough to have those conversations, we have reason to be relentlessly optimistic that an ambitious plastics treaty matching the scale and urgency of the problem can be realized in record time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-need-a-paris-agreement-for-plastics-933336.html
30-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth's political advisor quits politics day after Tamil superstar backs out||Tamilaruvi Manian, a former Congressman who was advising Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on his political plans, on Wednesday announced he was exiting politics for good. The decision by Manian, who was with the Congress for a long time and enjoyed close relations with its veteran G K Moopanar, came a day after Rajinikanth went back on his plans to launch a political party. 70-year-old Manian, who is opposed to the Dravidian majors, has been closely associated with Rajinikanth ever since he announced his intent to launch a party and contest the assembly elections in the state on the last day of 2017. On December 3, when Rajinikanth declared that he would finally launch his party in January next year, the actor appointed Manian as manager for his political venture. Manian had expressed confidence earlier this week about Rajinikanth launching a political party despite his “ill-health” following the actor's hospitalisation in Hyderabad. “Until the time death embraces me, I will not step into politics again. I am leaving. I will not come back," Manian, who runs Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam, said in a statement. Manian rued that his “biggest crime” was his repeated attempts to bring back the “Kamaraj Rule” in Tamil Nadu and contended that uncharacteristic remarks made against him had “hurt my family members.” Recalling that he began his political career under K Kamaraj, the late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Manian alleged that all “good qualities” in politics have been buried by the Dravidian parties. “I had never gone against the truth and I never went and stood before others. Even today, I am living in a rented accommodation,” Manian added in his statement. This is not the first time that Manian has issued a statement announcing his exit from politics – he issued a similar kind of a statement in 2016 but went on to advise Rajinikanth a year later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanths-political-advisor-quits-politics-day-after-tamil-superstar-backs-out-933206.html
30-12-2020||South||Video of youth beating mother in Kerala goes viral; accused nabbed||A shocking video of a youth brutally beating his mother after hurling abuses at her in an apparently inebriated state has gone viral on the social media triggering widespread public outrage, following which police launched a speedy manhunt and arrested the accused. The man in the red shirt was seen repeatedly hitting and kicking the wailing woman, who was sitting on the floor of a dark room nearby kitchen, in the video. As the news channels started airing the appalling visuals, police registered a suo moto case, launched a speedy investigation and arrested the accused. The man was identified as one Rafeeq, a 27-year-old native of Idava in Varkala Taluk in the district, police said. "The visual was actually shot on December 10 by Rafeeq's sister. She had sent that to some relatives in the Middle East who now shared it on the social media platforms which has gone viral," a police officer told PTI. He was traced through mobile tower location, he added. Working as a helper in a private bus, Rafeeq is an alcohol addict, who used to beat his mother in intoxication, police said quoting relatives. However, his mother Shahida (49) was not ready to give any complaint against her son, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/video-of-youth-beating-mother-in-kerala-goes-viral-accused-nabbed-933221.html
30-12-2020||South||Covid-19: Kerala govt relaxes curbs on temple festivities||Traditional stage artistes in Kerala can now heave a sigh of relief as the state government has decided to relax the curbs imposed on temple festivals in the wake of the spread of Covid-19. State Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said restrictions in connection with the festivities, would be relaxed in temples managed by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB). TDB is an apex temple body in the southern state which manages over 1200 shrines. The temple art forms can be staged in compliance with the Covid-19 protocol, the minister said here. "With the permission of the respective local police and in adherence to Covid-19 criteria, stage performances can be conducted in temples," he said. The decision was taken based on the petitions submitted by various organisations of artistes, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-govt-relaxes-curbs-on-temple-festivities-933228.html
30-12-2020||South||NASA to launch world's lightest satellite built by 18-year-old Tamil Nadu student||Two years of hard work by 18-year-old S Riyasdeen has finally borne fruit. The second-year mechatronics engineering student has built the world's lightest FEMTO satellite weighing just 33 grams, which will be launched by the US' National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) in 2021. Riyasdeen, a student of the SASTRA Deemed University in Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu, won the Cubes in Space global design competition conducted by NASA. The 37-mm technology-experimental satellites - VISION SAT V1 and V2 — designed by him weigh just 33 grams and are the world's lightest FEMTO satellites. Cubes in Space, a program by idoodlEdu Inc., is a global competition offered at no cost for students to design and propose experiments to launch into space on a NASA sounding rocket and zero-pressure scientific balloon. Before this, the world's lightest satellite weighed 64 grams. Mentored by INRO Labs in Chennai, the satellites are designed to record around 17 parameters with 11 sensors. While VISION SAT V1 will be launched from Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia in June 2021, VISION SAT V2 will be part of the NASA Balloon Mission RB-6 scheduled for launch in August. “My interest in robotics and technology dates back to my school days. To be honest, I began designing the two satellites when was in my 12th standard. The complete research, analysis and development took two years for me. INRO labs helped me in applying for the competition,” Riyasdeen told Deccan Herald from Thanjavur. The satellites have been designed for microgravity material research and atmospheric space observation or studies, he added. The satellite, which looks like a rectangular box, has been made of polyetherimide thermoplastic resins and 3D printing technology. "I used the said materials because they can withstand the space conditions and these are technology-experiment satellites," Riyasdeen added. S Vaidhyasubramaniam of SASTRA Deemed University took to Twitter to announce that SASTRA-TBI in 3D Printing and Internet of Things (IoT) will offer an incubation grant of Rs 5 Lakhs to Riyasdeen to fulfill his dream of successful a successful start-up. Congratulations are also poured in for Riyasdeen from Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Opposition Leader MK Stalin, and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nasa-to-launch-worlds-lightest-satellite-built-by-18-year-old-tamil-nadu-student-933245.html
30-12-2020||South||Sabarimala opens for Makaravilakku festival; Covid certificate a must for darshan||Marking the beginning of the second phase of the annual pilgrimage season, the Lord Ayyappa temple here opened this evening for the Makaravilakku festival. Though the portals of the hill shrine were opened at 5.00 pm, devotees would be allowed to enter from Thursday morning only, officials of the Tranvancore Devaswom Board, (TDB) which manages the shrine, said. The auspicious Makaravilakku festival falls on January 14 and the shrine would be closed on January 20. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, only 5,000 devotees would be permitted to offer prayers at the shrine per day during the Makaravilakku season, they said. As in the first phase of the pilgrimage which ended on December 26 with customary Mandala pooja, a Covid negative certificate, taken within 48 hours of the pilgrimage, is mandatory in the second leg also. Pilgrims, who do not have such a virus negative certificate, would not be allowed to proceed further from the base camps- Nilakkal and Pampa-- to Sannidhanam (temple complex), TDB officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-opens-for-makaravilakku-festival-covid-certificate-a-must-for-darshan-933294.html
30-12-2020||South||BJP says it may seek Rajinikanth's 'support,' again asserts it leads alliance in Tamil Nadu||The BJP on Wednesday said it may seek the support of superstar Rajinikanth for the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, a day after the star said he has abandoned his plan to make a political foray. Asserting that its alliance with the AIADMK was strong, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, however, said the NDA was led by his party and 'Prime Minister Narendra Modi' in the state as well, apparently indicating that it was not steered by the ruling party, the senior partner. In Tamil Nadu, AIADMK was the largest partner in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and naturally, the Chief Minister will be from that party, Ravi, BJP's state incharge, told reporters here, answering a volley of questions on ties between the two parties. A formal decision would be made on the Chief Ministerial candidate of the NDA once the Election Commission issues the notification for the assembly elections, expected in April- May, he said, adding the strategy was part of the ongoing exercise to strengthen the BJP in the state. The AIADMK has already announced incumbent K Palaniswami as its chief ministerial candidate in the election. Earlier, former Indian team leg spinner and cricket commentator, Laxman Sivaramakrishnan and several elected representatives at the level of local bodies joined the BJP. On Rajinikanth's announcement that he would not launch a political party, Ravi praised the actor, saying he had always protected the national and Tamil Nadu's interests. "He is a great leader." Asked if his party would seek his support, he said, "I hope, we will ask him." To a similar question, Ravi said everyone knows, "how close Modi Ji and Rajinikanth are." AIADMK has also expressed the view that Rajinikanth would support the party-led alliance in view of his decision not to float his outfit. Opposition parties have said Rajinikanth's decision not to join politics would hurt the BJP, maintaining that it was hoping to join hands with him and become a force in the state. Rajinikanth, who earlier said he would launch his party next month, had on Tuesday announced he would not foray into politics in view of his health status, having undergone a kidney transplant four years ago, and considering the coronavirus pandemic situation. The actor's assertion that he would serve the people in whatever possible ways -without entering electoral politics- has led to an expectation among a section of BJP supporters that he may "lend his voice" favouring the party, the way he had supported the DMK-led alliance in 1996. His statement then that even "God cannot save Tamil Nadu if the AIADMK is voted back to power" became hugely famous in the run-up to the polls which the DMK went on to sweep. BJP's Tamil Nadu unit chief L Murugan, who was also present at the press meet, said the party had not been 'officially' engaged in any talk with expelled DMK leader M K Alagiri on him possibly joining the national party. Alagiri, son of late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, had days ago said that he would decide on his future course of action following consultations with his supporters on January 3. "If he (Alagiri) joins, we will welcome him," Murugan said, adding all, including Arjunamurthy who quit the BJP to join hands with Rajinikanth, were welcome to be a member of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-says-it-may-seek-rajinikanths-support-again-asserts-it-leads-alliance-in-tamil-nadu-933326.html
30-12-2020||South||From sweeper to panchayat president, democracy changes the life of another Kerala woman||In yet another instance of democracy changing the lives of people overnight, a woman who has been serving as a part-time sweeper at a panchayat has become the president of the same panchayat. Anandavalli A has taken over as president of the Pathanapuram block panchayat on the suburbs of Kollam district in South Kerala on Wednesday. She had been working as a part-time sweeper at the panchayat office as well as other offices attached to the block since 2011. Anandavalli, fondly known as 'Valli Chechi', was opted by the Left Democratic Front as panchayat president considering her popularity and acceptance among the people. She contested from Thalavoor ward, which was reserved for Scheduled Caste general members, and won with a clear majority of around 650 votes. In the 13 member panchayat, left front won seven seats and Congress-led United Democratic Front won the remaining six. The panchayat president post was reserved for SC woman and apart from Anandavalli, another left-front woman member was also from the SC community. But CPM opted Anandavalli, which is learnt to be in consideration of her general acceptance. Anandavalli's husband, who is a painting worker, has been an active CPM worker and the couple have two children. The elevation of a part-time sweeper to panchayat president post came close on the heels of a 21-year old college girl, Arya Rajendran, becoming Thiruvananthapuram mayor and hitting headlines by becoming the youngest mayor in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-sweeper-to-panchayat-president-democracy-changes-the-life-of-another-kerala-woman-933327.html
30-12-2020||South||Professor Madan Pillutla to be the next dean of Indian Business School||The Indian School of Business has announced Professor Madan Pillutla, a renowned management academic especially in the field of organisational behaviour, as its next dean. A visiting faculty member at ISB since its founding in 2001, Prof Pillutla is currently serving as a Professor of Organisational Behaviour, a department he had chaired in the past, at the London Business School. Prof Pillutla will succeed the present dean Rajendra Srivastava on July 1, thereby becoming the sixth dean of ISB. Having served as the deputy dean of faculty, ex-officio member of the executive committee, and the faculty representative on the governing body of LBS, he brings extensive administrative experience, ISB said in a press statement on Wednesday. “Madan’s appointment comes at a transformative phase for ISB. In the nearly 20 years of our existence, successive generations of very capable deans have built the school to its current pre-eminence and we are excited about the important role ISB will continue to play in business education in India and internationally. In Madan, we are fortunate to find the combination of academic excellence, deep administrative expertise, and, importantly, someone who is familiar with the unique culture of ISB. He holds a distinctive vision for the institution, and we are certain that he will take ISB to new heights”, said Harish Manwani, chairperson, ISB executive board. Prior to LBS, Prof Pillutla taught at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. He holds a doctorate in organizational behaviour from the University of British Columbia, a master’s in Business Analytics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and a post-graduate diploma in management from the Xavier Labor Relations Institute (XLRI), Jamshedpur which had conferred upon him a distinguished alumnus award in 2019. “I believe ISB will see tremendous progress with Prof Pillutla as dean. We have worked closely together over the last 20 years and I look forward to continuing working with him as I transition into a faculty role as the Novartis Professor of Marketing Strategy and Innovation over the next few months,” said Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/professor-madan-pillutla-to-be-the-next-dean-of-indian-business-school-933335.html
30-12-2020||South||Bedi, staff undergo Covid-19 test after woman employee turns positive||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi along with her entire team of staff at the Raj Nivas underwent Covid-19 tests on Wednesday after a woman employee reported positive for the virus and was hospitalised here. The 26-year old woman employee attached to the social media wing in the Raj Nivas had visited her native Coimbatore and also Karaikal in the last few days, Bedi said. "I and all the staff in my office were tested today... we will be getting the result tomorrow. We will again undergo another screening five days later," the former IPS officer told PTI when contacted. The woman employee was admitted to premier health institute JIPMER on Wednesday, a Health department spokesman said. He said Bedi and all the 27 staff in Raj Nivas were tested by a team of doctors. Earlier, in July, Bedi had tested negative for the coronavirus after an employee of the Raj Nivas was found to be infected with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bedi-staff-undergo-covid-19-test-after-woman-employee-turns-positive-933343.html
30-12-2020||South||Sabarimala head priest quarantined due to contact with two Covid-19 infected||Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple 'melsanthi' (head priest) V K Jayaraj Potty has been quarantined after three of his aides tested Covid-19 positive. Since 'melsanthi', who is appointed for one year, is not supposed to leave the temple premises as per the temple's norms and belief, the temple authorities are also quite concerned over the melsanthi coming under a Covid scare. In case he is tested Covid-19 positive, arrangements are likely to be made at temple premises itself for treating him, said temple sources. The hill shrine in Kerala would be reopening for the second phase of the pilgrimage, 'Makaravilakku season', on Wednesday, and 5,000 pilgrims would be allowed daily from Thursday as per an order of the Kerala High Court. So far only a maximum of 3,000 pilgrims was allowed daily considering the Covid scare. According to temple sources, two assistant priests and an assistant who used to prepare food for the 'melsanthi' were tested Covid positive. Hence the 'melsanthi' was advised to remain in quarantine. During the first phase of the pilgrimage, 390 persons were tested Covid positive of which 289 were employees of various departments. As many as 71,706 pilgrims visited the temple during the first phase. Adequate precautions were being made to avoid priests coming into direct contact with pilgrims. The Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple has been demanding for allowing up to 10,000 pilgrims daily citing the financial crunch being caused owing to the restriction in the number of pilgrims. The revenue during the first phase was only Rs. 9.09 crore, while it was Rs. 156 crore last year. On average, the temple required up to Rs. 50 lakh for the daily routine expenses. Various Hindu outfits had earlier raised concerns over increasing the number of pilgrims at Sabarimala citing that in case the infection spreads among pilgrims, it may even hit the routine rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-head-priest-quarantined-due-to-contact-with-two-covid-19-infected-933345.html
30-12-2020||South||29 returnees from UK test positive for Covid-19; over 6,000 new cases in Kerala||As many as 29 people who recently returned to Kerala from the UK have tested positive, Health Minister K K Shailaja said on Wednesday, as the State recorded over 6,268 new COVID-19 cases and 5,707 recoveries. The samples of the UK returnees have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune to ascertain if it is the new variant, the minister said in a press release. The total virus caseload has touched 7,55,717, while 6,87,104 people have been cured of the disease and 65,394 are presently undergoing treatment, she said. The toll in the state has climbed to 3,042 with 28 recent deaths being added to the tally after they were confirmed due to Covid-19. As many as 2,47,725 people are presently under observation in various districts, including 12,116 in hospitals. In the last 24 hours, 63,887 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate was 9.81 per cent.So far, 78,53,651 specimens have been sent for testing. Of the positive cases today, 54 are health workers, 102 had come from outside the state and 5,652 were infected through contact, according to the release. Among the districts, Ernakulam accounted for 1,006 cases, the highest, followed by Pathanamthitta 714, Kozhikode 638 and Kollam 602.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/29-returnees-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-over-6000-new-cases-in-kerala-933353.html
30-12-2020||South||Minister holds talks with devotees over Rs 500 crore offer to Kerala temple||Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Wednesday held talks with Bengaluru-based devotee Gana Shravan who offered development work to the tune of Rs 526 crore for the Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple in Ernakulam district, around 10 kilometres from Kochi city. The proposal of Shravan was pending for more than a year as the authorities were quite concerned about accepting such a huge offer. During the meeting with the Devaswom Minister and other officials concerned, it was decided that the proposal of Shravan would be submitted before the devaswom bench of Kerala High court and once the HC gave its nod, it could be taken forward. Shravan told DH that he hoped to commence the proposed development work at least by next month. He said that he had received many fortunes in life and business after he started visiting the temple regularly and hence he was making the donation.  According to the proposal, the first phase development work of Rs 254 crore includes renovation of the temple, construction of new gopurams (entrance), construction of a marriage hall, waste treatment plant, and setting up parking facility. The second-phase would include developing the roads leading to the temple. Apart these, Shravan had also offered to set up a hospital in the locality. Shravan, aged 46, is a native of Chikkaballapur district. He said that he was basically in the music field for nearly 20 years. But there was not much fortune in his life. Four years back he visited the Chottanikkara temple as advised by his guru and thereafter he got much fortune in business. He said that he was mainly into gold, diamond, and rare metals trading by associating with a Mumbai based firm and was also setting up a jewel shop at Bengaluru. He was also into construction and interior design business in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minister-holds-talks-with-devotees-over-rs-500-crore-offer-to-kerala-temple-933361.html
30-12-2020||South||CBI books Hyderabad-based infra firm IVRCL, its MD for alleged bank fraud of Rs 4,837cr||The CBI on Wednesday carried out searches at the premises of infrastructure firm IVRCL, its Managing Director E Sudhir Reddy and Joint Managing Director R Balarami Reddy who have been booked by the agency for an alleged fraud worth over Rs 4,800 crore against a consortium of banks, officials said. The agency has booked the Hyderabad-based company and its directors on a complaint from the State Bank of India, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said.  "It was alleged that the accused in connivance with unknown public servants and others defrauded the consortium of public sector banks, consisting of State Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Canara Bank, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, EXIM Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Union Bank of India and caused a loss of Rs 4,837 crore to the banks," he said. The CBI has alleged that the company had availed credit facilities from consortium members and cheated them by not repaying the loan amount.  "It was also alleged that as per the forensic audit report, the company made payments to related parties through letters of credit (LCs), without recording any purchase transactions in the books and routed the funds to the account of the company and thereby misappropriated the bank funds," Joshi said. He said searches were conducted Wednesday at the residential and official premises of the accused at Hyderabad which led to recovery of several incriminating documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-books-hyderabad-based-infra-firm-ivrcl-its-md-for-alleged-bank-fraud-of-rs-4837cr-933363.html
30-12-2020||South||Rajinikanth's decision brings back status quo in Tamil Nadu politics||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth not entering politics has come as a major relief for Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – who will continue to dominate the political arena in Tamil Nadu, albeit for now. Not only they have one competitor less now, but Rajinikanth backing out on his plans of launching a political party will also give enough room for the DMK and AIADMK to indulge in tough negotiations with their alliance partners. While the impact that Rajinikanth could have made if he had indeed taken the political plunge is anybody's guess, his entry would have ruffled many feathers in Tamil Nadu politics, controlled by the two political parties since 1967 when the DMK came to power for the first time overthrowing Congress regime. Simply put, the status quo has returned to Tamil Nadu. The 2021 elections will be yet another fight between DMK and AIADMK to capture Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government, with actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) of AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, and Tamil nationalist party, Naam Tamizhar, on the sidelines. BJP, which hardly has any electoral base in the state, was pinning its hopes on Rajinikanth to ride on his shoulders and make inroads in Tamil Nadu. Now that the actor has made it categorical that politics is not his cup of tea, the BJP now has no choice other than continuing its alliance with the AIADMK and fighting the DMK in the April-May assembly polls by accepting its leadership. Though DMK and AIADMK put up a brave face in public that Rajinikanth's entry would not have any impact on their prospects, the two parties were worried about the extent of damage that the actor could have made. Rajinikanth projected himself as an alternative to the Dravidian majors and promised to practice “spiritual politics” which many interpreted as a “soft version” of Hindutva. “Even if he had got just five percent of votes, that would have been at the expense of either of the parties. So, there is every reason for them to be relieved and feel happy,” a political analyst said on condition of anonymity. The news is even sweeter for Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who can now assert the AIADMK's authority as the leader of the alliance. The analyst said that the 2021 assembly elections are most likely to see a repeat of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the major players were the alliances led by DMK and AIADMK. “The development is certainly good for the DMK which looks poised to form the next government in Tamil Nadu. Rajinikanth's decision not to enter politics will certainly increase DMK's bargaining power with its allies, including Congress. DMK will negotiate tough and ensure that its allies fall in line,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said Rajinikanth's decision has put the BJP in its place in Tamil Nadu. “The BJP, now, has to look for new alignments to create a base for itself in the Dravidian land. While it is certainly a setback for the BJP, I do not think the party will give up just like that. They will try to find a space for them as they are looking at a long haul here,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanths-decision-brings-back-status-quo-in-tamil-nadu-politics-933372.html
30-12-2020||South||Will Kerala CM take action against cops for couple's death over property issue?||The pressure is mounting on the Kerala government for initiating action against police officials allegedly responsible for the death of a couple following a dispute over land. Rajan, 47, and his wife Ambili, 40, of Neyyattinkara in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram on Monday, succumbed to the burns suffered on December 22. They caught fire while staging a protest by dousing themselves in petrol when police and revenue authorities tried to evict them from their house situated around three cents of land that was caught up in an ownership dispute with neighbour. Their two children alleged that police were responsible for the death of their parents as they caught fire when a police personal tried to snatch the lighter from Rajan's hand and Rajan had no intention to end life. A police officer who tried to prevent the children from preparing a grave for their parents on the disputed property was also facing public ire with many strongly flaying the police on their social media page. Various political parties have also demanded the government to take action against the police personnel as well as to ensure the care of the children. Sources said that the state may soon announce adequate compensations to the children and order high-level probe into the police action. Already Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that the children would be taken care of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-kerala-cm-take-action-against-cops-for-couples-death-over-property-issue-933383.html
30-12-2020||South||Lord Ram idol vandalised in Andhra Pradesh's Ramatheertham||The desecration of Lord Ram idol at the famous Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district came as yet another shocker for the people in Andhra Pradesh, witnessing a series of spiteful incidents at temples for the past one year. On Tuesday morning, priests found the doors of the ancient Sita Lakshmana Kodandarama temple on the Bodikonda hillock in Ramatheertham broke open and the Ram idol in the sanctum sanctorum sans the head. The severed portion was retrieved from the nearby temple pond on Wednesday. “At a time when the construction of Ram mandir is going on at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya, the idol of Lord Ram is destroyed in our state. Separating the head of the idol cannot be an act of an insane person. It is an act of some religious maniacs,” Janasena Party chief Pawan Kalyan said in a statement on Wednesday. The gutting of temple chariots in Bitragunta (Nellore) in February, Antarvedi in September, and violation of several Hindu idols at Pithapuram in January are some of the prominent malicious acts reported this year. In some cases like Antarvedi, where the six-decade-old, 40 feet high wooden ratham of Lord Lakshmi Narasimha went up in flames in wee hours under mysterious circumstances, the Andhra police had initially put the blame on demented vagrants. Following the public and political pressure, the YSRCP government referred the Antarvedi matter to the CBI. The vandalised Ram idol now has further enraged Hindu devotees and organisations while allowing the TDP, BJP and the Janasena to sharpen their attack on Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy government, accusing his indifference towards earlier incidents as encouraging more such occurrences. “The destruction of Ram idol at the four centuries old Ramatheertham temple is resultant of the negligence of the ruling party. In the last 19 months, over 120 temple attacks took place in a premeditated manner. And for reasons unknown, the CM remained a silent spectator to these attacks,” accused former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu. BJP activists staged a protest at the temple on Tuesday night. Andhra BJP chief Somu Veerraju demanded the government to act sternly and punish the culprits. Meanwhile, the Vizianagaram district police are investigating the case, forming five special teams. “We are probing from all angles to know if this is an act of treasure hunters or involves communal angle or a miscreant act. We have not made any arrests so far,” Raja Kumari, SP, Vizianagaram told DH. Pawan Kalyan, an ally of the BJP, has called for Union Home Ministry's attention and a CBI probe covering all the temple incidents in AP. “Why is the CM not responding to the spate of onslaughts on Hindu temples? He may have faith in any religion, but he should respect sentiments of other religions,” Kalyan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lord-ram-idol-vandalised-in-andhra-pradeshs-ramatheertham-933391.html
30-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK 'largest partner' in NDA alliance, CM will be announced after elections, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday acknowledged that AIADMK is the “largest partner” in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu, but remained ambivalent on endorsing Edappadi K Palaniswamy as the Chief Ministerial nominee of the AIADMK-led alliance. However, the AIADMK made it clear yet again that Palaniswamy is the Chief Ministerial face of the party, and those who oppose the decision will be “side-lined.” Speaking to reporters here and later posting a series of tweets, BJP General Secretary C T Ravi said that the NDA Coordination Committee will declare the Chief Ministerial nominee once elections are announced. His announcement comes a day after Rajinikanth made clear that he was launching his political party. “In Tamil Nadu, AIADMK is the largest partner in the NDA alliance. It is natural that the Chief Minister will be from the largest partner. At present, Thiru @CMOTamilNadu is Our Chief Minister. Once Elections are announced, the NDA Co-ordination Committee will announce the CM candidate,” Ravi wrote on Twitter. In Tamil Nadu, AIADMK is the largest partner in NDA alliance. It is natural that the Chief Minister will be from largest partner. “Our goal is to take Tamil Nadu on the highway of prosperity by ensuring people friendly schemes of PM @narendramodi and Late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa reach people. It is evident that Tamil Makkal is waiting to bring AIADMK led NDA back to power in 2021 Assembly Elections,” he added. Ravi's comments also come days after Palaniswamy made it clear that people of Tamil Nadu will not accept coalition government after BJP's assertions in this regard. It is evident that Tamil Makkal are waiting to bring AIADMK led NDA back to power in 2021 Assembly Elections. “Seat sharing will be finalized once the Elections are announced. Our relationship with all our alliance friends has been open and cordial. BJP's highest decision-making body, Parliamentary Board will take the necessary decision as and when the situation demands,” Ravi added on Wednesday. The AIADMK responded to the statement by maintaining that it has made its stand clear. “We have made our stand clear,” AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam told reporters in Theni, while deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said there was no going back on the decision. Ravi's comments are also contrary to BJP's earlier stand that the Chief Ministerial face of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in which AIADMK is the major partner in Tamil Nadu will only be announced by the national leadership. The BJP's refusal to acknowledge Palaniswamy as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the combine has led to friction within the AIADMK alliance. During a government function attended by Amit Shah in Chennai last month, EPS and OPS had announced that the alliance with BJP will continue for the 2021 elections. Palaniswamy was named as the CM face of the AIADMK in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-aiadmk-largest-partner-in-nda-alliance-cm-will-be-announced-after-elections-says-bjp-933394.html
30-12-2020||South||Kerala CM's former secretary M Sivasankar denied bail||A court for economic offences in Kochi on Wednesday rejected a plea of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar for bail. The court denied bail considering the stand of Customs that Sivasankar may try to tamper with the evidence in the case using his influence. Sivasankar was arrested in connection with his nexus with couple of former employees of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, who was accused in the gold smuggling case. The customs later stated that he played key role in the smuggling activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-denied-bail-933395.html
30-12-2020||South||Telangana police arrest another Chinese in money lending apps case||The Hyderabad police have arrested a Chinese national, in continuation of its investigation into the app-based money lending companies' fraud and atrocities. Zhu Wei (Lambo) was intercepted at the New Delhi international airport as he was trying to leave the country. Lambo, 27 years old, is a native of Jiangxi in China. Another individual K Nagaraju native of Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, who played a key role in the operation of the call centres, was also arrested.  Hyderabad cops found out that another Chinese named Yuan Yuan @ Sissi @ Jennifer was the person who has set up operations in India. He is presently in abroad. Lambo was the overall head of operations of the loan apps run by the four companies - Aglow Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Liufang Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Nabloom Technologies Pvt. Ltd., and Pinprint Technologies Pvt. Ltd. A preliminary investigation into the financial transactions has revealed that close to 1.4 crore transactions worth nearly Rs 21,000 crore have taken place so far. “These are the volume of transactions which we identified have happened over payment gateways, bank accounts linked to these companies. The figure is not necessarily the loan amounts disbursed to the people,” a senior police official told DH A large number of international transactions have also happened through bit-coins. The bulk of these transactions took place over the last six months, cops said. Last week, the Cyberabad police, which is also probing the app loans case, nabbed a Chinese man Yi Bai @ Dennis. Bai is also a native of Jiangxi but associated with another set of companies running the online money lending business. Telangana police have so far arrested over 20 people in the case, following the death by suicide of at least three victims in the state due to harassment for repayment from the tele-callers of these companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-police-arrest-another-chinese-in-money-lending-apps-case-933396.html
30-12-2020||South||Liquor shops in Telangana allowed to be open till 12 am on New year eve||Liquor shops will remain open till midnight on Thursday in Telangana in view of new year eve celebrations, the state Prohibition and Excise Department said. Shops selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor are usually allowed to function till 11 pm and the extension by an hour has been given in view of the new year celebrations. Permission was also accorded to the licence holders of bars, event organisers and In-House licences of Tourism Development Corporation to serve liquor up to 1 am, on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1, it said. Such permission was subject to observance of Standard Operating Procedures for Covid-19, Prohibition and Excise Director Sarfaraz Ahmad said. Meanwhile, police said they will undertake extensive checks to curb drunken and rash driving and other traffic violations in the interest of public order and safety. Police also announced imposition of traffic restrictions in some places in order to facilitate proper control and regulation of traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-shops-in-telangana-allowed-to-be-open-till-12-am-on-new-year-eve-933397.html
30-12-2020||State||7 in Karnataka test positive for UK coronavirus strain||Four UK returnees in Shivamogga district have been detected with the new coronavirus strain, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters on Wednesday. While they have seven contacts, three of them have tested Covid-19 positive. The government will send their samples too for genetic sequencing, the minister revealed. "All the seven patients have been admitted to a government hospital and are undergoing treatment there. We have to ascertain now if their contacts are carrying the new strain or the old strain," Sudhakar said. However, Shivamogga District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Rajesh Suragihalli said the three contacts and the four patients were unrelated. "The four patients comprise a couple, a 44-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife, and their two children. One child is a 13-year-old girl and the other is a four-year-old boy. They came to Shivamogga on the morning of December 22 and were in home isolation.  The following day when they tested positive, they were shifted to the district hospital and have been there ever since. Their only primary contact has tested negative and is under surveillance. Before they came to Shivamogga they've met two families in another district and we've shared this information with that district." Contacts who tested positive unrelated In all, five passengers arrived from UK to Shivamogga out of whom, four tested positive for the UK strain, the DHO said. While the four-member family tested positive for the UK strain, the fifth passenger, though tested positive for Covid, did not have the UK strain.  "This fifth passenger who was negative for UK strain had nine primary contacts. Out of nine primary contacts, three turned out to be Covid positive. They're under hospital care. Six of his primary contacts are in institutional quarantine," Suragihalli said.  "There's no relation between the fifth passenger and the four-member family because the former came to Bhadravati in Shivamogga on December 3. He tested positive for Covid after 21 days of arrival in India. We think he got infected locally. Also, he travelled from the United States and went to the UK for a connecting flight. He did not leave the airport there and was there only for a few hours. He tested positive on December 23.  "Though the three primary contacts have no relation with anyone with the UK strain, we have sent their samples to NIMHANS on Tuesday for genetic sequencing," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/7-in-karnataka-test-positive-for-uk-coronavirus-strain-933184.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lags in loan scheme for street vendors||Karnataka, which is India’s number one state in terms of lending under the Mudra scheme, has not managed to replicate the feat in the PM-SVANidhi programme to give capital loans to street vendors.  According to data, Karnataka is ranked 7th nationally in terms of the number of loans sanctioned to street vendors, far behind the likes of Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. Apparently, the government’s failure in creating awareness of the scheme is to blame.   PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi was operationalised in July 2020 to help approximately 50 lakh street vendors resume their businesses that were hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. The scheme provides collateral-free working capital loans of up to Rs 10,000 for one-year tenure, interest subsidy at 7% per annum on regular repayment, and a cashback of up to Rs 1,200 per annum for adopting digital payments.  As of December 21, 2.02 lakh street vendors applied for a loan with banks of which just 38% were sanctioned. Nationally, UP tops the list followed by Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat.  During the lockdown, the BS Yediyurappa administration announced a special package worth Rs 2,284 crore offering cash benefits to farmers, drivers, weavers, barbers, horticulturists, maize farmers, and ASHA workers. Street vendors could get back on their feet through loans under PM-SVANidhi. Contrary to popular belief, it is not Bengaluru that saw the highest number of applications. Some 27,945 street vendors in Ballari, the highest, applied for loans followed by Belagavi (20,214) and Bengaluru Rural (14,698). The Bengaluru Urban district has seen 11,326 applications. According to sources, the State Level Bankers’ Committee has asked the government to review the existing rate of stamp duty for loans under PM-SVANidhi by either waiving it completely or restricting it to an amount “not exceeding an aggregate value of Rs 50” for both loan agreement and hypothecation agreement executed separately or together.  Banks, on their part, have taken some initiatives: Some have automated the entire loan process by taking it online, some have an app for sanctions and one bank has offered to generate UPI IDs to beneficiaries without a smartphone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lags-in-loan-scheme-for-street-vendors-933062.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lambani student aims for the sky and gets it||When he was in college, space fascinated Kiran Jayasurya; his imagination fired up by a steady dose of Discovery Channel documentaries.  "After PUC, I got a seat in the CET (Medical), but did not want to go into medicine. My father then told me about the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) in Thiruvananthapuram, where I could learn astrophysics.” Kiran eventually landed at the institute. Now, the 23-year-old is set for a career with Isro and a date with the stars. Watching documentaries didn't go in vain after all. What makes his accomplishment unique is that Kiran comes from the nomadic Lambani community that largely lives outside mainstream society in Tandas. His father, Manjunath, who now works in Bengaluru, told DH about the early struggles, on how he could not afford to send his son to a proper school due to his impoverished background. “We lived in a small village near Chitradurga," Manjunath said. "I moved to Bengaluru in 1992 as a student and worked as a helper in a machine shop.” Later, after Kiran was born, Manjunath said that his lack of adequate income meant that he could only afford to enroll his son in local unaccredited neighbourhood schools.  That didn't deter Kiran. In SSLC, Kiran scored 99%, which he matched in PUC at the MES College in Malleswaram. “However, I did not know what I must do with my life,” Kiran told DH, adding that he had always dreamt of a career in space.  There was one hiccup, however. He did not know how to enter the aerospace industry. “My interest was driven by documentaries on the Discovery Channel," Kiran said. On learning about the IIST from his father, Kiran cleared the JEE Main and Advanced exams and was offered a seat for a dual-degree, 5-year course at the IIST. Associate Professor Samir Mandal, Head of the Earth and Space Sciences Department at IIST, said Kiran was a dedicated student.  “In addition to a drive for knowledge, he was incredibly hardworking, disciplined and obedient. These qualities proved attractive to many of the faculty,” Dr Mandal said. IIST, which was set up by the central government, is a major source of recruitment for Isro. “This does not mean that all students who attend the institute automatically find a position in Isro. This is contingent on Isro’s requirement for the year plus a high academic cut-off,” Dr Mandal said. He added that Kiran had been offered the Isro position as a Scientist C on the basis of his dual degrees in astronomy and astrophysics. "His academic work in his final two years also saw him conferred with a gold medal,” Dr Mandal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lambani-student-aims-for-the-sky-and-gets-it-933066.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP backed candidates leading in panchayat polls in Karnataka||Initial trends indicate that the candidates backed by the BJP have won a majority of panchayat seats in Karnataka as the counting of votes progressed on Wednesday. Though these polls don't take place on party symbols, all political parties have put in efforts to ensure that the candidate supported by them wins, so as to have their hold on grassroot level politics, which may prove advantageous for them in taluk or zilla panchayat and even assembly polls whenever it happens. According to sources, the BJP has so far secured 4,228 seats, followed by the Congress with 2,265 seats, JD(S) 1,167 seats and independents 678 seats. Karnataka State Election Commission officials said counting was on at all 226 centres at the Taluk headquarters by adhering to strict Covid-19 protocol of mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing and hand hygiene. Over 1,100 security personnel have been deployed at the counting centres, State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju said. During the election, ballot papers were used in all districts except Bidar, election officials said. The elections to 5,728 village panchayats had taken place across 226 Taluks of the state for 82,616 seats. They were conducted in two phases on December 22 and 27 where 78.58 per cent voting was registered. As many as 2,22,814 candidates contested the election whereas 8,074 candidates were elected unopposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-backed-candidates-leading-in-panchayat-polls-in-karnataka-933241.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 threat isn’t over, precaution is key: BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday sounded a caution on the Covid-19 virus, saying the threat was not over yet. “The corona threat isn’t over. As we step into the new year, we can’t afford any negligence over the pandemic,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet, urging citizens to “cooperate and be safe” by following regulations and taking precautions. Speaking to reporters later, Yediyurappa asked all those who came into Karnataka over the past two months to get tested. “This Britain virus that’s spreading in India and Karnataka is being monitored by the Union Health Ministry. We have to take precautions and subject everybody coming from outside to tests,” he said. “Those who’ve come from outside, instead of playing hide-and-seek, should get tested because that’s in their best interest and of others, given that this virus spreads,” he said. Asked if there will be any further changes to the Covid-19 guidelines, Yediyurappa said no. “As of now, there’ll be no change. Let’s see if Delhi gives any (new) directives. For now, we must take precautions.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-threat-isn-t-over-precaution-is-key-bs-yediyurappa-933243.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS officer P Ravi Kumar appointed as Karnataka Chief Secretary||Senior IAS officer P Ravi Kumar has been appointed as Karnataka’s 38th chief secretary. An official notification appointing Kumar as the chief secretary was issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) on Wednesday. He is expected to take charge on Thursday.  Kumar, a 1984-batch officer, will replace T M Vijay Bhaskar who will superannuate on December 31 after a 37-year career as a bureaucrat.  In terms of seniority, Kumar, 58, was next in line after Bhaskar to take up the top administrative post. He is currently an additional chief secretary (ACS) and was earlier Yediyurappa’s ACS. He can hold the top post till his retirement in May 2022.  A native of Andhra Pradesh, Kumar holds a postgraduate degree in Mathematics and a PG diploma in Econometrics, a field that uses economic theory, mathematics, and statistics to study economic phenomena. Kumar headed the energy department during the launch of the Pavagada solar park, which is hailed as one of Asia’s largest.  Going forward, the new chief secretary faces several challenges, which include the Covid-19 pandemic, fiscal recovery and the upcoming 2021-22 budget.   There is no clarity on who will replace Kumar as the government’s additional chief secretary.  According to the civil list, 1985-batch officers Pradeep Singh Kharola, Yogendra Tripathi, and Amita Prasad, who are on Central deputation, will retire next year (Prasad in January 2022), whereas Mahendra Jain will retire in March 2021. Vandita Sharma from the 1986 batch, currently ACS-cum-Development Commissioner, will retire in November 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-officer-p-ravi-kumar-appointed-as-karnataka-chief-secretary-933247.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla calls for probe into Dharme Gowda's death||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday called for a high-level probe through an independent agency into the death of Deputy Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council S L Dharme Gowda. “The unfortunate incident in the House, when he was in Chair, is a serious attack on democracy. It is necessary to have a high-level probe through an independent agency into his death,” Birla said, expressing anguish over the death of Dharme Gowda. “It is the duty of all of us to safeguard the prestige of legislative bodies and dignity and freedom of Presiding officers,” the Lok Sabha Speaker said. The Speaker also expressed condolences to the family of the departed leader. Dharme Gowda was found dead on railway tracks near his hometown of Gunasagara in Chickmaglur district on Tuesday morning. Dharme Gowda, a JD(S) legislator, was in news recently after opposition Congress members had pushed him off the chair of the presiding officer in the Legislative Council in the ruckus over the no-confidence motion against the Chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-calls-for-probe-into-dharme-gowdas-death-933271.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New Year celebrations: Strict measures in place in city, rest of Karnataka||Strict measures will be in place in the City and across Karnataka to restrict gathering of large number of people for New Year celebrations in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Wednesday. The Minister said he had spoken to the Director General of Police and city police commissioner on the restrictions and guidelines they have issued for the state and the city and it has been decided to strictly implement them. Unlike in the past, people would not be able to gather in large numbers in the city in areas like M G Road, Brigade Road, Koramangala and Indira Nagar, among other places, as prohibitory orders are in place, he told reporters here. "...Also, Deputy Commissioners of Police have been given the responsibility of controlling pubs and clubs that come under their respective jurisdictions," he said. The government, through guidelines and orders, has prohibited parties, special DJ dance programmes and special events at clubs, pubs, restaurants and other places that attract people in large numbers without social distancing. Gathering of people at public places and roads for celebrations has been barred, but routine activities in these areas can be carried out. In-house celebrations in residential complexes and private clubs may be held for residents and members respectively, without organising any special events. In Bengaluru city, the prohibitory orders will be in force from 6 PM on December 31 to 6 AM on January 1, 2021. The minister also said that directions have been issued to not to hold DJ events, parties and open air celebrations in cities like Mysuru and Chikkamagaluru and especially Bengaluru, and top police officials have been tasked with implementing it. Bommai noted that festivals like Deepavali and Dasara are held in a simple way and urged the public to cooperate during the New Year also, considering the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-year-celebrations-strict-measures-in-place-in-city-rest-of-karnataka-933352.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 973 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||Karnataka reported 973 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, taking the infection count to 9,18,544 and the toll to 12,081, on Wednesday. The day also saw 1,217 patients getting discharged after recovery. The number of recoveries have reached 8,94,834. As of Dec 30, the state has 11,610 active carriers of the virus, including 202 in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 554 new cases and five deaths. Mysuru reported 34 fresh infections followed by Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, and Chikkaballapur with 31 cases each. A total of over 1,39,62,707 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,03,857 were tested on Wednesday alone. To date, 1,965 UK returnees have been tested Of which, 31 have tested positive (which includes seven cases of new UK virus strain), 1,686 are negative and results of 248 are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-973-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-933375.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Property tax relief for industries?||The state government is likely to provide relief to the industrial units by revising the rate of property taxes being levied on them by the urban local bodies.  Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Wednesday held talks with Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja on this matter.  According to a statement, the ministers discussed how city corporations and local bodies, for many years, have been issuing demand notices to industrial units located in industrial areas developed by the KIADB and KSSIDC. “Industries are already in distress. So, officials were directed to prepare a proposal for Cabinet approval to amend the existing law on deciding the property tax to be levied before and after handing over industrial areas to the local bodies,” the statement said.  With this, the government might consider introducing a separate property tax slab for industrial units coming under municipal limits.  Officials were also directed to submit a proposal for the approval of the Cabinet on establishing industrial townships in the state. “Officials from the departments of Urban Development and Commerce and Industries should sort out the legal bottlenecks soon,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/property-tax-relief-for-industries-933404.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sets ball rolling for 'One District, One Product' scheme||Be it bakery products in Bengaluru, seafood in Udupi or jaggery in Mandya, Karnataka is all set to go big on the ‘One District, One Product’ (ODOP) model to promote the micro food processing industry. The Centre on Wednesday approved Karnataka’s ODOP list under the PM - Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PMFME) scheme. As part of this, those running small businesses in unorganised food processing sector will benefit from the government’s support, whether it is for seeking loans or getting trained to market their products better. Speaking to DH, B Shivaraju, Managing Director of the Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation Ltd (KAPPEC), the nodal agency for the scheme, said the Union Food Processing Ministry had approved Karnataka’s proposal. “The products in each district were chosen based on what is predominantly cultivated in the region and after carefully considering each district’s unique market potential for a product,” Shivaraju said.   For instance, in Bengaluru Urban, since there is not much scope for agriculture, bakery products were selected, and likewise with marine products in Udupi, he explained. The PMFME scheme seeks to promote micro food processing enterprises in unorganised sector. Within each district, selected enterprises will be given subsidies, access to bank loans, and training by the state government to market their products. Giving a peek into the process, Shivaraju said: “We are at the moment training master trainers. Soon, there will be district-level trainers who will handhold businesses and help them get into the formal sector. There will be a district portal through which an applicant can send his business proposal. The government will help with bank loans, give a 35% subsidy and train the entrepreneurs.”   Under the scheme, the Centre will invest 60% of the expense while the state will take care of the rest 40%. The project will be implemented at a cost of Rs 493 crore over the next five years, with a target of reaching out to 10,784 enterprises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sets-ball-rolling-for-one-district-one-product-scheme-933407.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Parents furious over COMEDK's exclusive round of seat allotment||Thousands of students, aspiring to get admission to undergraduate engineering courses, as well as their parents, have expressed shock over the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka’s (COMEDK) announcement of an exclusive round of seat allotment without prior notice. Many of them have sent an email to the COMEDK authorities seeking justice as they cannot participate in the exclusive round of counselling announced late in the evening on Monday without any intimation. They said  thatmany returned the seats instead of freezing them as they were told that the exclusive round was meant for the benefit of students who have cleared the second PUC in supplementary examinations. A parent, whose daughter had to choose the option to return her seat obtained in the third round of counselling, said that they had decided to do so as they were not aware that another round would be held. “If we knew that there would be another round, we would not have returned the seat to take part in the next round. Those who freeze their seats were allowed to take part in the exclusive round,” he said. Another parent said, “My daughter was allotted a seat in Medical Electronics in the third round. But she was looking for a seat in Biotechnology. As she did not want Medical Electronics, she rejected the seat. But she was not aware of the exclusive round while rejecting the seat.” According to the information available from COMEDK, the exclusive round was decided in the last minute. Also, according to a notification issued by COMEDK, “The exclusive round is applicable to candidates who (have) cleared the supplementary board examination of the current year and whose document verification is approved, candidates who participated by filling choices and who have not been allotted a seat in any of the earlier rounds. Besides this, candidates who had opted for-accept and freeze in round 3, who were allotted a General Merit seat, are also eligible to participate in the counselling.” A COMEDK official said that the exclusive round was being conducted in the interest of candidates who had cleared the supplementary examination so that they do not have to wait until next year. “We have given enough opportunities for the candidates because the candidates, who did reject and withdraw seats, had affected the candidates above them in the rank list.” Meanwhile, the COMEDK authorities have said that they sought extension of date for the counselling for 15 more days. “As of now December 31 is the last date for admission and if we get an extension we will look into the matter,” an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parents-furious-over-comedks-exclusive-round-of-seat-allotment-933408.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt wants more time for admission to professional courses||The Department of Higher Education has written to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) seeking an extension of time for admission to professional courses till January 15, 2021. If the AICTE extends the last date for admission, then the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) will conduct another round of counseling to provide opportunities for those who cannot take part in the counseling of all these rounds. "There are requests from students to conduct one more round of counseling so that they can be given a chance to select the seats. The KUPECA (Karnataka Unaided Private Education Colleges Association) has also requested to extend the date up to January 15, 2021, for admissions to the engineering and architecture courses. We have written to the AICTE in this backdrop," said Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Higher Education. As per the earlier approval, December 31, 2020, is the last day for admission for professional courses. But, a few students who have got engineering seats in the UG CET mop-up round, staged protests along with their parents on Monday in front of the KEA, demanding to withdraw seats and repayment of fees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-wants-more-time-for-admission-to-professional-courses-933409.html
30-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New Covid-19 strain: Karnataka accounts for 35% of India’s cases||Seven UK returnees to Karnataka have tested positive for the new virus strain. With this, the state accounts for 35% of India’s cases of new coronavirus mutant strain that was first reported in the United Kingdom in September In addition to three patients, who were found to have the new virus strain, in Bengaluru on Tuesday, four members of a Shivamogga family - all UK returnees - have tested positive for the new strain of the virus, on Wednesday. In all, there are two men, two women, and three paediatric patients with the new strain. A four-year-old boy is the youngest to have the new virus strain in the state.  Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters, “Out of 107 Covid positive UK returnees, 20 have the new mutant virus, eight in Delhi and seven in Karnataka. Everyone must follow government guidelines to contain the new variant. Institutional quarantine must strictly adherewith.” Shivamogga District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Rajesh Suragihalli said, “A 44-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife, and their two children have tested positive for a new strain of coronavirus. They came to Shivamogga on the morning of December 22 and were in home isolation.” “The following day when they tested positive, they were shifted to the district hospital. Their only primary contact has tested negative and is under surveillance. Before they came to Shivamogga, they’ve met two families in another district and we’ve shared this information with the said district,” the DHO added. In all, five passengers who arrived from the UK to Shivamogga are Covid positive, out of whom, four have the UK strain.  “This fifth passenger, who arrived in Bhadravati on December 3, had nine primary contacts. Three are Covid positive. They’re under hospital care. Six primary contacts are in institutional quarantine,” Dr Suragihalli said.  He added, the man in question tested Covid positive after 21 days of arrival on December 23, which indicates local transmission. Also, he travelled from the US to the UK for a connecting flight. He did not go outside the UK airport. “Though the three primary contacts have no relation with anyone with the UK strain, we have sent their samples to NIMHANS for genetic sequencing on Tuesday,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-covid-19-strain-karnataka-accounts-for-35-of-india-s-cases-933412.html
30-12-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Woman murdered in District Hospital premises in Belagavi||A woman working as a security guard was murdered near the canteen in the premises of District Hospital in Belagavi on Wednesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Sudharani native of Moogbasav village in Bailhongal taluk. Reasons behind the murder were not known. Iranna Jagajampi is suspected to be the accused and police are on a lookout for him. APMC Police Station Police Inspector Javed Mushapuri visited the spot and investigations were in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/woman-murdered-in-district-hospital-premises-in-belagavi-933132.html
30-12-2020||West||Minister to launch 'Nail Free Tree' initiative in Kolhapur||Kolhapur, a nature-rich city with unique floral biodiversity, in recent years has seen its trees being nailed with advertising boards and charts. The nails block and damage the water and food transporting systems of trees to an extent that trees die eventually in 2 to 3 years. To address this issue, Maharashtra’s Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil, or popularly known as Bunty Patil, is planning to launch the ‘Nail Free Tree Kolhapur’ initiative on January 3, 2021, across the city at different gathering points. The minister consulted 50-odd NGOs, citizen groups and organizations who are working on environmental issues in the city. “I appeal to all the residents of Kolhapur to participate in this initiative from 9 am on January 3 to protect the rich diversity of trees in their city. I also request all the shop owners and traders’ community to remove the advertising boards or banners, if they have put on trees. It will not only make the city clean but save precious trees,” Patil said. Patil has requested the residents to remove any advertising material on trees before January 3. Organizations that are part of the initiative include Kridaai, Spit-free Kolhapur, Kolhapur Art Foundation, Hotel Owners Association, Rotary Club, Tree Lovers Welfare Association, Kolhapur District Mountaineering Association, Robinhood Organization, Avni Organization, White Army, Nisargamitra, Science Academy, NSUI, City and District Youth Congress Committees, National Service Scheme Shivaji University, Rotaract Club and its sister organizations, Lions Club, Inner Wheel Club and its sister organizations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/minister-to-launch-nail-free-tree-initiative-in-kolhapur-933183.html
30-12-2020||West||Coronavirus restrictions in Maharashtra extended till January 31||Amid tense moments over the new coronavirus strain and the threat of a second Covid-19 wave, the Uddhav Thackeray-government in Maharashtra has decided to extend lockdown measures into the new year. The measures would be in force till January 31, 2021, according to state’s chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. However, as part of Mission Begin Again, restarting of activities and some services will continue in a phased manner. Besides, the seven-hour night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am will continue till 5 January, 2021, in all 27 municipal towns including Mumbai and as per need in other areas based on the assessment of district collectors. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-restrictions-in-maharashtra-extended-till-january-31-933195.html
30-12-2020||West||Hotels, pubs to function till 11 PM on New Year eve: Maharashtra govt||Hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars in Maharashtra will remain open till 11 PM on December 31, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said a gathering of five or more people at public places is prohibited, but there are no restrictions on people stepping out for the purpose of buying medicines, and visiting friends and relatives (after 11 PM in view of the night curfew). He said local authorities have been authorised to ensure that the pandemic-related restrictions are enforced in hill stations where New Year revellers gather in large numbers. "Hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars will remain open tomorrow (December 31) till 11 pm. There is no restriction on people stepping out to buy medicines and visiting friends and family members (after 11 PM). Gathering of five or more people at public places is prohibited," Deshmukh said and appealed to people to follow guidelines. The state government had clamped a night curfew between 11 PM and 6 AM from December 22 to January 5 after a new strain of the virus was found in the UK. Responding to a query, the senior NCP leader reiterated that the BJP was misusing the Enforcement Directorate (ED)for "political vendetta", which he said was "unprecedented" in India. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's wife Varsha Raut was recently summoned by the ED in connection with the PMC Bank money laundering case. "Whoever talks against the BJP and policies of (Central) government gets a notice from the ED. This is serious. Earlier, such activities were done by the CBI. "However, as far as the Central Bureau of Investigation is concerned, we had taken a decision that any probe by that agency in Maharashtra cannot be pursued without the permission of the state government. That is why the Centre can't do anything about it," he added. Senior BJP leaders in Maharashtra had denied the allegations that the ED was being misused by the Centre and stated that law will take its own course if there is any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hotels-pubs-to-function-till-11-pm-on-new-year-eve-maharashtra-govt-933231.html
30-12-2020||West||Bollywood being deliberately terrorised through NCB: Congress||Launching a veiled attack on the Centre and the BJP, the Congress in Maharashtra on Wednesday alleged that Bollywood was being deliberately "terrorised" through the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). In a statement, Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant also questioned when will the NCB summon actress KanganaRanaut "who consumeddrugs and forced others to take them", for interrogation. The federal agency has been probing the drug angle linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The NCB had earlier questioned some actors in connection with the probe, conducted raids on several occasions to unearth the alleged "Bollywood-drugs" nexus, and arrested many suspected drug peddlers. "A deliberate attempt is being made to terrorise Bollywood through the Narcotics Control Bureau. In the last three to four months, the NCB interrogated several artists and people associated with them. Even filmmaker Karan Johar was served a notice over a party organised by him two years ago, when Devendra Fadnaviswas chief minister of the state. "When will the NCB call KanaganaRanaut,who consumed drugs and forced others to take them, for interrogation? She has returned to Mumbai," Sawant said. He said a video clip of Ranaut admitting to consumption of drugs has been in circulation on social media for the last several months. "Her friend Adhyayan Suman had in an interview stated that Kangana forced him to take drugs. Both videos are in the public domain. Kangana has publicly stated that she had information about the Bollywood-drug nexus. Then why is the NCB not taking her seriously?" he asked. Sawant said the BJP should ask the actress to share the information with the NCB. Alleging that the BJP has "maligned" the image of Maharashtra, Sawant said the saffron party owed an apology to the people. The Congress and the NCP are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bollywood-being-deliberately-terrorised-through-ncb-congress-933248.html
30-12-2020||West||Shiv Sena slams BJP, says MVA govt can't be pulled down using ED||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday hit out at the BJP saying it should not harbour any superstition that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) can be used for pulling down the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. In an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena also alleged that the government agencies like the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) were degenerating at a fast pace. The ED has summoned Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, for questioning in the over Rs 4,300-crore PMC Bank money-laundering case. However, She skipped the questioning by the ED on Tuesday. Criticising BJP's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil over his remarks that the ED was a non-political institution and bound by the Constitution, the Sena said, "Patil asked if Sanjay Raut doesn't believe in the Constitution. Since when is Patil so concerned about the Constitution? "Ask the question about the Constitution to the Governor. Twelve legislative council seats from the governor's quota have fallen vacant in Juneand despite the cabinet recommendations, the seats are not being filled," it said. "In 2020, all attempts to topple the Uddhav Thackeray government failed. So the government that the governor wishes will not be a reality for the next 25 years," it asked. "The BJP should come out of the superstition that it can use the ED to topple the Maharashtra government. Eknath Khadse gets a ED notice after he quits the BJP. After ED raids on TDP MPs, they join the BJP," it added. Khadse, who has recently joined Sharad Pawar's NCP, has been summoned by the ED for questioning in connection with a money-laundering case linked to a land deal in Pune's Bhosri area. last month, the ED had raided premises linked to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in connection with a money-laundering case. "The action against Sharad Pawar, Sanjay Raut, Khadse, Sarnaik or other MVA leaders is perversity at its peak. If the motive is pure, the citizens should abide by them, otherwise it is not binding on the citizens to follow illegal orders," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-slams-bjp-says-mva-govt-cant-be-pulled-down-using-ed-933250.html
30-12-2020||West||Was forced to leave village, says Maharashtra rape victim||A 30-year-old woman from Beed district of Maharashtra, who was gang-raped in 2015, has alleged that her village panchayat has passed a resolution to banish her and that she was being forced to leave the place by the residents. An official from local administration said that not only her village, which is located in Gevrai tehsil, but two adjoining villages have also passed resolutions to banish her. Police said the woman has lodged a complaint against the villagers accusing them of using abusive language against her and they were probing it. The woman was sexually assaulted five years back when she had gone to a farm in the village to pluck cotton. Earlier this year, the court had sentenced four persons to life imprisonment for raping her, police said. Talking to a news channel, the woman said a notice was pasted on the door of her house, asking her to leave the village. She also alleged that the villagers were threatening her. "The gram-sevak pasted a notice on the door of my house, in which I was asked to leave the village. A resolution was also passed to banish me from the village...," she said. "The government should give justice to me. It should tell me where I should go," she said. Talking to PTI, block development officer Aniruddha Sanap said, "On August 15 this year, three villages passed resolutions to banish the woman. During our scrutiny, we found that these villages, located next to each other, passed the resolutions separately." "The woman alleged that the gram-sevak pasted a notice on her door asking her to leave the village. When we asked the gram-sevak about it, he said the notice was related to encroachment," he said. "We have submitted a report to our seniors and they will take further action in this case," Sanap added. When contacted, Beed Deputy Superintendent of Police Swapnil Rathod said, "The woman has also filed a complaint against some villagers for allegedly using abusive language against her. On Monday, some villagers approached us saying that we should not entertain her complaint." "But it is not possible that we will not take cognizance of the complaint. We am investigating it," he added. When asked about the decision to banish the woman, the village sarpanch said, "It was a demand of villagers and we acted accordingly by passing a resolution in August."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/was-forced-to-leave-village-says-maharashtra-rape-victim-933255.html
30-12-2020||West||For over a fortnight, Maharashtra records less than 5,000 daily Covid-19 cases||In what comes as an encouraging sign in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in India has recorded less than 5,000 positive cases and 100 deaths daily the past 15 days. However, the new mutant coronavirus strain and the threat of a second wave of the pandemic, the state government is not taking any chances. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been regularly reviewing the situation with the municipal commissioners and district collectors – and has asked people to follow the basis of prevention. State’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that there is nothing to panic. “Of the 43 passengers who have returned to Maharashtra not a single tested positive for the new strain of virus,” Tope told reporters. “All must follow the SOPs issued by the government from time to time,” said state’s surveillance officer for epidemiology Dr Pradeep Awate. According to government officials and epidemiologists, there has been an overall improvement in the situation; however, we cannot be lax at this stage of the fight against virus. From 5-29 December, the state has not crossed the 5,000 and 100-mark in terms of infection and deaths, respectively. On 5 December, the state recorded 4,922 cases and 95 deaths, while on 29 December, the same was 3,108 and 68, respectively. The active cases in Maharashtra are in the range of 50,000 to 60,000 cases for the last 10 days. "Physical distancing, wearing of masks and sanitisation has to be strictly followed for the next several months till a significant population is covered," said Dr IS Gilada, the secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/for-over-a-fortnight-maharashtra-records-less-than-5000-daily-covid-19-cases-933287.html
30-12-2020||West||Amid flak, Goa ministers show tentative approach on legal cultivation of cannabis||Amid flak from the Opposition over a proposal to allow legal farming of cannabis for "medicinal purposes" in Goa, Cabinet ministers in the BJP-led coalition government appear to be treading a careful line. While Art and Culture Minister Govind Gaude has claimed that he does not know what cannabis is, Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has sought a detailed study of the proposal by experts before it is brought before the Cabinet for a decision. "I don't know what cannabis is. Whether it is used as ganja or for medicinal purposes, I cannot comment on it. I will study it first... If we are looking at it from the employment point of view, we must also spare a thought for the families which may be destroyed on account of such a decision," Gaude told reporters. Ajgaonkar said the implementation of the proposal should not be hurried through as it has wider social ramifications. "It should be studied and a report needs to be compiled before taking such a decision...If experts give us good inputs, the government can go ahead with it, but only after a proper study is conducted," Ajgaonkar told reporters in Panaji. The proposal originally mooted by the health ministry states that legal cannabis plantations should be allowed in Goa to supply derivatives for the pharmaceutical industry. Law Minister Nilesh Cabral, whose ministry has vetted the proposal from a legal perspective, has said bhang, a derivative of cannabis, is already being sold in several Indian states. “In seven states in India, a form of this (cannabis) plant known as bhang is already available. Bhang is sold across the counter in some states in licences stores like liquor stores in India,” Cabral has said. Meanwhile, the Opposition, including the Aam Aadmi Party, Shiv Sena and the Goa Forward Party, has already opposed the proposal. "This is nothing but an attempt to turn Goa into the drug capital of India," AAP Goa convenor Rahul Mahambre said. "This government will lead to the doom of the youth in Goa by allowing cannabis plantations legally," Shiv Sena Goa president Jitesh Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-flak-goa-ministers-show-tentative-approach-on-legal-cultivation-of-cannabis-933302.html
30-12-2020||West||Onion prices climb to Rs 2,500 per quintal at Lasalgaon mandi||Onion prices at the Lasalgaon wholesale mandi in Nashik have climbed by 28 per cent in two days to reach Rs 2,500 per quintal on Wednesday after the government lifted the ban on the export of the kitchen staple with effect from January 1. The government on Monday lifted the export ban on all varieties of onions with effect from January 1 due to declining prices of the commodity. "The export of all varieties of onions...has been made free with effect from January 1, 2021," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had said in a notification. Onion prices on Monday ruled at an average of Rs 1,951 per quintal at the Lasalgaon wholesale mandi and rates have been steadily climbing since then, Lasalgaon APMC Secretary Narendra Waddhvane said. On Tuesday, onion prices rose to an average of Rs 2,400 per quintal, and further to Rs 2,500 on Wednesday, showing an increase of around 28 per cent over two days. Similarly, the retail prices in the national capital have also increased by around 25-42 per cent to Rs 50 per kg on Wednesday compared to Rs 35-40 per kg on Monday. In September, the government had prohibited onion exports because of a spurt in prices and to increase availability in the domestic market. The DGFT, an arm of the commerce ministry, deals with exports and import-related issues. Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are the top three onion growing states in the country. India is one of the biggest onion exporters. The export destinations include Nepal and Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/onion-prices-climb-to-rs-2500-per-quintal-at-lasalgaon-mandi-933329.html
30-12-2020||West||Assistant Labour Commissioner nabbed for taking bribe of Rs 60,000||The CBI has nabbed a Nagpur-based Assistant Labour Commissioner for accepting a bribe of Rs 60,000 from a complainant. More than Rs 50 lakh cash has been seized from him, CBI officials said on Wednesday. The accused Sachin J. Shelar has been remanded to CBI custody till January 2. It was alleged that the Regional Labour Commissioner and Assistant Labour Commissioner, Nagpur had inspected the complainant’s firm and directed him to submit certain documents at the office of the Labour Commissioner. The complainant visited the Office of the Labour Commissioner to submit the documents. “It was further alleged that instead of receiving the documents, the complainant was asked to meet the accused at his residence. The accused demanded the alleged bribe to settle the matter regarding irregularities related to safety site labour and also additional bribe amount to issue labour license,” CBI officials said. The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 60,000 from the complainant. Searches were conducted at the official and residential premises of the accused which led to the recovery of cash of Rs.52.09 lakh and documents related to various investments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/assistant-labour-commissioner-nabbed-for-taking-bribe-of-rs-60000-933337.html
30-12-2020||West||Full Mumbai train services depend on Covid-19 trend: Rajesh Tope||A decision on allowing general commuters to board suburban trains in Mumbai will be taken after considering the trend of Covid-19 cases in New Year, Maharashtra health Minister RajeshTope said on Wednesday. Currently, only certain categories of commuters, including those providing essential services, and women, can travel by local trains in the Mumbai region after obtaining a special pass in view of the coronavirus pandemic. "If (Covid-19) cases are not spiralling,a decision on resumption of suburban services (for all) will be taken. The government is keeping a close watch on the situation," he said. "We understand suburban train services are the lifeline of Mumbai and a decision will be taken after considering how the positive cases are rising," Tope said. The suburban train services, used by nearly 80 lakh commuters daily in pre-Covid-19-era, were closed in March-end when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The local trains, with Covid-19 protocols, were opened gradually for essential services employees and later more categories of travellers were added, but full-scale operations still remain suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/full-mumbai-train-services-depend-on-covid-19-trend-rajesh-tope-933366.html
30-12-2020||West||Night curfew curtailed by one hour in four Gujarat cities||The night curfew currently in force in four cities of Gujarat on account of coronavirus will start at 10 pm instead of 9 pm from January 1, the Gujarat government said on Wednesday. The decision to curtail curfew hours in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat cities was taken by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, said an official release. As Gujarat saw a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases after Diwali, night curfew between 9 pm and 6 am was imposed in these four cities towards the end of November. From January 1 to January 14, the curfew will be in force between 10 pm and 6 am, the release said. Gujarat is now witnessing a drop in new cases of coronavirus. From over 1,500 cases emerging every day in the last week of November, the number now hovers between 800 and 900.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-curtailed-by-one-hour-in-four-gujarat-cities-933373.html
