31-12-2020||Comment||False prophets, free markets, fractured societies: The Gilded Age||The year 2020 must qualify as the annus mirabilis of our times, the year that changed the world. When John Dryden chose the Latin title -- the year of miracles -- for his English poem, he was referring to the hope that sprang phoenix-like from the debris of the great London fire and the widespread disease and death from the great plague of 1665-66. As we turn our backs on a forgettable year, it is time to step back and reflect on where we are as a society, how we came to be where we are, and where we want to go. As we step into the third decade -- the 2020s -- the times that we live in and our society are reminiscent of the Gilded Age of 1920s America -- an era of rapid economic growth, and at once an era of abject poverty and inequality. It was a time when the high concentration of wealth was vulgarly visible and contentious. India today is no different. Many decades hence, the year 2020 will be remembered as the year of the privileged. The coronavirus disrupted the daily lives of the poor in city after city. As cities locked down, the informal sector and migrant workers and their families experienced their deepest downturns in recent memory. The battle against the pandemic has come at great cost: mental illness, economic hardship, increased inequality, disruption in essential medical services, and the hiatus in school education that will set back a generation of schoolchildren. Evidence from past pandemics point to sharp increases in inequality. Typically, five years after a pandemic, the Gini coefficient (a measure of income inequality) moves about 1.25% above the pre-crisis level -- a sharp rise for what is intrinsically a slow-changing variable. Equally, the evidence suggests that employment for people with low levels of education declines by 5%. This time, it will be no different. The most important lesson from the pandemic is that greed is not good. Equality and justice are fundamental to prosperity and economic growth. The problem is that almost every opinion-maker -- economists, politicians and the media -- tells us otherwise. Our current crisis of inequality is the direct result of this moral failure. The government must start conscious work on reducing inequality, undertaking all the measures necessary -- taxes and transfers, a guarantee of basic income in some form for the less fortunate, paid for by taxing the most fortunate. What’s lacking, however, is the political will to do this. When I think about the growing inequality, I am reminded of one of the delightful tales of the incredible Mullah Nasruddin: Mullah had lost his ring in the living room. He searched for it for a while, but since he could not find it, he went out into the yard and began to look there. His wife, who saw what he was doing, asked: “Mullah, you lost your ring in the room, why are you looking for it in the yard? Mullah stroked his beard and said: “The room is too dark and I can’t see very well, I came out to the courtyard to look for my ring because there is light out here.’’ Why do we obsess about India’s ranking on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business index and dismantling labor laws intended to protect workers, in the absence of a tax-based universal social security system? The problem is that often, conventional wisdom is not actually supported by the evidence. And where does conventional wisdom come from? It almost always reflects the preferences and interests of the elite. So, when people make silly observations, such as that there is too much democracy in India, they symbolise the ever-widening gap between the conflicting preferences of the elite, in contrast with the needs of the common people. The general public would like to see welfare and social insurance programmes strengthened, and the elite would like to see them cut back. Then you ask what the conventional wisdom is? It is that the deficit is a terrible problem and we must cut back on social protection entitlements. For those compelled to choose between life and livelihood, working from home is not an option. And as the pandemic keeps children out of schools, many poorer workers face the unconscionable choice between going to work and looking after their children’s’ education. The digital divide further exacerbates the inequity. The experience of neoliberal economics raises a more disturbing question: Considering all the ruined small businesses and communities and the millions of livelihoods lost in the interim, did the growing middle-class help elect populist right-wing leadership in the country after country? Although different dynamics are at play in the US (Trump), Brazil (Bolsonaro), Turkey (Erdogan), Philippines (Duterte), and India (Modi), why did populist leadership rise in all these countries at roughly the same time is an interesting question. Is it a mere coincidence or are there some similarities – the common discourse presented with a false sense of scientific certainty about the wonders of free markets presents a larger intellectual struggle over free markets versus government intervention? After a quarter-century of liberalisation, privatisation and deregulation in India, big business and crony capitalists have turned the country into their economic fiefdoms -- to the near-complete exclusion of the millions of small and marginal farmers and informal sector workers; ironically, this is playing out in the current half-truths driven agitation of the farmers primarily from Punjab and Haryana. If there is one New Year resolution to make, it should be to transform our basic outlook and reject monism. We need to choose between two stark and mutually exclusive systems of ethics: striving for a plural, inclusive society that advances the dignity of individuals and aims to improve the quality of life for all people; and a powerful State aimed at the power and glory of the body politic. The question is whether we will have the wisdom to recognise the duplicity in false prophets, free markets and fractured societies? (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/false-prophets-free-markets-fractured-societies-the-gilded-age-933473.html
31-12-2020||First Edit||Is AIADMK merely posturing?||The ruling AIADMK’s stiff message to the BJP may have been made to remove the growing doubts about who controls the alliance between the two parties in Tamil Nadu. It has much to do with the image that the AIADMK wants to project about itself, going into Assembly election next year, and perhaps with the uncertainty that may arise after the release of Jayalalithaa’s friend, V K Sasikala, from jail next month. The forthcoming Assembly election is the first since Jayalalithaa’s death. It was routed in the Lok Sabha elections and just managed to survive in power after the 22 by-elections in the state last year. The party cannot go into elections except as a ruling party sure of itself and as the master of the alliance, it is in. That is why it has said that it does not need a national party as an ally if it is going to be dictated to and that the ally, the BJP, should endorse the candidature of Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami for chief ministership after the elections. Palaniswami has consolidated his position as the leader of the government and the party and would not want to give the impression that there is any doubt about it. The alliance with the BJP for the next election, which was announced last month during the visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, had surprised some leaders and was considered a result of pressure from the ruling party at the Centre. Though the AIADMK has had an alliance with the BJP and a precariously positioned Palaniswami government was supported by the BJP, it does not help a Dravidian party to be seen as being close to the BJP. That is why the AIADMK also emphasised the Dravidian political tradition in the state and said that no national party can make a dent there. The AIADMK had also distanced itself from the BJP on some issues in recent months for the same reason. The AIADMK may also have made these assertions in view of the apparently strong and stable position of the rival DMK-led alliance that includes Congress and some other parties, and the ripples likely to be caused by Sasikala. The statement was made before Rajinikanth announced that he was not joining politics, but that possibility also may have been reckoned with. So, the seemingly tough talk to the BJP may be more political posturing, which may also contain the message that it need not expect too many seats to be given to it. But the close relationship between the two parties is bound to continue. It is to be noted that neither Palaniswami nor Deputy Chief Minister O Pannerselvam has made any comment on the alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/is-aiadmk-merely-posturing-933474.html
31-12-2020||In Perspective||Christchurch shootings and intel||The Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Attack on Christchurch Mosques, unlike most government inquiries, has refrained from accusing the intelligence agencies of failure. A careful reading, however, points to some common strategic intelligence errors observed prior to the 9/11 attacks. These arose from the failure of threat identification, interagency coordination and intelligence-consumer relationship. Nevertheless, the overall conclusion still remains that lone-wolf terrorist attacks are almost impossible to thwart, except maybe in reducing their lethality. The report says that an overwhelming focus on Islamist terrorism contributed to the limited assessments about “threats of terrorism from other sources.” This fundamental assessment failure was compounded by the failure of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service (SIS), the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) and the New Zealand Police to coordinate their efforts. Between the SIS and the police, the report identifies, “a shared understanding of the threat of the extreme right-wing” had not developed due to the two agencies working in “parallel rather than jointly”.  Nearly 20 years ago, the 9/11 Commission Report had made similar observations regarding the failure of threat identification – focused exclusively on overseas targets – which in turn obstructed coordination between foreign and domestic agencies. Subsequent to the attacks, the National Security Agency (NSA) was authorised to spy domestically under the ‘Terrorist Surveillance Programme’. In 2014, the Snowden revelations invited a host of criticisms against the agency despite the testimony of Gen. Keith Alexander, the Director of the NSA, that the programme had helped thwart at least 50 terrorist plots in 20 countries. The NZ report cited the loss of public confidence due to the Snowden controversies, which led the GCSB to operate as a “customer-led organisation”. This implies that without a request from the consumers, the GCSB did not conduct intelligence operations on its own. The obvious challenge in shifting the initiative on to the consumers was to demand a certain degree of knowledge of signals intelligence from the latter. Therefore, despite the report claiming no intelligence failures, there were indeed strategic intelligence pitfalls that can only be rectified through regular intelligence-policy dialogue. Even while making these arguments to improve strategic intelligence performance, it is important to be aware of the inevitability of lone-wolf successes. The difference between strategic and tactical intelligence in counterterrorism is the ability of the former to understand a terrorist movement whilst the latter focuses on individual operations. Time, technique and target are considered the three most important inputs required to thwart a terrorist attack. But to thwart a lone-wolf attack, another factor – the targetter – becomes crucial. Typically, the intention of a terrorist group to attack is a given, while the intelligence question is about capabilities. In a lone-wolf scenario, the question of intention assumes criticality. For instance, since February 2015, the British MI5 has been running the ‘lone actor triage process’. The agency has employed behavioural specialists to assess the intelligence picture developed on certain individuals to determine the potential for crime. Nonetheless, an MI5 officer described this as “an art rather than a science”, hinting at its obvious imprecision, also known as ‘false positives’. The challenge of inaccuracy is worsened by information overload. At any given point, thousands of suspects are under the radar of intelligence agencies. Taking preventive action against all would be counterproductive. Yet, Israeli intelligence officials claim to have prevented nearly 590 knife-intifada attacks through intel-driven operations. Israeli Military Intelligence has been using technology to monitor the online activities of suspected individuals and analysts use a ‘scoring system’ to predict future behaviour of the suspect. This analysis is complemented with human intelligence efforts to prevent lone-wolf attacks. Notwithstanding the success rate, some observers have acknowledged the possibility of false positives leading to the arrests of innocents. In the NZ case, flagging a suspicious online activity was the responsibility of the analyst of the SIS’ CT Unit, who in the agency’s opinion “was qualified to judge” whether the information “warranted escalation”. To avoid accusations of cry-wolf, analysts look for connections between the suspect and known terrorists. When such patterns emerge, detection and frustration of the attack become relatively easier. In its absence, detection is almost impossible; in this case, the assailant had also possibly used a VPN to evade online detection. In such a scenario, the best option is to limit the lethality by checking the means of the attack. Lone-wolf attacks are rarely devastating. Many of the attacks attempted in the last two years have been mere attempts or succeeded with few casualties. Even during the height of the knife-intifada, only 34 were killed in over 350 attacks. In contrast, the shootings at Christchurch alone cost 51 lives. Thus, the report rightly highlights that the police failed to enforce checks on firearms licences, which could have had a telling impact. (The writer holds a PhD in Intelligence Studies from the University of Leicester, UK)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/christchurch-shootings-and-intel-933472.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru-style attire for UoM convocation||Western-style gowns worn during convocations may soon be history at the century-old University of Mysore (UoM). UoM Registrar R Shivappa said in a meeting of the UoM Syndicate here on Wednesday that a committee headed by Registrar (Evaluation) A P Jnana Prakash was formed to look into the issue. Syndicate member E C Ningaraj Gowda had written to vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar on December 16 urging him to include the issue in the agenda for the 8th general meeting on Wednesday. He had urged the VC to consider an Indian handloom attire to reflect Mysuru-Karnataka tradition. Ningaraj Gowda said, “The UoM has a heritage of over a century and it is 73 years since we got Independence, but we still blindly follow European customs. We  should shed the colonial mindset. We should design a cotton, handloom attire that is suitable for our climatic conditions. It should also reflect our Mysuru-Karnataka tradition.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-style-attire-for-uom-convocation-933447.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Migrant workers' graduate daughter wins Karnataka Gram Panchayat polls||A woman graduate, who faced a lot of hardships but wished to help others to come up in their lives, has emerged victories in Gram Panchayat election. Mamatha, 26, won from second ward of Pavoor Gram Panchayat. “I want to help the poor and ensure that all the government facilities reached the needy without making them run from pillar to post. Even after so many years, my family could not own a house though there are so many schemes. As a GP member, I want to help those poor who are in dire need of help,” Mamatha told DH. “I was wondering whether I could get an opportunity to serve the people without any godfather. When Gram Panchayat election was announced, I was asked to contest the election. Now I have won the election,” she added. “My life has taught me a lesson. Though there are various welfare schemes for the upliftment of the poor, it has not reached the needy. As a result, many are deprived of the facilities. I want to ensure that the struggle I went through in my life is not faced by others,” she added. Hailing from a tribal community, her parents were migrant labourers who would visit various places in search of work and lived in huts. It was with the help of local teacher Madhu, she and her brothers were enrolled into a school at Malarpadavu and there upon continued their studies Later, she was enrolled into Morarji Desai School where she completed her school education and PUC. After PUC, she completed her Diploma in Medical Lab Technology. In 2020, she completed her BSc in Medical Laboratory Technology from Bengaluru Medical College. She is supported by BJP in the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/migrant-workers-graduate-daughter-wins-karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-933470.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gram Panchayat polls: Counting of votes held peacefully in Dakshina Kannada||Counting of votes in the recently concluded Gram Panchayat (GP) elections was held peacefully in seven taluks of the Dakshin Kannada district on Wednesday. The counting continued till late in the night. Even as gram panchayat elections are held without any political party insignia, many workers from different parties had gathered outside the counting centre at Mahathma Gandhi Centenary Composite College in Bondel in Mangaluru. The elections were held for 220 GPs with 3,181 seats. A total of 7,275 candidates were in the fray. However, 91 candidates had been elected unopposed. Many candidates were seen camping outside the counting centre with garlands and sweets, along with their supporters who celebrated as results were announced. Activists from BJP, Congress and SDPI were gathered outside and shouted party slogans, in spite of prohibitory measures in place. The police made the crowds disperse as traffic in the area was getting affected. The counting was held for 624 seats in 37 GPs of Mangaluru taluk, 186 seats in 12 GPs of Moodbidri, 822 seats in 57 GPs of Bantwal, 631 seats in 46 GPs in Belthangady, 343 seats in 22 GPs of Puttur, 282 seats in 25 GPs in Sullia and 285 seats in 21 GPs of Kadaba. Confusion at counting centres There was confusion at the counting centre in Sullia when candidates and their agents objected to the nets that were tied in the counting halls. In room number 11, where the counting of Devacchala and Guthigaru GPs was in progress, they objected to the net saying that it obscures their view of the counting process. The officials convinced them that the net had been placed as per the guidelines of the State Election Commission. Venoor Village Account Ramanna, who was on polling duty at the counting centre set up at SDM College in Ujire, fell sick and was rushed to a hospital for treatment. Interesting facts Candidate Hassainar was elected for his sixth term from Manjanady Gram Panchayat. Kambala jockey Rajesh Perankadi won from Moodumarnadu. Recounting was initiated at Koikode ward number 1 in Kemral GP as there was a two-vote difference between BJP-supported Amritha and Congress-supported Lavanya. In Haleyangady GP, elder brother Abdul Khader won against his younger brother Harris with a margin of 10 votes. Sullia APMC President Vinaykumar Mulugadu, who contested from ward no. 1 of Madappadi village, lost to Mithradeva Madappadi by a margin of 21 votes. Former Zilla Panchayat member Saraswathi Kamath won from the second ward of Balila Gram Panchayat in Sullia by securing 439 votes. Konaje GP former president Nazar Shah Pattori has won from the eighth ward for the fourth time. Taluk Panchayat member Padmavathi Poojary, who contested from the second ward of Konaje GP, lost the election by a margin of over 200 votes. Couples elected Suvarna Kumar Jain contested and won from Navoor ward, while his wife Trishala Suvarna Kumar Jain secured a win from Devasya ward in Bantwal. Suresh Poojary and his wife Savitha were elected from Paladka. Sanjeeva Poojary from Niddodi in Kallamundkoor GP won for the seventh time, while Hariprasad won for the fifth time in Thenkamijar. Re-counting In the re-counting, Shekh Shahabaz won against Ram Prasad by three votes in the fourth ward of Beluvai. In 2010, the elections were held for 200 GPs in the district and BJP-supported candidates had won in 69 GPs, Congress-supported candidates in 102 GPs, JD(S)-supported candidates in 2 GPs. In 2015, BJP-supported candidates had won in 129 GPs, Congress-supported candidates in 80 GPs out of 227 GPs in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-polls-counting-of-votes-held-peacefully-in-dakshina-kannada-933520.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Training for GP members from January 19: KSE||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department Minister K S Eshwarappa said Abdul Nazeer Sab State Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj will conduct a training program for the newly elected 92,131 members of gram panchayat in taluk-level from January 19 to 26. Speaking to media persons on Thursday, he said the newly elected gram panchayat members will be formed into ten teams and trained. Training sessions will be conducted in 285 centres of 176 taluks across the state; some taluks will have two centres. As many as 900 resource persons have been identified and they would interact with teams for five days. Each team will have 40 members, he explained. About the training, the minister said sessions would be held from 10:30 am to 4:00 pm. Resource persons will speak on 15 topics and provide information on required skills. Video conferences with experts and local persons will be conducted. State-level officers will interact with members every day in case of queries. Trainees will not be given accommodation but can avail of travel and participation allowances. The main objective of the training is to provide information on the formation and structure of gram panchayats, main duties, management of wards and village meetings, finance and framing development projects. The estimated cost of one training program is Rs 27.16 crore and the Centre and the state would bear the cost in a 60:40 ratio. The selection of gram panchayat president and vice-president would be held in a month, and their training would be held later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/training-for-gp-members-from-january-19-kse-933591.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kuruba seer to meet PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah for ST status||Kaginele-based Kanaka Gurupeetha Seer Niranjananandapuri Swamiji said he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah soon and urge them to accord ST status to Kuruba community in Karnataka. He was speaking a meeting on ST reservation for Kuruba community on the premises of Kanaka Gurupeetha branch mutt near Belludi in the taluk on Thursday. He said he would meet union cabinet ministers in Delhi soon to explain them about the conditions of people belonging to Kuruba community and the need to accord ST status to them for their overall development. He said it is an apolitical agitation and it would resume till the demand is met. As part of the agitation, padayatra would be taken out from January 15. He appealed to people of the community to take part in it. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said the community was deprived of ST reservation facility due to the lack of political will. Now, the seer has taken the initiative in getting ST status to the community. There is a need to put pressure on the Centre in this regard. He also made it clear that the agitation is on behalf of all communities that are eligible to get ST status and not against any community. "We will extend support to Ganaga Matha, Uppara, Savita and other communities which are eligible to get ST status." He appealed to people of the community to take part in padayatra that would be taken out from Kaginele to Bengaluru from January 15 and ST convention slated to be held in Bengaluru on February 7 to show strength of the community. Kanaka Gurupeetha Hosadurga branch Mutt Seer Eshwaranandapuri Swamji, ST Agitation Committee President T Virupakshappa, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kuruba-seer-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-amit-shah-for-st-status-933708.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||New Year: Home stays, resorts full in Malnad region||With hundreds of people choosing to welcome the New Year amid nature, all home stays, resorts and hotels in Hassan, mainly Sakleshpur and surrounding areas, have been booked and are doing good business. With the police imposing Prohibitory Orders in Bengaluru from Thursday afternoon to 6 am on Friday, thousands of people have opted to celebrate New Year in the Malnad region. Homestays, resorts and hotels in Sakleshpur, Alur and Belur taluks have been fully booked. Homestay owners have made arrangements to provide them entertainment, with dance programmes, music, DJ and others. Manjarabad fort, Bisile Ghat, Mookane Mane falls, Kadumane Estate and other places are attracting huge number of tourists. Vehicle density on national highway 75 was increased on Thursday. People have planned trip from Bengaluru to Dharmasthala, Kukke Subrmanya and Mangaluru. Vehicles from Mangaluru side, towards Hassan was also on the rise, causing traffic congestion for more than an hour, on Thursday. As most of the visitors stop their vehicles midway, to enjoy the scenic beauty of Western Ghats, and to take pictures, there was traffic congestion on the route. Locals complain that the tourists, who visit the place to enjoy the New Year, dump liquor bottles and plastic causing environment pollution. Respective taluk administration should take necessary steps, they opined. Chetan, a homestay owner, said, "A large number of people have been visiting the places since the last three to four days. However, we will not organise any programme, violating the Covid guidelines." Chamarajanagar district administration has given permission to hotel, resorts, malls, pubs and restaurants to celebrate New Year in a simple manner, as per Covid norms. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has issued orders that legal action would be taken against those who violate Covid guidelines during the celebrations. Meanwhile, the movement of vehicles towards Bharachukki and Hogenakkal, popular water falls, has been banned in Chamarajanagar district. Similarly, entry to Muthathi and other popular picnic spots in Mandya district has been banned in the wake of New Year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-year-home-stays-resorts-full-in-malnad-region-933763.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anti-cow Slaughter Bill: Demand declines for cattle at weekly fair||As the state government cleared the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, in the Assembly, demand for cattle has declined in Chamarajanagar district. The farmers are left in a lurch, not able to sell their cattle, which were in good demand till recently. Terakanambi in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, which hosts cattle fair every Thursday, has seen a considerable dip in the business, since a couple of weeks. Traders from Tamil Nadu and Kerala used to attend the cattle fair in large numbers. But now, only a few buyers visit the fair, to purchase cattle according to their needs. There is no takers for aged cows that have stopped giving milk, and aged bullocks. Some buyers are asking them for lesser prices. Disappointed over not getting good price, the farmers are taking back their cattle with them to their respective villages. Siddaraju, a cattle trader said that at least 20 pairs of cows or bullocks were sold every week during the cattle fair. But, since the past two weeks, there are not much buyers. Only a few buyers are visiting the fair, and they demand for a lesser price. Following discussion on the Anti-cow slaughter Bill, the rates have come down, he said. Mahadevappa of Kottalavadi said, “It is difficult to take care of aged cattle and they turn into a burden on farmers, who are already under crisis. They have no option, but to sell them.” “Let them form any law. But, it should not trouble the farmers. However, the police are creating hurdles to either buy or sell cattle. I had purchased a pair of bullocks for tilling the land. But, the police seized them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-cow-slaughter-bill-demand-declines-for-cattle-at-weekly-fair-933765.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||District administration ready to resume classes||The district Administration is ready to resume regular classes for SSLC and PUC from Friday. The classrooms and institution premises are being sanitised, to ensure the safety of the students as well as the staff, both teaching and non-teaching. As per the announcement of the state government, regular classes for Class 10, second pre-university and Vidyagama programme for government school students from class six to nine will commence on Friday. The district has a total of 2,290 schools, offering primary and high school education and there are 2,08,605 students and 20,088 teachers. There are 1,576 schools offering education from Class I to VIII, with a total of 1,68,495 students and 11,893 teachers. Similarly, 714 schools offer 10th standard education with 40,110 students and 8,195 teachers. The officials of the respective local bodies such as Gram Panchayats and urban local bodies have cleaned the premises of the institutions. The students will be subject to thermal screening and sanitisers will be provided to all. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri informed that Covid-19 tests are mandatory for teachers and the process has already commenced. Deputy Directors for Public Instruction and Pre-University Education and the respective Board Education officers are directed to take all necessary measures, to ensure the safety of students as well as teachers. The students have to get a consent letter from their parents, before coming to school or college. It is not mandatory for the students to attend offline classes, but, the teachers must be present in the institution. In addition, hot drinking water will be provided to students. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance is compulsory. Foodgrains will be distributed to the students, instead of mid-day meals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/district-administration-ready-to-resume-classes-933767.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourist flow increases despite Covid-19 restrictions in Mysuru||Even as the new strain of Covid-19 is detected in the state, tourists inflow increased to the ‘City of Palaces’. A large number of people are visiting Mysuru to spend the eve of New Year and also New Year Day. However, the flow of inter-state tourists is yet to pick up. The illumination of Mysuru Palace is suspended for the time-being, still tourists visit the Palace. A majority of the floating population visit the Palace, Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) and Chamundi Hill. A tourist, Vasanth, who was in the city on Wednesday said that he resides in Bengaluru along with his friends. "I did not travel for a long-time, due to the Covid crisis. Mysuru is our favourite destination and we enjoy the environment of Mysuru, its greenery and pleasant climate. We used to visit the city once a month earlier. But, our last visit to Mysuru was in February,” he said. According to the authorities of the Mysuru Palace, tourists’ inflow has increased drastically from the last week. Nearly, 10,000 people have visited the palace last week. The inflow was a little high, due to a series of holidays last week, he said. Compared to the Palace, the inflow is high at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens. An officer said that the inflow is almost double, compared to the previous weeks. However, people visiting hotels, lodges and restaurants is yet to pick up. A manager of a boarding and lodging facility, Manjunath, said that business has improved, but it is not up to the expectations. A Traffic Policeman said, "The density of traffic has increased over the last few weeks and vehicular traffic was high during Christmas. Crowd management has turned out to be a challenge for the police, in the wake of the Covid crisis."   City Police and the district administration have ordered a ban on visitors to Chamundi Hill till January 2. The police have restricted New Year celebration and have warned of stern action against the people creating nuisance. As many as 50,000 to 60,000 people used to visit Chamundi Hill on New Year day, every year. However, all the rituals will be performed, said the temple chief priest N Shashishekara Dixit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourist-flow-increases-despite-covid-19-restrictions-in-mysuru-933768.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Voters are in favour of BJP, says Kateel||The gram panchayat election results have proved that the voters are in favour of BJP in the state. More than the expected number of BJP-supported candidates have won the election in Karnataka, according to a press release issued by BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel. The pro-people programmes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at Centre and BS Yediyurappa-led government in the state and hard work of the party workers have helped in the victory of BJP-backed candidates in the state. The attitude of former chief minister Siddaramaiah and other Congress leaders have been given the tough answer by the voters in rural areas, Kateel stated. In the press release, Kateel stated that he has already directed the Dakshina Kannada SP to initiate stringent action against those SDPI workers who had shouted slogans in favour of Pakistan in Ujire. The BJP will suppress all anti-national forces in the country, the release stated. Police intervene Meanwhile, Youth Congress President Mithun Rai entered into an argument with the police while celebrating the victory of a party-backed candidate outside the counting centre at Bondel. Congress workers, led by Mithun Rai, and BJP workers were engaged in celebrations. When both the BJP and Congress workers came face to face, the police asked them to move away. This led to heated argument.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/voters-are-in-favour-of-bjp-says-kateel-933456.html
31-12-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa looks forward to 2021 by ruling out leadership change||Stepping into the New Year, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Thursday that he will continue in the top post for the next two years and complete the term, ruling out any change in leadership. At the customary New Year’s Eve news conference, Yediyurappa said, "In the last one and a half years, I have concentrated only on development. The BJP national leadership has specified that there will be no change of leadership. I am not concerned about anything other than work," he said to a question on speculation of a change in leadership. In a slight dig at the media, Yediyurappa said: "There is no confusion among either our ministers or our legislators. There is no confusion even among the people of Karnataka. The confusion exists only among the media. If you cooperate, I believe everything will be fine." Rarely has Yediyurappa responded to murmurs of leadership change, and this time, he chose to speak out ahead of the New Year. The BJP is making inroads across the country and in Karnataka, too, Yediyurappa said. "According to information available, out of 5,728-gram panchayats, BJP-backed candidates have won in around 3,800. The BJP won the recent Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira bypolls and 12 seats in the December 2019 bypolls. These results show that we have made inroads in the strongholds of the Opposition parties," he said.  Speaking on the year 2020 that has gone by, Yediyurappa said Karnataka suffered financial setbacks that are likely to continue into the next fiscal as well. The past year was a "trial by fire" for the government with the onslaught of the pandemic and floods, he said. "Albeit the crisis, we have done our best to fulfil all the promises of the state Budget 2020-21," he said.  The government's Bengaluru Mission 2022 is a big-ticket project, he said, promising to "change the face of the city" soon. "Be it Jog development or Kemmanugundi, many tourism projects have also been charted out to rejig the economy, he added.  Karnataka attracted 95 FDI proposals despite the pandemic, all amounting to Rs 1.54 lakh crore, Yediyurappa said. The Prime Minister's development vision has also included in legislation such as the APMC Amendment Bill, which will go a long way in helping the farmers double their income, he said. "The Opposition leaders are misleading the farmers on the issue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-looks-forward-to-2021-by-ruling-out-leadership-change-933587.html
31-12-2020||National||US Congressman welcomes Indian govt's efforts to engage with protesting farmers||A US Congressman has hailed the Indian government's efforts to engage with the protesting farmers to "ensure" that the legislation reflects their input and interests as well. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. Addressing the US House of Representatives on Tuesday, Congressman Andy Levin said it is heartening to watch democracy in action in India and the popular support the farmers' movement is garnering throughout the nation and the global Indian diaspora. “While I believe the Indian government should have consulted meaningfully with farmers before passing these laws, I welcome their efforts to engage with the protestors to ensure that legislation that affects these communities reflects their input and interests as well,” Levin said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislation would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the Indian government but the logjam continues. Levin, who serves as the US Representative for Michigan's 9th congressional district, also expressed concerns over reports of violence against peaceful protesters. "On behalf of my constituents who represent the vibrant Indian diaspora community and have rallied in support of these farmers, I call on the Indian government to respect the vital right to peaceful protest and to engage in good-faith talks to ensure farmers’ livelihoods are preserved," the Democratic lawmaker said. Levin said as a longtime union organiser, he supports these farmers, whose hard work has earned Punjab the moniker of "India's bread basket".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-congressman-welcomes-indian-govts-efforts-to-engage-with-protesting-farmers-933438.html
31-12-2020||National||Mamata visits tribal village, cooks vegetables with the women||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday joined tribal women and cooked vegetables during a surprise visit to a tribal village in Birbhum district. Her visit to the tribal village, located near Sonajhuri haat in Santiniketan, evoked derision by BJP national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who said the chief minister's sudden visit to the tribal village was nothing but a "drama". Banerjee made a sudden detour and entered the tribal village while returning to Kolkata wrapping up a two-day visit to Bolpur in Birbhum district. Banerjee helped a tribal woman Rama Bagdi in cooking vegetables and had tea at the adjacent stall of Babu Bagdi. She then offered prayers to the deity of the tribals nearby. "Consider me as a daughter of your house. Tell me about your problems. Have you been to the 'Duare Sarkar' (government at the doorstep) camp? Do you have the Swasthya Sathi (cashless health scheme) card?," Banerjee asked the villagers. She asked the accompanying district officials to construct toilets in every dwelling unit in the area when the women told her of the difficulties faced by them. When Banerjee later left the village to board a chopper, the tribal families of the village which is located near Sonajhuri haat in Santiniketan, still looked bewildered. Banerjee's unscheduled visit came after the one by Union Home Minister Amit Shah who had lunch at a baul (mystic ministerial) singer's residence at Santiniketan earlier this month and at a tribal's residence at Bankura during his November visit to the state. Incidentally, the ruling TMC had suffered erosion in tribal support in the Jangalmahal area comprising Jhargram, West Midnapore, Bankura, and Purulia districts and suffered electoral reverses in 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the tribal belts of the state. Commenting on Banerjee's surprise visit, Vijayvargiya said "This is nothing but drama which will not give her any electoral dividend." The tribals as well as the electorate in Bengal have already deserted the Trinamool Congress, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-visits-tribal-village-cooks-vegetables-with-the-women-933441.html
31-12-2020||National||Industrial corridor nodes in Andhra Pradesh, Tumakuru||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of industrial corridor nodes at Tumakuru in Karnataka, Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, and transport hubs at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh with estimated job creation for about three lakh people. These projects will position India as a strong player in global value chains with developed land parcels in cities for immediate allotment for attracting investments in the manufacturing sector. The Tumakuru industrial area will be developed at a cost of Rs 1,702 crore and provide jobs to 88,500 people. Krishnapatnam Industrial Area will cost Rs 2,139.44 crore and employ 98,000 people while the Rs 3,884-crore Greater Noida multi-modal hub will provide one lakh jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/industrial-corridor-nodes-in-andhra-pradesh-tumakuru-933466.html
31-12-2020||National||The Lead: 2020 — How India fared on foreign relations & diplomacy||Hi and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio, today we discuss India's international affairs and how the country maintained its relationships with its neighbourhood and the US.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of DH Radio. The year 2020 was no less than any year for news regarding international affairs. As we say goodbye to 2020, in this episode we take a look at India's relationship with other countries and to talk about that we have our external affairs correspondent Anirban Bhaumik. Hi, Anirban and welcome to DH Radio. Anirban Bhaumik: Hi, Ahmed. Ahmed: Anirban, my first question to you is how has India fared in the year in terms of external affairs and what were some of the achievements? Anirban: The year 2020, as the entire world is calling it 'Annas Horribilis', was no better for foreign relations of India also... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-2020-how-india-fared-on-foreign-relations-diplomacy-933489.html
31-12-2020||National||Night curfew in Delhi ahead of New Year||The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. The night curfew will be imposed from 11 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, and again from 11 pm on January 1 to 6 am on January 2, said an order issued on Wednesday by Vijay Dev, Delhi Chief Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). It stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. However, there will be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods during night curfew in Delhi, the chief secretary said in the order. "A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 and after observing local incidents of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, it is apprehended that the gatherings, congregations and public celebrations of new year pose a considerable threat of spread of the virus and may cause setback to appreciable gains made in suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi," the order said. The Ministry of Home Affairs in its advisory on December 28 had advised states and Union Territories that they can impose local restrictions, including night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation to contain the spread of Covid-19. All the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police in Delhi will ensure strict compliance of the night curfew restriction. A total of 33 people, including 20 UK returnees and their contacts, all of whom have tested positive for the coronavirus, are admitted to a special ward at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) in the national capital. Genome sequencing report has shown seven of them so far are infected with the mutant UK strain. The Delhi government is carrying out a district-level contact-tracing and testing drive for people who returned from the UK from November 25 onwards, and their contacts. According to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government, the city recorded 677 fresh Covid-19 cases and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, bringing the infection tally to over 6.24 lakh and the death toll to 10,523.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-in-delhi-ahead-of-new-year-933493.html
31-12-2020||National||CBSE to announce board exams schedule today||The schedule for classes 10 and 12 board examinations will be announced on December 31 by Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. Nishank had earlier this week ruled out conducting board examinations for classes 10 and 12 till February in view of the Covid-19 situation. Usually, practical tests are conducted in January and theory exams begin in February and conclude in March.  With no clarity on the board exam dates yet, several schools have already conducted pre-board exams online to keep the students prepared. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had earlier this month announced that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. However, a few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-announce-board-exams-schedule-today-933527.html
31-12-2020||National||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to PM Modi on sailors stranded off Chinese coast||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi raising concerns over 39 stranded crew members off the Chinese coast Two cargo vessels with a total of 39 Indians on board have been on anchorage in Chinese waters as they were not allowed to unload their cargo though some other ships have managed to do so. China on December 25 had said that there is no 'link' between stranded Indian ship crew on its Chinese ports and its strained relations with India and Australia. Bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand is on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13 and it has 23 Indian sailors. Another vessel, MV Anastasia with 16 Indian nationals as its crew, is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-writes-to-pm-modi-on-sailors-stranded-off-chinese-coast-933540.html
31-12-2020||National||Five more cases of new UK coronavirus variant reported in India; tally stands at 25||A total of 25 people in the country have tested positive for the new UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. These 25 people include the 20 who were found positiive with the mutated strain on Tuesday and Wednesday. "All 25 persons are in physical isolation in health facilities," the health ministry said.  Among the new five cases, the mutated UK strain was detected in four at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and one new case was sequenced at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, it said. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the ministry said on Tuesday. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far. The ministry said that from November 25 to December 23 midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK.  All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by  states and UTs to RT-PCR tests.  The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said. This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs i.e. INSACOG. Also, a meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on Covid-19 was held on December 26 to consider and recommend testing, treatment, surveillance and containment strategy. Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-more-cases-of-new-uk-coronavirus-variant-reported-in-india-tally-stands-at-25-933542.html
31-12-2020||National||Farm laws: On what issues does the deadlock remain?||The central government and farmer unions reached a consensus on two issues on December 30 during the sixth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. Protesting farmers at Delhi borders have stood against the Centre's farm laws braving the icy cold winds of the national capital for over a month now. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting farmer unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.  As both the sides remain deadlocked over the main contentious demands, let us take a look at key developments in the farmers' agitation: — Government has agreed to farmers' demands for dropping the penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law, after nearly five hours of the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of protesting farmers. — The two sides remained deadlocked over the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP as the government has ruled out a repeal of the laws. —  Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that discussions would continue on the remaining two out of the four items on the agenda on January 4 at 2 pm. — During the meeting yesterday, the government is believed to have offered to set up a committee for better implementation of the MSP procurement system, but the proposal did not find any favour with the union leaders. — The unions have decided to postpone their proposed tractor rally, earlier scheduled for December 31, till the next round of talks on January 4. Farmer leaders have said that if the next meeting fails, then they will plan the next course of action. — All India Kisan Sabha leader and CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Hannan Mollah has said that the farmer unions will decide the next proposal to the Modi government at Singhu border on January 2. — Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he was hopeful that a solution would emerge before the year 2020 ends. However, some union leaders said that farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the MSP as market rates have fallen. — For the last few meetings, farmer leaders have been arranging their own food and beverages but had so far refused to accept even water offered by the government. — The government had hoped it would be a decisive meeting and the protesting farmers would return from Delhi borders to their respective homes to celebrate the New Year, but farmer leaders insisted they are prepared to continue their agitation till the government agrees to their demands, including repeal of the laws. — The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-on-what-issues-does-the-deadlock-remain-933555.html
31-12-2020||National||Covid-19: India records 21,822 new cases||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,02,66,674 with 21,822 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.60 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,48,738 with 299 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,60,280 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.04 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the tenth consecutive day. There are 2,57,656 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.51 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,20,49,274 samples have been tested up to December 30 with 11,27,244 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-21822-new-cases-933557.html
31-12-2020||National||Davai bhi, kadaai bhi: PM Modi urges caution, says India prepared to begin world's biggest vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said new coronavirus cases are on the decline in the country but people should not let their guard down and continue adhering to Covid-19 norms even after vaccination. Speaking after laying the foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rajkot through video conferencing, he exuded confidence that India is ready to roll out the world's biggest vaccination drive against coronavirus. "I used to say 'jab tak davai nahi dhilai nahi' but now our mantra for 2021 should be: Davai bhi, kadaai bhi (yes to medicine and yes to caution)," Modi said. People should not believe in rumours and unfounded claims regarding the vaccine, Modi said and claimed that some persons have already started spreading such lies. Preparations to reach out to each beneficiary are in the final stage, Modi said, adding new coronavirus cases are decreasing in the country. "In 2020, there was an atmosphere of disappointment and dismay due to the infection. There were doubts everywhere. But 2021 is coming up with a ray of hope in terms of its treatment," Modi said. "Preparations are in full swing for the vaccination drive in India. Efforts to make a 'Made in India' vaccine available to every eligible beneficiary are in its last stage. We are fully prepared to launch the world's biggest vaccination drive" Modi said. In comparison to other countries, India is in a better position in terms of infection and deaths due to coronavirus, as the country took "timely and effective steps", he said. Modi paid tributes to healthcare and frontline workers, scientists and good samaritans for their sacrifices and services to the society during the pandemic. "We are working on mission mode to improve medical education in India. After the formation of National Medical Commission, the quality and quantity of health education will improve," he added. Over Rs 30,000 crore of poor people's money has been saved due to the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Modi said. "Jan Ausadhi Kendras are also a friend of poor people during illness. Over 7,000 such kendras all over the country provide 90 per cent cheaper medicines to people. Over 3.5 lakh poor patients use these kendras on a daily basis," he said. In the last six years work on 10 new AIIMS began and 20 super speciality hospitals are also being built in the country, Modi said, adding 2021 will emerge as "a year of health solutions". "The world witnessed how India faced and overcame healthcare challenges this year. In 2021, India's contribution for bringing in healthcafre solutions will be important. Since diseases are getting globalised, health solutions should also be globalised" he said. The world should come up with a collective response and working in silos will no longer be effective, he said. "We all need to come together for our people" he added. India will emerge as the nerve-centre of global health, Modi said. The Centre has planned to build 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres in far flung areas under the Ayushman Bharat scheme for the poor, he said. "Of these, 50,000 have already started, including 5,000 in Gujarat. Around 1.5 crore poor citizens receive free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh under this scheme. In total, Ayushman Bharat saved Rs 30,000 crore of poor people. This is a huge amount" said Modi. Modi said the AIIMS in Rajkot is for the people of Gujarat and will create around 5,000 direct employment opportunities. Over 200 acre land has been allotted by the Gujarat government for the AIIMS campus near Khandheri village on the outskirts of Rajkot city. The institute will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 1,195 crore and is expected to be completed by mid-2022, said a government release. The state-of-the-art 750-bed hospital will also have a 30-bed AYUSH block. It will have 125 MBBS seats and 60 nursing seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/davai-bhi-kadaai-bhi-pm-modi-urges-caution-says-india-prepared-to-begin-worlds-biggest-vaccination-drive-933568.html
31-12-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate crosses 96%||India has crossed a significant milestone in its fight against coronavirus, with the national Covid-19 recovery rate crossing 96 per cent, one of the highest globally, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. "The total recovered cases have crossed 98.6 lakhs (98,60,280), the highest globally. The gap between active cases and recoveries is continuously increasing and stands at 96,02,624," the ministry highlighted. Further, active cases have drastically declined to 2.57 lakh. The total positive cases of the country are 2,57,656 and now comprise merely 2.51 per cent of the total cases. "With a high number of Covid patients recovering every day and the sustained fall in the mortality rate, India's steady trend of registering dipping active cases continues," the ministry said. A total of 21,822 new confirmed cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours in the country whereas 26,139 new recoveries were registered in the same period.  It has led to a net decline of 4,616 cases from the total active caseload, the ministry underlined. Of the new recovered cases, 77.99 per cent are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,707 newly recovered cases, 4,913 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,588 in Chhattisgarh. The ministry said that 79.87 per cent of the new cases are from 10 States and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 6,268. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,537 new cases. Also, 299 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours with ten states and UTs accounting for 80.60 per cent of these. Maharashtra reported maximum casualties with 90 new fatalities. Kerala and West Bengal both follow with 28 daily deaths. India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,02,66,674 with  21,822 new infections being reported in a day while the death toll rose to 1,48,738 with 299 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-96-933577.html
31-12-2020||National||All states, UTs to begin dry run of Covid-19 vaccine on January 2||As the year ends with the hope of a Covid-19 vaccine on the horizon, the Union Health Ministry has asked every state to undertake a dry run on January 2 so that they can sort out possible logistical challenges before the vaccine is rolled out commercially. The decision to conduct the dry run at every state capital was taken on Thursday at a high-level meeting to review the states’ preparedness as the government geared up for a never-done-before exercise to vaccinate 30 crore Indians over the next few months. Each state will undertake the mock vaccination drive at three camps and at each site 25 front-line volunteers would be given the shot. Their data will be uploaded on the Co-WIN application platform that would serve as the digital front of the entire campaign. Each site will be a three-room set-up with adequate space outside to generate awareness on Covid-19. While most of the states will do the dry run at the state capitals, Maharashtra and Kerala are likely to schedule the dry run in major cities other than their capital. The dry run, according to the ministry, will equip the State and UT administration to manage vaccine supply, storage, and logistics including cold chain management. An important focus of the dry run will be on the management of any possible adverse events following immunisation. In addition, the emphasis would be given on the adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site, to prevent disease transmission. So far three vaccine manufacturers have approached the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation – the Indian drug regulator – seeking emergency approval of their vaccine. The application of at least two of them Serum Institute of India, Pune, and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad are supposed to be taken up for approval at an expert panel’s meeting on Friday. The first round of the dry run was conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, and Punjab on December 28-29th in two districts each, where five-session sites with 25 beneficiaries each were identified. No major operational issues were observed in that exercise. For the vaccination, nearly 60,000 vaccinators have been trained so far, out of 2,360 persons were trained at the national level training of trainers whereas another 57,000 injection-givers received district level training in 719 districts. The aim is to train 96,000 vaccinators for the entire exercise. India also ended the year with improved Covid-19 numbers as the count of daily new cases remained less than 25,000 since December 21 and daily Covid mortality dipped to less than 300 for the last six days. The country’s toll stands at 1,48,738 out of which 299 were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-states-uts-to-begin-dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccine-on-january-2-933595.html
31-12-2020||National||Poor air quality may affect recovered Covid-19 patients: Experts||Considering the drop in temperature that deteriorates air quality, doctors in Pune city have issued a word of caution for people suffering from lung ailments, especially those who have recovered from Covid-19. According to medical experts, deterioration of air quality can also cause complications in patients infected by coronavirus. Increased level of pollutants in the air can affect people suffering from lung-related disorders such as chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) and Covid-19, prolonging the process of recovery, they said. "A drop in air quality makes it more difficult for COPD patients to breathe. We advise COPD patients and those who have recently recovered from Covid-19 not step out in the polluted air," said Dr Vaibhav Pandharkar, a pulmonologist from Noble Hospital. Coronavirus disease affects respiratory organs and its effects can be seen even after recovering from the infection. "In some patients, we have seen the development of lung fibrosis, post their recovery from coronavirus. Hence, people suffering from lung disorders and those who have also recovered from COVID-19 should take extra precautions at a time when pollutants in the air have increased," he said. According to Dr Pandharkar, there is an increased risk to lungs and heart of people suffering from comorbidities. "If people with comorbidities contract coronavirus, it may cause inflammation, which will make it easy for the infection to invade the lungs. For patients of asthma, lung fibrosis or heart disease, the risk of death increases when they also contract the infection," he said. Some recent studies have stated that certain air pollutants are likely to enhance susceptibility to Covid-19 death outcomes, the doctor said. Dr Raziya Nagarwala, a cardiovascular and pulmonary physiotherapist from Sancheti Institute of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, said people suffering from lung-related issues are vulnerable to severe Covid-19 complications. "This is the reason why we had requested people to avoid bursting firecrackers in the festive season. When we breathe in pollutants, it not only affects our respiratory system, but it also negatively impacts our immunity," she said. She further stated that if a person's lungs are already weak, the chances of contracting Covid-19 increase. "We have seen many complications while administering physiotherapy to Covid-19 patients, who were already suffering from lung-related disease. Everyone should wear a mask because it not only reduces the viral spread, but it also prevents us from breathing in pollutants," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-air-quality-may-affect-recovered-covid-19-patients-experts-933610.html
31-12-2020||National||Fortunes of once 'key witnesses' in Sohrabuddin case fade as six FIRs filed against builder brothers||Almost ten years after their testimonies gave "crucial evidence" to CBI in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case which led to arrest of several key suspects IPS officers and a Gujarat minister, the lives of two builder brothers, Dashrath and Raman Patel, have seen dramatic turn of events at least in the past four months. Both of them are in jail in judicial custody after their arrest in August. The brothers, who own Popular Builders Group, are behind bars in as many as half a dozen cases, all pertaining to property disputes. Some of these cases are part of civil litigation, while some are said to have been settled or compromised by the parties who have come out as "aggrieved" now. If sources in the state government are to be believed, more cases are likely to be registered against the brothers in the coming days. The latest hint came on December 29 when the Ahmedabad income tax department's investigation wing shot off a letter addressed to Vastrapur police station asking it to register a criminal case against one of the brothers and his other relatives for violating prohibition of benami properties transaction act, 1988; the Gujarat agricultural land ceiling act, 1960 and the Gujarat cooperative societies act, among others along with sections of Indian Penal Code. When contacted Vastrapur police inspector R M Sarode, "I have not yet received the letter." Sources in the income tax department said that the letter has been written by the Deputy Director of Income Tax (investigation). This will be the seventh FIR against the builder brothers. It all started after the Patel family got embroiled in a domestic violence case. On August 12, Raman Patel's daughter-in-law filed a case against her husband and other family members including Patel himself. This was followed by a massive I-T raid on 20 premises of the builders' group and over a dozen associated firms. It was reported that a large cache of documents was recovered from several places, including a "secret flat." Some of the cases against the brothers are related to breach of rent agreement, land grabbing, cheating and fraudulent means in acquiring lands. The brothers have moved the high court with at least eight petitions by the end of December, seeking various reliefs that include bail and quashing of FIRs. Last week, while granting bail, the high court had observed that FIR reflected some rent agreement for which civil suits have been filed, which are pending. Popular Builders Firing Case The Patel brothers had first hit headlines in December 2004 when two gunmen fired at their office in Navrangpura. Rajasthan-based gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh, Tulsiram Prajpati, Daniel Sylvester Desai, among others were booked. The investigation was handed over to Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) where controversial IPS officer D G Vanzara was posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police. Eventually, the Patel brothers were also booked as accused in the case. The chargesheet was filed in 2006 and since then it is awaiting trial. Interestingly, most of these accused turned witnesses in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case by 2010 when CBI began its probe, including Dashrath and Raman Patel. Their testimonies named several police officers including IPS officers (retired) D G Vanazara, Abhay Chudasama, Rajkumar Pandian among others. Their testimonies also mentioned the name of then Minister of State for Home Amit Shah, now Union Minister. CBI found that the firing at Popular Builders' office was part of "police and political" nexus who wanted to eliminate Sohrabuddin Sheikh against whom there was no case in Gujarat. None of the claims of CBI stood in the trial and all the accused were acquitted. Shah, Chudasama, Vanzara were among the key suspects who were discharged by the special CBI court. During the trial, CBI didn't call Patel brothers to examine them in the court as witness number 60 and witness number 67.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fortunes-of-once-key-witnesses-in-sohrabuddin-case-fade-as-six-firs-filed-against-builder-brothers-933619.html
31-12-2020||National||BJP gains new ground in 2020 but farmers' protests pose challenge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to convert 'aapda' (crisis) into 'avsar' (opportunity) paid the BJP rich dividends in a year when the Covid-19 convulsed the society and the economy as a mix of the ruling dispensation's welfare measures, organisational might and ideological drive saw the saffron party gain new territories in 2020. Governments in most of the world saw their approval ratings dip as they struggled to contain the raging virus, which hit economy hard everywhere, but Indian politics followed a different script, with the outgoing year marking further shrinking of a rudderless Congress while the ruling BJP soared riding on Modi's enduring appeal. However, challenges emerged for the BJP as the year drew to a close. Mass protests from a large section of farmers, especially from Punjab, against sweeping reforms brought in the agriculture sector through three laws by the Modi government have presented it with one of the most serious challenges since it first came to power in 2014. Shiromani Akali Dal, one of the BJP's oldest and steadfast allies, severed its ties with the party, leaving the Modi cabinet without any representation from a non-BJP party. The party's ties with the JD(U) are also far from smooth as the Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party is still smarting from its poor show in the state assembly polls owing to Chirag Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party's decision to go all out against it while lauding the BJP. The larger political fallout of the agitation, spearheaded by farmer unions, remains untested but its durability through weeks of protests at Delhi borders amid a harsh winter coupled with its potential to trigger wider unrest India have seen the BJP making hectic efforts to reach out to the peasantry, while the government works to defuse the crisis. If the year started on a bad note for BJP president J P Nadda, who took over from the formidable Amit Shah in January, after the party suffered yet another rout in the Delhi assembly polls in February in its first major elections under him, he is now likely to look back at 2020 with more than a touch of satisfaction. The BJP for the first time emerged as the driver of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar as its superlative show of winning 74 of the 110 seats it contested in the 243-seat assembly polls ensured that Kumar retained his chair despite his party's dismal performance. The JD(U) won only 43 of the 115 seats it fought. The BJP's performance in Bihar despite apparent anti-incumbency factor at work against Kumar was notable as it was powered largely by the central government's welfare measures during the pandemic and Modi's appeal amid absence of any regional leader with a state-wide draw. The prime minister's call for converting the 'aapda' in the form of the Covid-19 crisis into 'avsar' was apparently embraced by voters who were impressed with his pro-poor programmes and campaign for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. The ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple by the prime minister in August followed by enactment of so called 'love jihad' laws, whose constitutionality has been questioned by critics, helped the party consolidate its Hindutva core base further. While Delhi and Bihar were the only two states that faced assembly polls this year, the BJP swept assembly bypolls in a string of states, including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, followed by its strong show in local body polls in Rajasthan, Goa, Hyderabad, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh among others. If its strong show in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh indicated that it remains firmly entrenched in these states, its performance in Telangana would have tasted sweetest to the BJP top brass as it heralded the party's emergence as the main challenger to Telangana Rashtra Samithi supremo and state's Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao. The BJP delivered shock defeat to the TRS in the latter's bastion of Dubbaka in assembly bypoll and then ran it close in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections. Its tally surged to 48 from four while that of the TRS fell to 55 from 99 in the elections to 150 seats. The party also emerged as the single largest party in the panchayat polls in Jammu and Kashmir by winning 75 seats, even as the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, an amalgamation of parties bitterly opposed to the Centre's decision to annul Article 370, picketed 110 seats. The BJP maintained its dominance in the Jammu division and managed to open its account in the Valley. The one state that again disappointed the BJP was Kerala where in the local body polls it remained a distant third behind the CPI (M)-led LDF and the Congress-led UDF alliances. The Congress' below par performance in elections, except Chhattisgarh where its Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel remains in firm control, held through the year meant that the BJP's hegemony in the national politics remained unchallenged. It is in states with powerful satraps like Delhi or Maharashtra that its ambitions were thwarted by regional satraps, AAP's Arvind Kejriwal in the national capital and NCP's Sharad Pawar in Maharashtra who has managed to keep Maharashtra's ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance on an even keel despite its inherent ideological incoherence. The BJP succeeded in toppling the dissident-ridden Congress government in Madhya Pradesh by wooing over the opposition party's heavyweight Jyotiraditya Scindia to its side. A rebellion by Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had the Congress government teetering on the brink, and though Gehlot managed to stave off the challenge, the jury is still out whether he will be able to last his full term till 2023 with the BJP waiting in the wings to seize on any opportunity. Like a redoubtable army always on the march to gain new grounds, the BJP's eyes are already fixed on West Bengal, one of the politically most important states where the assembly polls are due in the April-May. As in so many other states, the party's political investment in West Bengal since Modi came to power in 2014 and Shah became its president has begun paying off, as brought into sharp relief in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when its tally zoomed to 18 seats from two and that of the ruling Trinamool Congress fell to 22 from 34. However, the TMC supremo and state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee remains a strong regional satrap and formidable campaigner. In the past, the BJP has more often than not come up short in assembly polls when pitted against a regional heavyweight, more so when it lacks a chief ministerial candidate, as seems to be the case in West Bengal so far. Defection of a number of TMC leaders has energised the BJP cadres, with Shah seen to driving the party's campaign in the state. As the new year dawns, the Bengal results will go a long way in deciding the course of national politics in 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-gains-new-ground-in-2020-but-farmers-protests-pose-challenge-933621.html
31-12-2020||National||19,467 got police protection in India, cops on duty surpass sanctioned strength by 35% in 2019: Data||West Bengal, Punjab, Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir have the maximum numbers of people getting police protection, even as the all-India figure reduced by nearly nine per cent in 2019, according to official data. Also, the number of police personnel put on protection duty in 2018 and 2019 for ministers, MPs, MLAs, judges, bureaucrats, etc., outnumbered their sanctioned strength for the job by around 35 per cent, showed the latest data released by the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D). The number of people getting police protection across India stood at 19,467 in 2019 and 21,300 in 2018 -- a reduction of 1,833 (or 8.7 per cent), the BPR&D stated in its latest data on police organisations updated till January 1, 2020. The number of police personnel sanctioned for protection duty in 2019 was 43,556, whereas 66,043 personnel were deployed for the job, the data showed. In 2018, the sanctioned strength was 40,031, while 63,061 police personnel were deployed on protection duty, it revealed. West Bengal had the maximum of 3,142 people under police protection in 2019, followed by Punjab (2,594), Bihar (2,347) and Jammu and Kashmir (1,184), according to the data. In 2018, Bihar led the tally with 4,677 people, followed by West Bengal (2,769), Punjab (2,522) and Jammu and Kashmir (1,493), it showed. However, the maximum sanctioned strength and deployment of police personnel in such duties took place in Delhi, where the number of protectees stood at 503 in 2018 and 501 in 2019, the data showed. The number of police personnel sanctioned for the protection duties in Delhi was 7,144 in 2018 and 7,294 in 2019 while the deployment numbers stood at 7,144 and 8,182, respectively, it showed. Maharashtra had 356 police protectees and a sanctioned strength of 3,946 personnel in both the years. It had a cent per cent deployment for the job in both the years, according to the BPR&D, a wing of the Union Home Ministry. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, had 125 and 144 protectees in 2018 and 2019, respectively. The sanctioned strength of personnel was not available for 2018, and it was 2,108 in 2019. The deployment figures stood at 2,233 both the years, it showed. The number of police protectees in Andhra Pradesh stood at 508 in 2018 and 452 in 2019, Kerala (76 and 57), Tamil Nadu (115 and 110), Karanataka (647 and 721), Telangana (487 and 799), Madhya Pradesh (293 and 434), Haryana (1,493 and 1,355), Chhattisgarh (340 and 315), Goa (35 and 32). Among the lowest, Daman and Diu had one and two police protectees in 2018 and 2019, respectively, Dadra and Nagar Haveli had five in 2018 and one in 2019, while Lakshadweep had five in 2019 (its figures for 2018 not available), the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19467-got-police-protection-in-india-cops-on-duty-surpass-sanctioned-strength-by-35-in-2019-data-933622.html
31-12-2020||National||DMK asks PM Modi to urge Sri Lanka to not scrap Provincial Councils||The DMK on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevail upon Sri Lanka to give up its 'proposal' to abolish the provincial councils as it went against the island nation's 13th Amendment to Constitution. The amendment was an outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987, DMK Parliamentary Party leader T R Baalu said and added that the proposal, if carried forward, would put a question mark on the accord with India. Baalu, who is also the party treasurer asked "why and how Indian government could be a mere spectator" if the island nation abolished the councils after assuring the Tamil people, devolution of more powers, even beyond what was contemplated under the 13th amendment, he said. The DMK leader requested Modi to prevail upon Lanka to not go ahead with the plan to abolish the councils. Modi should make it clear to the neighbour that the proposal, if implemented, would adversely affect Indo-Lanka ties, Baalu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-asks-pm-modi-to-urge-sri-lanka-to-not-scrap-provincial-councils-933635.html
31-12-2020||National||Probably we will have a very happy New Year: DCGI on Covid-19 vaccine||India is likely to have a Covid-19 vaccine in the New Year, Drug Controller General of India V G Somani hinted on Thursday. Speaking at a webinar, Somani said the most important thing is that the industry and research organisations have stood the test of time. He said vaccine candidates have got the funding and also talked about the efforts made by the Department of Biotechnology. "...and probably we will have a very happy New Year with something in hand. That's what I can hint at," Somnai said. The Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates and are awaiting approval. Somani said the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. "There has been no compromise on the safety or efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data," he said. An expert panel in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday to consider emergency use authorisation applications by SII for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' will reconvene on January 1 to further deliberate on the matter. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 on Wednesday deliberated and analysed the additional data and information submitted by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probably-we-will-have-a-very-happy-new-year-dcgi-on-covid-19-vaccine-933636.html
31-12-2020||National||Health Ministry releases communication strategy to support Covid-19 vaccine rollout||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India that seeks to disseminate accurate and transparent information by alleviating apprehensions and ensuring its acceptance. The 88-page document details information to guide national, state and district level communication activities to enable information about Covid-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country. "The communication strategy that supports the Covid-19 vaccines rollout in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions about the vaccine, ensure its acceptance and encourage uptake," it said. According to the document, the strategy aims at managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or 'eagerness' amongst people and addressing vaccine 'hesitancy' that could arise because of apprehensions around vaccine safety, efficacy apart from any other myths and misconceptions. It also aims to provide information on potential risks and mitigate unintended crisis during the introduction and rollout. "The strategy also seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the Covid-19 vaccine amongst all people by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it," it said. The Health Ministry intends to achieve this in three ways. Firstly, using the social influence or endorsements from experts and official voices to spell out the process of immunisation (where, how, who, when – date and time); emphasise on the safety and efficacy of vaccines and explain the decision to conduct the drive in a phased manner. Secondly, the ministry intends to establish a National Media Rapid Response Cell (NMRRC) under its ambit to ensure preparedness through media monitoring and social listening to respond in real time. It will also unfold media and public discourse through extensive monitoring of print, electronic and digital media. Thirdly, this will be achieved by involving community mobilisers and frontline workers to engage with the community at various levels through community consultations, faith leaders and religious meetings, engaging youth, civil-society organisations, self-help groups, panchayats and other community-based platforms. The four key areas that will be addressed as part of interventions under the strategy are -- giving information on Covid-19 vaccines, addressing vaccine hesitancy, building vaccine eagerness along with maintaining and sustaining Covid appropriate behaviours. In case of any adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), the strategy emphasises on supporting the mobilisers and health workforce in managing crisis situations by appealing to the community to stay calm while waiting for a proper diagnosis and prevent aggressive behaviour against health workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-releases-communication-strategy-to-support-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-933640.html
31-12-2020||National||No New Year for us until Centre accepts our demands: Farmers protesting at Singhu border||Thousands of farmers protesting at the Singhu border for over a month now will ring in the New Year sans any celebrations. "There is no New Year for us until the government accepts our demands," said Harjinder Singh from Punjab's Ropar, who has been camping at the Delhi-Haryana border since November 25. In the last round of talks on Wednesday, the government addressed the farmers' concerns over the increasing power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but that wasn't good enough news to celebrate yet, said the farmers. Among the issues that continue to remain unresolved are the revocation of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price for their crops. "Both the demands that they have agreed to were not laws yet. Their impact was yet to be felt. And we went to the government with the demands with clarity. They cannot pick and choose what suits them. They have to listen to all our demands,” said Harmesh Singh, a farmer from Punjab's Hoshiarpur. "If the government wants to see our strength, we will show them. People like us who are used to living in 'kothis' (bungalows) are now sleeping on the road. We have been protesting peacefully for a month, we can keep protesting for a year too,” added Bhupinder Singh, also from Hoshiarpur. Most farmers this year will be welcoming the New Year away from their families, but they are not complaining. "Yes, we have a family back home and we are missing them, but this is also our family. All these farmers are our brothers, and uncles,” said Harjinder. Gurpreet Hayer from Jalandhar and Pratap Singh from Bhatinda have decided to do 'sewa' in the New Year as they had done in the past. Gurpreet said he will be working with Gursikh Sewa Society to put up a "turban langar" for all the farmers on Friday. "We will celebrate the New Year by doing sewa. There are many farmers who don't know how to tie a turban, or don't have a fresh turban. We will give them that,” he said. Pratap said he would pay a visit to the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara here on the first day of the year. "Every New Year we go to pay our respects at gurudwara and do sewa at langar. This year too, I will do the same here,” he said. Among the bare minimum celebrations, the Working People's Charter has called upon people from across the country to usher in the New Year with the farmers. "These laws are not just anti-farmer but also anti-poor. And we want all the people who go out to celebrate New Year to come and celebrate with the farmers, with the aim of demanding social justice for them. There will be bonfire, good conversations and songs of revolution," said Nirmal Agni from Working People's Charter. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-year-for-us-until-centre-accepts-our-demands-farmers-protesting-at-singhu-border-933648.html
31-12-2020||National||Data firm puts Narendra Modi's net approval at 55% ||A data firm tracking the approval ratings of world leaders has put the net approval for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a high of 55 per cent. Morning Consult, which carries out surveys and research globally, said in its latest survey that over 75 per cent people approve of Modi while 20 per cent disapprove, making his net approval rating at 55. The similar figure for German Chancellor Angela Merkel is 24 per cent while it is in the negative for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as more people disapprove of his work than those who approve it. The approximate sample size of the survey in India was 2,126 with a margin of error of 2.2 per cent, according to its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-firm-puts-narendra-modis-net-approval-at-55-933655.html
31-12-2020||National||49.67 lakh cases heard in HCs, district courts through video conferencing in 2020; SC heard 30,000 cases||After the Covid lockdown started, the district courts across the country heard 35,93,831 cases while the High Courts took up 13,74,048 cases, totalling to 49.67 lakh cases till October 28, 2020 using video conferencing only. The Supreme Court had nearly 30,000 hearings during the lockdown period. As part of the “AtmaNirbhar App challenge” some Indian made video conferencing apps have also been shortlisted and undergoing tests for use as Video Conferencing platforms, the Law and Justice Ministry said. To bring about uniformity and standardisation in the conduct of VC, an overarching order was passed by the top court on April 6, 2020, giving legal sanctity and validity to the court hearings done through video conferencing. "Further, video conferencing rules were framed by a five-judge committee which was circulated to all the High Courts for adoption after local contextualisation. So far, the VC rules have been adopted by 12 HCs," it added. An upgraded cloud-based VC infrastructure with latest features and robust security was also being developed by the NIC, the Ministry pointed out. A sum of Rs 7,975.81 crore has been sanctioned since the inception of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for development of infrastructure facilities for judiciary of which Rs 4,531.50 crore since 2014-15 which is around 56.82% of the total release under the scheme, it said. During the current financial year 2020-2021 a sum of Rs 754 crore has been allocated, of which a sum of Rs 243.56 crore has been sanctioned. In the financial year 2019-20, an amount of Rs 982 crores was released to the states. Among other infrastructure developments, as per the information made available by the High Courts, there are 19,996 court halls available which has been significantly increased as compared to the 15,818 available court halls in 2014. As far as the residential units were concerned, 17,752 were available against the current working strength of 19,366 judges and judicial officers. There were 10,211 Residential Units available in 2014. In addition, 2,836 court halls and 1,858 residential units are currently under construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4967-lakh-cases-heard-in-hcs-district-courts-through-video-conferencing-in-2020-sc-heard-30000-cases-933656.html
31-12-2020||National||Ram temple will make Ayodhya world's cultural capital: Seer||The upcoming temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya will connect all his devotees and help the Uttar Pradesh town emerge as the cultural capital of the world, said the treasurer of the trust overseeing the project on Thursday. A nationwide public campaign to collect funds for the temple will be launched on January 15, said Swami Govind Dev Giriji Maharaj, treasurer, Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The aim behind the campaign is to reach out to 11 crore households in four lakh villages across the country, said the seer at a press conference here. Giriji Maharaj said during the donation drive, coupons worth Rs 1,000, Rs 100 and Rs 10 will be used and collected funds will be immediately deposited into the designated bank account of the trust. "Our aim is to make Ayodhya the cultural capital of the world after the completion of the Ram temple by connecting the devotees of Lord Ram from India, Asia and the world," said he. "We aim to reach out to 11 crore households in four lakh villages in the country during the special mass contact drive," Giriji Maharaj said. "Voluntary donations from Rambhakts will be accepted for which coupons of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 will be made available," he said. Addressing a press conference in Nagpur on December 28, the trust's treasurer had said the construction of the Ram Temple complex, including the main structure, is estimated to cost around Rs 1,100 crore and is expected to be completed in three-and-a-half years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-will-make-ayodhya-worlds-cultural-capital-seer-933661.html
31-12-2020||National||CBSE board exams from May 4 to June 10 next year, results by July 15||The CBSE board examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be held between May 4 and June 10, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced here on Thursday. The results will be declared by July 15, the minister said, adding that care would be taken to ensure that the academic calendar is not affected much in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools will be allowed to conduct practical, project and internal assessments of Class 12 students from March 1 to the last date of the conduct of the theory examination of the same class. The examinations will be held offline taking all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The minister said the CBSE had already cut the syllabus by 30% for all subjects to allow students to cope up with the loss in teaching time due to the pandemic situation. The examination will be held as per the guidelines of the Home Ministry and the Health Ministry. Pokhriyal said of the total 33 crore students across all classes, the government made efforts and succeeded in bringing 25 crore students online – through mobile phones and television – to impart education during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-board-exams-from-may-4-to-june-10-next-year-results-by-july-15-933664.html
31-12-2020||National||China, India in talks to hold 9th round of Commander-level meet on Ladakh standoff: Chinese Defence Ministry||China and India are in consultations to hold the ninth round of Corps Commander-level meeting to discuss the disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Sr. Colonel Tan Kefei said on Thursday. Since the eighth round of Corps Commander-level talks between the armies of China and India, the two sides have maintained consultations on disengagement of frontline troops and strengthened management of border troops, Tan told an online media briefing. The situation in the border areas is generally stable, he said, according to a transcript posted on the Chinese Defence Ministry website. China is willing to maintain communication with India through military and diplomatic channels, he said. India is expected to work with China towards the same goal, implement the consensus reached at the Corps Commander-level meetings, and take pragmatic measures to further abate the tension in border areas, Tan said. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military-level to resolve the standoff that erupted in early May. At the latest round of foreign ministry-level talks on December 18, the two sides said that they have agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting also decided to hold the next round of military dialogue at an early date. In the midst of the eastern Ladakh standoff, Chinese President Xi Jinping on December 19 appointed a new General as the Commander of the People's Liberation Army's Western Theatre Command which oversees the China-India border. Xi, who heads the Central Military Commission (CMC), the overall high-command of the two million-strong People's Liberation Army (PLA), appointed Gen. Zhang Xudong as the Commander of the Western Theatre Command. Gen. Zhang succeeds 65-year-old Gen. Zhao Zongqi who headed the Western Theatre Command during the 2017 Doklam standoff where the Indian Army stood up against the PLA’s plan of laying a road close to the Indian border in an area claimed by Bhutan. The Ladakh standoff also happened under the watch of Gen Zhao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-in-talks-to-hold-9th-round-of-commander-level-meet-on-ladakh-standoff-chinese-defence-ministry-933665.html
31-12-2020||National||Current domestic coal production inadequate to meet country's demand: Govt||The government on Thursday said the current domestic production is unable to meet the country's demand, even though the country is the world's second-largest producer of fossil fuel and the fifth-largest nation in terms of coal deposits. Currently, India is producing about 729 million tonnes of dry fuel, the coal ministry said in a statement. "However, it is a fact that the domestic production is not able to meet the demand of coal in the country," the statement said. Last year, India imported 247 million tonnes (MT) of coal and spent Rs 1.58 lakh crore worth of foreign exchange. Commercial auction of coal mines along with transparent measures taken by the Centre has come at an opportune time to bridge the mismatch between demand and supply of coal in the country. "This will not only provide a huge opportunity for employment in the backward regions but will also save foreign exchange to the extent of almost Rs 20,000 crore to Rs 30,000 crore per year," it said. These reforms will also have an effect on other sectors dependent on coal. With an increase in coal production, the positive impact will also be felt on production and processing in steel, aluminum, fertilisers and cement sectors. The auction of coal blocks for commercial mining was launched in June with 38 blocks in the first tranche. Out of the said blocks, the auction process was successfully completed for 19 blocks in November. Total annual revenue generation from the auction is estimated at Rs 6,656 crore, considering production at aggregated peak rate capacity level of 51 million tonnes per annum. The total upfront amount of Rs 262 crore will be received by the states during the financial year 2020-21, and the remaining amount of Rs 786 crore will be received subsequently based on the milestones mentioned in the bid documents. Import substitution is one of the topmost priorities of the government. An inter-ministerial committee has been constituted for the purpose. Towards the goal of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the ministry along with all stakeholders is actively pursuing to achieve the mission of import substitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/current-domestic-coal-production-inadequate-to-meet-countrys-demand-govt-933668.html
31-12-2020||National||Let us work together towards creating an inclusive society: President Kovind's New Year message||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday greeted people on the eve of New Year and exhorted them to work together towards creating an inclusive society instilled with the spirit of love, compassion and forbearance that promotes peace and goodwill. In a message, he said every new year provides an opportunity to make a new beginning and emphasizes our resolve for individual and collective development, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement. "This difficult time arising out of COVID-19 situation is a time for all of us to move forward unitedly. This is also the time to strengthen the cultural values that reinforce our belief of unity in diversity," Kovind said. "On the eve of New Year 2021, let us work together towards creating an inclusive society instilled with the spirit of love, compassion and forbearance that promotes peace and goodwill. “May all of you remain safe and healthy, and move forward with a renewed energy to achieve the common goal of our nation’s progress,” he said In his message, the President said, “On the occasion of New Year, I extend my heartiest greetings and best wishes to all our fellow citizens living in India and abroad."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-us-work-together-towards-creating-an-inclusive-society-president-kovinds-new-year-message-933669.html
31-12-2020||National||India condemns deadly attack at Aden airport||India on Thursday strongly condemned a deadly attack at the Aden airport in Yemen shortly after a plane carrying the cabinet ministers of the war-torn country's newly formed government landed. At least 20 people were killed and over 50 sustained injuries in the attack on Wednesday. However, all the members of the new cabinet were safe, according to media reports. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India hoped that the recent efforts for achieving peace and stability in Yemen will continue. "India strongly condemns the attack at Aden airport yesterday upon the arrival of cabinet members of the recently formed government. We express our sincere condolences to the people and government of Yemen and the families of those who were killed in the attack," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He was responding to media queries on the attack. "We wish the early recovery of those injured. The killing of innocent civilians is unacceptable and cannot be justified for any reasons whatsoever. We hope that the recent efforts for achieving peace and stability in Yemen will continue for an inclusive and negotiated settlement," Srivastava said. The new government in Yemen was formed as part of implementation of the Riyadh agreement. The Riyadh agreement was pushed by Saudi Arabia in an effort to end hostilities between Yemen's internationally recognised government and southern separatists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-deadly-attack-at-aden-airport-933672.html
31-12-2020||National||PIL in HC claims G Pay unauthorisedly accessing Aadhaar data of citizens||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court alleging that Google's online payment system, G Pay, was unauthorisedly accessing, using and storing Aadhaar ad banking information of citizens in violation of various statutory provisions. The petition was listed on Thursday before a bench of Justices Vibhu Bakhru and Prateek Jalan which asked the petitioner, Abhijit Mishra, to file an affidavit indicating all the PILs, including those against G Pay, filed by him in the past and the status of each petition. With the direction the court listed the petition, filed through advocates Payal Bahl and Prakhar Gupta, for hearing on January 14, 2021. Mishra, a financial economist, has claimed in his plea that G Pay was accessing Aadhaar data in alleged violation of the Aadhaar Act of 2016, Payments and Settlement Systems Act 2007 and Banking Regulations Act 1949. He has contended that according to a response received from the Unique Identification Authority Of India (UIDAI) under the Right to Information Act, no permission has been issued to G Pay to access, use and store citizens Aadhaar details nor has Google moved an application seeking the same. He has further claimed that such storage of Aadhaar and banking details of citizens by G Pay amounts to violation of the fundamental right of privacy. The petition has sought directions to UIDAI to take action against G Pay for the alleged violation of provisions of the Aadhaar Act. It has also sought directions to UIDAI and Reserve Bank of India to prevent alleged unauthorized access of the Aadhar and banking information of the citizens of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-claims-g-pay-unauthorisedly-accessing-aadhaar-data-of-citizens-933674.html
31-12-2020||National||IAF chief Bhadauria launches e-governance portal||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria launched an e-governance portal for the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday in order to promote a paperless office, an official statement said. The launch of e-governance in IAF marks a paradigm shift from the current method of correspondence, filing and documentation to a digital one, the statement said. "The implementation undertaken as part of Digital India and e-governance initiative will transform the entire Indian Air Force to a 'paperless office' workflow," it said. "The platform would achieve enhanced transparency, improved efficiency, increased accountability, assured data integrity and rapidly accessible archives along with a major reduction in the use of paper," it added. Bhadauria launched the portal at Vayu Bhawan here. This project started in April and was to be completed by January 1, 2021, the statement said. The e-governance or e-office application has been designed indigenously from scratch and customised to meet the filing system requirements of the IAF, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chief-bhadauria-launches-e-governance-portal-933676.html
31-12-2020||National||BJP appoints V Satish as organiser, Saudan Singh vice-president||The BJP made key organisational changes on Thursday, appointing joint general secretary (organisation) V Satish to a newly created post of 'Organiser' and Saudan Singh, who also held the same post, to that of vice-president. Joint organisational secretary Shiv Prakash will continue in the same post but with change in responsibilities. The BJP announced these new appointments in a statement. Prakash, who was earlier looking after the party's work in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, will now be positioned in Bhopal, and he will look after the BJP's work in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal. Satish will now take care of coordination with the party's parliamentary office, the SC/ST morcha and its special contact programme. He was earlier looking after the party's work in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Saudan Singh, who was stationed in Raipur and looking after the party's work in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand, will now be posted in Chandigarh and will take care of the party's work in the union territory, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. All three leaders, Satish, Prakash and Singh, are full-time RSS pracharaks and were loaned by the BJP's ideological parent to the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-appoints-v-satish-as-organiser-saudan-singh-vice-president-933695.html
31-12-2020||National||BJP hosts webinars to push idea of 'one nation, one election'||In a series of webinars, the BJP has pushed the idea of 'one nation, one election' by highlighting the "drawbacks" of frequent polls and the fact that India used to have simultaneous Lok Sabha and Assembly elections till 1960s. In a webinar held on Thursday, BJP chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said that most of the time the code of conduct is in place in some parts of the country due to state or local body polls, hampering development works and costing a lot of public money. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often spoken about the need for simultaneous Lok Sabha, state and local body polls, he noted, adding that the ruling party wants a consensus to evolve on the matter. Echoing his view, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi said that the concept of 'one nation, one election' has nothing to do with partisan politics and it falls in the same bracket as do programmes like 'Swachh Bharat'. He said that extremely competitive nature of electoral politics results in caste and communal passions often stoked by rivals, harming social fabric. This is also a reason for not having frequent elections, he said. Trivedi also rejected concerns that holding simultaneous elections will result in the domination of national parties at the cost of regional players as he cited several examples of the same set of voters preferring different parties in Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in a state. In another webinar, BJP's Tom Vadakkan claimed that simultaneous polls have "advantages" like saving of the government expenditure and speedy development activities. Senior lawyer Rakesh Gosain said the idea of 'one nation, one election' is not against the Constitution and can be achieved with minor amendments. India has elections every few months and the drain on funds can be saved if there is 'one nation, one election', he said, according to a statement. Most of the opposition parties, including the Congress, have opposed any move to facilitate simultaneous elections, with some of them calling it undemocratic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-hosts-webinars-to-push-idea-of-one-nation-one-election-933699.html
31-12-2020||National||Here's a complete list of bank holidays in 2021||Banks in the country will be closed for 40 days in 2021, according to the list of holidays announced by Reserve Bank of India.  Bank holidays in India vary across different states. Gazetted holidays, such as Independence Day or Republic Day, apply nationwide.  While other holidays include major festivals banks will remain shut on second and fourth Saturdays of every month.  Here's full list of bank holidays in 2021:  Bank holidays in January 2021 26 January (Tuesday) - Republic Day Bank holidays in March 2021 11 March (Thursday) - Maha Shivaratri/Shivaratri 29 March (Monday)- Holi Bank holidays in April 2021 1 April (Thursday) - Closing accounts 2 April (Friday) - Good Friday 14 April (Wednesday) - Ambedkar Jayanti 25 April (Sunday)- Mahavir Jayanti Bank holidays in May 2021 13 May (Thursday) - Ramzan-Id/Id-ul-Fitar Bank holidays in July 2021 20 July (Tuesday) - Bakr Id/Eid ul-Adha Bank holidays in August 2021 15 August (Sunday) - Independence Day 19 August (Thursday) - Muharram/Ashura 30 August (Monday) - Janmashtami Bank holidays in September 2021 10 September (Friday) - Ganesh Chaturthi Bank holidays in October 2021 2 October (Saturday) - Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti 15 October (Friday) - Dussehra Bank holidays in November 2021 4 November (Thursday) - Diwali 19 November (Friday) - Guru Nanak Jayanti Bank holidays in December 2021 25 December (Saturday) - Christmas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-a-complete-list-of-bank-holidays-in-2021-933705.html
31-12-2020||National||Vote management ability main criteria for BJP to induct leaders from TMC, other parties||Although it claims to be a “party with a difference” the BJP had prioritised efficiency in “vote management” and organisational clout and not public image when it comes to roping in leaders from other parties especially the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal. BJP sources said that the Central leadership had instructed the state unit leaders not to oppose the induction of leaders from other parties even if they don’t totally agree with the decision and local party workers were opposed to that leader. They further revealed that due to the intense rivalry with the TMC and alleged atrocities against BJP workers by the ruling party in the state, a section of Bengal BJP leaders had severe reservations against the induction of TMC leaders into the party. “But since the Assembly elections are approaching the Central leadership have made it clear that they would not take such opposition into consideration and have given clear indication to state leaders,” a senior State BJP leader said. The BJP Central leadership have taken over the reins of the state unit ahead of the Assembly elections. They have deployed a host of Central leaders from other states to steer the party organisation through the Assembly elections. State BJP insiders said that the national general secretary and co-observer in Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya has been given the responsibility to strengthen the party organisation. “Union Home Minister Amit Shah has given him ( Vijayvargiya) the responsibility to steer the state unit ahead of the Assembly elections. Vijayvargiya has instructed state leaders to focus on the tasks assigned to them and not to comment on what the others are doing,” the state BJP leader said. It had been made clear to the state leaders that the induction of leaders from other parties would depend on their ability to draw votes, organisational clout and how much his or her induction would weaken the TMC. If all these criteria were met then the leader would be inducted into BJP and in any opposition to decision would be viewed seriously by the Central leadership, BJP sources said. Recently State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu and Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul were sent a showcause notice by the party for voicing their opposition to the possible induction of TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari into BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vote-management-ability-main-criteria-for-bjp-to-induct-leaders-from-tmc-other-parties-933706.html
31-12-2020||National||Gen Naravane holds talks with South Korean counterpart on boosting bilateral military ties||Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane held extensive talks with his South Korean counterpart Gen Nam Yeong Shin on ways to boost bilateral military ties, and visited several key installations, including the heavily fortified Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), during his tour of the East Asian nation, officials said on Thursday. The Chief of Army Staff also visited the headquarters of the South Korean Army at Gyeryong city where he was given a guard of honour, they said. Gen Naravane arrived in Seoul on Monday and held separate talks with Minister of National Defence Suh Wook, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen Won In Choul and Minister of Defence Acquisition Planning Administration Gang Eun Ho. He visited the South Korean Army headquarters on Tuesday and the DMZ on Wednesday. The DMZ is a buffer zone that separates North and South Korea since the Korean war in the 1950s. "General MM Naravane #COAS received a Guard of Honour at ROK Army Headquarters #Gyeryong #RepublicofKorea. #COAS also called on General Nam Yeong shin, Chief of Staff of the Republic of Korea Army and discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation," the Army tweeted. It said the Chief of Army Staff also visited the 30th Armoured Brigade of the South Korean armed forces as well as the DMZ. Officials said the focus of Gen Naravane's talks with the South Korean military brass was to further strengthen strategic and defence cooperation between the two countries. It is the first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to South Korea. The defence and security ties between India and South Korea have been on an upswing in the last one decade as there have been a growing convergence of interests between the two sides in an array of areas including in the maritime domain. The East Asian country has been a major supplier of military platforms and weapons to India. Indian policy-makers think there is a huge opportunity to expand cooperation in manufacturing equipment relating to aeronautics, ship-building, electronics and missile technologies. Ties between the two countries were raised to the level of 'strategic partnership' during a visit to India by then South Korean President Lee Myung-bak in 2010. The relationship was further elevated to the level of 'special strategic partnership' during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Seoul in 2015. Both sides are signatories to a mutual logistics support agreement for naval cooperation. The pact facilitates the two navies to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies. PTI MPB http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-naravane-holds-talks-with-south-korean-counterpart-on-boosting-bilateral-military-ties-933716.html
31-12-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Haryana cops use tear gas on farmers; 10th, 12th CBSE exams to be held between May 4 to June 10||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Haryana Police use water cannon and tear gas against protesting farmers; CBSE board examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be held between May 4 and June 10; Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai says a preliminary inquiry into the death of state's Legislative Council Deputy Chairman S L Dharme Gowda was underway and EU regrets the US decision to slap more tariffs on French and German products.  Here are the top stories of December 31, 2020: The Haryana Police on Thursday used a water cannon and tear gas as farmers on tractor-trailers broke through barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan, trying to push towards the national capital. While farmers on around 25 tractor-trailers pushed past the Haryana Police barriers, others stayed behind on the Rajasthan side of the Shahjahanpur-Rewari border, police said. Farmers have been on a dharna at the site, blocking the road for several days in protest over the three new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre. The CBSE board examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be held between May 4 and June 10, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced here on Thursday. The results will be declared by July 15, the minister said, adding that care would be taken to ensure that the academic calendar is not affected much in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools will be allowed to conduct the practical, project, and internal assessments of Class 12 students from March 1 to the last date of the conduct of the theory examination of the same class. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the preliminary inquiry into the death of the state's Legislative Council Deputy Chairman S L Dharme Gowda was underway and necessary action will be taken based on the report. Speaking to reporters, he said, "The police is conducting a preliminary investigation regarding the postmortem report, death note, circumstantial evidence.. based on the findings, further action will be taken." The EU regretted Thursday the US decision to slap more tariffs on French and German products as part of a spat over aircraft manufacturers Airbus and Boeing. Brussels complained that Washington had "unilaterally" disrupted ongoing talks and said it would seek a solution to the row with the incoming administration, which takes office on January 20. The European Commission said it, "regrets that the United States has chosen to add further EU products to its retaliation list in the WTO Airbus case on aircraft subsidies." Source: DHNS/ PTI / AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-haryana-cops-use-tear-gas-on-farmers-10th-12th-cbse-exams-to-be-held-between-may-4-to-june-10-933717.html
31-12-2020||National||Tibetans to cast votes on January 3 despite China's warning to India against playing 'Tibet Card'||Though Beijing has just warned it against playing the “Tibet Card”, New Delhi is all set to tacitly send a message to China at the beginning of 2021 itself by allowing the Tibetan refugees in India to cast votes to elect the new political leader of the exiled community. Seven candidates keen to take over as the next Sikyong (or President) of the Tibetan Government in Exile (TGiE) based in India concluded a hectic round of campaigning on Thursday – ahead of the polling for the primary election on Sunday. Two candidates, who will secure a maximum number of votes in the primary election, will contest the final polling on April 11 next and one of them will take over as the political leader of the exiled Tibetans for a five-year-term till 2026. Thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India, the United States, Europe, and the other countries around the world will cast votes on Sunday as well as on April 11 to participate in the elections, sending out a message of democracy to China. The polling for the primary and the final elections to the 17th Tibetan Parliament in Exile (TPiE) will also take place simultaneously with that to elect the next Sikyong. Both the TPiE and the TGiE are based at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. The eight-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations, particularly the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15, took the India-China relations to a new low in 2020. 2021 too is beginning on a sour note, not only because the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is still continuing, but also because New Delhi’s decision to look the other way and tacitly let the TGiE hold polling in India and abroad to elect the 17th TPiE and the new Sikyong is likely to rile China. What has added to the significance of the polling to elect the TPiE and the Sikyong of the TGiE this year is that the democratic exercise by the exiled Tibetans recently got an endorsement from the United States.  The US Congress earlier this month passed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2020, acknowledging the legitimacy of both the TPiE and the TGiE, which is formally known as the Central Tibetan Administration or the CTA. The TPSA 2020, which US President Donald Trump signed into law recently, acknowledged the CTA as the “legitimate institution reflecting the aspirations” of the Tibetan diaspora around the world and Sikyong as its President. The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE or the CTA on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he arrived in India following his escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1950-51. The CTA, which has its headquarters in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh, calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Beijing does not recognise the elections to the Sikyong and the TPiE and repeatedly asked India to shut it down. It has been accusing Dalai Lama as well as the TGiE or the CTA of running a secessionist campaign against China. A spokesperson of the communist country’s embassy in New Delhi on Wednesday issued a statement, advising the media in India to look at the economic and social progress of Tibet Autonomous Region objectively and to do more to help China-India bilateral relations move forward instead of advocating playing ‘Tibet Card’ to meddle in internal affairs of China and further damage the bilateral relations. New Delhi officially never acknowledged the existence of the TGiE or the CTA. But it did tacitly encourage the Dalai Lama to lead the exiled community to embrace democracy gradually – starting with electing the Parliament-in-Exile and then moving on to directly elect the leader of the TGiE. It was during the 2011 elections that Dalai Lama officially announced that he would be delegating his political powers to whoever would be elected democratically to the top office of the TGiE – a move, which was apparently aimed at avoiding a leadership vacuum and keeping the struggle against China’s rule in Tibet alive beyond the lifetime of the octogenarian monk. China strongly reacted when the Trump Administration in October 2020 for the first time hosted Lobsang Sangay, the incumbent Sikyong (President) of the CTA, at the US State Department in Washington D.C. and thus made yet another subtle move to lend a degree of legitimacy to the entity based in India. Earlier, in July, the US Agency for International Development or the USAID also started directly providing funds to the CTA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tibetans-to-cast-votes-on-january-3-despite-chinas-warning-to-india-against-playing-tibet-card-933723.html
31-12-2020||National||Suneet Sharma appointed Railway Board Chairman & CEO||Senior Railways officer Suneet Sharma was appointed the new Railway Board Chairman and CEO, succeeding V K Yadav, who completed his extended tenure on Thursday. Sharma, a former Eastern Railway General Manager, is a Special Class Railway Apprentice Officer of the 1978-batch. Yadav, who became the first CEO of the restructured Railway Board, had superannuated on December 31, 2019, but was given an extension for one year. He has discharged responsibilities at various levels, including zonal railways, workshops and diesel loco sheds, in his over 34 years in the Indian Railways, officials said. Sharma is known for introducing various administrative reforms, including simplification of the procedure for establishing new benchmarks, in the Railways. Sharma has also held the post of the general manager of the Modern Coach Factory, Raebareli. He was the divisional railway manager of Pune in Central Railway, chief rolling stock engineer (Freight) and chief mechanical engineer (Planning) of Central Railway and the principal chief mechanical engineer, Diesel Locomotive Works in Varanasi. Apart from attending different training programmes in various Railway institutes, he attended training in Germany and France on ‘Railway Workshops Maintenance Practices and Costing Systems’, in Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, the US, on ‘Advance Management Courses’, and in RAI, Tehran, Iran, on ‘Assistance in Loco Production In Iran’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suneet-sharma-appointed-railway-board-chairman-ceo-933726.html
31-12-2020||National||Narendra 'Bull' Kumar who helped India win Siachen Glacier, passes away||Had it not been for the short and stocky Col Narendra “Bull” Kumar and a Himalayan expedition he led in the 1970s, Pakistan would have annexed the Siachen Glacier long back. It all began nearly half-a-century ago when Kumar, one of India’s best mountaineers, saw a map of north Kashmir in which the Line of Control was shown far east from its actual location. The map by a US agency ceded a large portion of north Kashmir, including Siachen Glacier, to Pakistan. Sensing something was amiss, Kumar brought it to the notice of the army headquarters, which sanctioned an expedition to the glacier for a reality check. With students from the Indian Army’s High Altitude Warfare School, Gulmarg that he commanded, Kumar led the first Indian expedition to what would later turn out to be the world’s highest battlefield. Kumar returned with Pakistani cigarette packs, food cans, and climbing gears as evidence of Pakistani soldiers’ regular presence on the glacier. He also captured photographs of Pakistani jets flying overhead. On the basis of the evidence he collected, the army headquarters later asked Kumar to create a map of the glacier from the snout to the Chinese border. He also received permission to write a popular account about his Siachen expedition, effectively staking India’s claim on the glacier with the involvement of the army. Almost at the same time, Indian intelligence agencies picked up information about Pakistan making bulk purchases of high-altitude clothing from foreign markets. The government quickly understood the significance and ordered Operation Meghdoot under which troops from 4 Kumaon regiment led by Capt Sanjay Kulkarni were heli-dropped at Bilafond La on the Siachen Glacier on April 13, 1984, outsmarting Pakistan. Since then the Indian Army has been in control of the glacier and the surrounding dominating heights. Col Kumar who passed away at the age of 87 was cremated at Indian Army's Brar Square in Delhi. “If it was not for his expeditions to Siachen Glacier and Saltoro Range Pakistan would have annexed Siachen Glacier. Based on his recce reports the Indian Army launched Op Meghdoot to capture the main passes and ridges along the Saltoro Range,” said an army officer. “A mountaineer par excellence, he was the first Indian to climb Mt Nanda Devi. He climbed Mt Everest in 1965, Mt Blanc (the highest peak in the Alps), and later Mt Kanchenjunga (from the toughest North-East spur). He climbed up all these peaks despite losing four toes due to frostbite in earlier expeditions,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-bull-kumar-who-helped-india-win-siachen-glacier-passes-away-933730.html
31-12-2020||National||Eight people saved from drowning in Goa||At least eight people were saved from drowning at different places in Goa where tourists thronged beaches on the New Year eve on Thursday, said an official. A spokesman of the private agency mandated by the government to deploy lifeguards at beaches in the state said three tourists were rescued from the sea at Palolem in South Goa. These were a 29-year-old woman from Delhi and two men, aged 27 and 31, from Haryana and Kolkata, respectively, he said. A few kilometers away from Palolem, two members of a Goan family - a 50-year-old man and his 10-year-old son - were rescued from the Galgibag river when they were drowning, the spokesman said. At Varca beach in South Goa, a 38-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh was rescued from the sea, he said. Two more women were rescued by lifeguards during the day - one each at Ashvem beach (North Goa) and Patnem (South Goa) - the spokesman said. He said the agency has deployed additional lifeguards across beaches in north and south Goa which are packed with tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-people-saved-from-drowning-in-goa-933738.html
31-12-2020||National||Subdued New Year's eve celebrations as night curfew imposed in many cities due to Covid-19||The Covid-19 pandemic cast a dark shadow over New Year's eve celebrations on Thursday as night curfew was imposed in several cities, including Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, with many people preferring to stay in their homes on the occasion. The Delhi government imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. The night curfew will be imposed from 11 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, and again from 11 pm on January 1 to 6 am on January 2, said an order issued on Wednesday by Vijay Dev, Delhi Chief Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). It stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. However, there will be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods during night curfew in Delhi, the chief secretary said in the order. The Ministry of Home Affairs in its advisory on December 28 had advised states and Union Territories that they can impose local restrictions, including night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation to contain the spread of Covid-19. While those in the hospitality industry scurried to understand the fine print of the Delhi government’s decision and what it would mean for establishments that had accepted bookings and were in all readiness for a New Year bash, some party goers cancelled their plans and others hastily tweaked them. For many others, it was going to be an at-home New Year’s Eve anyway. Several establishments, hoping for a turnaround after almost 10 months of little or no business, said they told people the restrictions imposed were for "public places" -- which includes parks, atriums or any open space -- and not "licensed premises". But confusion persisted and many customers, anxious to avoid trouble and nervous about getting caught on their way back home, cancelled anyway. Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said, "Licensed premises have been exempted from this, they can continue to operate with their license condition, including half the seating capacity and other Covid-19 protocols." No gatherings will be allowed in open public places like Connaught Place and India Gate during the night curfew. The Maharashtra government has put in place a night curfew between 11 pm and 6 am, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Gatherings of more than five persons are not allowed at public places. Party will not be allowed at any hotel, bar, pubs, restaurants after 11 pm," Mumbai police spokesperson DCP S Chaitanya said. Besides, no boat party or terrace party will be allowed in the city after the prescribed time, Chaitanya said, adding that strong action will be taken against the violators of prohibitory order issued under section 144 of the CrPC. Around 35,000 police personnel will be deployed on the streets of Mumbai to maintain law and order and prevent any untoward incidents on New Year's Eve, the official said. "Apart from the police, personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and home guards will also be engaged in maintaining law and order in the city," he said, adding that special branches like the crime branch and Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) will also on the job. Large gatherings will not be allowed anywhere in Mumbai in view of Covid-19 and use of face masks and social distancing norm will remain mandatory, he said. The new year festivities in Bengaluru will be lacklustre this year following the prohibitory orders imposed by the city police. Chennai will also see virtually no public celebrations as the government has already banned such festivities in restaurants, hotels, clubs and resorts, including beach resorts, on Thursday and Friday. The Bengaluru police have imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC from 6 pm on Thursday to 6 am Friday. The city is known for its grand gala celebrations during the New Year and the major hub of activities used to be MG Road, Church Street, Brigade Road, Koramangala and Indiranagar. Now, according to the order passed by the Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, these places are "No-Man Zones." To prevent the unnecessary travelling in the night, the police closed major flyovers for traffic. Major signals and junctions have also been barricaded to regulate traffic across the city. In Chennai, the popular Marina beach which is a famed destination of new year revellers is out of bounds for any kind of celebrations and police have banned entry for the people. The Odisha government has imposed a night curfew from 10 pm to avoid large gatherings during the New Year celebrations. The restriction will remain in place till 5 am on Friday, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said. Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Police Commissioner S S Sarangi said 40 platoons of security personnel will be deployed in the two cities to enforce the curfew on Thursday night. "We have information about functions that have been planned at several apartments and residential areas to celebrate the new year. We urge people not to organise such events. Police personnel will conduct surprise raids," he said. The state government has already banned the New Year celebrations in hotels, restaurants, clubs, parks and other public places on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/subdued-new-years-eve-celebrations-as-night-curfew-imposed-in-many-cities-due-to-covid-19-933741.html
31-12-2020||National||India gives consular access to its detained fishermen in Sri Lanka||Indian fishermen, apprehended in Sri Lanka for allegedly poaching in its territorial waters, have been provided consular assistance by the Consulate General of India in Jaffna, the Indian High Commission here said on Thursday. The high commission said it was in touch with the Sri Lankan Government to facilitate the early release of the detained fishermen. "High Commission @CGJaffna were provided Consular Access to Indian fishermen who are apprehended in Sri Lanka and extended all possible support to them. They were given essential daily use items and offered legal and other forms of assistance," it said in a tweet. India and Sri Lanka on Wednesday held through video conferencing a meeting of the joint working group on fisheries and discussed the issues related to fishermen and the ways to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Fourth Joint Working Group Meeting on Fisheries held in the usual cordial atmosphere, which marks India-Sri Lanka ties, concludes. Deliberation during the Meeting contributed to strengthening constructive cooperation between the two countries," the high commission tweeted on Wednesday. Fishermen from both countries are arrested frequently for inadvertently trespassing into each other's waters. During his five-day visit to India in February, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi agreed to resolve the long-festering fishermen issue with a "humane approach".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gives-consular-access-to-its-detained-fishermen-in-sri-lanka-933749.html
31-12-2020||National||Over Rs 70,000 crore economic loss in Q3 due to farmers' agitation: PHDCCI||The farmers' agitation against new agri laws will lead to an economic loss of over Rs 70,000 crore in the December quarter owing to supply chain disruptions, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and border areas of Delhi, the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said on Thursday. The chamber's President Sanjay Aggarwal said "the 36 days farm agitation so far will have more than Rs 70,000 crore economic loss in the Q3 FY 2020-21 due to...disruption in supply chains and day-to-day economic activities particularly in the progressive states of Punjab and Haryana and border areas of National capital Delhi." The consensus reached between the government and farmers on two points -- penalties for stubble burning and Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020 -- is highly appreciable and the chamber looks forward to an early resolution of the remaining two issues as well, he added. Talks between the farmers and the Centre remain deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. There are around 25 lakh MSMEs in Punjab and Haryana which employ more than 45 lakh workers contributing more than Rs 4 lakh crore in the total Rs 14 lakh crore GSDP (current prices) of Punjab and Haryana. The GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) of Punjab and Haryana was estimated at Rs 5.75 lakh crore and Rs 8.31 lakh crore respectively in 2019-20, Aggarwal said.  Sectors such as food processing, cotton textiles, garments, automobile, farm machinery, information technology, trading, tourism, hospitality and transport have been severely impacted by the agitation which has disrupted supplies of many raw materials to the industry, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-rs-70000-crore-economic-loss-in-q3-due-to-farmers-agitation-phdcci-933751.html
31-12-2020||National||Voters away on vacation: Haryana BJP leader explains civic poll defeat in Ambala||ABJP spokesperson on Tuesday blamed the year-end holiday season for the ruling party’s failure to win the mayor’s post in Ambala, saying its core voters were away on vacation. At another interaction with reporters, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, however, said the party performed satisfactorily “despite the odd circumstances” under which the recent civic elections were held in the state. Khattar did not spell out the “odd circumstances” but appeared to be referring to the farmers' agitation over the three new central farm laws. In a setback, the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana on Wednesday could win only one of the three mayoral seats in cities of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat for which elections were held on Sunday. While the BJP could win only in Panchkula, the Congress and the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) bagged mayoral posts in Sonipat and Ambala, respectively. The setback for the ruling coalition has come in the wake of the BJP sweeping mayors polls in five Haryana cities -- Hisar, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak and Yamunanagar – in 2018. On why the party lost mayoral polls in Ambala, state BJP spokesperson Sanjay Sharma said one of the reasons for the defeat could be the fact that many voters, who form the core vote bank of the party in urban pockets, went out on holidays and this resulted in low voter turnout. The voting percentage in Ambala Municipal Corporation elections was 56.3 per cent as against 67 per cent in 2013, when polls were last held. “We witnessed a low polling percentage because many people were on vacations for year-end holidays starting December 25,” he said. “In the urban pockets of Ambala, which form our core vote bank, the voting percentage was even less and ranged nearly 43-50 per cent, which hurt our prospects,” said Sharma, whose wife Vandana lost city’s mayoral poll to Haryana Jan Chetna Party's Shakti Rani Sharma. He said he would also raise the issue with the Election Commission so that polls are not scheduled during a holiday or a major festival season. Besides the polls for Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat municipal corporations, the elections were also held to elect presidents and members of Rewari municipal council and the Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana municipal committees. Chief Minister Khattar, however, expressed satisfaction over local bodies poll results, saying the BJP registered wins in 36 municipal wards as against 19 of the Congress. At a press conference, Khattar also spelt out various initiatives taken by his government for the welfare of various sections of the society this year amid the coronavirus pandemic. On the Congress demand for a special assembly session to take up a no-confidence motion against the state government, Khattar quipped, “If we have won 36 wards and Congress 19 even in odd situations, is that not a mandate?” “There is no need to summon Vidhan Sabha session now, it will be held at its own time in February or March,” he said. Asked if the BJP will fight next year's Panchayat polls on party symbol, he replied, “Normally we have never fought polls on party symbol, we will decide when these polls come,”. On the farmers' issue, he said the Centre is already engaged in talks with them. “We are hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon,” he said. Spelling out various initiatives for farmers, he said, “In Haryana, what we did for farmers in six years, possibly no other state would have done”. “For example, we ensured smooth procurement of crops, we started Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana (price difference compensation scheme) so that farmers are protected against price fluctuations”. The state is also procuring seven other crops including moong, maize, sunflower and groundnut on MSP, he said. Seeking to assure that the MSP will continue, he said, “I have said earlier too that in Haryana MSP will continue and if there is any threat, Manohar Lal will leave politics.” He said that a Rs 7,000 crore international level fruit and vegetable mandi was being set up in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voters-away-on-vacation-haryana-bjp-leader-explains-civic-poll-defeat-in-ambala-933778.html
31-12-2020||National||GRSE starts production of anti-submarine ship||The Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) Ltd on Thursday commenced production of the first of the eight Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Water Crafts for the Indian Navy, a top official of the Defence PSU said. The contract for the construction of the eight ships at a cost of Rs 6,311 crore was signed with the Navy in April 2019, GRSE Chairman and Managing Director Rear Admiral (retd) V K Saxena said. "It's a small but very complex anti-submarine warfare ship and is going to be a very potent platform," he said. He said that the design of the ship has been completed and the production of the first ship commenced on Thursday. The compact and complex stealth crafts will be packed with state-of-the-art weapons and sensors like hull mounted sonar, towed sonar, torpedo launchers and rocket launcher to interdict and destroy sub-surface targets in coastal waters. The crafts are capable of search and rescue and low intensity maritime operations and are propelled by water-jets capable of doing high speeds, Saxena said. Contracts for 16 anti-submarine warfare shallow water crafts (ASWSWC) were signed with GRSE, Kolkata and Cochin Shipyard Limited, Kochi for construction of eight ships each, according to the Indian Navy. Delivery of the ships is scheduled to commence from October 2022, with two ships per year subsequently, by each shipyard, it said. In view of India's vast coastline of 7516.6 kilometres with 12 major ports, 184 minor ports and 1197 island territories, coastal surveillance for anti-submarine warfare operations is considered critical. Induction of these specialised ships with lower draught would significantly enhance coastal shallow water anti-submarine warfare capability of the Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grse-starts-production-of-anti-submarine-ship-933782.html
31-12-2020||National||Indian, Afghan clerics denounce violence in Afghanistan; call for steps to bring peace||A group of Indian and Afghan clerics have described the current "war" in Afghanistan as "illegitimate" and said the "targeting" of civilian institutions and public infrastructures by the Taliban goes against the basic teachings of Islam. The religious scholars issued a declaration following a meeting at the India Islamic Cultural Centre in Delhi on Wednesday, according to a statement issued by the Afghan foreign ministry on Thursday. In the declaration, the scholars said Islam is a religion of peace and called upon the warring parties in Afghanistan to immediately declare a nationwide ceasefire. "The war and violence perpetrated against the government and people of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan by the Taliban, and targeting of civilian institutions and public infrastructures by the Taliban goes against the basic teachings of Islam and therefore, it is illegitimate and has no religious justification," it said. "We call on both the Taliban and the government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to rise to the occasion and seize this rare opportunity to accelerate their negotiations for establishing a just and lasting peace in Afghanistan," the declaration said. The scholars said they support the steps taken by the government of Afghanistan to pave the way for achieving enduring peace in the country. "In the past 19 years Afghanistan has made remarkable progress in various spheres, we urge that these hard-gained achievements be preserved and protected," the declaration issued after the 'First Gathering of the Islamic Scholars of Afghanistan and India' said. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war with Taliban in the country. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-afghan-clerics-denounce-violence-in-afghanistan-call-for-steps-to-bring-peace-933795.html
31-12-2020||National||No alternative to demands of legal guarantee for MSP, repealing farm laws: Farmer leaders||There is no alternative to farmers' demands of legal guarantee for MSP and repealing the new agri laws, farmer leaders said on Thursday, a day after talks between the Centre and the protesting unions remained deadlocked over the two contentious issues. However, the government and farmer unions after nearly five hours of the sixth round of negotiations on Wednesday reached some common ground to resolve farmers' concerns over rising power tariffs and penalties for stubble burning. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the laws and are demanding that these be repealed. Senior farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha has called another meeting on Friday to discuss the next course of action. However, there is no question of withdrawing from the two issues which are a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and repealing of the farm laws, he said. "The government has addressed our demands to drop penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law," Chaduni said. "But, we want to make it clear that there is no alternative to our two remaining demands which include repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for MSP," he said. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farm unions, issued a statement on Thursday, saying that the Centre's appeal to farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws is impossible. "The new laws will hand over control of agriculture markets, farmers' land, and food chain to corporates," AIKSCC claimed in its statement. It stated that unless these farm laws are repealed, there is no scope to discuss pro-farmer changes in 'mandis' (markets) and farm processes for ensuring the doubling of farmers' income. After attending the meeting with Union ministers on Wednesday, All India Kisan Sabha leader and CPI(M) politburo member Hannan Mollah had said, "The discussion has not broken, it is on. Out of four issues on the agenda, two have been addressed and the remaining two -- MSP legalisation and repeal of three laws -- are to be resolved." "The government's attitude was soft (sarkar ka ravaiya naram tha). The government said it has agreed to two demands and there are complexities in the rest two. They asked us to send a fresh proposal based on today's discussion," he had said. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Amit Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The three Union ministers at the Wednesday meeting were Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash and they met a 41-member representative group of the thousands of protesting farmers. The protests are being staged against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and 'mandi' systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-alternative-to-demands-of-legal-guarantee-for-msp-repealing-farm-laws-farmer-leaders-933800.html
31-12-2020||National||NDA govt making false promises, BJP party of cheats: TMC||Slamming the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for making "false promises" of giving jobs to 75 lakh youths in the country, the Trinamool Congress on Thursday called the saffron party one of "cheats". The TMC credited itself with improving the condition of the tribals in West Bengal in the past 10 years that it has been in power and ensuring their democratic rights and representations. TMC tribal cell leader Deb Tudu told a press meet here that the same NDA government at the Centre had promised that Rs 15 lakh would be given to the bank account of everyone and that too remains unfulfilled. "This is a central government which cheats people with false promises before elections. From providing jobs to 75 lakh youths to giving Rs 15 lakh to every bank account, they make promises only to take it back and deceive people," Tudu said. Highlighting the achievements of the TMC regime since 2011 when it came to power in the state, Tudu said the democratic rights of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and indigenous people have been established in the state and a democratic environment has been created. He said the TMC government has ensured more representation of indigenous people in panchayats. "Before 2011 the economic situation in tribal-dominated areas was characterised by hunger, illiteracy, non-development. The poor people were branded as Maoists and incidents of oppression, exploitation, torture, and deprivation on poor tribals were rampant. "After 2011 for the first time, the whole of West Bengal, including Jangalmahal (tribal area of the state) changed. There has been a significant development for scheduled castes, tribes and adivasis in the past nine years," he claimed. Tudu accused the Left parties of turning saffron and called for fighting the 'slanderous propaganda war' that has been started against TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien said in a tweet "What the tourist gang wont tell you. Bengal's allocation for SC/ST welfare more than doubled in the last 10 years, Rs 2024 cr per annum. He was apparently referring to visiting BJP leaders when he spoke of "tourist gangs.'" "Union budget saw massive shortfalls in allocations. SC Population: 16.6% Funds allocated: 8.5%, ST Population: 8.6% Funds allocated: 5.6%, Photo ops by henchman of the tourist gang versus work by a diligent CM," he said. "While the country saw 37% increase in Crimes against SC/ST population, Bengal with second-highest SC population ranked one of the lowest in crimes against SC/ST (SC: rank 27th, ST: rank 24th)," O'Brien said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nda-govt-making-false-promises-bjp-party-of-cheats-tmc-933801.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||Man who opened fire at Shaheen Bagh’s anti-CAA protest site joins BJP, expelled hours later||The BJP on Wednesday admitted into its fold a man who had allegedly opened fire in the air early this year at an anti-CAA protest site in South East Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh but cancelled his party membership hours later. The membership of Kapil Gujjar was cancelled as soon as senior party leaders came to know of his induction into the party, UP BJP’s general secretary JPS Rathore told PTI. "Local leaders had processed the induction. However, as soon as the state leadership got information about it, his membership was cancelled," said Rathore when asked about Gujjar’s entry into the BJP. "Today (on Wednesday), some youths from the BSP joined the BJP. Kapil Gujjar was also there among them. We did not have information about his (Kapil Gujjar's) controversial past about Shaheen Bagh," said BJP’s Ghaziabad Mahanagar unit president Sanjeev Sharma earlier in a statement.  "As soon as we got information about the entire incident, the party's state unit leadership cancelled his membership with immediate effect," he added. A man had allegedly fired two shots in the air on February 1 at Shaheen Bagh area in Delhi's Jamia Nagar, where an anti-CAA protest was on. He was taken into custody soon after he opened fire in the air, eyewitnesses had said. No one was injured in the incident which occurred at around 5 pm. According to eyewitnesses, the man, who identified himself as Kapil Gujjar, opened fire close to the police barricades, nearly 250 metres behind the stage. He was overpowered by police personnel and taken into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/man-who-opened-fire-at-shaheen-bagh-s-anti-caa-protest-site-joins-bjp-expelled-hours-later-933486.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Anna Hazare threatens to launch hunger strike in his 'last protest' for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his "last protest". Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said he had been holding protests for cultivators since the last three years, but the government has done nothing to resolve the issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-anna-hazare-threatens-to-launch-hunger-strike-in-his-last-protest-for-farmers-933491.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi targets PM Modi on loan waiver to industrialists; FM Sitharaman hits back||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the Modi government of waiving loans to the tune of Rs 2.37 lakh crore of a few industrialists, prompting Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to hit back questioning his understanding for economics. “The Modi government this year waived loans of Rs 2,37,876 crore of a few industrialists. With this amount, 11 crore families could have been provided Rs 20,000 each in these difficult Covid times. The truth about Modi ji's development,” Rahul said on Twitter. Sitharaman countered the charges claiming that he failed to understand despite being provided with an explainer months ago. “Amazing how this former President of Congress keeps wanting to mislead Indians repeatedly, despite being supplied with a fact-check on this, months ago,” Sitharaman said referring to her clarification when he had levelled similar allegations in April. “Does he not understand? Kindly refer to this detailed thread, Rahul ji, in case you have forgotten,” the finance minister said. Rahul has been targeting the Modi government of favouring crony capitalists by waiving loans and farming policies to benefit them at the cost of the poor. In April, Sitharaman had said provisions are made for non-performing assets as per the four-year provisioning cycle laid down by the Reserve Bank of India. “Upon full provisioning being done banks write-off the fully provided NPA but continue to pursue recovery against the borrower. No loan is waived,” Sitharaman had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-modi-on-loan-waiver-to-industrialists-fm-sitharaman-hits-back-933632.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||AAP alleges 'authorised goons' of BJP targeting members||The AAP on Thursday alleged that "authorised goons" of the BJP have been targeting and attacking its members ever since the party extended support to the ongoing farmers' agitation with the latest being its MLA Atishi outside whose house two "suspicious" cars bearing 'MP' (Member of Parliament) stickers were parked. The BJP's Delhi unit has rejected the allegation and said AAP leaders were making such "rhetorical" statements to divert people's attention from the Delhi government's failure to release funds to municipal corporations and ensure proper water supply. Addressing a press conference, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha claimed that ever since Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke up in support of the farmers and their rights, there have been repeated attacks on the free movement of elected representatives of the Aam Aadmi Party, and attempts have been made to silence, threaten and scare party members. "Our Kalkaji MLA Atishi's life too is under threat. Some goons stood outside her home. Two cars were parked outside her home last night. These cars carried the stickers that are only issued to vehicles that can enter Parliament. This means the authorised goons of BJP have been targeting and attacking members of AAP," Chadha alleged. "They are playing psychological games with us, picking and choosing different members of the AAP to attack at will," he said. He further claimed that he and Atishi have sought an appointment with the Delhi Police commissioner but are yet to be allotted time. "We will soon meet the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi and appeal to him to remind the Delhi Police of its constitutional responsibilities. If there is an attack on any MLA or leader of the Aam Aadmi Party, or if any untoward incident happens, if any one of us is injured, only the Bharatiya Janata Party will be responsible for it," Chadha said. Denying the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that AAP leaders are running a campaign of making rhetorical statements. "The main purpose of AAP leaders behind this rhetorical statement campaign is to divert attention from the Delhi government's failure to release municipal funds and to ensure proper water supply to the people. No BJP worker has ever attacked any AAP leader and BJP shall never ever resort to political violence," he said. Kapoor said the BJP's three-day dharna outside the chief minister's residence was totally peaceful and as for the incident at the Jal Board office "we have already said that vandalism was done by AAP workers already present in that office to discredit a peaceful demonstration seeking proper water supply for the people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-alleges-authorised-goons-of-bjp-targeting-members-933762.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||Delhi's air quality in December best in 4 years: CPCB||Pollution levels in Delhi this December were the lowest in the last four years, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average air quality index (AQI) for December stood at 308. It was 337 last year, 360 in 2018 and 316 in 2017, the CPCB data showed. The capital recorded four "severe" air quality days this December as compared to eight each in 2019 and 2018 and one in 2017. There were 10 "poor" air days this December as against seven, four and nine in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The city recorded a peak AQI of 433, which is also the lowest in four years. In December 2019, the peak AQI was 446. It was 450 in 2018 and 469 in 2017. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said strong winds, courtesy western disturbances, led to better air quality this December as compared to previous years. High daytime temperature led to better ventilation conditions. Light rainfall under the influence of western disturbances also washed away the pollutants, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhis-air-quality-in-december-best-in-4-years-cpcb-933776.html
31-12-2020||National Politics||Delhi Cong alleges scam in bio-decomposers distribution||Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged on Thursday a scam in the distribution of bio-decomposer for preventing burning of paddy straw in Delhi and demanded a CBI inquiry into it. Khera claimed that Rs 10 crore was spent on advertisements of Pusa bio-decomposers by the Kejriwal government, while the actual cost of distribution of it was Rs 23.60 lakh, including Rs 75,780 as cost of the solution. No reaction was immediately available from the government or the ruling AAP. "We demand a CBI inquiry into this scam of Pusa bio-decomposer, initiated by the so-called revolutionary chief minister of Delhi," Khera said in a press conference held at the party office. He also alleged that despite the claim that the solution would decompose paddy straw, it failed to do so. The Delhi government adopted the bio-decomposer developed by the Pusa Institute of Technology and arranged its free-of-cost sprinkling at around 800 hectares of fields where non-Basmati rice is cultivated to prevent burning of paddy straw by the farmers. Citing RTI replies, Khera claimed that 1,200 farmers applied for the bio-decomposer but only 310 in 39 villages could get it from the government. The AAP government held paddy straw burning in neighbouring states as main source of rise in air pollution in Delhi during winters and strongly advocated use of Pusa bio-decomposers to check it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-cong-alleges-scam-in-bio-decomposers-distribution-933794.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Many UK returnees gave wrong or incomplete details, remain untraced: Officials||In an ongoing district-level drive to contact and test UK returnees, many untraced cases have been found which furnished wrong or incomplete addresses and details like mobile phone numbers, officials said on Wednesday. Over 3,900 passengers out of more than 14,000 who landed at IGI airport from November 25 have been found to have Delhi addresses, the officials said. "In many cases, the district teams have failed to find the UK returnees on the given address or mobile number, which are incomplete. Attempts are being made to trace them at the earliest," said a senior Delhi government official. In the New Delhi district, a total of 592 people arrived from the UK where a highly transmissible strain has been reported. Out of these, 226 were found to have duplicate or untraceable addresses, the officer said. Such untraced cases have also been reported from other districts, officials said. So far, 20 UK returnees who landed at IGI airport here have been found positive for coronavirus. These included 11 who underwent mandatory the RT-PCR test at the IGI Airport, while nine were tested positive in a door-to-door drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/many-uk-returnees-gave-wrong-or-incomplete-details-remain-untraced-officials-933436.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Atishi writes to Delhi Police commissioner to file FIR against BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Wednesday claimed that a party worker was assaulted by "BJP goons" during a recent protest and appealed to Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava to register an FIR in the matter. The AAP MLA in a letter to Shrivastava said that the FIR should be registered against BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri and his associates. There was no immediate reaction from the BJP MP on the matter. Atishi claimed that AAP worker Jitu Saini from the Tughlaqabad constituency was assaulted by "BJP goons" during a protest on December 27. In her letter, she alleged that due to "pressure" from the Union home minister, the police have not yet registered the FIR. Atishi said that she also met DCP South East Delhi and submitted a complaint against Ramesh Bidhuri and his associates for assaulting Saini and a contractor Sudhir Bidhuri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/atishi-writes-to-delhi-police-commissioner-to-file-fir-against-bjp-mp-ramesh-bidhuri-933439.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||As 2020 comes to an end, high-speed internet continues to elude Jammu and Kashmir for 515 days||As the year 2020 comes to an end, high-speed internet continues to remain blocked in 18 of 20 districts in Jammu and Kashmir for the last 515 days, hugely affecting the education, health and business in the Valley. High-speed internet in the violence-hit region had been cut off since 5 August 2019, when the Center revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370, divided it into two union territories and imposed a complete lockdown and communications blackout. Although some of the communications' restrictions have been removed and high-speed internet on fixed lines restored, mobile internet speed in most of the region remains painstakingly slow. Closure of educational institutions since 5 August 2019, first due security lockdown imposed by the government and later due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, have gravely impaired education and added to the trauma of students in Kashmir valley. Lakhs of students have been deprived of the high speed internet facility which has left them in mental agony. While in other states the students are mostly dependent on the online system of education during the pandemic lockdown, in J&K the authorities are continuing curbs on the high speed internet on “security concerns.” In the latest order to continue the ban on high speed internet, the UT administration had stated that participation of political parties and a large-scale voter turnout in the recently held district development council elections had not gone down well with the “elements inimical to public peace and tranquility, as apparent from the multiple incidents of hurling of grenades by terrorists since the conclusion of the election process, targeting civilians/police personnel/security forces and the encounter with security forces.” “The internet speed shall be continued to be restricted to 2G, except the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur, till 8 January 2021,” it added. In a similar order earlier, the UT government also justified the ban by saying that continuous attempts were being made to radicalise the youth through multiple ways, especially through videos using social media, “which rely on high speed internet for easy dissemination of such material.” Suspending internet services in Kashmir has been common since the last few years. After every gunfight between militants and security forces, the government blocks the internet as a “precautionary measure.” In 2016, following the unrest after Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani was killed by the security forces, mobile internet services were suspended for 133 days from July 8 onwards that year. Internet bans in Kashmir have not only proved calamitous for the economy, crushing innovation in the region and leading to joblessness, but has also impacted patient care in times of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-2020-comes-to-an-end-high-speed-internet-continues-to-elude-jammu-and-kashmir-for-515-days-933525.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Dense fog shrouds Delhi; mercury dips to season's lowest||Dense fog over Delhi reduced visibility to just 50 metres, as the minimum temperature in the city dipped to 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the season's lowest so far, the India Meteorological Department said. It is also the third consecutive "cold wave" day in the city, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. "Cold day" conditions are likely as the maximum temperature is predicted to settle below 16 degrees Celsius, Srivastava said. The Lodhi Road weather station registered a minimum of 3.1 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on December 20. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, it recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said "dense" fog accumulated over Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh, lowering visibility to 50 metres at many places. Visibility levels at Safdarjung and Palam dropped to 100 metres and 50 metres, respectively, due to dense fog, he said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". The cold wave is likely to continue on Friday as well. Thereafter, the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" Western Disturbance (WD) which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6, Srivastava said.   The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to eight degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the WD from January 3 to January 5. The WD will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Thursday. The city's air quality index (AQI) at 10 am was 331. The 24-hour average AQI was 290 on Wednesday, 265 on Tuesday, 253 on Monday and 396 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dense-fog-shrouds-delhi-mercury-dips-to-seasons-lowest-933544.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Intense cold wave shudders Jammu and Kashmir, multiple towns record temperatures below freezing point||The cold wave sweeping Kashmir intensified on Thursday as the mercury fell several notches to settle well below the freezing point across the valley, officials said here. Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, which was over three degrees below the previous night's minus 2.2 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg, the tourist destination in north Kashmir recorded minus 10.4 degrees Celsius as against the previous night's low of minus 11 degrees Celsius, the officials said. They said Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9.6 degrees Celsius. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded the minimum of minus 6.2 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 5.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 7.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While 'Chillai-Kalan', which began on December 21, will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-cold-wave-shudders-jammu-and-kashmir-multiple-towns-record-temperatures-below-freezing-point-933549.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Several Delhi border points remain closed||Thousands of farmers stayed put at their protest venues near Delhi's border on Thursday as their talks with the government remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. The government and farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4. Braving the winter chill, farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points where the farmers have been camping. The protests have also led to traffic congestion forcing police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Thursday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. “Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” it tweeted. Traffic Alert Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement.Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement. COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE. “The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders. “Singhu, Auchandi,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they tweeted. “Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-several-delhi-border-points-remain-closed-933566.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Cold wave intensifies in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar records minus 1.2 degrees Celsius||The ongoing cold wave conditions in Haryana and Punjab intensified at many places on Thursday, with Hisar reeling at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius. A thick blanket of fog again enveloped most places in the two states early in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological Department officials here said. The minimum temperatures hovered well below normal limits as a few places experienced the season's coldest night so far. Hisar in Haryana recorded the season's coldest night so far and the mercury dropped eight notches below the normal. Among other places in the state, severe chill gripped Narnaul, which also recorded the season's coldest night so far at minus 0.5 degree Celsius, down six notches against normal limits. Sirsa, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani, too, experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 1.5, 3.6, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also recorded the season's coldest night so far at 2.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal limits. Cold wave conditions also persisted in many places in Punjab. Bathinda reeled under severe chill recording a minimum temperature of 0 degree Celsius, the season's lowest so far, while Amritsar and Faridkot, too, braved the chill at 1.6 degrees Celsius and 1.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. Pathankot, Halwara, Adampur, Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below normal minimums at 2.2, 3.1, 4.8, 4.1 and 4.8 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-intensifies-in-haryana-punjab-hisar-records-minus-12-degrees-celsius-933574.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court stays notice given to Pandit Birju Maharaj for vacating allotted government accomodation||In a relief to Kathak exponent Pandit Birju Maharaj, the Delhi High Court has stayed the eviction notice issued by the Centre asking him to vacate the government accommodation alloted to him here. A vacation bench of Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a plea by the renowned Kathak artist challenging the government’s decision of cancelling allotment of his accommodation and asking him to vacate by December 31. “In view of the above, the impugned notice dated October 9, 2020 is stayed till the next date of hearing,” the high court said in its order passed on Wednesday and made available on Thursday. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on January 22, 2021 before the roster bench concerned along with another similar petition by Padma Shri awardee Mohiniyattam dancer Bharati Shivaji, who was also served with an eviction notice. The court, in its order, noted that petitioner Birju Maharaj is a renowned Kathak artist and was allotted a government accommodation on account of his accomplishments and by virtue of the impugned notices, he has been communicated that the allotment stands cancelled and he has been asked to vacate the premises by December 31. Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Birju Maharaj, submitted that similar notices were issued to other prominent personalities who were allotted government accommodations and are subject matter of petitions filed before this court. He also referred to a December 23 order passed by the high court in Bharati Shivaji’s case in which a similar eviction notice has been stayed. In October this year, 27 eminent personalities most in the 50 to 90 age group, including artists, dancers and musicians were sent notices by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, to vacate their government allotted accommodations across Delhi by December 31, "failing which eviction proceeding will be initiated as per Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act". Other prominent personalities who have been sent these notices are artist Jatin Das, Pt Bhajan Sopori, Pt Birju Maharaj, Rita Ganguly, Dhrupad singer Ustad F Wasifuddin Dagar, Kathak expert Geetanjali Lal and Kuchipudi dancer Guru Jayarama Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-stays-notice-given-to-pandit-birju-maharaj-for-vacating-allotted-government-accomodation-933583.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||38 UK returnees to Delhi found positive for Covid-19; new strain detected in 4 patients||Four persons who recently came to Delhi from the UK and tested positive for Covid-19, have been found infected with the new strain of coronavirus, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Interacting with reporters, he said, a total of 38 people have been found positive since coming to Delhi from the UK recently, and kept in a separate institutional isolation unit in the LNJP Hospital premises. "Four such patients have been found infected with the new UK strain of Covid-19. The persons who came in their contact have been also traced and tested, and its not in them. So, only these four cases of new strain in Delhi so far," he said. "Flights have been stopped and those who came before that are being traced and tested rigorously," he added. Delhi recorded 677 Covid-19 cases and 21 new fatalities on Wednesday, even as the positivity rate dropped to 0.8 per cent, authorities said. "Positivity rate has dropped to 0.8 per cent from 15.26 per cent on November 7. About 85 per cent of beds are vacant, so the situation has improved a lot. And, so, it had been decided to make LNJP Hospital and GTB Hospital, partial Covid-19 facilities now. All services, including the OPD will be soon resumed gradually," Jain said. On the preparedness for the vaccination, he said, work is on to set up 1,000 vaccination centres. Jain said the night curfew has been imposed as the situation is under control right now, but huge gatherings could spell trouble again. The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. A formal order stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. On Covid-biowaste generation, he said, it is the responsibility of the civic bodies and they are doing it. Amid mounting concerns over the new variant of the Covid-19, the Delhi government had earlier said that people who had arrived here recently from that country, are being traced and tested, while an institutional quarantine facility has been set up separately for positive cases at the LNJP Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/38-uk-returnees-to-delhi-found-positive-for-covid-19-new-strain-detected-in-4-patients-933592.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: 225 militants, 60 security personnel, 38 civilians killed in 2020||In 2020, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in more than 100 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents, the J&K police said J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh in an annual press conference in Jammu on Thursday that after the successful anti-militancy operation in 2020, almost all the militant outfits were facing “leadership crisis” while “a few active commanders are on the radar of police and security forces and will be tracked down soon.” “We conducted 103 anti-militancy operations in the year of which 90 were witnessed in Kashmir and 13 in Jammu. 225 militants were killed in these operations of which 207 were killed in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu,” the police chief said. The slain militants include 46 top commanders of various militant outfits who were either A++ or A+ category ultras, he said. However, the year saw an increase in local militant recruitment compared to the previous year. “70 per cent of those who joined militancy this year either were killed or arrested. 46 militants were arrested after joining militancy while 76 newly recruited militants got killed,” Singh said adding that the shelf life of militants in the union territory is between three days to three months only. The police chief said 38 civilians, including political activists, were killed this year and most of these killings took place when the DDC election process started. On ceasefire violations along the border by Pakistan, he said, “2020 saw the highest ever ceasefire violations in J&K. This was used as a tool by our neighbour (Pakistan) to push militants into this side. However, every ceasefire violation got a befitting reply by our security forces.” However, he said, 2020 saw less infiltration by militants compared to the past few years. “This is the reason that Pakistan is focussing on raising the local militant recruitment and choosing aerial routes to drop weapons, drugs and cash through drones. We have been able to foil the majority of the attempts that were aimed at dropping weapon consignments through drones,” Singh added. The police chief said that there was a significant improvement at the law and order front as the year saw the lowest level of such incidents. “There has been a 75 per cent dip in the law and order related incidents this year as only 143 incidents were witnessed compared to 584 last year,” he said. Singh said that 12 militants surrendered in 2020 during live encounters, for the first time. “Even yesterday at the Lawaypora encounter, one boy tried to surrender, but his associates fired and he couldn’t come out,” he added. The J&K police chief said that 152 quintals of heroin was seized in various raids in the UT while 35 persons were booked under the PSA. “Huge quantities of charas, intoxicating capsules and bottles were also seized,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-225-militants-60-security-personnel-38-civilians-killed-in-2020-933602.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Delhi's average minimum temp in December second-lowest in 15 years: IMD||The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year. The MMT for December in Delhi dipped below 7 degrees Celsius only once in the last 15 years, in 2018 when it was 6.7 degrees Celsius, it stated. The average MMT for December was 6 degrees Celsius in 2005 and 5.9 degrees Celsius in 1996, according to the IMD data. Delhi also recorded eight cold wave days this December. It had recorded an equal number of cold wave days in December 2018. The city had recorded nine cold wave days in 1965, the maximum so far, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and at least 4.5 notches below normal. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, clear skies over Delhi-NCR, multiple western disturbances affecting the Himalayan region and the global impact of La Nina were the major reasons behind such low minimum temperatures. Delhi recorded "near-normal" minimum temperatures till December 12 as a result of clouds and rainfall in the plains under the influence of western disturbances affecting the region, he said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. "After December 12, western disturbances mostly affected the western Himalayan region, leading to significant snowfall and rain over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh," Srivastava said. After the wind system withdraws, cold north-westerly winds blow from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh to Delhi-NCR, bringing the minimum temperature down, he said. "Uplifted fog" over Punjab and Haryana made the winds even colder, he added. "Besides, the sky over Delhi-NCR remained clear on most days. The global factor of La Nina further contributed to the fall in temperatures," Srivastava said. La Niña is characterised by below-normal sea surface temperatures in the Pacific Ocean near the equator, a result of shifting wind patterns in the atmosphere. It means colder-than-normal winter across the Northern Hemisphere and warmer-than-average temperatures in the Southern Hemisphere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-average-minimum-temp-in-december-second-lowest-in-15-years-imd-933617.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||10th grade student shoots classmate dead in school after argument over seat in UP||A 10th standard student shot his classmate dead at school in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district on Thursday following an altercation over a seat. According to the police sources here, the 14-year old victim was shot three times around noon in full view of the other students. He was rushed to the hospital but was declared brought dead. Both the victim and the accused were of the same age. Sources said that the two had an altercation on Wednesday over seating arrangement in the class. The victim wanted the accused to sit somewhere else in the classroom. The accused was so incensed that he brought the licensed pistol of his uncle, who was an army jawan, when he came to the school on Thursday. Police said that other students and teachers ran for safety as the accused tried to flee by brandishing the pistol. He also reportedly fired in the air to scare the other students and teachers. The school principal, however, got the gates of the institution closed and the accused was overpowered a little later by a few teachers. He was handed over to the police, sources said. Another country-made pistol was recovered from the bag of the accused, sources added. The parents of the deceased sought to know as to how the accused managed to bring two pistols inside the school and demanded a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10th-grade-student-shoots-classmate-dead-in-school-after-argument-over-seat-in-up-933639.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||No gathering allowed in areas like Connaught Place, India Gate during night curfew: Police||No gatherings will be allowed in open public places like Connaught Place and India Gate during the night curfew imposed by the Delhi government on December 31 and January 1 due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain, police said on Thursday. The night curfew will be clamped from 11 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, and again from 11 pm on January 1 to 6 am on January 2. "Till 11 pm on December 31 and January 1, normal Covid-19 protocols are being followed and gatherings are allowed. But beyond 11 pm till 6 am on next day, public gathering is not allowed in places like Connaught Place and India Gate," Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said. "Only the licensed premises have been exempted from this. They can continue to operate with their licence condition, including half the seating capacity and other Covid-19 protocols," Singhal said. Police will be deployed in large numbers and action taken against violations, he said, adding people are requested to spend New Year in the comfort of their homes as far as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-gathering-allowed-in-areas-like-connaught-place-india-gate-during-night-curfew-police-933641.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Nearly 100 Congress workers detained in UP's Banda||Around 100 Congress workers trying to take out a protest march against the "mismanagement" of state-run cow shelters were detained here on Thursday for allegedly violating prohibitory orders, police said. The Congress is taking out the 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao' yatra in the districts of the Bundelkhand region. The party has claimed that the alleged mismanagement of the state-run cow shelters has resulted in deaths of cattle in the recent past. Around 100 Congress workers were taken into custody from near the Ken river bridge in Bhuragarh area for violating prohibitory orders, Circle Officer (city) Banda Alok Mishra said. Congress leaders claimed the police took into custody senior leaders including state unit vice president Yogesh Dixit, general secretary Rahul Rai, secretary Abhimanyu Singh, district president Rajesh Dixit, district president of women's unit Seema Khan as soon as they arrived to take part in the yatra. After detaining the first batch of 70 to 80 senior leaders and party workers, the police also took into custody the workers who subsequently arrived in groups to join the yatra, former Banda unit Congress president Saket Bihari Mishra said. All those taken into custody have been sent to different police stations, he said. District unit president Rajesh Dixit alleged that cows are dying of starvation in the state-run cow shelters and the government has no concern for them. "The Congress leaders who are are raising their voice for saving cows are being arrested," he said. On Wednesday, several Congress workers and leaders were taken into custody for taking out a 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao' yatra in Mahoba without permission, the police had said. Last week, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and 50 party workers were arrested in Lalitpur after they tried to take out the yatra without permission, according to the police. On both these occasions, the Congress alleged, the police resorted to baton charge on party workers. The police, however, denied the use of force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-100-congress-workers-detained-in-ups-banda-933662.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan-Haryana border: Cops use water cannon, tear gas as farmers break through barricades||The Haryana Police on Thursday used a water cannon and tear gas as farmers on tractor-trailers broke through barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan, trying to push towards the national capital. While farmers on around 25 tractor-trailers pushed past the Haryana Police barriers, others stayed behind on the Rajasthan side of the Shahjahanpur-Rewari border, police said. Farmers have been on a dharna at the site, blocking the road for several days in protest over the three new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre. Farmer leaders at the site made clear that the protesters who forced their way into Haryana did not have their consent. Kisan Mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat said the agitation was going on peacefully but some of the farmers forcibly entered Haryana, which was not expected of them. Haryana Police officials said a group of farmers, mostly youths, broke through the barricades set up by them in a bid to move towards Delhi. The Haryana Police tried to stop them using a water cannon and tear gas even as their leaders urged them not go towards the national capital, they said. Police said the group broke through the barricades with their tractors and a few of them managed to enter the state’s territory though they were stopped after some distance. “There were some young elements who came with tractors and broke through the barricades. We tried to stop them and gently persuade them. However, they were very aggressive and turned violent. They were not even listening to farmer leaders,” Rewari Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal told PTI over the phone. Another police officer said the group became violent and at least one of them tried to drive his tractor in a very reckless manner, endangering lives of police personnel and some others who tried to stop it. He said there were nearly 25 tractors, which broke the police barricades at Shahjahanpur. Meanwhile, farmer leaders at Shahjahanpur called for peace in the agitation. “We are sitting here peacefully and asking our members not to resort to violence,” Kisan Mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat said. “We have sent some of our members to talk to those who entered Haryana to convince them to return,” Jat added. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said it was done by some “overexcited youths”. “Delhi march is not that important because we want to get the issue resolved through dialogue with the government,” he said. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for past over a fortnight. They have been sitting at the Rajasthan-Haryana border point since police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi as part of their “Delhi Chalo” march against the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-haryana-border-cops-use-water-cannon-tear-gas-as-farmers-break-through-barricades-933671.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Pak troops violate ceasefire along LoC, target mosques and houses in Kupwara||Pakistani troops opened fire and shelled mortars in unprovoked violations of a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara and Rajouri districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Thursday. In the Tangdhar sector of Kupwara, Pakistani troops specifically targeted mosques and houses in border villages, an Army official said in Srinagar. "Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along LoC in Tangdhar Sector, Kupwara by firing mortars and other weapons yesterday evening," the official said. In the Nowshera sector of Rajouri, Pakistan Army personnel engaged in heavy firing and mortar shelling on forward posts. "At about 1515 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector in Rajouri district," a defence spokesman said in Jammu. Indian Army retaliated befittingly to the unprovoked ceasefire violations, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-troops-violate-ceasefire-along-loc-target-mosques-and-houses-in-kupwara-933691.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Seven patients with new Covid-19 strain under treatment in Delhi||Seven persons are admitted in the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital with the new UK strain of Covid-19, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Officials said that out of the seven, four are from the national capital. A total of 38 Covid-19 patients are presently undergoing treatment at the LNJP hospital. Jain also said that the Delhi government has decided to make LNJP and Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) hospitals available for non-Covid-19 patients as the number of cases is decreasing. To avoid huge crowds during the New Year celebrations, the Delhi government also imposed a night curfew for two days -- from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 -- to ensure that there are no lapses that can lead to a spike in the much-controlled situation of infection in Delhi. Asked about shutting down Covid-19 Care Centres, Jain said that these centres did not see any patients for quite some time and it did not make sense to keep them up and running.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-patients-with-new-covid-19-strain-under-treatment-in-delhi-933702.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||MP man gives half his property to his pet dog in will||A 50-year-old man from Madhya Pradesh's Chhindwara district has bequeathed half his property to his dog in his will. Om Narayan Verma, a resident of Badibaba village in Chand tehsil, has four daughters and a son. But he is in no mood to leave anything for the children. As per his will, notarized two days ago, he owns 18 acres of land which will be divided equally between his wife and his dog. After the dog's death, the one who has looked after the animal will get its share of the property. "I have no faith in my children, so I have made my wife and my pet dog owners of the property after my death," Verma, a former sarpanch of the village, told reporters on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-gives-half-his-property-to-his-pet-dog-in-will-933715.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Ram temple rallies: VHP seeks stern action on stone pelters||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday demanded stern action against those who pelted stones on vehicle rallies taken out in western Madhya Pradesh by some groups to raise awareness on the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. VHP international president Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje said the authorities must ensure that these miscreants get severe punishment from courts. In the last one week, stone pelting on Ram temple awareness rallies took place in Ujjain and Chandankhedi village in Indore district, officials said. Stern action should be taken against those who indulged in stone pelting on Ram temple construction awareness rallies. Prosecution must ensure that the accused get tough punishment from courts, Kokje told PTI. He appealed to people to observe restraint and not get provoked by such incidents. Vehicle rallies are being taken out in villages in the state by certain groups to raise awareness on the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The rallies are being taken ahead of the launch of a nationwide public campaign by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust from January 15 to mobilise funds for the temple project. Meanwhile, a delegation of the "Madhya Pradesh Muslim Numainda Committee met Inspector General (IG) Yogesh Deshmukh here and submitted a memorandum on the stone pelting incident and violence at Chandankhedi which took place on Tuesday. The committee, in the memorandum, alleged that "one- sided action" is being taken by the police in the incident. The IG, talking to reporters, said the police will act in an impartial manner in the matter. "Whosoever is involved in the incident will face action," Deshmukh said. Police officials informed that so far, 29 persons have been arrested for the incident in Chandankhedi and four cases registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-rallies-vhp-seeks-stern-action-on-stone-pelters-933722.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Farmer takes own life over non-payment of power bills||A 35-year-old farmer allegedly took his own life after the power company attached his flour mill and motorcycle over non-payment of electricity bills in Madhya Pradesh's Chhattarpur district, police said on Thursday. Munendra Rajput allegedly died by suicide at Matguvan village, some 17 km from the district headquarters, on Wednesday afternoon, an official said. The deceased left behind a suicide note, in which he has stated that the government should sell his body parts to recover the pending electricity dues, the victim's brother Lokendra Rajput on Thursday said. The police have confirmed the recovery of the suicide note. "My brother had pleaded to the government officials to give him some time to pay his dues, as even after the coronavirus lockdown was lifted, his business had not picked up after sustaining losses," Lokendra said. Even the victim's Kharif crop had failed and to make up the loss, he ran the flour mill, he claimed. Lokendra further alleged that his brother could not run his mill for better part of the year, but the power distribution company had handed him a yearly average bill instead of reading his electricity meter to work out the actual power consumption. "A case has been registered in connection with the suicide and investigations are underway," area police inspector Kamaljeet Singh said. Meanwhile, the district's Bijawar area MLA Rajesh Kumar Shukla has written to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan seeking stern action against people responsible for the farmer's suicide and sought financial help for the man's family. According to a government release, Chhattarpur collector Sheelendra Singh has provided a relief of Rs 25,000 to the deceased's kin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-farmer-takes-own-life-over-non-payment-of-power-bills-933739.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||UP govt transfers Hathras DM, 15 other IAS officers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday transferred 16 IAS officers, including Hathras District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar who had hit the headlines after the rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman. Laxkar will be the new district magistrate of Mirzapur. UP Jal Nigam Additional MD Ramesh Ranjan will take his place in Hathras, an official spokesman said. Laxkar had come into focus after the Dalit woman was raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. The Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court too had expressed concern over the Uttar Pradesh government not taking any action against the DM for the fairness of the probe. Besides Laxar, Gonda District Magistrate Nitin Bansal has been sent to Pratapgarh and Additional CEO of Noida, Shruti, has been made the DM of Balrampur, replacing Krishna Karunesh, who has been posted as the vice-chairman of the Ghaziabad Development Authority, the spokesman said. Prominent among others who have been transferred are Fatehpur DM Sanjiv Singh, who has been shifted to Chandauli in the same capacity, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-transfers-hathras-dm-15-other-ias-officers-933766.html
31-12-2020||North and Central||Goldsmith shot dead by militants in Srinagar||A goldsmith was shot dead by unidentified militants in the Sarai Bala area near city centre Lal Chowk on Thursday evening, officials said. They said Satpal Nischal, owner of Nischal Jewelers was fired upon by the militants at his shop in Sarai Balla, leaving him in a pool of blood. The goldsmith was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. In a separate incident, a sub-inspector of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was injured after militants lobbed a UBGL grenade followed by firing on Naka party of paramilitary forces in Sangam area of south Kashmir's Anantnag district on Thursday evening. Reports said a CRPF officer of 83 Battalion sustained injuries in the attack. He was shifted to a nearby hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. Immediately after the attack, the entire area was cordoned off to track down the attackers, reports added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/goldsmith-shot-dead-by-militants-in-srinagar-933770.html
31-12-2020||Oasis||The crux of Christmas||Christmas evokes many things to many people.  Running around the Christmas tree, playing secret Santa and exchanging Christmas gifts, dinning the finest Christmas meal together and putting up the Christmas crib are just a few of the many images that conjure up in our minds at the thought of Christmas.  As important and exciting as all these are in celebrating Christmas, they are merely the frills for an occasion as significant as Christmas.  For at the crux of Christmas is the birth of Christ Jesus, the Son of God, born to redeem the human race out of its bondage of sin.   In the Gospel of St. Luke, chapter 1, verses 30-33 the narrative of Angel Gabriel to Mary, the mother of Christ Jesus, is described thus: “Do not be afraid, Mary; you have found favour with God.  You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus.  He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his kingdom will never end.” And nine months later, we read in the Bible that the little babe was born in a lowly stable, on a cold, winter’s night in the obscure town of Bethlehem in Judea. The first Christmas thus very poignantly brings out that God chose His Son to be born humble and plain devoid of all the trappings of grandeur and pomp.  “She gave birth to her firstborn, a son.  She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them,” the Bible recounts. Through this simple choice, God would demonstrate to all humanity that the way to goodness is through the humility of heart.  “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men” sang the hosts of Angels that star-lit night when Christ Jesus was born.  Likewise, this Christmas more than 2000 years later, the timeless message of peace on earth and goodwill to all men continues to be at the crux of all Christmas celebrations.  And no doubt peace on earth will come to stay beyond this Christmas when we live Christmas every day!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-crux-of-christmas-933479.html
31-12-2020||Panorama||India’s EV conundrum: Incentives in place, but no infrastructure||Social media was recently abuzz that a Bengaluru-based car-maker had plans to launch an electric car with a 500-km range per charge. Assuming this plan is successful, it would help overcome range anxiety and would certainly push fence-sitters towards buying electric cars.  Over the past 18 months, four big car-makers have launched electric vehicles (EV) in the Indian market. Notwithstanding the Covid-19 impact, electric car sales as a percentage of overall car sales in India is abysmally low at less than 0.2%. Electric scooters fare slightly better at 0.4% of overall two-wheeler sales -- a worrying sign for the government despite incentives like reducing GST on electric vehicles to 5%, providing income tax benefits and waiving road tax. To promote EV uptake, the government should consider waiving highway toll fees for EVs, perhaps till 2025. Global trends indicate that EV penetration is about 3% of the overall sales. The EV market in the European Union grew by over 40% in 2019 compared to the previous year. The EU countries are offering an environmental bonus for car-makers and purchase price subsidies for EV buyers. India has set a goal that by 2030, 30% of cars sold annually should be EVs. But to realise this goal, the buyer, government, and the industry need to play their respective parts effectively. Economics of electric car purchase In any car segment, EVs cost at least 20-30% more than their petrol and diesel counterparts. However, the running cost of an EV would just be 15-18% that of a petrol car. Sample this: The current petrol price is about Rs 83-85 per litre. Petrol price has increased 20-30% every five years since 2000 and this trend is expected to continue. The prevailing per-unit electricity rate for domestic consumption is Rs 5-7. Charging an electric car with 250-300 km range would cost about Rs 220-250 per month. With few moving parts, electric car maintenance costs 20-30% of that of petrol cars. When we consider these aspects along with the income tax benefits, the extra cost paid for the electric car can be recovered in 2.5-4 years. Essentially, over five years, the EV becomes cheaper compared to regular cars. But the big challenge today is the unavailability of compelling EV alternatives in the compact car segment (comprising 70-75% of the overall car market) that can provide a decent range of 250 km per charge. The other big challenge is the availability of infrastructure. For an existing car-maker to build a significant presence in the EV market, it should invest in EV technologies and adapt to the needs of the Indian market. A recent report states this would involve Rs 3.5 lakh crore Capex investment from all the car-makers over the next 5-7 years. A large part of this expenditure is likely to be used for acquiring companies in the EV space. Will these companies undertake such expenditure instead of protecting their current business?    Charging infrastructure Charging infrastructures in cities have improved significantly over the past year. For example, Bengaluru’s electricity provider Bescom has installed DC fast-charging infrastructure in 12 locations across Bengaluru. Also, some car-makers are offering anytime emergency charging for their customers within city limits. It still takes 30 minutes to over an hour to obtain a meaningful range in the car. The government has planned for charging stations with 50KW capacity every 25 km on highways. In addition, there are plans for 100KW charging stations every 100 km, catering to heavy-duty EVs like trucks and buses.  Statistical analysis in the EU and the US indicate that the number of cars per public charging station must be five to 10 to avoid queuing at charging stations. Currently, in India, there are about 650 charging stations, compared to three lakh in China. India has about 22 cars per 1,000 people, compared to the US with 980 cars and China with 164 cars per 1,000 people. An International Energy Agency (IEA) report indicates that India’s car market is poised to grow significantly to 175 cars per 1,000 people by 2040.  Assuming 60-70 cars per 1,000 people by 2030 in India and considering the government’s target of 30% cars as EVs, we will have over 2.5 crore EVs. Even if we consider 25 lakh electric cars by 2025, the number of public charging stations required will be about 4-5 lakh. The government should aggressively work on improving the public charging infrastructure through a PPP model. The biggest challenge is the availability of reliable power supply at these charging stations, especially along highways. The government must incentivise and push for solar-based charging stations. The solar-based pilot phase on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway must be expanded across the country. This will give confidence to the public about the government’s proactive action in establishing infrastructure. R&D   India needs to invest in alternative technologies like induction charging. Essentially, highways will have a charging lane, and EVs driven on this lane get charged wirelessly, removing range anxiety completely. This is an interesting concept, but in the present form is expensive. Any research on creating an affordable mass-market solution for highways, parking lots, etc., will revolutionise India’s EV market. Another area for research is on developing mass-market solid-state batteries for EVs. While FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV) schemes are a step in the right direction, the government must create a strong EV ecosystem to help India become a leading player in the EV manufacturing and components space. The government must play a significant role for India to march towards zero-emission. This must be supported by car-makers, providing compelling alternatives for people to switch to EV. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based ICT professional and EV enthusiast)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-s-ev-conundrum-incentives-in-place-but-no-infrastructure-933477.html
31-12-2020||Panorama||Anthropogenic mass heaviest on Earth||The year 2020 will be remembered, not just for corona pandemic casualties in the world, but also for another shocking but expected milestone that earth has reached in this year. Nature, an International multi-disciplinary science journal has published an interesting research paper by a group of scientists on, what weighs the earth most now, in its latest issue dated December 9, 2020. The findings earmark the year 2020 as the beginning of a dangerous phenomenon-- human-made materials are beginning to overweigh living biomass. What constitutes this human-made or anthropogenic mass? They are inanimate objects, namely houses, buildings, ships, roads, plastics, clothing, electronics, glass, metals et al, that are produced on a massive scale to make our life better on this planet. Interestingly, this load of non-living materials which is produced in the name of enhancing human developmental programmes is doubling its weight every 20 years. Currently, their weight is approximately 1.1 trillion tonnes. Emily Elhacham, a member of this research group, feels that this engulfing human footprint is extremely endangering the future of this planet.   As this report points out, the excessive use of natural resources began with the agrarian revolution and reached its peak with the industrial revolution. This sheer human utilitarian idea of plundering the mother earth has almost wiped out the presence of all fauna and flora and has left it barren, but a heap of anthropogenic mass. Quite significantly, at the beginning of the 20th century, the weight of this human-made mass was only about 3% in comparison with the weight of living biomass. The swift surge in the weight of this stuff can be clearly identified with the 1990’s globalization.   Ron Milo, a senior scientist who has headed the present study, says that the shocking statistics presented by this report have tremendously increased our responsibility towards the future of the Earth. Again, this study presents that, at the current rate of the surge in production, the anthropogenic mass will add up to approximately 30 gigatonnes annually. This could amount to 3 tera tonnes of weight by 2040. Comparatively, living biomass is disappearing drastically due to deforestation, agricultural activities and industrialization. Additionally, the increasing use of cement instead of brick for the construction of buildings in recent years has also added to the weight of the human-made mass. In a nutshell, the average weight of this mass is increased on weekly basis, which equals the weight of each living human on this planet now. One example of such colossal storage of materials is, the amount of plastic materials stored in the world is twice the weight of life forms, both on land and water. Moreover, anthropogenic waste materials are not included for analysis in this report. If included, they already overweighed the living biomass in 2013 itself.   So, what does this study mean to us now? Simple. Man has taken over the earth completely now. This means he has to be more responsible and dutybound to save the mother earth from colossal damage. The path he has trodden so far, to his mastery of nature is sodden in cruelty, violence as well as tears and silence of non-humans. As greenery is replaced by non-living mass for sheer human use, the days of this planet are numbered. Like corona pandemic, this natural imbalance too needs to be addressed globally through collective efforts at the earliest. So, man must demonstrate his indomitable willpower to explore ways to make adequate global efforts to address issues like climate change, species extinction, and others.  To conclude, in addition to seriously working on birth control measures for humans, it is time for the world, not just India to go back Gandhian philosophy of simple living, in order to save this planet from further destruction. For sure, the present corona pandemic related lockdown has paused the world for some time and put us into a self-introspection mode to seriously ponder on our needs to live a meaningful life. As Gandhi said, this earth won’t satisfy man's greed, but only his need, we need to engage in major overhauling to save this planet from excessive manhandling. If not now, then when?  (The writer is an Assistant Professor of English, Tumkur University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/anthropogenic-mass-heaviest-on-earth-933478.html
31-12-2020||Right in the Middle||Goodbye 2020||The year 2020, it had a certain ring to it. It sounded like a milestone year, a year you could set targets for. “By 2020, I will…”, you could almost hear, why I bet, you must have heard leaders from all spheres mouthing it with a flourish. Then, a mysterious virus struck and everyone scrambled, to finish or complete the above statement, “… just stay alive.” Well, that’s life as John Lennon crooned, “Life is what happens to you while you are busy making other plans.”  Countries rushed to lockdown, all economic activities came to a grinding halt. It triggered reverse migration of the urban poor. Their livelihoods snuffed out, they limped back to their villages, their hand-to-mouth existence had reached the brink of starvation. The face of the “faceless” migrant stared us back in the face. The fault lines between the haves and the have-nots split wide open.  It soon became a year of grim milestones. The Grim Reaper with his scythe hit a bumper harvest. He made headlines, splashing all over news space, the daily tracker on the headcounts, the heads rolled, the ones afflicted, it’s spread, it’s behavioural patterns, the remedial measures were all that got reported.  Why, something else, too, became newsy. Reassuring glimpses of Mother Nature’s timeless splendour provided the much-needed relief among the distressing news stories. Green shoots were visible in Nature. We paused, nature healed. Highly polluted rivers, Ganga and Yamuna were cleaner, notably in industrial regions they waddle through. A 7% dip in global CO2 emissions was predicted for the year. Closer home, the AQI index in the capital fell to the “good” zone, a rarity, the Dhauladhar mountain range was visible in Jalandhar 213 kms away.  The ageless matriarch showed her fury, too. Nisarga, the strongest tropical cyclone since 1891, hit our west coast, apart from the regulars on the east. Locusts swarmed our cities threatening crops…all directly linked to climate change. But do we pay heed? “Get the economy started and going. Let’s get back to business,” was the chorus soon heard. Unlocking began with we confident our health systems were primed for the job. We sought the quotidian life, as we knew it. Quotidian, not normal, mind you. Normal never was. Our existence normalises greed, avarice, indolence, inequity, extraction… the list goes on. Indeed, humans are an invasive species, far more destructive than any pathogen. The economy started showing green shoots but is it sustainable? “Wake me up when 2020 is over,” somebody WhatsApp. Well, it’s time to wake up, hopefully as better people, one that fits well both humanity and Nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/goodbye-2020-933476.html
31-12-2020||Second Edit||On Tibet, India must make up its mind||The US government’s enactment of the Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) of 2020 marks an important milestone in its policy towards Tibet and China. Hitherto, Washington, while broadly supportive of the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan cause, was careful to avoid riling China on the Tibet question. Therefore, it did a balancing act in its relations with the Chinese government and the Tibetan government-in-exile. With the enactment of the TPSA, Washington has come out more overtly in support of the Tibetans. Not only has it extended recognition to the Central Tibetan Administration and to Lobsang Sangay as its president but also, it has reaffirmed the right of Tibetan Buddhists to determine the succession of the Dalai Lama without interference from the Chinese government. Chinese officials who interfere in the selection and installation of the present Dalai Lama’s successor would be liable to US sanctions, including travel restrictions. The new law also calls for the setting up of a US consulate in Lhasa and extends financial assistance to non-government organisations working among Tibetans in the Tibetan Autonomous Region. The US move has been welcomed by the CTA, Tibetan communities, and rights activists worldwide. It will be quietly applauded by several governments, too, including India, which are concerned over the manner in which Beijing has disrespected the Dalai Lama and ridden rough-shod over Tibetan autonomy, demography and cultural and other rights. Beijing’s systematic Hanification of Tibet and its imposition of a State-sanctioned Buddhism on its people is disturbing. Its plans to install the 15th Dalai Lama via a process sanctioned by the Communist Party of China rather than allow the Tibetan people and their institutions to select him is particularly distressing in this regard. The TPSA and similar moves that other countries may make is the outcome of this Chinese disregard for Tibetan sentiments and rights. The US has taken a strong position in enacting the TPSA. The question is whether it will implement it. Although the law enjoys bipartisan support, the incoming Joe Biden administration may be circumspect and selective in implementing the law, especially since normalising ties with Beijing is likely to be an important item on its agenda. Coming at a time when India’s relations with China are particularly troubled, the US’ enactment of the TPSA, which puts pressure on China, is a welcome development. But India must make up its own mind, too. India, which has for 60 years done more to keep Tibetans’ aspirations alive than any other country and to protect the Dalai Lama, cannot sit idly by if Beijing decides to dictate matters relating to his succession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/on-tibet-india-must-make-up-its-mind-933475.html
31-12-2020||South||Don't dream of splitting AIADMK, CM tells Stalin; accuses DMK of dynasty politics||AIADMK top leader and Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday hit back at DMK president M K Stalin for claiming that the ruling party was headed for a split and said the dream of breaking up the ruling party would become a mirage. He slammed the arch-rival for 'dynasty' politics and urged people to reject it. Referring to Stalin's claim, Palaniswami said not even a single AIADMK worker could be 'touched,' dismissing scope for divisions or split in the party. "Stalin says the AIADMK will split. Our party will not go apart. You cannot touch even a single worker. AIADMK is a lively, robust party. You are attempting to create confusion in the AIADMK. That will never happen. Try to save your party first," he said in his poll campaign in this district. "Don't dream of breaking the AIADMK. Such a dream will turn out to be a mirage," he added. Assembly elections are likely during April-May 2021 in Tamil Nadu. From an ordinary branch secretary of the AIADMK in a village, he grew through sheer hard work and rose through the ranks to become the Chief Minister, Palaniswami said. Stalin, however, did not grow in DMK through work, he alleged. His father Karunanidhi was the Chief Minister and DMK president and this factor enabled his growth without actually working for it, Palaniswami said. Stalin had on Tuesday claimed there was confusion in the AIADMK over the Chief Ministerial candidate and it would lead to a split. Palaniswami said while AIADMK's late Chief Ministers, M G Ramachandran, and J Jayalalithaa considered the people as their heirs and ran the government for their welfare, "there is another party that is being run for their children." Accusing Stalin of "changing colours speedier than a chameleon," the Chief Minister said the leader of the opposition in the assembly remembered people only during elections. "Should only Karunanidhi, Stalin and his son Udhayanidhi rule Tamil Nadu?...could no other person from outside of their family lead Tamil Nadu (as Chief Minister)?" he asked. The upcoming, 2021 Assembly election should be utilised by the people to keep a "full stop to dynasty politics and there must be no room for it hereafter," Palaniswami said. In AIADMK, any party worker could become the Chief Minister and this is possible only with his party, he said and urged the people to deliver justice. Also, he slammed the DMK as an 'unruly party' and recalled allegations against party men involved in some alleged incidents of violence over the years. If this was the situation when the DMK was not in power, what kind of a scenario could unfold if it managed to capture power, he asked the people and wanted them to reject the party and vote for AIADMK's two leaves symbol to ensure the continuance of good governance . Palaniswami accused the DMK of not 'fulfilling' its promises in the past when it won the assembly polls. "In 2006, DMK said they will give two acres of land for landless farmers. They did not provide the land," he said. Recalling allegations of land grabbing during the 2006- 11 DMK regime, he urged the people to teach a lesson to the opposition party. The Chief Minister listed a slew of welfare measures of his government and quick measures to combat the coronavirus pandemic and natural calamities like the recent back to back cyclones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-dream-of-splitting-aiadmk-cm-tells-stalin-accuses-dmk-of-dynasty-politics-933434.html
31-12-2020||South||Kerala Assembly passes resolution against Centre's three farm laws||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution against the Centre's farm laws on the grounds  that the laws were aimed at helping corporates to monopolise the farming sector and should be withdrawn. Lone BJP MLA in the house O Rajagopal, who spoke in favour of the farm laws in the house, however, kept off from disagreeing with the resolution during the voice voting. Hence it was passed unanimously. He later told reporters that he was agreeing with the resolution considering the general consensus, but expressed his disagreement with certain interpretations of the issues. Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) backed the resolution that was moved by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urging Centre to withdraw the laws and extending support to the ongoing farmers' stir. O Rajagopal said during the discussion in the house that the new laws were aimed at helping farmers by eliminating middlemen and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere. The BJP MLA said that the Opposition parties were blindly opposing any initiatives taken by Narendra Modi. "The allegations that Modi was not willing for talks with the agitating farmers were untrue. The farmers were insisting on withdrawing the farm laws before discussions," said Rajagopal. The Chief Minister said that if the farmers' stir continues, it would badly affect food grain supply to states like Kerala. He accused that the Centre passed the laws without holding discussions with states as the laws would affect the states. The Centre was keeping away from the responsibility of ensuring minimum support price for commodities. The new laws would not help farmers but only corporates. The laws had triggered a strong concern among farmers as it would have a serious impact on the farming sector. It would lead to black-marketing. Instead of corporatising, the Centre should initiate steps like decentralised procurement, said Vijayan. He also said that the Kerala government already initiated several steps like minimum support price to 16 vegetables and highest support price for paddy to help the farmers. Paddy production in the state also increased by 36,000 hectares to 2.32 lakh hectares now. The options of a law as an alternative to the Centre's farm laws were also being considered, Vijayan said. Even while backing the resolution, the opposition UDF flayed that the government did not strongly criticise Governor Arif Mohammed Khan who initially declined nod to state government's recommendation to convene a special session of the Assembly. Deputy leader of Opposition K C Joseph said that the Governor's action was a challenge to the Constitution. He also said that the government should have convened the special session much earlier. Joseph's suggestion to specifically flay Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the resolution was rejected by the ruling Left Front with the Chief Minister citing that the Centre was criticised in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-against-centres-three-farm-laws-933545.html
31-12-2020||South||Tamil Nadu in 2020: The investments of Rs 66,000 crore||Stung by the Covid-19 induced lockdown in 2020 that severely impacted many businesses, Tamil Nadu however, sought to bounce back with mega ticket deals in various sectors later, seeking to live up to its image of a favourable investment destination. The labour-intensive real estate, besides the MSME sector seemed to bear the brunt of the lockdown, with many housing projects coming to a grinding halt and industrial units downing shutters. With the construction industry in particular employing a large number of guest workers, the sudden halt prompted an exodus of these people to their native states, such as Bihar and Odisha, as many could not make ends meet. However, relaxations in lockdown rules have brought relief to the megabucks sector, with construction activity commencing in the wake of the guest workers returning. There may however, be a delay in commissioning of those projects, a city-based realtor said. With the government stepping up its efforts to attract investments by forming committees under state Chief Secretary K Shanmugham and former RBI Governor C Rangarajan, Tamil Nadu managed to bag huge investments in 2020. The state Industries Department said the government signed 80 memoranda of understanding with various companies entailing investments of over Rs 66,000 crore which would see job creation of over 1.21 lakh. Guidance Tamil Nadu is the nodal agency operating under the industries department and its Chairman Neeraj Mittal said the government has signed 80 MoUS worth over Rs 66,000 crore. "All these have been signed till date. Now in the coming year this will fructify...Tamil Nadu will march ahead with these investments...Tamil Nadu is number one ranked in the country (in attracting investments)," he told PTI. "Our team keeps track of the investments committed and we have increased the employee base from the earlier five to around 80 now who would be constantly monitoring the status of those projects that had been signed or that are yet to be signed," he said. "...so, basically, the entire culture in Tamil Nadu is investor-friendly. The government is very proactive," he said. On the impact of pandemic on the industry, he said the government appointed two committees, each led by Shanmugham and Rangarajan, which have been giving their guidance whenever necessary, including on targeting specific countries and firms who want to relocate from a particular country. Such initiatives helped the state clinch deals worth Rs 66,000 crore during the pandemic, he said, adding "the drum beat of Tamil Nadu has increased this year". Citing a study, he said TN was ranked top in the entire country during the current financial year. The state attracted investments in areas like electric mobility, renewable energy and automotive from Ola Electric, Stuttgart-based Daimler and Adani Group among others. "Most companies which were hit by the COVID-19 lockdown have gone back to pre-pandemic levels. It may be in auto companies, fuel companies...there is enough demand and with all these investments the industrial climate will only go up and the new projects will generate new jobs," Mittal added. Sector-wise, MSME and housing suffered most, with an industry body of the latter saying 2020 has been a 'shock' to owner-driven companies in the segment. "These companies have suffered a severe beating in 2020. Though some sectors have recovered some have not recovered at all. Even those who have recorded growth they were fully washed out during Quarters one and two," said KE Raghunathan, Convenor, Consortium of Indian Associations. "Nearly 30-35 per cent of MSMEs have been washed out. They were not able to survive due to the pandemic. This is the biggest calamity of the year 2020," Raghunathan, representing 37 trade bodies of micro, small and medium enterprises said. While businesses have restarted, cost overrun is seen as there has been 20-30 per cent rise in raw material prices. "Since there is a cost increase in raw materials, I am unable to make profits. I am only making losses," he said. The government should come out with an Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for those MSMEs affected in the state, he demanded. The housing sector saw a lot of guest workers leaving for their home states as many projects were stalled due to the lockdown. Preliminary assessment reveals a drastic decline in its workforce by about 70 per cent in the middle of financial year. However, following relaxations in lockdown rules, activities have resumed. Casa Grande founder Arun M N said there would be huge demand from consumers who seek additional space in their home to take up multi-functional purposes. "Project launches will also witness a multi-fold increase focusing majorly on the budget home category. 2021 stays promising and stable for the industry," he said. The apparel and cotton industry, largely confined in Tiruppur district, turned dynamic to focus on production of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to cater to the COVID market. The initiative to manufacture masks and PPEs was to tide over the crisis caused by lockdown which saw job losses while employers could not pay their staff. "This migration to make masks and other medical related stuff was only to manage the crisis as the industry was hit hard by the impact," an industry official said. Trade body Apparel Export Promotion Council said it saw double-digit growth during the current financial year which indicated a 'V' shaped recovery. AEPC Chairman A Sakthivel said apparel exports rose for the first time this fiscal and the steep recovery from 90 per cent fall in April to 10 per cent rise in December showed the sector was on the path of a 'V' shaped recovery. The famed lock industry in Dindigul also suffered badly due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-in-2020-the-investments-of-rs-66000-crore-933562.html
31-12-2020||South||BJP MLA in Kerala backs resolution against centre's farm laws in Assembly, later retracts||Causing major embarrassment to the BJP, the lone BJP MLA in Kerala, O Rajagopal on Thursday backed a resolution in Kerala Assembly against the Centre's farm laws on Thursday. However, with the issue snowballing into a major controversy, Rajagopal issued a statement retracting from his initial stand. The resolution urging the Centre to withdraw the laws and extending support to the ongoing farmers' stir was moved by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. It was passed unanimously by the house with the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front also backing it. Rajagopal spoke in favour of the farm laws in the house. He said that the new laws were aimed at helping farmers by eliminating middlemen and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere, but kept off from disagreeing with the resolution during the voice vote, and hence it was passed unanimously. He later told reporters that he was agreeing with the resolution considering the general consensus in the house, but expressed his disagreement with certain interpretations of the issues. BJP state president K Surendran said that he would react on the issue after talking to Rajagopal. Other senior BJP leaders also maintained a similar stand. Rajagopal later issued a statement maintaining that he had strongly flayed the resolution. He also said that during the voice voting, Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan sought response of those favouring the resolution and those opposing it as a single query instead of asking separately. This was against the normal practice. Rajagopal maintained a similar stand during a resolution in the Assembly against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act last year. Since Rajagopal, who is a veteran leader of the saffron party in Kerala, spoke in favour of the farm laws in the house, the general anticipation was that he would oppose the resolution. But after the voice voting, the Speaker said that no one opposed the resolution. Moving the resolution, the Chief Minister said that if the farmers' stir continues, it would badly affect food grain supply to states like Kerala. The Centre passed the laws without holding discussions and was keeping off from responsibility of ensuring minimum support price for commodities. The new laws would help corporates only and would have serious impact on the farming sector. It would lead to black marketing. Instead of corporatising, the Centre should initiate steps like decentralised procurement, said Vijayan. He also said that Kerala government already initiated several steps like minimum support price to 16 vegetables and highest support price for paddy to help the farmers. The options of a law as an alternative to Centre's farm laws was also being considered, said Vijayan. Even while backing the resolution, opposition UDF said that the government did not strongly criticise Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who initially declined a nod to state government's recommendation to convene Assembly special session. Deputy leader of opposition K C Joseph said that the government should have convened the special session much earlier. Joseph's suggestion to specifically flay Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the resolution was rejected by the ruling left-front with the Chief Minister, citing that the Centre was criticised in it. Rajagopal said in the house that the opposition parties were blindly opposing any initiatives of Narendra Modi. The allegations that Modi was not willing for talks with the agitating farmers was untrue. The farmers were insisting on withdrawing the farm laws before discussions, said Rajagopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-mla-in-kerala-backs-resolution-against-centres-farm-laws-in-assembly-later-retracts-933603.html
31-12-2020||South||Hyderabad Police arrest six over illegal marriage of minor to 57-year old man||Six people who were involved in the "illegal" marriage of a minor girl to a 57-year-old man here were on Thursday arrested and the girl rescued, police said. The man, who is absconding after the marriage, was also booked for sexually assaulting the 16-year-old girl, they said. The girl's aunt, who had to pay some debts, hatched a plan to marry off the girl to the man after taking more than Rs 2 lakh from him recently, police said. The aunt conspired along with her husband, son, two agents and a qazi (who are among the six arrested) and got the girl married by submitting false documents to the qazi, who "illegally" performed the marriage, a release from Hyderabad Police said. A cousin of the girl complained following which the six were arrested. Efforts were on to nab other accused who are absconding, police said. After the marriage, the man had allegedly raped the girl at a lodge here, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-police-arrest-six-over-illegal-marriage-of-minor-to-57-year-old-man-933605.html
31-12-2020||South||Stalin trying to scuttle Rs 2,500 cash assistance to people, alleges Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami||Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday accused DMK president M K Stalin of making efforts to scuttle the distribution of Rs 2,500 Pongal assistance to people and asserted that the government would overcome obstacles posed by him. In an interaction with members of Women Self-Help Groups on his campaign trail, Palaniswami said credit assistance worth crores has been extended through banks to such groups during the present coronavirus pandemic. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu during April-May 2021 and parties are actively campaigning though polls are months away. Listing the achievements of his government like providing 7.5 per cent quota for students of state-run schools who clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, setting up of 11 more government medical colleges, 2,000 Amma mini clinics, he said all such initiatives were aimed at benefitting the common and poor people. From January 4, Rs 2,500 assistance and a gift pack comprising ingredients to make 'Pongal' (Sweet rice) including rice and sugar would be distributed to rice ration card holders to help them celebrate Pongal festival happily, Palaniswami said. "The tokens to get the assistance will be delivered at your home by fair price shops," he said and asked people to collect the festival hamper and cash assistance and celebrate the festival with joy. The state has 2.06 crore rice ration card holders and the Pongal festival falls on January 14. "Stalin could not, however, tolerate the distribution of Rs 2,500 for the poor people. He is making various efforts to scuttle its distribution. For whom the government is giving away the assistance ?..it is for the poor and ordinary people and what is wrong with that?" he asked. Wondering why Stalin attempted to scuttle such an initiative aimed at helping people, he said the government would overcome obstacles posed by him. Also, he said the government distributed essential commodities including rice, sugar and cooking oil free of cost to ration card holders for eight months to ensure that the people were not put to hardship during the time of the pandemic. Slamming the DMK, he said the main opposition party had not implemented its poll promises when it was voted to power in 2006. "They said two acres of land will be given to landless farmers. But the land was not given to anyone," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-trying-to-scuttle-rs-2500-cash-assistance-to-people-alleges-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-933682.html
31-12-2020||South||32 UK returnees test positive in Kerala; Over 5K new Covid-19 cases||As many as 32 people, who recently returned from the UK, have tested positivefor Covid-19 in Kerala, while the state recorded 5,215 fresh infections and 30 more fatalities on Thursday. The samples of the infected people have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for further testing to ascertain if it is the new variant, Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a press release. While the total caseload climbed to 7,60,932, recoveries touched 6,92,480 and 65,202 people are undergoing treatment for the virus. The toll has gone up to 3,072 with 30 more deaths being added to the tally after they were confirmed due to the infection. The release said those infected included 67 health workers while 5,376 people were cured of the infection on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, 58,283 samples had been tested and four districts accounted for over 500 cases as the test positivity rate touched 8.95 per cent. So far, 79,11,934 samples have been sent for testing. Of the positive cases today, 122 people had come from outside the state and 4,621 had been infected through local transmission. As many as 2,34,063 people are under observation in various districts, including 12,232 in hospitals, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/32-uk-returnees-test-positive-in-kerala-over-5k-new-covid-19-cases-933700.html
31-12-2020||South||Another land row in Kerala; Woman, three children allegedly evicted from their house||Close on the heels of a dispute over three cents of land leading to the death of a couple in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, a woman alleged that the shack home in which she and her three girl children were staying was destroyed by a gang two weeks back and the authorities were yet to take any effective action. The incidents were causing major embarrassment to the left-front government in Kerala as it had been highlighting providing homes to homeless families as a major achievement of the government. Surami, who has been residing at Kazhakoottam, close to the Thiruvananthapuram Technopark, alleged that a gang comprising a neighbour destroyed the shack-house in which she was staying with her three minor girl children over the last six years to have a proper road to the neighbour's property. She alleged that the gang even misbehaved with her children and even as the police and rights commissions were alerted, so far no effective steps were taken. Meanwhile, the local police maintained that the land where the shack was situated was a revenue land that was under the possession of the nearby landowner. The woman's version that she was staying there over the last six years was doubtful. No case was also registered. With the issue snowballing into a controversy, the state government is likely to initiate actions swiftly. Land and house for couple's children The state government has decided to provide land and house for the children of the couple, Rajan and Ambili, who died after they caught fire accidentally while staging a protest by dousing themselves in petrol while police and revenue authorities tried to evict them in Thiruvananthapuram. Financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each was also announced for their education. The state Women and Children Department will take care of the protection of the children, Rahul and Renjith, a statement from the Chief Minister's office. However, so far no action was taken against the police despite the children alleging that the police was responsible for the death of their parents. There were also allegations that their neighbour faked documents to claim ownership over their property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-land-row-in-kerala-woman-three-children-allegedly-evicted-from-their-house-933704.html
31-12-2020||South||Covid-19: Schools in Kerala to reopen on January 1||Schools in Kerala are reopening partially from Friday after remaining closed for around nine months due to lockdown. Classes for the 10th standard and 12th standard will be beginning. Attendance was not mandatory and the consent letter of parents was essential. Classes for degree final year and post-graduate courses at colleges are also allowed on a shift basis with a maximum of 50 per cent of students in one shift.  Revision and doubt clearing is the main aims of opening the school. Online classes were being conducted over these months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-schools-in-kerala-to-reopen-on-january-1-933709.html
31-12-2020||South||New Year eve celebrations in Kerala only till 10 pm; drones to monitor violations||With the spike in Covid-19 cases continuing in Kerala, the new year eve celebrations on Thursday night are likely to be low key as the government has imposed restrictions saying it should come to a close by 10 pm and public gatherings should be avoided. Drones would be used to track any violations, state Police chief Loknath Behera said, adding action would also be initiated against those indulgingin noisycelebrations. Everyone should ensure strict compliance of Covid protocol in such gatherings. Face masks, maintenance of social distancing, and sanitising of hands to break the chain of disease transmission should be ensured, Principal Secretary, Disaster Management, Dr A Jayathilak said in an order. No public gatherings have been permitted as part of new year celebrations on its eve, the order stated. All new year celebrations should come to a close by 10 pm on Thursday. Action would be initiatedunder various provisions of law against people failing to adhere to the Covid-19 protocols, the order stated. Special directions have been issued to ensure thesafety of families, women and tourists reaching scenic st spots. Patrolling will be strengthened in the state's border areas, coastal strips and trains to ensure that narcotic substances are not brought to the state for the celebrations, the DGP said. Thiruvananthapuram District Collector Navjot Khosa said a special squad will monitor the celebrations in the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-year-eve-celebrations-in-kerala-only-till-10-pm-drones-to-monitor-violations-933712.html
31-12-2020||State||Probe into death of Karnataka LC Deputy Chairman is on, necessary action will be taken: Bommai||Amidst demands from various quarters for an inquiry into the death of Legislative Council Deputy Chairperson S L Dharme Gowda, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the state government was waiting for a preliminary police report. “Taking the postmortem report, death note, and circumstantial evidence into consideration, the police is conducting a preliminary inquiry. Once we get the preliminary report, we will decide what future course of action has to be initiated,” Bommai said. Bommai said the government had taken note of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s call for a ‘high-level inquiry’ into Gowda’s death. Gowda was found dead at a railway track near Kadur on Tuesday. A death note was also reportedly found on the spot, raising questions about the reason behind the alleged suicide. Many leaders, including JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy, attributed it to the ruckus caused in the Upper House on December 15, where Gowda was made to sit on the Chair and heckled. Meanwhile, the government on Thursday began the New Year’s Eve curfew at noon itself, around places like MG Road and Brigade Road, as against its earlier announcement of imposing it by 6 pm. “Based on feedback from officials, it was imposed earlier so that it would be easy to regulate the crowd,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/probe-into-death-of-karnataka-lc-deputy-chairman-is-on-necessary-action-will-be-taken-bommai-933651.html
31-12-2020||State||Karnataka welcomes Centre clearing Rs 1,701.81 crore for Tumakuru Industrial Area||The Karnataka government on Thursday welcomed the Central nod for Rs 1,701.81 crore for the Tumakuru Industrial Area under the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor project. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had approved the proposal of Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) for constructing the Tumakuru Industrial Area on Wednesday. "The central government has cleared Rs 1,701.81 crores for Tumakuru Industrial Area under the Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor project and with an estimated employment generation of 88,500 persons. We thank the Central government for speedy clearance," Karnataka Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar said in a statement. Calling it a landmark decision, Shettar said this will boost employment and economic opportunities in the region in the coming days. This investment will also act as a catalyst to attract more Foreign Direct Investments and ensure the overall development of Tumakuru and surrounding districts, he added. Shettar also wrote a letter to the Prime Minister thanking him for clearing the proposal. In his letter, he said, "Tumakuru being in close proximity to Bengaluru possesses a high potential for industrial development."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-welcomes-centre-clearing-rs-170181-crore-for-tumakuru-industrial-area-933728.html
31-12-2020||State||Karnataka reports 952 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||Karnataka on Thursday logged 952 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths taking the infection count to 9,19,496 and the toll to 12,090, the state health department said. The number of United Kingdom returnees testing positive for Covid-19 rose to 33 with two more additions on Thursday, it said. A total of 2,028 tests had been done for those who travelled from the UK, where a new strain of the virus has been detected. Of this, 1,887 samples returned negative and the test reports of 61 people were awaited. So far, seven people have been found to be carrying the new strain in the state and are being treated in designated government hospitals. The total Covid-19 tally in the state comprised 8,96,116 cumulative discharges, including 1,282 on Thursday. The state has 11,271 active cases of which 194 were being treated in intensive care units of various hospitals, a health department bulletin said. More than half of the cases and fatalities of the day in the state was contributed by Bengaluru Urban district which reported 554 infections and six deaths. Cumulatively, the city has reported 3,88,386 infections, 4,317 deaths, 3,76,835 discharges, including 849 on Thursday. The active cases stood at 7,233. Among other districts that reported fresh infections were Mysuru (48 cases), Dakshina Kannada (35), Tumakuru (28) and Bengaluru Rural (24), the bulletin said. Raichur recorded nil cases while Haveri a lone infection on Thursday. As many as 1,15,451, including 1.06 lakh RT-PCR, tests were done on Thursday, taking the total specimens examined so far to 1.40 crore, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-952-new-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-933759.html
31-12-2020||State||Gold worth Rs 64.13 lakh seized at Mangaluru aiport||Mangalore Air Customs arrested two passengers traveling from Dubai and seized 1.26 kg of smuggled gold worth Rs 64,13,400 at Mangalore International Airport on Wednesday. The passengers had arrived in Mangaluru via flight IX 1814 and have been identified by the officials as Muhammed Zahir Aneez and Wasim Marzan. The duo had smuggled the gold by concealing it in the rectum, they said. Commissioner of Customs Imamuddin Ahmed and Joint Commissioner Joannes George congratulated the officers of Mangalore Air Customs team, led by Dr Kapil Gade, deputy commissioner for their vigilant action in preventing the smuggling activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gold-worth-rs-6413-lakh-seized-at-mangaluru-aiport-933790.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Efforts to trace international air passengers continue in Karnataka||Amid concerns about the new strain of coronavirus in Britain, the number of international passengers who could not be contacted in the state increased to about 300 on Wednesday but police and health officials said they have now traced all but 50 of them. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar described the holdouts as either having wrong information or those who have switched off their phones. “The Home Department has assured that all of them will be traced within 24 hours,” he said. According to DCP Central M N Anucheth, nodal officer of Police Task Force in charge of the tracing operation, many of the traced individuals have told police that they were using a local SIM in lieu of their international numbers. “At the same time, they continued to use WhatsApp accounts tied to their previous numbers,” the DCP said. Police added that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had not made an attempt to reach the individuals through WhatsApp. The BBMP acknowledged that it lacked the means to conduct tracing through electronic media. “Our primary tool of tracing are phone numbers and sending a mobile team to the address. We don’t have the means to conduct tracing using other electronic avenues, such as WhatsApp or email. If such tracing methods are needed, we refer the matter to the police,” said Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner, BBMP. An assessment of government data on 2,158 passengers shows that the government had collated a list of local or Indian mobile phone numbers for 95.79% of passengers. About 4.2% of passengers had given only foreign phone numbers. Meanwhile, a total of 1,669 passengers had given phone numbers based in the United Kingdom, the United States or Europe. Many of these people had also supplied Indian numbers. Meantime, 365 passengers had supplied only Indian numbers. Transit passengers The BBMP added that the remaining 50 “untraceable” were found to have incorrect or out-of-Bengaluru addresses. “None of them were from Bengaluru. This is why they still have not been found,” Cholan said. Police also clarified that about 14 numbers provided to authorities had been entered into the government system incorrectly. “Some had nine digits. Several others were wrong numbers,” the DCP said. In addition, about 20 people are no longer in the state as they were transit category passengers and travelled on to other cities, such as Chennai, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/efforts-to-trace-international-air-passengers-continue-in-karnataka-933444.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Transgenders to jail inmate: Karnataka's Gram Panchayat poll winners a diverse mix||Two transgenders emerged victorious in the gram panchayat elections whose results were out on Wednesday. Several such unconventional victories were recorded across the state, including one candidate who is in jail.  In the Kalahalli panchayat in Hosapete, a transgender Sudha emerged as the first candidate to be elected in close to three decades. She was declared the winner in Kalahalli where candidates were elected unanimously for the last 26 years.  KR Nagar in Mysuru also saw a transgender candidate Devika win. She won ward 7 of Saligrama. "When I visited people's homes seeking votes, they had kind words for me. Now, that they have placed their confidence in me, I will strive to live up to their expectations," she said. In Kodagu, Puliyanda Bopanna, who is currently in judicial custody as an accused in a caste abuse case, won the elections from the Yemmegundi constituency in Virajpet taluk, Kodagu. Bopanna, a BJP-backed candidate, defeated his nearest rival, Congress-backed Yusuf, by 61 votes. Bhopanna filed his nomination while in judicial custody. He was granted bail two days before the polling. The four-time GP member has served as president of the panchayat. In another part of the state, a candidate in Bagalkot won in his 5th attempt. Danappa Asangi had contested unsuccessfully in the past. Even though he failed four times, he tried his luck from ward 6, Navalagi, and won by 16 votes.  In Madikeri taluk, it was double joy for husband and wife Abdul Khader and Sakeera, as both won the election. Both contested from Biligiri 2 (twin seats). While Khader defeated the BJP-backed Darshan to record a second consecutive, his wife Sakeera won against Jayanti. In a similar victory for a family in BV Halli, Channapatna taluk, Ramanagara, Parvatamma won from B V Palya constituency while her daughter-in-law emerged a winner from BCM-A reserved seat.   In Gadag, Guljar Banu, the wife of Shigli Basya, an infamous thief-turned-social crusader, won the polls.  The results did not bring much joy to Renukamma Gadad, a candidate in Bannigol panchayat, Ballari. She was initially declared a winner by a margin of one vote, but lost after recounting to Yashodamma. 60% results declared The State Election Commission said results for 54,041 seats out of the total 91,339 were declared as of 8 pm Wednesday. Results for the remaining 36,781 seats will be available by Thursday morning, it said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/transgenders-to-jail-inmate-karnatakas-gram-panchayat-poll-winners-a-diverse-mix-933445.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt mulling testing of random Covid-19 samples for UK virus||The government is considering genetically sequencing random Covid-19 samples from the public from January in a bid to check whether the new UK novel coronavirus has spread beyond international passengers.  The proposal comes as the state potentially faces the challenges of contending with two variants of the virus. It also comes in the wake of the central government calling for 5% of all Covid-19 swabs in the country to be genomically processed to reveal the mutational fingerprint of virus samples. So far, genomic sequencing of 31 Covid-19 positive individuals among air passengers in Karnataka has found initially seven people infected with the new UK variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, titled B.1.1.1.7. Sources told DH that random sequencing was likely to be introduced after genomic sequencing centres in Karnataka finish processing a backlog of samples collected from the nearly 2,000 international passengers. Sources added that the backlog is due to the limited capacity for sequencing in Bengaluru. Nimhans, which has been carrying out genomic sequencing of Covid-19 samples within weeks of the start of the outbreak, has a capacity of 12 samples per day. Meantime, InStem and the National Centre of Biological Sciences (NCBS), together have a capacity to test 50 samples per day, according to Professor Satyajit Mayor, Director of NCBS. “The capacity can be and should be increased if Karnataka is to test more samples,” Dr Mayor said. While reports suggested that the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had been roped in to help with sequencing, two senior scientists there said they had been given no such information.  At the same time, the Minister of Health, Dr K Sudhakar, said that there was no plan to physically increase the number of testing centers. “We have one in Nimhans. If need be, we will think of equipping other centres to conduct genome sequencing,” he said. While scaling up will eventually happen, it will not be on a mass scale, added Dr C N Manjunath, nodal officer for testing in Karnataka. “Any scaling up would be done by Nimhans and NCBS,” he said. Mayor confirmed that NCBS-Instem had the capacity to increase sequencing by a factor of five if it could employ “multiplexing.” In this method, DNA fragments from different samples are pooled and sequenced all together. This increases sample throughput while reducing time and cost.  At present, the cost to sequence a single sample in a government lab comes to about Rs 20,000 per sample, explained Dr Manjunath. Dr Mayor added that multiplexing could further slash prices per sample. Dr Manjunath clarified that the primary effort of the government would still be on strengthening surveillance measures. “We have understood this virus. The clinical outlook for both variants is the same. However, since an alert has come that the UK variant is present in Karnataka, we are taking precautions,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-mulling-testing-of-random-covid-19-samples-for-uk-virus-933468.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre's delay renders Disaster Mitigation Funds useless||For Karnataka, which is hit by natural disasters year after year, funds allocated to mitigate them will be of little help thanks to the Centre’s delay in issuing guidelines on how they should be used. The 15th Finance Commission had granted Rs 200 crore under the State Disaster Mitigation Funds (SDMF) for projects to protect assets, settlements and eco-systems. Similarly, around Rs 70-crore projects under National Disaster Mitigation Fund (NDMF), which includes Rs 50 crore for an Urban Flood Forecasting and Mitigation System in Bengaluru and a Rs 20 crore project to reduce the impact of droughts, have also not taken off. Authorities are confident that the guidelines will be issued shortly, following which works under the fund can be taken up in the state. However, sources blame the Covid-19 pandemic for the delay by the Centre in notifying the guidelines, adding that it is unlikely that the funds will be put to use this fiscal. For 2020-21 fiscal, the Centre has allocated Rs 1,054 crore under State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and Rs 210 crore under SDMF. This was as per the Finance Commission's recommendation to share National and State Disaster Relief and Mitigation Funds, according to which 80% of the total corpus was set aside for relief and 20% for mitigation. Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka Disaster Management Authority, told DH that the Centre had circulated draft guidelines to all states for feedback. "They are expected to issue the final guidelines shortly," he said. G Sreenivas Reddy, senior consultant for Disaster Management, Revenue Department, said that the funds will be restricted to projects such as providing small interventions to villages susceptible to flooding, or raising the height of bunds near lakes to prevent overflow, constructing retaining walls, to divert floodwaters for drinking water or agricultural purposes and so on. The funds can also be used to prevent landslides in regions frequently affected by them during monsoon. Sources said that though the funds allocated were available, the government was not able to use them for want of guidelines. "We are not sure whether the money can be used this year as notifying guidelines in the final quarter of the fiscal will be of little help in initiating any projects that are identified under the funds," one source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centres-delay-renders-disaster-mitigation-funds-useless-933469.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops revise prohibitory timings in Bengaluru: Section 144 from 12 pm||Bengaluru police have revised the timings of the prohibitory order (Section 144) for New Year to 12 pm today till 6 am on January 1. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant issued a revised order late on Wednesday night. The previous prohibitory order was from 6 pm on December 31 till 6 am on January 1. Everything in the order except the timings remains the same. The revised order came in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the city and the emergence of a new strain of the disease. Pant stated the order is a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the virus in the city during New Year celebrations. Gathering of five or more people and celebrating on public roads is strictly not allowed. There is a ban on any form of gatherings in public places, roads, parks, grounds and open areas. Inhouse celebrations in residential places and private clubs may be held for their residents and members. Organising special events is also banned. People who have booked pubs, restaurants and other establishments are allowed to attend the parties by showing passes to the police if stopped. The safety measures like wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and sanitisation is a must and it is the responsibility of the management of the establishments. A case will be registered for anyone who violates the guidelines under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act along with section 188 of the IPC and other relevant sections of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-revise-prohibitory-timings-in-bengaluru-section-144-from-12-pm-933505.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||199 UK returnees will be traced by Thursday night: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday exuded confidence that the 199 returnees from the United Kingdom who went untraceable will be tracked by the end of the day. Desperate to prevent the spread of the UK mutation of the coronavirus, the Karnataka government is tracking all those who returned from Britain. So far, seven people were found infected by the new variant of the virus. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said 199 people were untraceable of which 97 are foreign nationals, which is why the government was unable to find their contact numbers. Now, the Home Department is trying to find them out. "Of the 199 people, 24 were identified on Wednesday. Most probably, we will find out the rest of the people by the evening," the Minister said. Of the 1,614 people who have arrived from the UK, 30 had tested positive for Covid-19 using the RT-PCR method, he said. Besides them, four of their contacts too were found infected with the virus. "As you all know that seven were found infected with the mutated version of Covid-19, which the Centre has already announced. After that no new cases have come to the light," he explained. The 30 UK returnees and four of their contacts have tested positive for coronavirus, the minister said adding, the state government is treating 34 people in the hospital under strict medical supervision. "All of them are stable. None of them have any serious ailment. We are also keeping a close watch on all the people who were in contact with them," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/199-uk-returnees-will-be-traced-by-thursday-night-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-933596.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah challenges BJP to dissolve assembly, face polls||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday dared the BJP to dissolve the Assembly and face elections.  Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah claimed that the Congress would win a majority and return to power “if elections are held tomorrow” while dismissing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s belief that the people of Karnataka were with the BJP.  He was reacting to Yediyurappa’s claiming that BJP-backed candidates had emerged victorious by winning a majority of the seats in the gram panchayat elections.  “The BJP doesn’t have the people’s support. All that they have is money that they’ve looted,” Siddaramaiah said. “Let the BJP dissolve the Assembly and face elections. If there’s an election tomorrow, the Congress will win a majority and come back to power,” he said.  Yediyurappa, at a news conference, said BJP-backed candidates had won in 3,800-gram panchayats out of the 5,728 that went to polls.  “Yediyurappa is daydreaming,” Siddaramaiah said, on the BJP’s claim that the gram panchayat results were a precursor to the next Assembly elections. “In many places, the BJP didn’t even have candidates for the gram panchayat polls. They took our candidates,” he said.  Although gram panchayat polls are fought without any party symbols, most candidates are affiliated with either one of the three major parties.  JD(S) Legislature Party Leader H D Kumaraswamy said his party had achieved “notable” success in the gram panchayat polls despite the “money and power” of the national parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-challenges-bjp-to-dissolve-assembly-face-polls-933696.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pro-Pak slogans: Police arrest 3 youths in Karnataka||The police have arrested three youths in connection with the raising of pro-Pakistan slogans outside a gram panchayat election vote-counting centre at Ujire in Belthangady taluk. SP B M Laxmi Prasad said the arrested youths have been identified as Mohammed Harshad (22), Dawood (36), and Isak (28). All hail from Pilichandi Kallu in Belthangady taluk, he said. The SP said that the technical teams are examining the video clip, which shows the raising of pro-Pakistan slogans, that went viral. The police have received two more video clippings shot in mobile phones during the incident from the general public. All the video clippings are being examined. The investigation is in progress, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pro-pak-slogans-police-arrest-3-youths-in-karnataka-933789.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tumakuru node key for jobs, economy, says Shettar||The Centre’s approval of Tumakuru as an industrial node under the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC) project will be “a big boost for employment and economic opportunities in the region,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Thursday. Shettar was reacting to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approving the Tumakuru node with an allocation of Rs 1,701.81 crore. Once fully operational, the Tumakuru node under the CBIC is expected to generate employment for 88,500 people. This comes at a time when the state’s new industrial policy 2020-2025 has been strategised to boost investments in the state, Shettar added. “This investment will also act as a catalyst to attract more Foreign Direct Investments and ensure Tumakuru and surrounding districts’ overall development,” Shettar said. He also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanking him for the approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tumakuru-node-key-for-jobs-economy-says-shettar-933791.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||School reopening: Minister assures parents of children's safety||A day before the reopening of schools and colleges for grades 10 and 12 in the state, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar sought to assure the parents of the safety of their wards. The schools/colleges in the state will reopen for grades 10 and 12 on Friday. Also, the classes for the 6th to 9th grades will resume under the Vidyagama programme. “They are not just your children, they are our children too. We will take utmost care of the children at the schools and I want to reassure parents that the schools will be as safe as homes,” said Suresh Kumar. He urged the parents not to send children if they have a cold, cough, or fever-like symptoms. “Along with academics of children, their health is also very important. So parents also should keep an eye on the health of their wards and avoid sending them if there are any symptoms,” he said. “The classrooms have already been sanitised and the same will continue every evening after the classes,” added the minister. Meanwhile, the minister has directed the school authorities to assign one teacher to observe the health of the children. Children with Covid-like symptoms should be isolated in a separate room for a further health examination. The schools are reopening with coordination between several departments including Primary and Secondary Education, Transport, Health and Family Welfare, Rural Development, Revenue and Urban Development. Meanwhile, the reopening of schools for grades 9 and 11 will be decided after January 15, in consultation with Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/school-reopening-minister-assures-parents-of-childrens-safety-933792.html
31-12-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ACB raids premises of Hosapete sub-registrar||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday raided the premises of Hosapete Sub-registrar Prabhakar Mathad in the town as well as those of his relative in Kudligi. The teams, led by Superintendent of Police (ACB) Gurunath B Mattur, simultaneously raided the sub-registrar office and the Basaveshwar Nagar house of the officer and examined thedocuments. A team also searched the house of Mathad’s father-in-law in Kudligi. According to sources, the ACB cops raided the officer on charges of having disproportionate assets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/acb-raids-premises-of-hosapete-sub-registrar-933793.html
31-12-2020||West||Maharashtra govt chalks out project details to restore old temples||Days after formally announcing a plan to restore and preserve ancient temples and create facilities around them which include the Jyotirlingas and Shaktipeeths, the Maharashtra government has started chalking out the finer details. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDCL) will be the nodal agency for the massive project. A professional photographer, wildlife and nature lover, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will personally oversee the implementation. “It is going to be a big project and multiple stakeholders are involved,” MSRDC vice chairman and managing director Radheyshyam Mopalwar told DH, adding that facilities around temple complexes will be increased. Maharashtra is home to five Jyotirlingas – Trimbakeshwar temple (Nashik), Bhimashankar temple (Pune), Grishneshwar temple (Aurangabad), Parli Vaijnath temple (Beed) and Aundha Nagnath temple (Hingoli). There are also four Shaktipeeths in the state – Mahalaxmi temple (Kolhapur), Tuljapur temple (Osmanabad), Saptashrungi temple (Nashik) and Renuka temple (Nanded). Besides these, there are several other temples like the temples of Lord Shiva in Ambernath, Khandoba in Jejuri in Pune, Ekvira Devi temple in Lonavala in Pune, Parshuram temple at Chiplun in Ratnagiri, Shri Vitthal Rukmini temple in Pandharpur in Solapur. As part of the temple's restoration initiative, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government has earmarked Rs 101-crore for the financial year 2021-22 which would be included in next year’s annual budget. The government has also set up a nine-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar to take the plan forward. “The Maharashtra government is in the process of preparing a comprehensive plan for the project, we would be meeting experts in the field of archaeology, architecture and so on,” he said. Some of these temples are under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and Maharashtra government's Directorate of Archaeology and Museums and are of immense heritage importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-chalks-out-project-details-to-restore-old-temples-933526.html
31-12-2020||West||Maharashtra Tourism and Things2do to launch The Mumbai Festival||The Maharashtra government is organising 'The Mumbai Festival' with the state tourism department and social platform Things2do, with an aim to kickstart consumer-driven industries that slumped in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The Mumbai Festival will be held from 25 January to 14 February 2021, following Covid-19 related protocols like social distancing and sanitisation. The festival aims to support enterprises across the city that struggled in 2020 due to the pandemic. “Mumbai's diverse culture and the experiential market has received a new springboard with the signing of this MoU between Maharashtra Tourism and Things2do. It is a platform for the tourists as well as locals of the city to explore places and experience the specialties that our Mumbai has to offer,” state’s tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said. Things2do is one of India's largest hyperlocal communities and runs a social platform called Things2doinMumbai that reaches more than 10 million customers in Mumbai every month. The platform curates and co-creates multiple experiences across a host of local events, nightlife, food festivals, and more. The social platform has brought on board more than 1,000 establishments including some of the best restaurants, malls, shopping centers, resorts to provide their experiences and products as a part of the festival. In addition to this, Things2do is also working with multiple brands to support the festival with deals and offers. The event will encourage domestic tourism as well as inbound tourism from other states. It is the government's initiative to revive the experiences economy and provide the much-needed support to the various players in the retail and F&B industry, the worst hit in this pandemic. "The Mumbai Festival is not a regular shopping festival. It is a one-of-its-kind experience where we will be celebrating the spirit of Mumbai via its diverse culture and experiences. We aim to showcase how the government can work with exciting Startups such as Things2do and support the economy in newer ways,’ said Valsa Nair-Singh, principal secretary, tourism. Yash Rathi and Rahul Agrawal, Co-Founder & Director, Things2do said, "Our team is geared up to provide a special experience to Mumbaikars by bringing together unheard-of experiences.” Vrutika Dawda, Director, Things2Do said that the entire team is looking forward to this opportunity. "Every sale that happens under the umbrella of The Mumbai Festival will contribute a percentage of the proceeds towards a special education cause for the underprivileged."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tourism-and-things2do-to-launch-the-mumbai-festival-933564.html
31-12-2020||West||Thane corporation seeks Maharashtra pollution board nod for project to turn plastic waste in fuel||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) in Thane district has applied to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), seeking its nod to implement a project of producing fuel from plastic waste. The civic body said the move comes after it successfully produced 85 litres of fuel from plastic waste on Tuesday as part of a trial. The plastic waste-to-fuel trial project was carried out at Barave in Kalyan, the KDMC said in a statement on Wednesday. Following the success of the trial, the civic body has applied to the MPCB for permission to produce fuel from such waste, it said. Under the project, one tonne of plastic can be processed in order to produce around 500 litres of fuel. "This fuel can be used for oil boilers, and testing is underway to see if it can be used for vehicles also," a civic official said. The KDMC is carrying out the project in association with Rudra Environmental Solutions, the statement said. Recently, the KDMC introduced a scheme of giving food coupons of 'poli-bhaji' (chapati-vegetables) to people on collection of 5 kg of plastic waste in a bid to encourage citizens towards proper disposal of plastic. KDMC's deputy commissioner of Solid Waste Management Ramdas Kokare said the scheme has been introduced as part of civic body's zero garbage policy. "The town has been grappling with the garbage menance and we have been taking several measures to address it. As part of the latest initiative, we have appealed to citizens to collect their plastic waste. If they give 5 kg of plastic waste at a collection centre, they will get a coupon for 'poli-bhaji' worth Rs 30 in return," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-corporation-seeks-maharashtra-pollution-board-nod-for-project-to-turn-plastic-waste-in-fuel-933572.html
31-12-2020||West||Goa CM rules out night curfew on New Year's eve, January 1||Hours after Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said that the government was mulling a night curfew ahead of the New Year festivities in the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday stepped in and said that there was no question of imposition of a night curfew for December 31 and January 1, when the state is chock-a-block with tourists. "We have not declared a night curfew anywhere for tonight and tomorrow. Everyone should follow SOPs to control the spread of coronavirus. Where there is a party or a hotel or a public place, one needs to follow SOPs," the Chief Minister told reporters in Panaji, hours after his Health Minister's comment triggered panic in the state, which witnesses peak tourist traffic during Christmas and New Year. According to Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar more than 20 lakh tourists had descended in the state from December 25 onwards.   The Goa Chief Minister also made a special request to tourists in order to keep Covid-19 at bay. "I appeal to all tourists, party organisers and especially tourists, to wear masks, maintain social distance and use sanitisers to control coronavirus. This is my request," Sawant said. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had said that the state government is mulling imposing a night curfew on the lines of the one imposed in Karnataka. Rane had also said that strict implementation of the SOPs was the need of the hour vis-a-vis especially because Goa was on the tourism map. "Spoke to the Hon’ble CM on imposing night curfew in the state on lines of the state of Delhi & Karnataka. The file is already in process. Strict SOPs is the need of the hour as Goa is a tourist state," Rane said on Facebook.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-rules-out-night-curfew-on-new-years-eve-january-1-933586.html
31-12-2020||West||DGP’s Central assignment sparks political row||A day after Maharashtra Police chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal opted for a Central assignment, the opposition BJP lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and accused it of not taking senior officers into confidence. However, the MVA government said that Jaiswal has himself sought a Central assignment. Jaiswal, a 1985-batch IPS Maharashtra-cadre officer, who was the director general of police has now been made the director general of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Jaiswal has earlier stints with the Centre and worked with the Special Protection Group (SPG) and Research & Analysis Wing (R&AW). He has worked as Mumbai Police commissioner and Maharashtra DGP in the state. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the government is not taking senior officers into confidence.  “This has happened in Maharashtra for the first time when a DGP heading the state has sought central appointment,” said Fadnavis, an ex-chief minister, who had headed the home department. “The police force comes under the home department  but still it is an independent agency…the home minister and chief minister oversees the functioning,” he said, adding that there was too much interference including on issue of transfer which have perturbed Jaiswal. On the other hand, minister of state for home Shamburaj Desai said that the transfer was as per the wishes of Jaiswal. “He himself has sought that he be moved to the Centre,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dgp-s-central-assignment-sparks-political-row-933590.html
31-12-2020||West||New Year celebrations: Mumbai cops on 'high alert'||The Mumbai Police are on "high alert" and have put in place "anti-sabotage and anti-terror" measures considering the threat to the financial capital during the New Year celebrations, an official said on Thursday. Around 35,000 police personnel will be deployed on the streets of Mumbai to maintain law and order and prevent any untoward incidents on New Year's Eve, the official said. "We are on high alert. We have put in place anti-terror and anti-sabotage measures in view of the New Year celebrations," Mumbai police spokesperson DCP S Chaitanya said. "There will be adequate deployment of police in the city. Nakabandi (road blockades) will be put in place on important roads," he said. The Maharashtra government has put in place a night curfew between 11 pm and 6 am, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Gatherings of more than five persons are not allowed at public places. Party will not be allowed at any hotel, bar, pubs, restaurants after 11 pm," he said. Besides, no boat party or terrace party will be allowed in the city after the prescribed time, Chaitanya said, adding that strong action will be taken against the violators of prohibitory order issued under section 144 of the CrPC. "Apart from the police, personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and home guards will also be engaged in maintaining law and order in the city," he said, adding that special branches like the crime branch and Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) will also on the job. "Drones will be used to a keep vigil and CCTV cameras have been installed at various points," he said. Large gatherings will not be allowed anywhere in Mumbai in view of Covid-19 and use of face masks and social distancing norm will remain mandatory, he said. "Traffic police personnel will also on the road and will take action against the people, if they are found indulging in rash and drunken driving. Breath analysers will not be used this year due to the pandemic, but blood tests of such drivers will be conducted and action will be taken against them if found guilty," Chaitanya said. Meanwhile, the city police appealed to Mumbaikars to celebrate the New Year at home in view of Covid-19. "A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Ghar Pe Raho! Sing along the safety song," the Mumbai Police said on the Twitter handle.  A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y ZGhar Pe Raho!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-year-celebrations-mumbai-cops-on-high-alert-933600.html
31-12-2020||West||Maharashtra: Rape accused on bail sexually assaults, kills child||A three-year-old girl was sexually assaulted and killed by a rape accused who was out on bail in Maharashtra's Raigad district, police said on Thursday. Adesh Patil (34) abducted the girl from her house when she was asleep with her parents at Vadgaon village in Pen tehsil in the early hours of Wednesday, said a police official. The victim's family belongs to a tribal community. Patil took the girl to an isolated place behind a school in the area where he allegedly raped and killed her. The child was found by her grandmother. She was taken to a government hospital where she was declared brought dead, the police official said. Patil had been spotted roaming in the area around the same time, so the police suspected his involvement in the heinous crime. He has several cases registered against him and had secured bail in a rape case only ten days ago, the official said. Police formed a special team to track him down. He was arrested on Wednesday evening and a court sent him in police custody till January 8 on Thursday, the official said. A case has been registered against him under the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Local people staged a protest in Pen over the incident and called for a shut down on Thursday. Maharashtra minister Aditi Tatkare, an MLA from the Raigad district, took to Twitter to ask state home minister Anil Deshmukh to ensure that the accused gets the strictest punishment after a speedy trial. She also demanded compensation for the victim's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rape-accused-on-bail-sexually-assaults-kills-child-933643.html
31-12-2020||West||Elgar Parishad organisers ask Pawar to ensure SIT probe||Organizers of the Elgar Parishad demanded on Thursday that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should fulfill his `assurance' of an SIT probe into the case related to the 2017 conclave. The Pune district administration denied permission for the annual Elgar Parishad -- which is held on December 31 -- this year citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Organisers said on Thursday that they would now hold the event on January 30, though they have yet to secure the necessary permissions. Pune Police had alleged that the Elgar Parishad held in December 2017 had been backed by Maoists, and inflammatory speeches made there led to caste violence near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial. Rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj, Telugu poet Varavara Rao and several others were arrested subsequently for alleged Maoist links. The probe was later taken over by the National Investigation Agency. Akash Sable, one of the organisers, said Pawar had talked about conducting a separate probe by a Special Investigation Team, and he should fulfill the `promise'. Pawar, last December, had criticized the arrest of activists and said he would request the Maharashtra chief minister to form an SIT headed by a retired judge to probe the Pune police's action. Justice (retd) B G Kolse Patil, one of the organisers of Elgar Parishad, said they were fighting to secure people their basic rights, but the event was defamed by certain elements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-organisers-ask-pawar-to-ensure-sit-probe-933660.html
31-12-2020||West||Cong will oppose any proposal to rename Aurangabad: Thorat||Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said if any proposal to rename Aurangabad comes up, his party would strongly oppose it. He said changing the names of places was not a part of the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in which Congress and NCP are partners. "If any proposal about renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar comes up, the Congress will oppose it strongly. Our party does not believe in changing names as it does not lead to development of common man," Thorat told reporters here in response to a query. "Although we are part of the MVA alliance, we will surely oppose this kind of proposal. However, I am not aware of any proposal about renaming Aurangabad," he said. Over two decades ago, the Shiv Sena had first made the demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. A proposal to that effect had been passed in the general body meeting of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. When asked about Congress president Sonia Gandhi's recent letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Thorat said, "Sonia Gandhi is one of the leaders responsible for the formation of the MVA, like (NCP supremo) Sharad Pawar and (Sena president) Uddhav Thackeray." "Just like Sharad Pawar, Sonia Gandhi also has the authority to guide the government," he said. In the letter written to Thackeray, Gandhi had reminded him of the CMP of the MVA government in the state and sought implementation of certain measures for the welfare of Dalits and tribals. "'Saamana' (Sena mouthpiece) writes that Congress is weak now. It is their right as a journalist to write so. But if Uddhav Thackeray also says so, then it is a different thing," Thorat said. "Congress is strong and we have proved it in the legislative council elections in the past. Every party faces problems, but we have the ability to be strong again," he said. Replying to a query over no decision taken yet by Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari on the list of 12 members to be nominated to the Legislative Council from his quota, Thorat expressed hope that the issue would be sorted soon. "The list is with the honourable governor. He has taken some time in this case, but I have faith that he will clear it soon. The proposal which has been signed by the chief minister should be accepted. Such a delay is creating hurdles for those 12 nominees," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cong-will-oppose-any-proposal-to-rename-aurangabad-thorat-933663.html
31-12-2020||West||Ujjwal Nikam appointed as prosecutor in rape-murder case||Amid growing resentment and protests in the wake of kidnapping, rape, and murder of a minor Adivasi girl in Pen in Raigad district, the Maharashtra government on Thursday appointed advocate Ujjwal Nikam as the special public prosecutor in the case. The announcement was made after the minister of state for home Shamburaj Desai rushed to Pen to review the situation. “The case would be assigned to a fast-track court and the government has appointed Ujjwal Nikam as the special public prosecutor,” Desai told reporters. The locals carried out a protest march for the second day and demanded capital punishment for the accused. The accused has been identified as Aadesh Patil, a 32-year-old man. Incidentally, a few years ago he was convicted on charges of rape and jailed – and committed the crime while on parole. The brutal incident took place on Tuesday outside the tribal hamlet of Vadhaon in Pen. The accused kidnapped the girl while her parents were resting. The accused was seen disposing of the body after sexual assault and murder but managed to escape. On Wednesday, the Pen police managed to arrest him. He has been booked for kidnapping, rape, murder under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act. Meanwhile, Vaishali Patil, who is a social activist from Raigad, spoke to the Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and demanded that the case against Patil is run in a fast-track court and that he should be awarded punishment as stringent as was awarded in the Nirbhaya case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ujjwal-nikam-appointed-as-prosecutor-in-rape-murder-case-933701.html
31-12-2020||West||Now, 'monolith' surfaces in Gujarat's Ahmedabad||A 'monolith', the likes of which have appeared and vanished in different parts of the world since November, has now emerged in a garden in Ahmedabad city, Gujarat. This is the first appearance of a monolith, a structure made of shiny steel sheets, in India. The triangular prism-shaped structure, around seven feet tall, became an instant hit among city dwellers after it was spotted in a garden on SG Highway on Thursday morning. The garden is jointly managed by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and a private firm. Situated near Gurudwara in the Thaltej area, it was one of the attractions inaugurated by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani recently. "The monolith has been placed there by the company which takes care of the garden. The structure has been installed by the company for the visitors. People can see their reflection on the shiny surfaces of the structure and take selfies too," said Director, AMC's Garden Department, Jignesh Patel. People began flocking to the garden to get themselves clicked in front of the structure. The first such three-sided steel monolith appeared and disappeared after a few days in a remote desert of Utah, United States. Later, similar structures were spotted in around 30 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/now-monolith-surfaces-in-gujarats-ahmedabad-933772.html
31-12-2020||West||On New Year's eve, Mumbai hotspots wear deserted look||The Gateway of India, a popular tourist hotspot in south Mumbai, wore a largely deserted look on New Year's eve on Thursday as people kept away from the venue in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions placed on public gatherings by the authorities. The iconic sea-facing British-era monument, which used to be chock-a-block with New Year revellers in normal times, had a thin presence of citizens and heavy deployment of police on the last day of 2020 as Mumbai prepared to ring in 2021. Due to Covid-19, New Year celebrations have been a low key affair this time with people largely staying indoors and returning home early in view of the night curfew. Mumbai is under curfew from 11 pm to 6 am till January 5. Besides the Gateway of India, other popular destinations in Mumbai for New Year revellers were also largely empty. Heavy police deployment was witnessed at the Gateway of India. "There is no crowd this year...in the past people in thousands use to flock the Gateway of India on the New Year eve," said a police official on duty at the spot. "People used to start gathering at the venue around sunset every year and we had to disperse them after 12 am. But today very few people came. I haven't seen such a scenario," he said. Police were checking people coming to the Gateway of India and ensuring they followed Covid-19-related norms. Barricades were put up to regulate the flow of people and road traffic. The same situation was witnessed at Marine Drive, Girgaum Chowpatty in South Mumbai and other locations in the city, which are known for gatherings on New Year's eve. Considering prohibitory orders and the night curfew, most people chose to stay at home, party with families, and order food online, said Pradeep Thakur, manager of a pub. Mumbai police personnel were on the streets in strength to maintain law and order and prevent any untoward incidents. Traffic police were also seen on the roads to curb drunken and rash driving cases. The Mumbai Police are on "high alert" and have put in place "anti-sabotage and anti-terror" measures considering the threat to the financial capital during the New Year celebrations, an official said earlier in the day. We have put in place anti-terror and anti-sabotage measures in view of the New Year celebrations," Mumbai police spokesperson DCP S Chaitanya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/on-new-years-eve-mumbai-hotspots-wear-deserted-look-933802.html
