11-01-2022||New Delhi||Kejriwal reviews Covid preparedness at Lok Nayak hospital||Amidst surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday reviewed the preparedness at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital."In the ongoing fight against Corona, today I visited LNJP Hospital and took stock of the preparations. Arrangements are in place in terms of beds, medicines and oxygen levels," he tweeted, adding, "The good thing is that corona patients coming to hospitals in this wave are very less, but still, avoid infection, take care of yourself."Health Minister Satyendra Jain had said on Saturday that the Delhi government has decided to increase 5,650 normal beds and 2,075 ICU beds for Coronavirus patients in 14 hospitals, along with 2,800 beds in eight Covid-care centres."Around 13,300 beds are still available for patients in Delhi hospitals. It has been decided to increase the number of beds. The Delhi government is ready to deal with the most serious situation. Delhi's health system is fully prepared to prevent this wave of Coronavirus and provide timely treatment to all the people of the state," he had added.Delhi reported a 25 per cent surge in Covid-19 cases after recording 19,166 fresh cases. With this, the infection tally has climbed to 15,68,896.Meanwhile, the city has recorded 17 Covid deaths on the second consecutive day, pushing the death toll to 25,177.To curb the spread of infection, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed all the private offices, barring those under exempted categories in the national capital, to follow work from home. "All private offices, except those which are falling under the 'Exempted Category' as prescribed in DDMA's GRAP order dated 08.08.21. The practice of work from home shall be followed," the order read.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/kejriwal-reviews-covid-preparedness-at-lok-nayak-hospital-360331
11-01-2022||New Delhi||Delhi govt to start online yoga classes for Covid patients in home isolation from Wednesday||The Delhi government will launch online yoga and meditation classes for Covid patients in home isolation from January 12, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.Under the initiative, each Covid patient will be sent a link to register for yoga classes. From Wednesday, trained instructors will conduct hour-long classes in the morning and evening, he said.Each class will comprise 15 patients. The participants can also interact with their instructor.Stressing that yoga can help boost immunity, Kejriwal said the Delhi government had made arrangements to conduct online classes for up to 40,000 patients in home isolation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/delhi-govt-to-start-online-yoga-classes-for-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-from-wednesday-360297
11-01-2022||New Delhi||Migrant labourers not leaving Delhi, says police||Delhi Police have denied reports of exodus of migrant labourers from the national capital over the fear of imposition of another lockdown in the city, an official said here on Tuesday.“Labourers are not migrating from the city. These are all rumours,” the official said.DCP (East district) Priyanka Kashyap also shared a similar message stating: “No such mass movement of labourers has been reported or is happening”.IANS had on January 9 reported that migrant labourers, who during the previous coronavirus-induced lockdown ran out of food, struggled to access healthcare and faced acute livelihood problems, were once again returning to their home states fearing that the weekly curfew may be converted into a lockdown as the surge in the cases of novel coronavirus continued unabated.However, the weekend curfew was not extended beyond January 9.Delhi on Monday recorded 19,166 fresh cases, raising the infection rate to 25 per cent, highest since May 5.According to an earlier IANS report, several migrant labourers have already left for their home states fearing lockdown in the national capital.“Last time, I got stuck in the national capital with my family. Duration of lockdown was extended gradually and I faced a lot of hardship. That’s why when this time I heard of curfew, I left the national capital,” said a migrant labourer Hemant Maurya. He further said: “If the curfew is not extended, we will come back. Fearing lockdown, I left for home on January 6. We will face problems due to unemployment, but if life is saved, we will find some work. This time I was accompanied by four fellow labourers.”—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/migrant-labourers-not-leaving-delhi-says-police-360296
11-01-2022||New Delhi||Delhi: 46 Covid deaths in five days, 11 were vaccinated with both doses||As per the Delhi health department data, out of the total 46 deaths recorded between January 5 to 9 in the national capital, 11 people were vaccinated with both doses of vaccine against Covid-19.The national capital so far has recorded a total of 70 Covid deaths in this month. The capital city has recorded 17 deaths for two consecutive days on Saturday and Sunday.Of the total 46 deaths in five days, 34 had comorbidities such as cancer and heart and liver diseases. As per the data, 21 people with comorbidities got infected with Covid after being admitted to the hospitals. Of the total deaths, 32 patients were admitted into the ICU ward of the hospital.More than half of the deaths in the last five days were people above 60 years of age. Of these, 25 were in the 60 plus age bracket, while 14 patients were from 41 to 60 age group. Five deaths have been reported from the 21 to 40 age group, while one from 16 to 20 and one from zero to 15 age group.Of the total deaths, 12 succumbed on the same day of the hospital admission as per the data. 11 patients died within one day of hospital admission, 6 died after two days of admission. 14 people died within three to seven days and three died after one week of hospital admission.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-46-covid-deaths-in-five-days-11-were-vaccinated-with-both-doses-360294
11-01-2022||New Delhi||66 inmates, 48 staffers of 3 Delhi jails test positive for Covid||Sixty-six inmates and 48 staffers of three jails in Delhi have tested positive for Covid, officials said on Tuesday."None of those infected is serious. We are taking all precautions related to Covid," Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.According to data shared by the jail authorities, 66 inmates - 42 in Tihar and 24 in Mandoli jail - had tested positive for Covid till Monday.Among the 48 infected staffers, 34 are from Tihar, six from Rohini jail and eight from Mandoli jail.As part of the steps taken to contain the spread of the viral disease in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini jail complexes, prison dispensaries have been turned into Covid care centres. An oxygen plant in Tihar will be functional soon, the officials said.Many medical isolation cells have been set up for inmates showing mild symptoms of Covid, they said.Those who test positive but are asymptomatic will be kept in separate isolation cells within the same jail.The 120-bed hospital in Tihar and the 48-bed facility in Mandoli have been converted into Covid health centres.The jail administration said four committees had been formed to look after the infected inmates and staffers.Social distancing among staff members and inmates is followed to the extent possible. Inmates are mostly restricted to their wards and awareness programmes about following Covid norms are conducted regularly, the officials said.As of January 7, a total of 18,528 prisoners were lodged in the three jails of Delhi Prisons. Tihar has the maximum number of inmates at 12,669, Mandoli 4,018 and Rohini 1,841. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/66-inmates-48-staffers-of-3-delhi-jails-test-positive-for-covid-360284
