02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM greets Indian hockey team for reaching semis||Veterans raise pension, welfare issues with MoDChandigarh: Ex-servicemen’s associations raised a host of issues pertaining to their pension benefits, medical facilities, post-retirement rehabilitation and welfare measures at a meeting with the Secretary, Defence Services Welfare, in the Ministry of Defence. Revision of their pension under the one rank-one pension formula, setting up of a Veterans’ Commission, veterans hospitals under the ECHS, etc., were discussed at the meeting. TNSOne held, several booked for illegal mining in FazilkaFazilka: A man was arrested and another booked for illegal sand mining in Fazilka district. Sagar Singh, a resident of Khui Khera village, was arrested with a sand-laden tractor-trailer near Sukhera Bodla village. Also, the police confiscated a sand-laden tractor-trailer near Chack Sotrian village and booked unidentified persons. OCCurbs eased, devotees throng Abohar shrineAbohar: As the government announced further Covid relaxations, the annual Sawan Mela at the dargah of the Panjpeers of Multan in Abohar attracted hundreds of Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims. The devotees had started thronging the mazars of the five saints to pay obeisance on the eve of the annual fair since Friday. Intriguingly, the mazaars of Panjpeeranis located near the ancient dargah had only a handful of visitors. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjab-cm-greets-indian-hockey-team-for-reaching-semis-291638
02-08-2021||Bathinda||Block manager booked for  Rs1L extortion in Bathinda||A case has been registered against a block mission manager for allegedly extorting Rs 1 lakh from an educational training centre in Bathinda.A complaint was lodged with the police by Vijay Kalra, president of Rosy Mary Educational Trust, Bathinda, against Chand Singh, a block mission manager, who recently inspected the trust’s centre here. Kalra alleged on July 23, Chand Singh came to a centre being run by them on the Malout road where he met his son Gagan Kalra, and told him that if he had to run the courses at the centre, he should give him Rs 1 lakh per course. Cantt police station SHO Gurmeet Singh said, “An FIR has been registered under Sections 384 and 506 of the IPC against Chand Singh. We will investigate the allegations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/block-manager-booked-for-rs1l-extortion-in-bathinda-291634
02-08-2021||Sameer Singh||No fund for wages, Ghudda sports school’s future uncertain||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 1Coaches, sports teachers and other staff at Government Sports School, Ghudda, here have not been paid their salaries for the past over six months.The sports school that nurtures talented players in 11 disciplines of different indoor and outdoor sports, has produced a sizable number of national and international players. The school had not been getting required funds, and as a result, diet plans of athletes had to be curtailed, coercing few players to even quit the school.Sources in the school said with the required funds not being released, running the school had become difficult.A coach, requesting anonymity, said: “We cannot expect a player to perform until he gets the required diet for the sport he plays. Similarly, without funds, we cannot buy the equipment or maintain existing infrastructure or take part in competitions (at other venues). Even our salaries were being paid through the grants released by the administration but now, nobody seems to be bothered.”Established in 2011, sprawling in around 16 acres of land and located on the outskirts of Bathinda city, the sports school currently has more than 50 employees, including coaches, sports teachers, groundmen, hostel staff, caretakers and clerical staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-fund-for-wages-ghudda-sports-schools-future-uncertain-291624
02-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Promised water supply, BKU members end stir||Abohar, august 1Farmers, who had been staging a dharna at the railway overbridge (RoB) on the Abohar-Hanumangarh state highway for the past 11 days, yesterday ended their stir after holding a meeting with senior officials of the Irrigation Department.The dharna had led to disruption of interstate traffic besides creating problems for local residents as most of the colleges and schools are located on the other side of the RoB. The farmers removed their tents in the evening.Bhartiya Kisan Union leaders said Superintending Engineer, Ferozepur, Rajesh Kumar promised to make sufficient canal water available to the villages located at the tail-end of the irrigation system in Abohar and Balluana segments. The officials reportedly agreed to start early cleaning of the Sirhind canal system, claiming there would be no dearth of funds from the state government.PPCC ex-president Sunil Jakhar had earlier spoken to Irrigation Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department, Sarvjit Singh, and urged them to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/promised-water-supply-bku-members-end-stir-291616
