09-08-2021||Sameer Singh||8,200 Punjab villages without patwaris, work in limbo||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 8The acute shortage of staff in the Revenue Department has been adversely affecting work in the state. ‘Overburdened’, patwaris have disengaged themselves from the charge being given to them for additional circles since June 21.As a result, residents are at the receiving end. As per the data accessed by The Tribune, 8,200 villages in the state are without patwaris currently and of the total 4,716 patwar circles, 2,894 are lying vacant. To make up for the shortage of staff, the department had given additional charge of three to four patwar circles on an average to one patwari.The data also suggests the work in Nawanshahr district is the worst affected with only 33 patwaris working against 179 sanctioned posts while 146 posts are lying vacant. Overburdened with additional charge, 33 patwaris were catering to residents of 400 villages in the district. Similarly, 24 patwaris have been catering to 362 villages in Pathankot district while of the 99 sanctioned posts, 75 are lying vacant.1.5K to be recruitedWe are going to fill 1,500 vacant posts of patwari. The process of recruitment has already been initiated. —Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Revenue MinisterIn the Doaba region, only 15 to 25 per cent patwaris are working against the sanctioned posts. In Jalandhar, as many as 111 patwaris have been catering to residents of 699 villages. Harbir Singh Dhindsa, president of the Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, said, “The number of districts has increased from 13 in the 1990s to 23 in the state but the number of sanctioned posts of patwari has remained fixed at 4,716 for decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/8-200-punjab-villages-without-patwaris-work-in-limbo-294905
09-08-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda stadium in shambles, athletes travel 180 km for practice||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 8The mud track and grass field at the multipurpose stadium in Bathinda lie in a shambles. Pebbles and stagnating rainwater on the uneven track paints a picture of gross neglect towards maintaining the sporting infrastructure.The project for converting the mud track into a synthetic one under the Khelo India initiative hasn’t yet seen the light of the day. Athletes from Bathinda and other villages were forced to travel up to 80 km to a sports school at Ghudda village before the authorities there denied the permission to practise. Subsequently, now athletes travel more than 180 km from Bathinda to Sangrur to practise on a synthetic track at War Heroes Stadium there.Officials indifferentDespite repeated requests, we couldn't obtain permission from the district administration to practise at a sports school. We are now forced to travel 180 km to Sangrur to use the track there. —Harnek Singh, Coach, Sports departmentNew track soonThere was a proposal to build a synthetic track, but it was shelved as the multipurpose stadium's land is on lease. We are now planning to introduce a cinder track soon for athletes. —Parminder Singh, District sports officer, bathindaHarnek Singh, athletics coach, Sports Department, said: “There is no synthetic track in Bathinda city. I used to take athletes to a sports school at Ghudda by traveling 80 km from Bhai Rupa village in the district. We were asked for permission, which despite repeated requests couldn’t be obtained from the district administration. Left with no alternative, we are now forced to travel all the way to Sangrur for the practice.”Players practicing on mud tracks find it difficult to acclimatise and perform on a synthetic track at national and international events.Sources said many players had sustained injuries due to running on the dilapidated track at the multipurpose stadium, but the Sports Department failed to learn any lesson.A long-distance runner from the city said: “The shock absorption while running on a synthetic track is way better than that on a regular ground or grass. It ensures a stable and faster tread. Even a mild rain disrupts the practice sessions. Athletes can practise on the synthetic track even though it gets wet.”Harnek Singh said: Neeraj Chopra could win the first gold medal in athletics at Tokyo as he had been training in Russia with advanced sporting infrastructure and technology for past couple of years.”“Despite the lack of infrastructure, athletes trained in Bathinda have won 25 medals at national level and more than 200 medals at state-level sporting events in past 10 years. And there are national records by athletes from Bathinda in track events. It’s the responsibility of the government to provide infrastructure, training and proper diet to athletes if we expect them to do better,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-stadium-in-shambles-athletes-travel-180-km-for-practice-294910
