10-08-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda woman consumes poison with her son, daughter; case filed||A one-year-old boy on Tuesday died after his mother allegedly poisoned him. After this, she poisoned her three-year-old daughter, and then took the toxic substance herself at Mandi Kalan Village at Bathinda district.The three-year-old girl is struggling for her life.Even the condition of the mother is "serious, and she along with her daughter are undergoing treatment at a private hospital here".Ballianwali police have registered a case of murder against the mother.The one-year-old deceased boy has been identified as Gurpreet Singh. "An investigation is underway. The reason behind this remains unknown," the police said.Jagtar Singh—a resident of Mandi Kalan Village—told the police that he was married to Manpreet Kaur four years ago. Now, he has two children. When he returned from work two days ago, his wife was beating his daughter. She was also "threatening to kill the children bygiving them poison".On Sunday, his wife went through with it. She poisoned both the children and "swallowed the poison herself".As soon as he came to know, he reached home and rushed all three to the Civil Hospital, Rampura, where the doctors referred them to Bathinda. His one-year-old son Gurpreet Singh died on the way, while three-year-old daughter Husanpreet Kaur and his wife Manpreet Kaur are under treatment at the hospital.Meanwhile, Investigating Officer ASI Kuldeep Singh said that based on the statement of Jagtar Singh, a case of murder has been registered against Manpreet Kaur and the next action has been started.The woman will be arrested on release from the hospital. A case under sections 302, 207 and 309 of IPC has been registered against the accused mother Manpreet Kaur at Ballianwali police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-woman-consumes-poison-with-her-son-daughter-case-filed-295708
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket Tourney: Mohali beat Bathinda, claim title||A fine contribution by Jahsanjot Singh (66) and Aryan Bhatia (55) helped Mohali win the Punjab State Inter-District U-19 One-Day Cricket Tournament. The hosts registered a 26-run over Bathinda (by VJD method) in a rain-interrupted match.Batting first, Mohali lads posted 242/5 in 50 overs. Bhatia and Jahsanjot raised a 64-run partnership for the fourth wicket. Bhatia was trapped in front by Delove Kumar Goel for 55 off 69 balls and Jahsanjot posted unbeaten 68 off 63 balls.Earlier, Jobanpreet Singh and Rushil Srivastva opened the innings and raised a 55-run partnership. However, the partnership was broken after Jobanpreet was run out for 29 off 42 balls. Srivastva and Bhatia added 44 runs for the third wicket. Srivastva fall prey to Abir Kohli for 52 of 81 balls. Goel (2/36) was the lone main wicket taker for the bowling side.After the rain interrupted the match, the target was revised to 128 runs in 26 overs. However, Bathinda lads could only score 102/2 in 26 overs. Uday Partap Sharan (37) and Shiv (31) were the two main run scorers for the side. Raguvar Narang (2/22) was the main wicket taker for the bowling side. The winners were awarded Rs50,000 and a winners’ trophy, while the runners-up bagged Rs25,000 and a trophy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cricket-tourney-mohali-beat-bathinda-claim-title-295566
10-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Dead gangsters ‘alive’ on FB||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 9Though many dreaded gangsters have been killed by the police in the past, groups and accounts in their name continue to run actively on Facebook.Operated from abroadWe’ve written to persons concerned to deactivate these accounts, most of which are operated from abroad... Selling weapons through social media is a serious issue. We’ll keep a check on it. — Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk, Bathinda SSPGangsters Lawrence Bishnoi Group and Sampat Nehra on their social media platforms have announced to take revenge of Vicky Middukhera murder. An account in the name of Nehra has posted: “Will take revenge of his murder by killing four for one.”Bishnoi group has posted: “Vicky Middukhera had no link with our criminal activities and whosoever is responsible for his killing, be prepared for his death.” A few days ago, a profile in the name of Vicky Gounder brothers had posted: “Brother Rana Kandowalia has been murdered. Whoever did this should get ready as we will take revenge.”A police official said: “Bishnoi and Nehra are popular among youngsters and to keep themselves relevant, they use social media to attract youth, who fall in the trap for easy money and fame.” Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said most of the accounts in their names were being operated from abroad. “But we keep a track on such activities and have also written to persons concerned to deactivate these accounts. It’s a tedious task and the jurisdiction also plays a major role as most of the times these pages are operated from multiple locations,” he said.In violation of rules, some even brandish weapons on Facebook. In some of the posts on these gangsters’ profiles, several people have provided their contact numbers to sell weapons. The SSP said selling or supplying weapons through social media was a serious issue. “We will keep a check on this as well,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/dead-gangsters-alive-on-fb-295350
