20-08-2021||Sameer Singh||3 deer die at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 19Three female deer, aged three to six months, are reported to have died within a short span at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda on Thursday.As per information, the deer were in sound health and fainted all of a sudden at the safari situated inside the zoo. Prima facie, it appears the deer died due to the hot and humid conditions, said a zoo official.Sultry conditions may be factorIt appears the deer died due to extreme humid conditions. The exact cause will be ascertained once post-mortem reports are received. Pawan Sridhar, forest range officer, bir talab zooPawan Sridhar, Forest Range Officer, Bir Talab Zoo, said: “As per preliminary examination, it appears the deer died due to extreme humid conditions. The exact cause of death could not be ascertained and the carcasses have been sent to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, for a post-mortem examination. Things will be clear once we get the reports.”While the zoo authorities ruled the foot-and-mouth disease among the dead animals, there is fear of the deer being infected.Sridhar said: “We have examined the animals and haven’t found any signs of the foot-and-mouth disease. The deer safari is closed for public in the wake of the pandemic, so there is little chance of spread of infection inside the premises. Moreover, the mating period is on and the deer can often be seen fighting.” There is a hospital inside the zoo but in the absence of a veterinary doctor, sick animals do not get timely treatment. The zoo, located on the outskirts of the city, has around 150 deer of four species.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/3-deer-die-at-bir-talab-zoo-in-bathinda-299569
20-08-2021||Bathinda||Two arrested for gangster Kulbir Naruana’s murder||The police have arrested two more persons in connection with the murder of gangster Kulbir Naruana in July. The police also recovered six pistols and two cars from their possession.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “On June 21, some armed men had opened fire at gangster Kulbir Naruana’s car in which he was travelling. Then, the police on Naruana’s statement had registered a case against gangster Mandeep Singh, Fateh Singh, Mann Singh and Neeraj under relevant sections of the Arms Act and IPC.”Mandeep, Fateh and their aide Amandeep Singh subsequently fled to Uttarakhand. On July 19, the Punjab Police arrested them. On August 12, the Bathinda police brought them from Uttarakhand on a production warrant and secured their police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/two-arrested-for-gangster-kulbir-naruanas-murder-299581
