23-08-2021||Bathinda||Man killed in Bathinda roof collapse||Heavy rain has caused a flood-like situation with almost all roads getting waterlogged in the city. The downpour has brought life to a standstill. A person was killed when the roof of his house collapsed in the Old Thana area in Bathinda.As per information, 50-year-old Manohar Singh died while his 22-year-old son was injured in the incident. Their treatment is going on at the local Civil Hospital. Residents are suffering as rainwater has entered their houses and shops in various localities of the city. The situation turned so grim that Bathinda MC Deputy Mayor Harmander Singh also got stuck in a waterlogged road. He had to get out as his Innova submerged into rainwater.The Power House road, Sirki Bazaar, District Administrative Complex road, Civil Lines, Paras Ram Nagar, Ganesha Nagar, Amrik Singh Road and Mall Road have been badly affected post the downpour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-killed-in-bathinda-roof-collapse-300700
23-08-2021||Sameer Singh||Waterlogging after rain in Bathinda; dengue threat looms||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 22Though dengue and malaria have started spreading tentacles in the district, stagnant rainwater can be spotted on roads, and in public places and residential areas of the city. The city witnessed rain four days ago.Stagnant water can be seen even in posh areas, including Civil Lines, and near residences of administration and police officials as well as the district administrative complex. Low-lying areas are worst-hit.Raman Goyal, MayorNew pipelines laid in some areasWe have installed new pipelines in some areas. Residents can raise a formal complaint with us, if there is stagnant water in their areas.Sources in the Health Department said it was a cause for concern that even the posh areas of the city and those adjacent to the residences of the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police remained inundated. This could result in spread of vector-borne diseases, they said.Though the health department officials claimed they had been taking steps to prevent breeding of larvae in different parts of the district, without a proper drainage system, the threat of spreading of dengue and malaria looms large.As per the Health Department records, so far, seven cases of dengue and two cases of malaria had surfaced in the district during this season.The ground reality belies the claim of the Bathinda Municipal Corporation that crores of rupees had been spent to maintain sewerage in the city. Even after mild rain, city residents could be seen wading through waist-deep water, said the sources.Mayor Raman Goyal said, “We have been making efforts to drain out the rainwater from all areas in the city. We have installed new pipelines in some areas. Residents can raise a formal complaint with us, if there is stagnant water in their areas, and we will resolve it on priority.”Jaswinder Sharma, Health and Sanitary Inspector, district Health Department, said, “The teams of the department have been spraying medicine in stagnant water in different parts of the district to avoid breeding of dengue larvae. We have been conducting regular fogging in residential areas, in coordination with the Municipal Corporation. However, draining out water does not fall in our jurisdiction.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/waterlogging-after-rain-in-bathinda-dengue-threat-looms-300711
23-08-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda scientists discover new algae||A team of marine biologists from the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, has discovered a new species of marine green algae from Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The green seaweed is named as Acetabularia jalakanyakae.Authors said they chose the name as a tribute to the goddess of oceans. Jalakanyaka in Sanskrit literally means mermaid and a goddess of oceans. “The newly discovered alga is stunning; it has caps with intricate designs as if it were umbrellas of a mermaid,” said Dr Felix Bast, who led the study.Dr Bast, on a family trip to Andaman and Nicobar Islands in May 2019, stumbled upon these algae. He said, “At first I thought it to be Acetabularia acetabulum, or a variant of this species. But then the cap looked rather unique with intricate designs. I brought back the algal samples to the lab. After meticulous taxonomic works that lasted for more than one and a half years, it turned out to be a new species.”The main feature of the newly discovered species is that the plant is made up of one gigantic cell with a nucleus. The scientists spent more than 18 months sequencing the plant DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and comparing its form with other plants in the lab. The paper describing the discovery has been accepted for publication in the journal Indian Journal of Geo-Marine Sciences published by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.Andaman and Nicobar Islands has some of the last remaining healthy coral reefs in the world. These coral reefs support a host of other organisms, including a rich tapestry of algae. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-scientists-discover-new-algae-300701
