24-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Unable to get in touch with kin, Afghan students in Bathinda seek support||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 22Ten Afghan students at the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, have spent every moment worrying about their kin back home for the past several days. They are anxious as they are unable to contact their families during this difficult time.StudentWorried for family members in KabulI am afraid at the turn of events in Kabul. I was planning to finish my course and return home, but who could have imagined that things would take a turn for the worse.The fast-changing scenario back home has shattered their hopes as they stare at an uncertain fate for their families. A student, wishing anonymity, says, “I am afraid at the turn of events in Kabul. My family is there. I was planning to finish my course and return home, but who could have imagined that things would take a turn for the worse.”To address concerns, Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari, Vice Chancellor, met with Afghan students enrolled in various programmes and assured them of providing necessary support and care. During the meeting, students from Afghanistan spoke about the current situation prevailing in their country. They shared their concerns regarding visa extension, ICCR scholarship, hostel accommodation and financial issues.In the current academic year, total 16 Afghan students are studying in the university, six of whom went back home during the semester break but have so far been unable to return. In addition to this, 11 more students from Afghanistan have taken admission in the university in the 2021-22 session but they are stuck in Afghanistan and yet to reach India. Prof Vinod K Garg, Dean, Student Welfare, said the students that their problems had been listed by the university authorities and all possible help would be provided to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/unable-to-get-in-touch-with-kin-afghan-students-in-bathinda-seek-support-300717
24-08-2021||Bathinda||Courses go online, Bathinda PG owners hit hard||With the immigration sector yet to recover post-lockdown, shadow of Covid still looms large over it. Fearing the anticipated third wave, students, who are preparing for IELTS, are continuing opting for the online mode, which has come as a setback for hostels and PG accommodation owners, who are bearing huge losses since March last year.Owing to the craze of settling abroad weighing heavy on the minds of youth, the Ajit Road area in Bathinda had emerged as a hub of IELTS and immigration centres in the southern Malwa region for the past five years.This trend had also led to mushrooming of PG accommodations in the area, but now with the downfall in the number of students opting for physical classes, the PG business has been hit hard.Balram Singh, a city resident, said: “I was running a PG in a rented accommodation in the Ajit Road area and for two years I did good business. But due to Covid, the number of students in the area decreased significantly and I had to shut the business for being unable to generate income for the past few months.” Dinesh Sharma, another resident, said, he runs a girls PG in his house, but since March last year, it has been lying vacant and there is uncertainty as to when would the situation improve. — TNSBattling for survivalWith the numbers of students reducing drastically in the area, small-time entrepreneurs running eateries, stationary shops, gift shops and others, have also been hit and are battling for survival||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/courses-go-online-bathinda-pg-owners-hit-hard-300718
24-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Direct flights barred, students pay over Rs 2 lakh to reach Canada||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 13With the Canadian government extending the ban on direct flights from India till September 21 in view of the rising Covid cases, students from the region are forced to shell out huge amounts to reach their destination.Expensive detourSources said a significant number of students from Punjab and Chandigarh, who have taken admission in Canadian universities, are taking indirect routes despite the high costs.Most of them are going via Germany, Mexico, Malaysia, Maldives, Serbia, Qatar and other countries. Airfares for these indirect routes are two to three times more than those for direct flights.Chanpreet Kaur of Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda has gone to Canada via Mexico a few days back. The travel cost her more than Rs 2 lakh. Another student from Punjab went from Delhi to Toronto via Frankfurt. He waited at the terminal for 28 hours, got a flight to Montreal and from there he boarded a train to Toronto.The sources said amid the looming third wave fear, parents were in a hurry to send their wards abroad even if it came at an additional cost. Many others are wary of the risks involved. “Almost all students are travelling abroad for the first time. Most of them are at the mercy of agents,” said a parent whose son is all set to take a flight to Canada via Doha this week.Parmeet Sethi, an immigration expert, said, “The students are worried about their future. The ban has added to their anxiety.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/direct-flights-barred-students-pay-over-rs-2-lakh-to-reach-canada-297210
