29-08-2021||---||SAD announces 3 more candidates for Punjab Assembly elections; Maluka refuses to contest||Bathinda, August 29The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday announced the names of three more candidates for the forthcoming Punjab Assembly elections.Senior party leader and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka has been fielded from Rampura Phul, while Parkash Singh Bhatti will contest from Bathinda Rural. The party has fielded Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bucho.  These three seats fall in Bathinda district.“SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced three more candidates for Vidhan Sabha election. Mr Sikandar S Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda Rural & Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bhuchon assembly constituency,” said SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema in a tweet.Meanwhile, Sikander Singh Maluka refused to contest from Rampura Phul constituency after his name figured in the list of three candidates.Maluka said the ticket should be given to his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka.After his candidature for Rampura Phul seat was announced, Maluka said his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka has been working in this constituency for the last one year and the ticket should be given to his son.He said the party did not consult him before announcing his name for the Rampura Phul seat.Maluka said he should be fielded from Maur seat. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sad-announces-3-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-elections-maluka-refuses-to-contest-303741
29-08-2021||Bathinda||Blood transfusion in Bathinda: Victim’s spouse, 3-year-old daughter HIV +ve||The adverse effects of the HIV-infected blood given to children and a woman admitted to the Civil Hospital in Bathinda last year have started appearing as the husband and 3-year-old daughter of the woman have also tested HIV-positive.However, the report of her 5-year-old son has come out negative. Sonu Maheshwari, president of NGO Naujawan Welfare Society, has promised justice to the family. The victim claimed the careless staff of the Civil Hospital had ruined her family. Her husband had stopped going to work after being diagnosed with the disease, which had also worsened their financial condition. She would now have to depend on medicines all her life. The family has demanded help and strict action against those who donated infected blood.Notably, a woman was admitted to the medical ward at the hospital for loss of blood in May last year. The woman was given two units of blood. The next day, more blood was required.A regular donor donated his blood through an NGO at the hospital but officials, without checking the blood, administered it to the patient. It was later found that the donor was HIV-positive. After an inquiry, a case was registered against three employees of the blood bank at the Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/blood-transfusion-in-bathinda-victims-spouse-3-year-old-daughter-hiv-ve-303357
