30-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Fielded by SAD from Rampura Phul, Sikander Singh Maluka demands Maur seat||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 29In a major embarrassment to the SAD high command, a confidant of the Badal family and senior leader Sikander Singh Maluka today refused to contest the Assembly poll after his candidature was announced from the Rampura Phul Assembly seat in a list issued by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Not consultedI was not consulted by party before my name was announced. I will not contest from Rampura Phul, rather my son Gurpreet Singh will contest from there. — Sikander Singh Maluka, SAD LeaderBrar likely to get ticket from maurIt is learnt that SAD leader Jagmeet Singh Brar is likely to be given ticket from the Maur segment. He has started holding meetings in the area.Maluka said, “I was not consulted by the party before announcing my name. I will not contest from Rampura Phul, but my son Gurpreet Singh will contest the election from here.”Maluka is eyeing two tickets — one for his son from his home seat Rampura Phul, and second for himself from the Maur Assembly seat.Maluka said, “For more than four decades, I have been doing the work assigned to me by the party with utmost honesty. The party high command should announce my candidature from the Maur seat.”Maluka also said if the SAD did not want him to contest from the Maur constituency, then he would take up any other responsibility given by the party. In a tweet, SAD general secretary Daljit Singh Cheema today said: “SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced three more candidates for the Vidhan Sabha election. Sikander Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda (Rural) and Darshan Singh Kotfatta from the Bhucho Assembly constituency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/fielded-by-sad-from-rampura-phul-sikander-singh-maluka-demands-maur-seat-303901
30-08-2021||Abohar||Ex-MLA Parkash Singh Bhatti shifted from Balluana to Bathinda||Announcing the first list of candidates for the Vidhan Sabha election, the SAD shifted former MLA Parkash Singh Bhatti to the Bathinda rural constituency. Observers said this might have been done to clear the path of another ex-MLA Gurtej Singh Ghuriana to contest from Balluana.Bhatti was elected on a Congress ticket in 2002 from Balluana, a reserved constituency. In 2017, he joined the SAD and contested from Balluana, but lost to Congress’ Nathu Ram by 15,449 votes.Ghuriana, who won Vidhan Sabha elections as SAD candidate in 1997, 2007 and 2012, had reportedly opposed Bhatti’s candidature in 2017.Regarding Abohar seat, after SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal paid obeisance for the first time to Arut Ji Maharaj, the founder of the Arora community on May 30, there was a buzz that the party could field an Arora candidate from here. Even the name of Panjab University ex-senator Rajinder Deepa was floated for the seat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ex-mla-parkash-singh-bhatti-shifted-from-balluana-to-bathinda-303902
30-08-2021||---||Karnal lathicharge: Punjab farmers block highways for 2 hrs, burn effigies of Khattar govt||Bathinda, August 29Expressing resentment against the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana, activists of various farm unions under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) protested at several locations, including toll plazas, in Bathinda district on Sunday.Widespread angerBKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said roads were blocked at 56 places for two hours and effigies of the Khattar government were burnt at various places across the state.Won’t change standAfter seeing success of our Delhi protest, the Centre has panicked. It wants to end stir forcibly. But we will not budge until the repeal of farm laws. — Rajvir Singh, Farmer LeaderFarmers gathered at the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway in Rampura, Jeeda and Lehra Bega toll plazas, Balluana, Ghudda (Bathinda-Badal road), Maiser Khana, Talwandi Sabo (Bathinda-Sardulgarh road) and several other pockets of the district to protest the lathicharge. Protesting farmers blocked the roads from 12 pm to 2 pm and in some villages burnt effigies of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Harjinder Singh Baggi said: “On Saturday, a group of farmers were peacefully protesting in Karnal where the Haryana CM was scheduled to attend a meeting. However, on the directions of senior officials, the police resorted to lathicharge, leaving many farmers seriously injured.”Union leaders demanded strict action against officials who ordered the lathicharge and punitive action against cops who carried out the orders.Paramjit Kaur, another farmer leader said: “We demand release of farmers arrested during the protest and free treatment for the injured from hospitals with proper medical facilities.Similar protests were witnessed in many parts of neighbouring Mansa district where farmers owing allegiance to different unions blocked roads and raised slogans against the Haryana and central governments. Farmers blocked highways at six locations for two hours. Farmers in 62 villages burnt effigies of the Haryana Government to lodge their protest.Condemning the lathicharge, farmer union leaders along with activists protested against the BJP at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. “Peaceful protests against BJP ministers and leaders will continue in future as well. The use of force cannot suppress our voice,” said Kaur.In Sangrur and Barnala, farmers blocked various roads and announced that they would intensify their agitation in coming days. Members of Kirti Kisan Union blocked the Sangrur-Barnala road at Bahadurpur village and raised slogans against central government.In Fatehgarh Sahib, farm organisations blocked the traffic on GT Road Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khamano, Bassi Pathana and Amloh town. Farmers staged sit-ins at several places and even on link roads. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on all roads, causing inconvenience to commuters. SKM leader Gursatinder Singh Jallah termed the lathicharge shameful.(With inputs from Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/karnal-lathicharge-punjab-farmers-block-highways-for-2-hrs-burn-effigies-of-khattar-govt-303905
30-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Crackdown on peddlers after drug overdose deaths in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 29Under fire over the death of five youths here due to suspected drug overdose in the past two weeks, the Bathinda police have launched a crackdown on peddlers.Bid to break supply chainTo break the drug supply chain, 50 teams have been constituted. Houses of suspects in City 1 and 2 areas are being searched. Large seizures have been made. — Jaspal Singh, SP (city), BathindaSSP Ajay Maluja has ordered a search of houses/hideouts of suspected drug dealers and habitual smugglers in the city.As many as 50 police teams had been formed in the city to raid the houses of suspects facing complaints of drug peddling in the past.A team of the Canal Colony police searched houses of a dozen suspects in Bangi Nagar and surrounding areas. They claimed to have seized a large number of intoxicants and instructed police stations concerned to take legal action against suspects.While the police claim to have been making daily seizures, peddlers continue to sell drugs and intoxicating pills across the district. The situation in the city is such that drugs are reportedly being delivered at homes on demand. To date, no action has been taken against the big suppliers involved in the illegal trade.The police teams are currently raiding houses of those selling drugs. SSP Ajay Maluja said the crackdown on peddlers was aimed at reaching the big fish, adding “no one who ruins the lives of the youth will be spared”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/crackdown-on-peddlers-after-drug-overdose-deaths-in-bathinda-303919
30-08-2021||Bathinda||Chemist booked for man’s death in Bathinda||The police have registered a case against a medical store owner in connection with a man’s death on Thursday allegedly due to drug overdose. The accused has been identified as Rajan Kumar, who is absconding.Harpinder Singh of Surkhpeer Road, Bathinda, lodged a complaint with the Canal Colony police station that his brother, Rupinder Singh (29), had allegedly purchased syringes and tablets from Rajan’s medical store on Thursday. Next day, his body was recovered from a car. He alleged Rupinder had died due to drug overdose.A case under the IPC has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/chemist-booked-for-mans-death-in-bathinda-303926
