31-08-2021||---||Muktsar sees five drug abuse deaths in 2 months||Muktsar, August 30In the past about two months, five youths lost their lives to drug abuse in Muktsar district. All of them were not even 30-year-old. Families of some of them raised questions over the functioning of the police and also reminded the CM of his oath to end drug menace.Notably, a teenage boy allegedly died of overdose of ‘chitta’ at his residence at Thandewala village here on August 24. The deceased’s family said they had admitted the victim to a de-addiction centre twice, but of no use. They said drugs were being sold openly in the village.Similarly, a youngster of Tappakhera village here allegedly died due to drug overdose on August 9. The deceased’s family claimed that he too was admitted to a de-addiction centre . The boy died after returning to his village. Earlier, on July 7, a 14-year-old boy, a Class VIII student, of the same village died of drugs.A 28-year-old boy of Ajit Nagar in Malout town allegedly died of ‘chitta’ overdose on July 27. The deceased was a truck driver and had allegedly been consuming drugs for the past about a decade. His family even accused two women in the neighbourhood for selling heroin.Earlier, a 26-year-old boy of Panniwala Fatta village here allegedly died of overdose on July 10. The father of the deceased has appealed to the CM to curb the menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/muktsar-sees-five-drug-abuse-deaths-in-2-months-304261
31-08-2021||Bathinda||Field ex-minister Sikander Singh Maluka from Maur seat: Akali activists||A day after SAD leader Sikander Singh Maluka refused to contest the Assembly poll after he was announced the candidate from his home constituency Rampura Phul, office-bearers of the party’s Maur unit today threw their weight behind Maluka. They said they won’t campaign if the party gave a ticket to any outsider in Maur by ignoring the sentiments of the workers.Also read: Now, Sikander Singh Maluka asks SAD to bring in ‘one family, one ticket’ normThey asked party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to announce Maluka as the party candidate from Maur instead of Rampura Phul. Former MP and SAD leader Jagmeet Singh Brar is also a strong contender for the ticket from Maur and has started holding public meetings in the area.District Youth Akali Dal president Sandeep Singh Bath, Maur senior SAD leader Sadhu Singh Kotli and other office-bearers today said they support the decision taken by Maluka to refuse the ticket from Rampura Phul. Notably, Maluka also held a meeting with his supporters in Maur on Sunday evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/field-ex-minister-sikander-singh-maluka-from-maur-seat-akali-activists-304242
31-08-2021||---||Ahead of special session, farm union goes door to door for support||Bathinda, August 30Members of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union and other unions of labourers have been mobilising support in villages these days by holding meetings and door-to-door campaigns for state-wide protest ahead of special Vidhan Sabha session on September 3 and to gherao the CM’s Moti Mahal residence in Patiala on September 13.Leaders of the union from Moga, Faridkot, Muktsar, Sangrur and Bathinda districts participated in a state-level meeting held here at Bhucho Khurd village in Bathinda.Union state general secretary Lachman Singh Sewewala said: “Efforts are on to make both the protests successful. We have regularly been holding meetings and reaching out to people exhorting them to participate in these protests in large numbers.”The president of the union, Zora Singh Nasrali, said: “There must be a provision for permanent employment for labourers and an end to atrocities on the Dalit community. The state government also does not seem to be serious about our genuine demand of leasing out approximately one third of the panchayati land to labourers.”He said: “On August 25, in a meeting with cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra, we were promised that a proposal would be moved in the Vidhan Sabha to cancel all kinds of debts and electricity bills of labourers and anti-labour amendments in labour laws. But leave aside taking any substantial steps to concretise these verbal promises, these were not even a part of the discussion during the cabinet meeting later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ahead-of-special-session-farm-union-goes-door-to-door-for-support-304255
