07-11-2020||First Edit||Karnataka: A nexus at the cost of Covid-19 patients||Bureaucrats in Bengaluru could not have been more heartless than this. In a bizarre policy that raises many questions, inter-state migrants and even people from other districts of Karnataka who have tested positive for Covid-19 are being denied admission in government healthcare centres in Bengaluru and are forced to avail treatment at private hospitals, shelling out huge sums of money. Such a move, especially at a time when government facilities are being shut down due to lack of patients, points to either gross insensitivity to the plight of people or underhand dealings between bureaucrats and private hospitals, or perhaps both. Patients who test positive in Bengaluru are being assigned numbers in their home districts and asked to submit a ‘recommendation letter’ from their Deputy Commissioners for treatment at a Bengaluru-based government hospital. As it is not possible for a Covid-19 positive patient to travel all the way to the home district to obtain a letter, the only option is to get admitted to a private hospital  The state government has been found wanting in its fight against the pandemic, with corruption charges and lack of cohesiveness at the top denting its credibility. The High Court, too, has expressed its disapproval on more than one occasion over the denial of admission to patients. The fact that the officers have no fear even of the High Court only shows how thick-skinned they are. Denying healthcare, or for that matter any service, based on a person’s place of residence is not only discriminatory but is also an affront to the Constitution which guarantees equality to all. It appears that the political leaderhip has lost control over bureaucrats and the only way to make them fall in line is perhaps through the court taking a stricter line. A similar move by the Delhi government to restrict the use of the state’s hospitals to only local people was rightly struck down by the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa should act fast and not only end this discrimination but should order a high-level inquiry into the nexus between officers and private hospitals. Whenever charges of corruption have been hurled, the government’s approach has been to blandly deny them, instead of ordering an inquiry and unravelling the truth. Such an Ostrich-like approach will only raise suspicions in the minds of the people about the government’s role and intentions in the matter. Instead of being a mute spectator to what is going on right under his nose, Yediyurappa should crack the whip and show he means business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-a-nexus-at-the-cost-of-covid-19-patients-912428.html
07-11-2020||In Perspective||What previous Prime Ministers did||No Indian Prime Minister has ridiculed his predecessors as the current incumbent Narendra Modi does. Speaking at election rallies and elsewhere Modi claims that there was no development in the country during the last 70 years except for ‘some’ development during Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s rule. Maybe one should appreciate Modi for giving ‘some’ credit to his BJP predecessor, at least, Modi’s view of what India was before he became PM shows that either he is ignorant or is trying to mislead the public, especially the young generation who are unaware of what PMs before Modi did. As Hitler’s propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels stated: “If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually believe it! Our first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru (1947 to 1964) was responsible for setting up a strong base for modern India and major industries. Nehru believed that science and technology held the key to India’s development and elimination of poverty. In this quest, he put together India’s science and technology establishment even in the initial difficult years immediately post-Independence – from the IITs to DRDO, the atomic and space programmes, the dams and power projects, etc. Nehru’s policy of self-reliance and planned development helped establish several heavy and capital-intensive industries, along with promoting labour-intensive small and cottage industries and integrated community development. Annual GDP growth rate averaged 4% during 1951-1964, which was four times that recorded during the last 50 years of British rule. Lal Bahadur Shastri and Indira Gandhi continued Nehru’s policy of self-reliance. The younger generations are unaware that India was not even able to produce its food requirements and had to import large quantities of wheat from the US in the 1960s. It was said that India led a ‘ship to mouth’ existence. When Indira Gandhi became PM in January 1966, she had to confront this severe food crisis, made worse by the bad drought years of 1965-66. Then US President Lyndon Johnson tried to use food aid as a political weapon and arm-twist her into supporting the US in its infamous Vietnam war. Faced with this, she decided to focus on making India self-sufficient in food. With the support of her food minister C Subramaniam, scientists such as M S Swaminathan, the ICAR institutes and agricultural universities, she ushered in the ‘Green Revolution’. If today’s India is one of the largest producers of food grains and enjoys buffer stocks, it is thanks to initiatives taken long before Modi became PM. It was Indira Gandhi who took the momentous decision to conduct India’s first nuclear test in 1974, in the face of American threats that if she went ahead, America would make “an example out of her”. The CIA and US spy satellites had no inkling of the test preparations until the ‘Buddha’ smiled on May 18, 1974. The US and the West imposed sanctions and India went through a tough phase of technology denial for over three decades. But Modi and Amit Shah remember only the nuclear tests conducted in 1998 under Vajpayee. Are they ignorant of the history of India’s nuclear programme since Nehru?      Indira Gandhi also implemented several pro-poor programmes from 1971. Rajiv Gandhi was instrumental in laying the foundation of Digital India. It was under him that the telecom and computer technology revolutions took off in India, on which were built the disruptive mobile telephony and internet revolutions that came in the 1990s. If we are a leading power in IT and biotechnology today, some of the credit should go to Rajiv Gandhi, who created the environment for their development. Narasimha Rao (1991-1996) ushered in economic reforms and liberalisation in 1991, which did away with the ‘Licence Raj’ that characterised Indian economy. This helped revv up economic growth and attract foreign investment. Manmohan Singh, who became PM in May 2004, accelerated the reform process during the UPA years (2004-2013). The economic growth rate for the 10-year UPA period averaged 7.8%, with the agriculture sector averaging 3.7%. As against this, the Modi government, which benefited from the struggles already fought by previous PMs and the foundation they had already laid, recorded – during its first four years – annual GDP growth rates of 7% or below (under a revised methodology) and a mere 1.8% in the agriculture sector. Battered by demonetisation, a poorly designed GST and other factors, India’s economic growth rate slumped to 4.2% during 2019-20. And with the sudden and harsh lockdown due to the pandemic, GDP is set to plunge an unprecedented -10.3% in 2020. The BJP stalled the functioning of Parliament during the UPA years, unable to digest its consecutive electoral defeats. Modi and the BJP were dead against GST, Aadhaar and FDI in retail; now they are their most ardent advocates. Most other Indian PMs had brief tenures. But mention may be made of Charan Singh and HD Deve Gowda. They sincerely tried to implement pro-farmer policies. The proportion of poor, which was 57% of the population in 1951, had fallen to 22% in 2012. But for Modi and Shah, there was no development in the last 70 years. With the ‘Achhe Din’ slogan of 2014 having become an embarrassment for Modi and the BJP, a new carrot, ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, is being dangled before the people. By abusing his predecessors, Modi is demeaning the high office of Prime Minister. (The writer is an economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-previous-prime-ministers-did-912426.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus vaccine carrier Emvolio Pro’ unveiled||Manipal-based Blackfrog Technologies Private Limited, a healthcare technology company, unveiled Emvolio Pro’ -- a next-generation vaccine carrier. The company incubated by Manipal Universal Technology Business Incubator (supported by NSTEDB and DST, GoI) of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) had previously developed a portable medical-grade refrigeration system for the last-mile delivery of vaccines. This patented technology was initially supported with a fellowship grant from DST, under the NIDHI-EIR scheme. The company celebrated its fifth year anniversary and chief innovation officer in MAHE Dr Arun Shanbhag unveiled the new product in the line of vaccine-carrier variants developed by Blackfrog. This next-generation vaccine carrier has been designed as per the draft specifications laid out by the WHO for effective vaccine transport. This will prove to be critical when Covid-19 vaccines which are now underway, are finally approved and deployed at scale. The team at Blackfrog has conducted extensive qualitative studies over the past six months, coordinating with multiple healthcare partners to understand the field-level requirements when large-scale immunization has to be carried out for Covid-19. Blackfrog is now exploring options to scale-up its production capacity for its flagship product so that the vaccines can reach farthest corners of India without compromising on safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-vaccine-carrier-emvolio-pro-unveiled-912356.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Missing minor traced to Bhatkal||A minor, who went missing from Perdoor village, was traced in Bhatkal. Brahmavara police inspector Anantha Padmanabha, acting on a tip-off, tracked down the missing girl having lunch with a 17-year-old boy at a restaurant in Bhatkal on Thursday. Police sources said the boy, a second PU student, had lured the minor from a different community. The minor, a first year degree student, had left home on October 28, informing her parents that she was going to the college. The boy had lured the minor girl into accompanying him on October 28. The duo was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board in Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/missing-minor-traced-to-bhatkal-912357.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: 61 test positive, one death reported in Udupi||Total 61 persons tested positive to Covid-19 in Udupi district on Friday. With the fresh cases, the number of Covid-19 positive cases increased to 22,143. With the death of a 72-year-old man from Udupi, number of deaths due to Covid-19 increased to 186. Total 43 were asymptomatic and 18 were symptomatic. 21,532 patients were discharged and 427 cases were being treated. Out of 61 cases, 14 are from Udupi, 15 from Kundapur, 27 from Karkala taluks and 5 from outside the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-61-test-positive-one-death-reported-in-udupi-912359.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Two deaths, 79 positive cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district recorded a total of 79 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. The total cases in the district now stood at 30,745. Two more deaths due to Covid-19 was reported in the district, thus taking the death tally to 686. According to DC Dr Rajendra K V, a total of 223 patients were discharged. The Covid-19 discharges stood at 28,934 and total active cases in the district is 1,127. A fine of Rs 12,34,742 was collected from 11,278 people, without face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-two-deaths-79-positive-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-912360.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Storage facility for Covid-19 vaccine ready in Mangaluru||A sophisticated storage room (walk-in cooler) for Covid-19 vaccines has been set up in the district. District Health Officer (DHO) Sudhirchandra Suda said a vaccine is in the final phase of clinical trials. The storage room has the capacity to stock 2.25 crore doses of vaccine and is completely air-conditioned. Around 248 pharmacy companies are working on the vaccine. Of these, 197 are in the phase of pre-clinical, 23 vaccines are in the first phase of the trial, 16 vaccines are in the first and second phase, two vaccines are in the second phase and 10 vaccines are in phase three trial. No vaccines had received approval for the final rolling out. Vaccines should be preserved and protected between two to eight degrees celsius. Hence, all arrangements had been made. 77 cold chain systems were arranged. 1,324 vehicles to transport vaccine had been identified and 9,370 ice bags were also arranged. Expert staff had been identified to administer vaccine. As per the Central government’s directive, the medical fraternity will be administered with the vaccine in the first phase. A total of 982 private healthcare organisations and 92 public healthcare organisations registered under KPME Act are considered, Suda added. The storage unit has come up on the DHO office premises. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha said a database of all health care staff needs to be updated for vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/storage-facility-for-covid-19-vaccine-ready-in-mangaluru-912361.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Study on building stability of Central Market entrusted to an agency||MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar, during the Prajavani phone-in programme, said that the study on building stability of the Central Market was entrusted to an agency. Though the PWD had submitted a report on the stability of the building, many felt that it was not satisfactory. Thus, an outside agency was asked to conduct a study. So far, 32 traders, who produced their trade licences in their names, were allowed to carry out business in the Central Market. One more petition related to the Central Market was pending in court. On utilising the interest received on Premiere FAR fund for development works, he said, the MCC has written to the government seeking permission for the same. A resident urged the commissioner to reduce water bill. “As per the MCC Council’s decision, we have written to the government. Once we get the nod, it will be implemented,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/study-on-building-stability-of-central-market-entrusted-to-an-agency-912362.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||E-power Parba from November 7||Platform of Women Entrepreneurs (POWER) will organise e-Power Parba 20 on November 7 and 8, said POWER president Pushpa G Rao.  She said there will be no sale and exhibition of products. However, the sale will be organised online via www.powerparba.com There are 100 e-stalls. Women entrepreneurs can sell the produce online. There will be an array of products ranging from handmade products, jewellery, home made products, decorative items, ready made garments and paintings.  Power Parba aims at bringing all women entrepreneurs under one platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/e-power-parba-from-november-7-912363.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Private schools to go with govt decision on reopening||Private school managements on Friday said they would abide by any decision the state government takes with regard to reopening of schools amid the pandemic if certain conditions are met on the sensitive issue. The latest stance is likely to bring relief to the government as private schools had hitherto expressed concerns about the reopening, which was seen as risky and expensive in terms of additional infrastructure. In a meeting called by the Commissioner for Public Instructions to discuss the reopening of schools, the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) demanded a free Covid-19 test for teachers and students once in 15 days, and also asked for health insurance if they get infected. "We did not say anything about the reopening. We had conveyed to the government that we are ready to implement whatever decision the government takes regarding reopening of schools," said D Shashi Kumar general secretary of the association. Sources from the department said the Health Department has agreed to conduct free Covid-19 tests for students and teachers after the reopening of schools. "Other demands, including health insurance, needs to be discussed with the Chief Minister," said an official source from the department. The department is conducting meetings with all stakeholders on the issue. The commissioner will prepare a report and the same will be submitted to the Chief Minister for a final decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-schools-to-go-with-govt-decision-on-reopening-912406.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa appeals for simple Deepavali with green crackers||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday appealed to people to celebrate Deepavali in a simple manner with green crackers after announcing that the government would ban firecrackers due to Covid-19 pandemic.   The decision to announce a ban on firecrackers was based on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) of the Health & Family Welfare Department. “We have discussed the issue of banning crackers during the Deepavali season and have decided to prohibit them. A government order will be issued shortly,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The decision comes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Karnataka is the seventh Indian state to prohibit the use of crackers. States such as Rajasthan, Odisha, Sikkim, West Bengal, Delhi and Maharashtra have issued guidelines against bursting crackers keeping the  pandemic and pollution in mind. Health & Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said cracker fumes have a negative impact on the health of especially those who have recently recovered from the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-appeals-for-simple-deepavali-with-green-crackers-912407.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||No plan to bring Sigandur temple under Muzrai: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday assured a delegation of the Ediga community that the government had no plan to bring the Chowdeshwari temple at Sigandur in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district under the jurisdiction of the Muzrai department. Nearly a dozen of seers of the temple met Yediyurappa at his home office Krishna to talk about this and other issues of the temple. The temple attracts devotees from across the state.  This meeting came in the wake of Shivamogga deputy commissioner K B Shivakumar issuing an order recently, constituting a committee to run the temple following differences between the trustees and priests. Yediyurappa had taken stock of the issue during his recent visit to the district. The seers urged Yediyurappa not to bring the temple under the Muzrai department and allow the trustees to manage it. Many organizations had appealed to the government to bring the temple under the Muzrai department, citing financial irregularities in the administration. The DC constituted a monitoring committee and an advisory committee for managing the daily affairs of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-plan-to-bring-sigandur-temple-under-muzrai-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-912684.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||NEP Task Force bats for new panel, schooling structure||The Task Force set up to recommend implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) has batted for setting up of a high-level commission to coordinate and monitor education across a range of departments besides suggesting a major change in the structure of primary schooling. The Task Force, constituted by the state government, said the chief minister should be the chairman of the Karnataka Education Commission (KEC), which will help the process of coordination. Primary and higher education ministers will hold the position of vice-chairmen. As per the recommendation, the KEC has to convene two meetings in a year or as and when necessary to review the progress of the education in the state. The Task Force, headed by former chief secretary S V Ranganath and comprises members including Prof M K Sridhar, Arun Shahapura and Prof Thimme Gowda, submitted its report to the government on Saturday.  Speaking after receiving the report, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, "We will discuss with the chief minister and place this report before the cabinet." During the event, the Kannada translation of NEP was also released. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar and officials of the primary and secondary and higher education were present. Ashwath Narayan said the government will hold consultations with all stakeholders to discuss the recommendations of the task force. However, the minister said that the implementation of NEP will be done from 2021-22 academic year in a phased manner. Major recommendations * Set up three major bodies: Karnataka Higher Education Grants Council,  Karnataka Higher Education Research and Innovation Council, Karnataka Higher Education Regulatory Council. * Evolve a broad curriculum framework: A four-year undergraduate programme should be developed. > Faculty development: The responsibility could be divided among the current agencies such as KSHEC, KHEA and department of collegiate education. > Set up Karnataka School Education Council: To oversee at macro level and coordinate between various departments and bodies connected to school education in government > New School Quality Assessment and Accreditation Framework: To be developed by DSERT in consultation with relevant stakeholders > Revise curriculum: Particularly for foundational and preparatory stage to reduce the existing curriculum load > Strengthen foundation years: work on five-year integrated curriculum > Reforms: Curriculum reforms should drive the transformation of current structure of schooling to 5+3+3+4 > The 'Nali Kali' curriculum should include all early years' education across state. It will be based on the Chili Pili Plus curriculum > Initiate gender inclusion funding and disability funding as two special components to address inclusivity-related aspects in education > Karnataka Open School should be strengthened as an alternative board||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nep-task-force-bats-for-new-panel-schooling-structure-912688.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four new universities get vice chancellors||The state government on Saturday issued orders appointing vice chancellors to four universities, including Maharani Cluster University and Nrupatunga University Bengaluru. Dr L Gomathi Devi, professor, department of Chemistry, has been appointed the first vice chancellor of Maharani Cluster University comprising Maharani's Arts, Commerce and Management College and Maharani's Science College and VHD Home Science college. Dr Harish Ramaswamy, Political Science professor at Karnatak University, Dharwad, has been appointed the first vice chancellor of Raichur University. Prof Puttaraju, Principal of SJB Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, will be the first vice chancellor of Mandya University. Prof Srinivas Balli, head of Mechanical Engineering department at Basaveshwara Engineering College Bagalkot, has been appointed first vice chancellor of Nrupatunga University Bengaluru (government science college).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-new-universities-get-vice-chancellors-912689.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Plan to ban private medical shops within 100 meter of government hospitals||Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the government is mulling over not to give permission for opening of private medical shops within a 100-metre radius of government hospitals in urban areas and 200-metre radius in rural areas.  "The issue has already been discussed. An order in this regard will be issued shortly," the minister said. The decision does not apply to already existing medical shops.  He said, "Economic activities have been affected due to covid-19 pandemic. The mobilisation of income is a challenging task. In such a scenario, hike in power tariff was unavoidable," he reacted. The ban on firecrackers was not taken in the last minute. Whether the manufacturers and traders were not aware that crackers are harmful? he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plan-to-ban-private-medical-shops-within-100-meter-of-government-hospitals-912694.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||CBI sleuths grill Vinay Kulkarni for 10 hours||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday questioned former minister Vinay Kulkarni for around 10 hours in connection with the murder of BJP Zilla Panchayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar. The CBI officials took Vinay into their custody at Hindalga central jail in Belagavi at 730 am and drove him to the new City Armed Reserve ground on the outskirts of Hubballi for interrogation. The second additional district and sessions court on Friday remanded Vinay into three-day CBI custody. Local police sources informed DH that the CBI also questioned Vinay’s former personal secretary and KAS officer Somashekhar Nemagouda and close relative Chandrashekhar Indi.  Later in the day, Vinay’s wife, two daughters and son were allowed to meet him for 10 minutes, where the family celebrated the former minister's birthday by cutting a cake. He turned 52 on Saturday. The court has permitted the family to meet him for 10 minutes on all the three-days of the CBI custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cbi-sleuths-grill-vinay-kulkarni-for-10-hours-912695.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 infected student appears for PG-CET||A Covid-19 infected student appeared for Post-Graduation Common Entrance Test (PG-CET) at the University of Mysore (UoM) on Saturday. The student, wearing a personal protection kit, wrote the examination. UoM Registrar R Shivappa said, "Three Covid-19 infected students had sought permission to appear for the PG-CET, but, only one student appeared for the test. The varsity had made special arrangements for the Covid patients and a classroom was reserved for the infected." As many as 11,011 students appeared for the PG-CET test and 55 visually-challenged students appeared for the test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-infected-student-appears-for-pg-cet-912699.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Pensioners’ Paradise’ evolving into another metropolitan city||Mysuru, which is known as ‘Pensioners Paradise’, owing to its peaceful environment, calmness and beauty, is rapidly evolving into another metropolitan city, like Bengaluru. As per a study, the built-up area has increased by 180.91% in a span of 16 years, between 2000 and 2016. With this, the ‘Heritage City’ is going the 'Bengaluru way' in terms of urbanisation. Thus, agriculture lands, water bodies and forest cover are severely affected. The study ‘An Analysis of Urban Sprawling of Mysore Planning District and its impact’, conducted by C S Manjunatha, assistant professor of Geography, Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), as part of his doctoral thesis makes the revelation. The study has analysed the built-up area, including layouts, dynamics of structure and pattern of urban growth in the Mysuru Local Planning District (LPD), identified by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). The area covers Mysuru city, villages on the outskirts and Nanjangud Town, covering 507.23 sq km. In 2000, the built-up area was 80.71 sq km, i.e., 15.91% and the area was extended to 226.72 sq km, 44.70%, in 2016. The built-up area has increased by 146.01 sq km in 16 years and the built-up area was extended by an average of 9.13 sq ft per annum, according to the study. Out of the 507.23 sq km of the LPD, spatial extent of agriculture class declined from 393.37 sq km, i.e., 77.55% to 253.59 sq km, 50%, during 2000 to 2016. Net decrease observed was 139.78 sq km with an annual rate of 8.74 sq km i.e., 8,740 hectare. According to the study, about 79.9% residents of the villages have sold their land, partially or completely. The main motive of selling their lands is the real estate boom, followed by shortage of labour and low returns from agriculture. The water bodies declined from 12.84 sq km (2.53%) to 9.42 sq km (1.86%) from 2000 to 2016. The net decrease was 3.42 sq km, with an annual rate 0.21 sq km (i.e., 210 hectare). The forests declined from 11.25 sq km to 10 sq km and net decrease was 1.25 sq km, with an annual rate 0.08 sq km. According to Manjunatha, the built-up expands mainly at the cost of agriculture class and also water bodies, forest and wastelands. The increase in population, development of new layouts by MUDA, private persons and cooperative societies, boom in real estate, establishment of IT companies, emergence of educational and academic institutions, corresponding infrastructure development, industrial area development among others are a few reasons for the massive built-up growth. The study has proved that the combined approach of remote sensing and spatial metrics is an effective tool to detect and to quantify the structure and pattern of urban growth at local levels. To improve monitoring mechanism, to achieve sustainable urbanisation, the study suggests establishing committee comprising officers of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), MUDA, Minor Irrigation Department, Forest Department and Gram Panchayats within LPA for implementing plans and for formulating policies to manage urban growth. The study has opined for constituting a cell with advanced remote sensing and GIS enabled mechanism to have up-to-date information regarding land use and cover change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pensioners-paradise-evolving-into-another-metropolitan-city-912700.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Raids on KAS officer B Sudha yield gold, diamonds||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials raided KAS officer Dr B Sudha's the house and five other places, including her friends in Bengaluru and family members in Udupi and Mysuru early Saturday. A case of disproportionate assets (DA) and irregularity was registered with ACB. ACB officials said they found gold and diamond ornaments weighing over 500 grams, lakhs of rupees, an SUV and her property documents. In addition, close to 2 kg gold was found in her aide Chandrashekar's house. Many important documents have been seized in Udupi too. The search continued late into the night.  A team headed by deputy superintendent of police Pratap Reddy, under the supervision of the superintendent of police Kuldeep Kumar R Jain, conducted the raid. According to ACB officials, a private case was registered against Sudha based on the court direction. Sudha is currently serving as an administrator, Department of IT, BT. She was earlier Special Land Acquisition officer, Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). Police suspect a majority of irregularities occurred during her tenure in the BDA. Raids were conducted on her house in Kodigehalli, her flat in Shivanahalli of Yelahanka, her current office in Shanthinagar and her friends' houses in Byatarayanapura on Ballari Road, BEML Layout in Mysuru and her maternal house in Udupi.  Officials are verifying Sudha's bank accounts and are interrogating her and others in that regard. A senior officer said the search and verification may continue till midnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raids-on-kas-officer-b-sudha-yield-gold-diamonds-912703.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Youth drowns in river||A 17-year-old youth, Durgesha drowned while trying to cross a river at Panjala near Kalenja village in Belthangady taluk on Saturday. Durgesha, a resident of Alakki near Mogru village, slipped and drowned in the river. Dharmashtala police have registered a case. Woman’s body found The body of a 36-year-old woman was found in Netravathi river near Thumbe vented dam on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Asha from Odeyarakodi in Mulki. Asha, after having lost her husband, was staying with her mother. Bantwal rural police suspect that the woman, driven by depression, would have committed suicide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-drowns-in-river-912708.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Preserving heritage houses for artistic purpose||The majestic yet graceful structure of Kodial Guthu, which reflects the traditional coastal architecture and rich legacy of Bunt community, is now evoking an overwhelming response through the artistic endeavors it houses. Efforts by INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) and ‘Artkanara’, a trust formed by an enthusiastic group of artists from Mangaluru, Udupi and Kasargod districts, have reaped dividends and the heritage ‘Guthu’ House on G G Road in Ballal Bagh, is now a vibrant art hub. “An objective to encourage art appreciation and patronage, was realised with the partnership of INTACH, Artkanara trust and art patrons,” informs Subhas Chandra Basu, serving as a convener of the Mangaluru branch of INTACH. Basu is an architect who works on the conservation of heritage structures. After a few months of restoration process, that begun in 2015, the Guthu House Chavadi was eventually put to use. “’Chavadi’, the entrance part of Guthu House, was converted into an art gallery ‘S Cube’ run by Artkanara trust. People besides appreciating art works also feel proud of their heritage,” Basu told DH. He thanked Guthu House family in particular, Pratibha Karanth, who supported INTACH in the restoration of ‘Chavadi’ or the welcoming entrance of the Guthu House. Prathibha Karanth hails from Kodial Guthu family and is wife of Dr Ullas Karanth, Director of the Centre for Wildlife Studies. Former member of Lalita Kala Academy and S Cube Art Gallery curator Rajendra Kedige says the beauty and serene atmosphere of the traditional house is retained while setting up the art gallery. “For artists, there has always been a need for such a creative space,” he emphasises. The gallery serves as a space for display-cum-sale of varieties of art works including paintings, metal, stone and wood sculptures by prominent artists of the region like Ramesh Rao, P N Acharya, Purushottam Adve, Venki Palimar, Syed Asif Ali, Santhosh Andrade, Vishwas and Permude Mohan Kumar. Camps, appreciation programmes and exhibitions by individual artists are also held here. A workshop on ‘Kaavi’ art, painting competition on the theme of Mahatma Gandhi, an exhibition based on life and achievements of Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya, held in the gallery, received good response. Kodial Guthu Center for Media Art and Design ‘Chavadi’ rose to prominence with the establishment of ‘Kodial Guthu Center for Media Art and Design’ by Artkanara and Mindcraft studios. The institute offers short term courses in visual studies, art journalism and design school focusing on students, said INTACH co-convener Nemiraj Shetty. Harsha D’Souza, an insurance executive, also redesigned his old house and turned into a gallery, ‘Kadri Rocks Art Gallery’ at Kadri Rocks. The Gallery owner says when he moved into his new house, he wanted to retain his grandfather’s house. With the help of artists, he developed it into a gallery in the beginning of 2019, where he could exhibit a wide range of artifacts including terracotta and metal sculpture which he collected during his travels. He has been organising art camps at the gallery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/preserving-heritage-houses-for-artistic-purpose-912709.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||18 more test positive for Covid-19 in Udupi||18 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Udupi district on Saturday. The total cases in the district is 22,161. One more fatality has also been recorded and the total deaths have reached 187. A 72-year-old woman from Karkala suffered from OLC cerebral vascular accident, diabetes, acute kidney injury and hypertension, succumbed to Covid. 21,598 have been discharged and there are 377 active cases. A total of 1,935 samples were collected on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/18-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-udupi-912710.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records 72 fresh Covid-19 cases||Seventy-two fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday, thus taking the total tally to 30,819. One more fatality has been recorded in the district and the total deaths have reached 687. DC Dr Rajendra K V said a total of 169 infected have been discharged on Saturday. The total discharges in the district is 29,103. The district has 1,029 active cases. Authorities have collected a fine of Rs 12,46,892 for violating mask rules. A total of 11,406 cases have been booked pertaining to the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-72-fresh-covid-19-cases-912713.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||11 children rescued in Kundapur||The district Child Protection Unit and Women and Children department officials rescued 11 minors in Kundapur. Two are boys and nine are girls. They hail from Sirsi and Haveri. The children were begging alms at bus stops and weakly market places in Kundapur.  The children are handed over to the CWC at Nittur for rehabilitation. The rescue operation was led by the district child protection officer, Sadanand Nayak, and Kundapur Child Development Project officer Shobha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-children-rescued-in-kundapur-912715.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Committee to seek permission for day-long Kambala||Kambala organisers are mulling over seeking permission from the government for organising a day-long Kambala this year instead of flood-lit Kambala. The Kambala season normally commences in the last week of November and ends in March. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible to hold full-fledged Kambala during the season, the organisers said. “Hence, we have decided tKambalao make an appeal to the government to allow permission for day-long event. If we get permission, then at least 20 Kambala in DK and Udupi will be organised,” said Kambala Samithi president P R Shetty. An appeal will be made through the deputy commissioner of both the districts. Priority will be given for maintaining social distance and wearing mask, for the spectators, Shetty added. All precautionary measures will be taken to check the spread of Covid-19. A team that gets buffaloes for Kambala will be restricted to 15 members including jockey and owner. Memorandums will also be submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. “We are hopeful of getting permission for the day-long event. Looking at the Covid-19 situation, Kambala will be organised,” he added. Last year, the first Kambala was held at Kakyepadavu on November 30. A total of 20 Kambalas were held last year. In fact, last year’s Kambala had created several records with Kambala jockey Srinivas Gowda coming to limelight and getting the nation’s attention for his speed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/committee-to-seek-permission-for-day-long-kambala-912717.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yakshagana artiste Malpe Vasudeva Samaga passes away||Senior Yakshagana artiste and well-known Yakshagana Talamaddale Arthadhari Malpe Vasudeva Samaga passed away here on Saturday. He was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection for the last few days. He was 71. He is survived by his wife and son. He was the son on well-known artiste Malpe Ramadasa Samaga. His unclde Malpe Shankaranarayana Samaga was also a noted Yakshagana artiste and Talamaddale Arthadhari. Well versed in both Thenku and Badagu Thittu style of Yakshagana, Samaga has written over 80 Prasanga works. He was known for his oratory skills and was involved in roles during the Talamaddale. He had formed his own Talamadde troupe called Samyamam. Samaga was known for the roles of Manmatha, Parashurama, Ishwara, Shukracharya, Uthara and others. He had entered the professional Yakshagana through Amriteshwari Mela of Kota Sridhar Hande and had close affinity with senior artistes like Naranappa Uppooru, Chittani, Vaikunta, Nagara Jagannath Shetty, Gode Narayana Hegde and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yakshagana-artiste-malpe-vasudeva-samaga-passes-away-912719.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sullia MLA appointed chairman of Kukke Subrahmanya Temple Committee||The state government has appointed Sullia MLA S Angara as the chairman of the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple Development Committee on Saturday. The name of the MLA was not there in the Committee list announced last week. Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had then stated that a revised order will be issued by making the MLA as the chairman. The members of the Committee are P G S Prasad Balila, Krishna Shetty Kadaba, Prasanna Darbe, S Mohanram Sulli, Vanaja Bhat and Temple EO Ravindra as secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sullia-mla-appointed-chairman-of-kukke-subrahmanya-temple-committee-912723.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Natives of Hallegere hope for key post for Dr Vivek in US govt||Natives of Hallegere, a village in Mandya district, are an elated lot, even as Joe Biden’s team is making transition plans, while Donald Trump is preparing to vacate the White House. The residents of Hallegere, thousands of miles away from Washington DC, and its natives elsewhere, hope that Dr Vivek Murthy, former US Surgeon General, a key advisor to US presidential designate Joe Biden on Covid-19, who has his roots in their village, would play an important role in the US administration, under the new president. It has to be recalled that he was administered the oath of office, as the 19th US Surgeon General, by then Vice-President Joe Biden at Conmy Hall, in Fort Myer, Virginia State, on April 23, 2015. With the Covid pandemic still haunting the US government, Dr Vivek assumes more significance. Youngest US Surgeon General H A Venkatesh, former chairman, Mysuru Paints and Varnish Limited, a native of Hallegere, said, “Dr Vivek, who was US Surgeon General under the then President Barack Obama was the highest ranking official of Indian origin — in the rank of Vice Admiral — in the US, then. He was also the youngest, at 37, in the post. Hope he will be given a key post in the US government, again. It has to be noted that Dr Vivek was instrumental in the formulation and implementation of ‘Obamacare’, Affordable Care Act (ACA) or Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, that changed the healthcare scenario in the US,” he said. H K Vasanth Kumar, one of Dr Murthy’s uncles, said even though Dr Vivek was nominated as US Surgeon General on November 14, 2013, his swearing in took a lot of time, due to the hurdles posed by some lobbies, for the approval by the Senate. “We wish there will be no such delay this time,” he said. Mandya-Mysuru connect Dr Vivek is the son of Florida-based Dr H N Lakshminarasimha Murthy and Myetraie Murthy. His grandfather H T Narayana Shetty was a director of Mysore Sugar (MySugar) Company in Mandya and also a director of Mysuru-based Vikrant Tyres. However, Dr Vivek was born in Huddersfield, in the United Kingdom, and was brought up in Miami in the US. Dr Lakshminarasimha Murthy, an alumnus of Mysore Medical College, moved to London, after a short stint with the Acetate Factory Hospital, in Mandya. Poll support Dr Vivek is the co-founder of Doctors for America, which began in 2008, as Doctors for Obama, an organisation of physicians and medical students to campaign for Obama during the presidential election. The group was relaunched as an advocacy group for affordable healthcare in 2009, and was renamed as Doctors for America. In 2011, Dr Vivek was appointed as a member of the US Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health. Earlier, in 1995, he co-founded VISIONS Worldwide, a non-profit organisation which focuses on HIV/Aids education in India and the US. Dr Vivek received a BA from Harvard University, an MBA from Yale School of Management, and an MD from Yale School of Medicine. He was a physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston and was an instructor at Harvard Medical School. Dr Vivek is also co-founder and chairman of the board of TrialNetworks, a cloud-based platform for pharmaceutical and biotechnology trials. Social work Dr Vivek’s uncle H N Sathyanarayana, residing in Bengaluru, said both -- his brother Lakshminarasimha and Dr Vivek -- are interested in social service. “In Hallegere and surrounding villages, they donated computers to government schools and used to conduct health camps, through their Society of Children of Planet Earth (SCOPE) Foundation. Dr Vivek used to personally diagnose patients, along with other doctors,” he said. “Besides, their US-based Scope Foundation has taken up establishment of India’s first ‘Earth Worship Centre, where all community people can offer prayers, at Hallegere on a 11,000 square feet plot, their ancestral property. The centre will have 36 monolithic pillar depicting pictures, life, biographies and contributions of 36 humanists. He took oath on the Gita, proving that he has not forgotten his roots,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/natives-of-hallegere-hope-for-key-post-for-dr-vivek-in-us-govt-912725.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Decision on 'love jihad' law in Karnataka soon: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he was “not bothered” about what other states would do against ‘love jihad’, but that he was determined to “put an end” to religious conversions in the name of marriage.  “I have already discussed this with senior officers. I want to ban that in Karnataka. Whether other states have taken a decision or not, I am not bothered. But, in my state I want to take a decision as early as possible,” Yediyurappa told reporters, adding that a call would be taken in two-three days after discussions with legal experts.  Karnataka wants a law against religious conversion for the sake of marriage based on a recent Allahabad High Court order. Three other BJP-ruled states have promised a similar law. The Opposition Congress targeted the BJP government on this issue calling it a “frivolous attempt to divert public attention” from administrative and policy failures. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah accused the BJP of misleading people by wrongly interpreting the Allahabad HC judgement. “The court only says that conversion for the sake of inter-religious marriage is wrong, but it ‘does not’ say that inter-religious marriage itself is wrong,” he tweeted. The BJP wants to ignite communal flares for its political gain, he said, noting that ‘love jihad’ was not defined in any legal document, a fact accepted in the Parliament by BJP’s own Minister of State for Home Affairs. “Then, based on what will Yediyurappa enact a law?” he said, adding that it was unfortunate that he was taking inspiration from his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/decision-on-love-jihad-law-in-karnataka-soon-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-912409.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Gram Panchayat Polls: To be or not to be?||Flush from the recent legislative council elections and the bypolls in two assembly constituencies, political parties are now looking to fight the gram panchayat elections due shortly.  Some 5,800 gram panchayats are to face elections even as the State Election Commission is awaiting the outcome of a petition before the High Court filed by the Congress seeking that polls be held, which the ruling BJP is not in favour of.  Though the polls were scheduled soon after the term of gram panchayat members ended in June, the Covid pandemic delayed the exercise. The gram panchayat elections are often seen as a barometer to gauge the public mood in rural areas. Earlier this week, Health & Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said experts wanted the gram panchayat elections to be put off till February. According to him, apprehensions have been expressed that conducting the polls might lead to “door delivery of the virus” as door-to-door campaigns are crucial during such local polls.  BJP prepares ground However, the BJP core committee that met this week discussed the gram panchayat polls, underlining how the ruling party was ready for it. BJP vice president Arvind Limbavali said the party will hold ‘Kutumba Milana’ programmes in all gram panchayats. The saffron party BJP hopes to galvanise support by highlighting the achievements of party’s administration at the Centre and in the state.  Plea in HC Noting that a petition was still pending in high court, Limbavali said that BJP has appointed five members in every booth in most of the GPs and the rest will be appointed soon. Page Pramukhs will also be in place to ensure votes for the party. “In each of our rural mandals, war rooms are being set up. Similarly, call centres will come up at all mandals ahead of elections,” he said. The Congress is pointing at the recently-concluded elections to contend that the gram panchayat polls can be held safely, in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Even the State Election Commission, in a submission to the High Court, has expressed its preparedness to hold elections. “Our SOPs are ready to conduct the elections during the pandemic,” State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju said.  Congress strategies Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Saleem Ahmed said the party was geared up for the rural local polls. “District to booth-level units were restructured recently, and we have asked our units to be ready. Regular meetings are being held to strategise for the upcoming elections,” he said. Apart from local issues that take the centre stage during gram panchayat polls, the Congress wants to corner the BJP by highlighting corruption, failure in handling the Covid-19 pandemic, power tariff hike and fund allocation to rural constituencies. According to Ahmed, the Congress won 70% (63,980) of the 91,402 seats in gram panchayats across the state in 2015. The JD(S), however, is yet to get its head around the gram panchayat elections. The party’s state president H K Kumaraswamy noted that there was uncertainty on when elections will be held. “Soon after the Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll results are out, the JD(S) will concentrate its efforts on gram panchayat elections,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-gram-panchayat-polls-to-be-or-not-to-be-912681.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Malavika Hegde and others get bail||Mudigere JMFC Court has granted bail to Coffee Day Global Limited director Malavika Hegde and others in a cheque bounce case. The case against eight persons, including Malavika, was registered under Negotiable Instrument Act-138. The court had issued a non-bailable warrant against Malavika and others on November 6. Malavika appeared before the court and the court has granted bail, advocate Krishne Gowda said. The court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against Malavika, Jayaraj C Hubli, Sadananda Poojary, Nithin Bagmane, Kireet Savanth and Javed Parviz. Coffee grower K Nandish of Makonahalli had filed a case in the court after the cheque, issued by Coffee Day Global Limited, for the purchase of coffee had bounced. Goa Cong opposes rly project related to Karnataka  Panaji, DHNS: The Congress on Saturday stepped up pressure on the ruling BJP-led coalition government with its demand to scrap three upcoming Central government projects related to road, rail track expansion as well as a private 400 KVA power project. At a public meeting held in South Goa’s Margao, the party also passed a resolution protesting what the Opposition party leaders said was an attempt to make Goa a coal hub to facilitate coal transportation from the state’s only port, the Mormugao Port Trust, to steel mills in Karnataka’s Ballari district. “This meeting resolves to oppose the laying of railway double tracks from Vasco-da-Gama to Hosapete, meant only to transport coal from Mormugao Port Trust to various industries situated in the neighbouring Karnataka, Maharashtra and other states causing serious health hazards to the people of Goa,” a written resolution passed at the meeting. Nearly 50,000 trees around Mollem, near the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling for three central government projects. National Wildlife Board has already cleared the projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/malavika-hegde-and-others-get-bail-912682.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP weighs option of Vijayendra’s entry into Assembly||The BJP is “seriously considering” the candidature of party vice-president and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra for the Basavakalyan bypoll that is yet to be announced, according to sources.  The Basavakalyan assembly segment in Bidar district is due for a bypoll after its incumbent Congress legislator B Narayan Rao, 66, died due to Covid-19 complications in September.  The constituency is dominated by the Lingayat community to which Vijayendra belongs.  “Vijayendra’s candidature in Basavakalyan is under discussion,” a source said. “One argument is that his presence in that segment would strengthen the BJP in the Kalyana Karnataka region.”  Rao himself was not a Lingayat; he belonged to the backward fishermen community. But, he supported the demand to recreate 12th century social reformer Basavanna’s concept of Anubhava Mantapa.  If Vijayendra gets the ticket, it will be his first electoral outing. In the 2018 assembly elections, he was denied the ticket to contest against the then chief minister Siddaramaiah’s son Yathindra from the Varuna constituency in Mysuru.  In August, Vijayendra was elevated from the state Yuva Morcha as the party’s vice-president in what was seen as a reward for helping the BJP win in the Vokkaliga-dominated KR Pet during the December 2019 bypolls. For the November 3 bypoll, Vijayendra camped in Sira and the party is confident of putting up a fight in this segment where its presence was negligible.  Widely seen as Yediyurappa’s political heir, Vijayendra’s entry into the Legislative Assembly could be timed for the rumoured change in leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-weighs-option-of-vijayendra-s-entry-into-assembly-912686.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Heavy betting over Sira bypoll result||The district is seeing heavy betting with regard to the winning horse of Sira Assembly constituency bypoll. The winner will be known on November 10 when the counting of votes will be taken up. In the past, there used to be betting between the Congress and the JD(S) party workers. This time, the BJP workers too have joined the betting. There is booth-wise betting also. There is more betting on the Congress and the BJP. A voter in the constituency told DH, "Mobile phones, bikes, sheep and money are used for betting. Some of them are quoting between Rs 10,000 and Rs 1 lakh on their claims." "A prominent leader of the party would bet in the past. He had bet over Rs 50 lakh on B Satyanarayana on the ground that he would win. He had also bet huge sums during the Lok Sabha poll. However, the leader is silent this time," he added.  Party workers at their respective villages are betting that their parties would gain the lead in respective booths. There is heavy betting at Kasaba, Hulikunte, Gowdagere and Kallambella hoblis. Another voter, on the condition of anonymity, said, "I don't belong to any political party. Let anybody be the winner. Hindu votes will be divided among the three parties in Sira. Muslims have supported the Congress in large numbers. Hence, I have bet on the Congress party. Compared to other places, there is heavy betting in Sira town."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/heavy-betting-over-sira-bypoll-result-912690.html
07-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress pulls up leaders for ‘next CM’ remarks||The DK Shivakumar-led Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) is learnt to have pulled up legislators B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, Sowmya Reddy and former MP Prakash Hukkeri for projecting senior leader Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister.  The matter came up for discussion in the party’s disciplinary committee and the three leaders might be issued notices seeking an explanation, sources said.  Recently, Khan, Reddy and Hukkeri had reportedly said in public that Siddaramaiah would be the next chief minister if the party came to power.  “Leaders should refrain from making statements on this subject. The disciplinary committee is considering issuing notices to them,” a source said.  Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, both seen as power centres, have kept mum on claims made by some leaders, projecting each of them as the next chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-pulls-up-leaders-for-next-cm-remarks-912691.html
07-11-2020||Main Article||Victory over the coronavirus||It came, it saw, but I didn’t let it conquer me. The enemy slipped in insidiously. The first day, I had a crushing headache, which disappeared without medication and this was followed by chills at night. At that stage, there was no fever. Two days later, I developed a slight cough that was more like clearing the throat and I began feeling dull and listless. Something seemed to have gone awry. The result of the Covid-19 test was positive. Although I was semi-prepared, it came as a shock to the system and my mind went into overdrive. The questions raged, “Where did I get this one-way ticket to hell? Do I have a future?” Initially, as my oxygen saturation levels were under control and I did not feel breathless, I was advised to isolate myself at home with medication and online consultations with doctors. Gradually, the cough increased in intensity and a CT scan revealed that my condition required medical intervention. After that, we had to make quick decisions and take action. We were looking for hospitals closer home, but finally, I was admitted to a hospital relatively far from the area that we live in. In retrospect, that didn’t matter anyway since Covid-19 patients are kept in total isolation--once you’re in no one can come see you, you’re cut off from the rest of the world. It’s like being on an island from where there’s no escape. This brought back memories of a movie 'Escape from Alcatraz' about prisoners on an island.  Line of treatment I had heard that Covid-19 wards are stark and bare and doctors keep their distance. This hospital was different, the dedicated doctors and efficient nurses made the situation bearable. Depending on the level of criticality and the individual needs of each patient a treatment plan was planned. I got the treatment that President Trump received--with five doses of Remdesivir for five days; supplemental oxygen and intravenously administered antibiotics, multivitamins and anticoagulant injections. I learnt and tried to understand new medical terms like D-dimer and why it is necessary to bring it under control. D-dimer is a fibrin degradation product that is often used to measure and assess clot formation. In Covid-19 patients, elevated D-dimer levels have been associated with disease severity and mortality trends. When I went in, the D-dimer levels were alarming but with medication, it gradually came down.  Theories abound as to why D-dimer numbers escalate in Covid-19 patients. I was under the impression that perhaps I was constitutionally weak or had low immunity. A friend, however, told me that the tougher the body and mind, the greater is the fight against the virus. Hence my D-dimer numbers escalated in an inflammatory response. As the acute situation passed, the reactions reduced. A strange virus and stranger life lessons. After all, it is a defence mechanism – when there is a threat or attack to the body, every weapon springs into action and some of those may be too powerful for the body to handle and turn against the body. To build up stamina, patients are asked to walk in the corridor in short stints, maintaining the mandatory distance and wearing masks. It was then that I’d see other patients and ask the nurses about them. Many were going through vexing situations. Two pregnant women had to undergo emergency C-sections as they had tested positive and all of us waited in the ward to find out if the babies were okay. Although one baby tested positive, both were going to be in incubators for a few months. What a time to be born! Families couldn’t visit and the new mothers were too fatigued to even take calls. Another young man broke his leg in an accident, his operation was delayed as he tested positive. There was an elderly man with Alzheimer’s disease who kept running out of his room at night screaming at the nurses for not giving him lunch. Every hospital is bound to have such cases and true-life stories. Don’t believe all that you hear  There is so much blaring in the media about every aspect of the virus --causes, symptoms, care and later complications that it frightens the patient. Some patients become Google doctors themselves and tell the doctors what to do! In my mind, I was very clear that once I’ve entrusted myself to a doctor’s care, I must have complete confidence in the treatment plan and leave all decisions to the doctor. No doubts raised, no questions asked. Yet, the doctors were very gentle and explained the entire process. Patients were discouraged from taking calls because many well-wishers would unintentionally create anxiety by talking or sending clippings about some withdrawn drug or after-effects. As it is, the body is battling an unknown enemy and if the mind is also disturbed it becomes a traumatic experience.  Perhaps for the first time in this century, have so many people been feeling such intense anxiety related to one thing and the scars may never heal. The mind plays an important role in combating the virus. You can help your body in the following ways: First, accept the situation you are in and change your attitude from “Why me? to “Okay, I’ve got it, I’ll fight it!” This is a global pandemic and there is no stigma attached to contracting the virus. However tired you are feeling, try to increase your physical activity as it will improve your mood, digestion, and sleep. Stay connected to people who provide emotional and other support. Have faith in the doctors --they are the Covid-19 warriors and are putting their lives at stake for yours. After two weeks of top-of-the-line treatment and walking in the corridor, I came out smiling as I had won the battle royale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/victory-over-the-coronavirus-912427.html
07-11-2020||National||India has taken up with Bangladesh authorities violence targeting Hindus, incident being probed: MEA||India has taken up with Bangladeshi authorities the issue of violence targeting Hindu families in Bangladesh's Comilla district and the matter is being probed by the authorities there, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. Some radical Islamists vandalised and set on fire houses of several Hindu families in Bangladesh's Comilla district earlier this week over rumours about an alleged Facebook post slandering Islam. Asked about the incident at an online media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India's High Commission and posts in Bangladesh are in close contact with local authorities in Bangladesh over the incident. "They have taken up this incident and we have been informed that the Bangladesh authorities have looked at this incident very seriously and the law enforcement authorities there are investigating the outbreak of violence," he said. They also continue to remain vigilant to prevent any untoward disturbances, Srivastava added. The households were vandalised and later set on fire on Sunday after a Bangladeshi man, who lives in France, allegedly praised President Emmanuel Macron for taking steps against "inhumane ideologies" after a teacher in Paris was decapitated for showing caricatures of the Prophet, Bangladeshi officials had said. To a separate question on fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, Srivastava said his bail application was rejected on October 26 by a UK court and a hearing was also held in the case on November 3. The next hearing is on January 7-8, 2021 and till then Nirav Modi will be in judicial custody, he said. On the Kerala gold smuggling case, Srivastava said one accused has been arrested by teh NIA and he cannot comment as the matter is under investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-taken-up-with-bangladesh-authorities-violence-targeting-hindus-incident-being-probed-mea-912335.html
07-11-2020||National||Woman raped by trio in Telangana; dies of head injury||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly raped by three people, known to her, and later died of a head injury suffered during the assault on the city outskirts, police said on Friday. All the three, in their 20s, had been arrested and based on a complaint by the woman's family, two separate cases of woman missing and murder registered, they said. Two of the men were known to the woman, a widow, police said. The three consumed liquor at a city hotel and one of them called her to come to Miyapur here on November 3 night. On seeing three people, she refused to come with them. However, they then forcibly took the woman in a car to a village on the city outskirts and raped her in a shed. She suffered "an invisible" head injury in the incident and died following which the trio fled from the spot, a police release said. The incident came to light after one of the accused told a local councillor, who in turn informed the woman's mother on Wednesday. The three men were arrested on Thursday near a toll gate and the car, which belonged to the third accused, was seized along with their mobile phones, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-raped-by-trio-in-telangana-dies-of-head-injury-912343.html
07-11-2020||National||PM Modi to lead Indian delegation at virtual SCO summit on November 10: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping are expected to come face-to-face virtually at the annual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on November 10. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said Modi will lead the Indian delegation at the summit. "The Prime Pinister will lead the Indian delegation to the 20th summit of the SCO council of heads of state which will be held in the virtual format on Nov 10. The meeting will be chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. India has been focusing on expanding its cooperation with the SCO, an eight-nation regional grouping, that represents around 42 per cent of the world’s population and 20 per cent of the global GDP. The Chinese delegation at the summit is expected to be led by President Jinping. The SCO summit is taking place at a time when India and China, two of the bloc's members, are engaged in a tense border standoff for over six months in eastern Ladakh. Both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff. Srivastava said India will host a summit of the council of heads of government of the SCO on November 30 in the virtual format in which prime ministers of the member countries of the bloc will participate. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of SCO in 2017. Modi and Xi are expected to come face-to-face virtually during the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) summit on November 17, and the G20 summit on November 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-lead-indian-delegation-at-virtual-sco-summit-on-november-10-mea-912354.html
07-11-2020||National||India believes cooperation, not competition should be basis of international relations: Jaishankar||India believes that cooperation, not competition should be the basis of international relations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday while noting that a world order already in transition has been further complicated due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While addressing on 'India and Argentina in the New World Order: Dialogue among Indian and Argentine Think Tanks', Jaishankar said the two countries are agricultural powerhouses in their respective regions and cooperation in this area can extend beyond increasing exports and market access to each other’s products, to collaboration in edible oils, agricultural machinery and fertilisers. Argentina can be an important partner for India’s energy security, especially in the oil and gas sector, Jaishankar said. With Argentina joining the International Solar Alliance in 2019, an important first step was taken for cooperation in renewable energy, he said. The large reserves of minerals, including strategic minerals like lithium in Argentina, complements the large appetite for metals and minerals across various sectors in India, including crucial ones like e-vehicles, Jaishankar said. "We are living through an unprecedented and devastating global crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic. Even as countries continue to grapple with its health, economic and other effects, a world order already in transition has been further complicated," he said. "We believe that cooperation, and not competition should be the basis of international relations," Jaishankar said. India's response to the current global uncertainty is reflected in the vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (or self-reliant India), articulated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. "This is a vision of 'a self-reliant India which is also a reliable friend for the world'. It highlights collaboration and complementarities in an environment of global recovery and reform," Jaishankar said. It envisages the harmonising of domestic production and consumption with global supply chains as well as promotion of international trade and commerce, he said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-believes-cooperation-not-competition-should-be-basis-of-international-relations-jaishankar-912355.html
07-11-2020||National||Did you know horses, rhinoceros evolved in India over 50 million years ago||Horses, rhinoceros, tapirs, and many other such mammals evolved in India more than 50 million years ago, an international team of fossil hunters has found, analysing hundreds of tiny pieces of fossils retrieved from a lignite mine in Gujarat over 15 years. With more than 350 new fossils, the study pieces together a nearly complete picture of the skeletal anatomy of the Cambaytherium – a sheep-sized extinct cousin of the ancestors of horses and rhinos that lived on the Indian subcontinent almost 55 million years ago. The research sheds new light on a lingering mammal mystery - how odd-toed hoofed ungulates like horses, zebras, tapirs, and rhinos (perissodactyls), even-toed hoofed ungulates like cattle, deer, antelope, and sheep (artiodactyls), and primates suddenly appear in the fossil record at the beginning of the Eocene period (about 56 million years ago) across the northern continents during a very short period of global warming. These animals were not known before this abrupt appearance and scientists don't know how and where they evolved. Paleontologists led by Kenneth Rose at Johns Hopkins University decided to explore India nearly two decades ago following a 1990 hypothesis that such animals might have evolved in the country during its northward drift from Madagascar, dispersing across the northern continents when India collided with Asia. They landed in India to test the proposition but the first trip to Rajasthan in 2001 brought little success. Next year one of the team members Rajendra Rana from HNB Garhwal University went deep inside Vastan lignite mine in Gujarat and found its maiden success. In 2004 the team that also includes Kishor Kumar from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun and Thierry Smith from Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences discovered the first mammal fossil including that of Cambaytherium. Over the years they accumulated teeth, jaws, and skeletal elements that revealed its unique anatomy. “We didn't know what we would find or if we would find anything at all since there were no fossils of this age known from India before our work. Cambaytherium was a particular surprise because of its remarkable combination of primitive and advanced anatomical features,” Rose, an emeritus professor at Johns Hopkins University and lead author of the study told DH. The team pieced together missing blocks to know more about Cambaytherium, an animal with moderate running ability. It combines some features showing a clear relationship with perissodactyls, together with many primitive features found in earlier “archaic” hoofed mammals but not in perissodactyls. The existence of Cambaytherium suggests that such animals were likely to have evolved in isolation in or near India during the Paleocene (66-56 million years ago), before dispersing to other continents when the land connection with Asia formed. “The research is important to understand the origin and evolution of early mammals. It's a more detailed account of their 2014 research paper in which the team first proposed that ungulates like horses originated in India,” commented GVR Prasad, a paleontologist at Delhi University, who is not associated with the research. This study would be published in the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology Memoir Series, a special yearly publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-you-know-horses-rhinoceros-evolved-in-india-over-50-million-years-ago-912307.html
07-11-2020||National||DH Toon | US Election: Biden nears poll victory; Trump claims fraud||US President Donald Trump has sought transparency into vote counting and election certification and asserted that he will pursue this process through every aspect of the law to guarantee that Americans have confidence in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-us-election-biden-nears-poll-victory-trump-claims-fraud-912447.html
07-11-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on November 7||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 84 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 84,62,155 as of November 7 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,25,570  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 78,19,886      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-november-7-912451.html
07-11-2020||National||Vadodara custodial death: CID to visit Telangana with pictures of unclaimed body for identification||Nearly 11 months since he went missing and four months after Vadodara police registered an FIR against six of its officials for allegedly killing him in custody, a team of CID (crime) is expected to visit the victim's son in Telangana with pictures of unclaimed bodies lying in the mortuary for possible identification.  This is one of the steps being taken to trace the dead body of Telangana resident Babu Nasir Shaikh, 65, who died in December 2019 at Fatehgunj police station in Vadodara in illegal police custody.  The CID, entrusted to trace the body by Gujarat High Court where a habeas corpus petition is being heard, has already drained water from the nine-km stretch of Narmada canal near Vadodara city twice to look for remains of Shaikh's body but the exercise has remained unsuccessful.  On Friday, the CID officials informed the High Court that it plans to send a team with mugshots of unclaimed bodies lying in the mortuary to Shaikh's son Salim for identification. Besides, the team will also collect DNA sample of his son to match with the bodies kept at the mortuary. The CID team is also probing into the statement recorded by one of the police witnesses who has said that Shaikh was allegedly burnt by the accused policemen in order to get rid of the evidence. The witness has said that the accused police inspector D B Gohil is closely associated with a petrol pump owner who might have helped in procuring petrol for burning the body. The CID has obtained the CCTV footage and sent it to the forensic laboratory to retrieve all data. According to the FIR, Shaikh was picked up by a surveillance team of Fatehgunj police on December 10, 2019, and was brought to the station as a suspect in a theft case. The FIR alleges that the accused police inspector D B Gohil interrogated and tortured Shaikh. It claims, "Shaikh, who was tied to a chair in a way that he couldn't move, was beaten up, tortured by squeezing a pen between his fingers and pressed hard to hurt him, he was bleeding." The FIR says that Shaikh kept crying in pain telling the interrogators that he had done nothing wrong.   The FIR is based on three police witnesses who were posted at the same police station, besides a private witness who was called by the accused to lodge an FIR related to an attempt of theft at his house and he saw Shaikh lying lifeless at the chair. The CCTV footage of the police station also revealed Shaikh being brought to the station but the record of Shaikh's exit was not found in the record. Police suspect that the CCTV camera might have been switched off by accused policemen. All six accused policemen were arrested and are in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vadodara-custodial-death-cid-to-visit-telangana-with-pictures-of-unclaimed-body-for-identification-912472.html
07-11-2020||National||India sees over 50,000 new Covid-19 cases, 577 deaths; tally crosses 84 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 84,62,080 with 50,356 infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 78 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 92.41 per cent, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,25,562 with 577 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 78,19,886 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far pushing the national recovery rate to 92.41 per cent, while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 5,16,632 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 6.11 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 11,65,42,304 samples have been tested up to November 6 with 11,13,209 samples being tested on Friday. The 577 new fatalities include 161 from Maharashtra, 64 from Delhi, 55 from West Bengal, 52 from Chhattisgarh, 35 from Karnataka, and 27 each from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Total 1,25,562 deaths reported so far in the country include 44,965 from Maharashtra, 11,347 from Karnataka, 11,299 from Tamil Nadu, 7,177 from West Bengal, 7,155 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,833 from Delhi, 6,768 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,295 from Punjab, and 3,748 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-50000-new-covid-19-cases-577-deaths-tally-crosses-84-lakh-912484.html
07-11-2020||National||Bombay HC quashes BARC's order on imposing fine on TV Today Network||The Bombay High Court has quashed and set aside an order passed by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) imposing a fine of Rs five lakh on TV Today Network Limited, which owns news channel India Today, for alleged viewership malpractices. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav on November 5 quashed and set aside the July 31, 2020, order passed by BARC's Disciplinary Council after the advocate for BARC told the court that it was ready to give the network company a fresh hearing. The petitioner's counsel Veerendra Tulzapurkar argued that the BARC's Disciplinary Council did not have the appropriate quorum when the impugned order was passed. Senior advocate Gopal Jain, appearing for the BARC, told the court that there is now a new Code of Conduct for Redressing Viewership Malpractices and the BARC's Disciplinary Council is now ready to give a fresh hearing to the petitioner. The petitioner also expressed its willingness to appear before the Disciplinary Council for the fresh hearing. "As a consequence of this consensus, the petition is disposed of by quashing and setting aside the impugned order and that the petitioner will appear before the Disciplinary Council on the date assigned," the bench said in its order. The court had last month directed the network company to deposit the fine amount to the court registry if it wants the BARC to not take any coercive action against it pending hearing of the petition. "The petitioner is permitted to withdraw the amount of Rs 5,00,000 stated to be deposited in the Registry of this Court," the court said on November 5. TV Today Network had challenged the July 31, 2020 order passed by the Disciplinary Council of BARC. The BARC had on April 27 issued a show-cause notice to the petitioner after the statistical data provided by BARC's Measurement Science Team showed an abnormal and inexplicable increase in viewership. Finding its response unsatisfactory, BARC asked the network to pay Rs five lakh as fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-quashes-barcs-order-on-imposing-fine-on-tv-today-network-912494.html
07-11-2020||National||Delhi's air quality 'severe', likely to remain so on Diwali||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the "severe" category on Saturday morning as farmers in Punjab and nearby regions continued to set their fields on fire to clear crop residue. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city's air quality is likely to remain "severe" on Diwali as well. Experts said while meteorological conditions were "moderately" favourable for dispersion of pollutants, a "very high" number of farm fires in Punjab was the primary reason for "severe" air quality. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, Delhi's overall air quality index (AQI) was 443 this morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 486 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and inhaled into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – were 292 µg/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe. Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the number of farm fires in Punjab remains very high (around 4,000) which is likely to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. It said the AQI is likely to remain in the "upper end of 'very poor' category on November 13 and 'severe' category on November 14 (Diwali)". According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum wind speed was 14 kilometres per hour on Friday and the minimum temperature 11.8 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. V K Soni, head of IMD's environment monitoring research centre, said, "A very large number of farm fires over Punjab is the primary reason for the severe air quality in the region." SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was estimated at 21 per cent on Friday. It was 42 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season. Last year, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-air-quality-severe-likely-to-remain-so-on-diwali-912495.html
07-11-2020||National||Indian diplomat elected to UN Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions||In a significant victory for India at the United Nations, Indian diplomat Vidisha Maitra was elected to the UN Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ), a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly. In the Group of Asia-Pacific States, Maitra, First Secretary in India's Permanent Mission to the UN, obtained 126 votes. The 193-member General Assembly appoints members of the Advisory Committee. Members are selected on the basis of broad geographical representation, personal qualifications and experience. Maitra was one of two nominated candidates from the Group of Asia-Pacific States. In the group, Ali Mohammed Faeq Al-Dabag of Iraq drew 64 votes. The Fifth Committee of the General Assembly, which deals with administrative and budgetary issues, recommended Maitra to the Assembly for a three-year term beginning January 1, 2021. The victory comes as India gets ready to sit in the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 2021. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said in a video message that Maitra was elected on Friday to the UN ACABQ "in a strong display of support by UN member states". He expressed confidence that Maitra "will bring an independent, objective and much-needed gender-balanced perspective to the functioning of ACABQ". Tirumurti expressed gratitude to all member states who supported India in this "crucial election and reposed faith in our candidate". He said the ACABQ ensures that fund contributions to the UN system are put to good effect and that mandates are properly funded. He noted that India's membership of ACABQ is particularly relevant now when the UN budget has come under increasing pressure. "India has a stellar record of bringing professional auditing experience to the UN and contributing outstanding professionals to UN bodies,” he said, adding that with India's rising obligations in both assessed as well as voluntary contributions to the UN, "we take the responsibility of administrative and budgetary management of UN's functioning very seriously". Tirumurti emphasised that this assumes greater significance against the backdrop of India's term in the Security Council for 2021-22. The ACABQ consists of 16 members appointed by the Assembly in their individual capacity. The major functions of the Advisory Committee are to examine and report on the budget submitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly and to advise the General Assembly concerning any administrative and budgetary matters referred to it. It also examines, on behalf of the General Assembly, the administrative budgets of the specialised agencies and proposals for financial arrangements with such agencies; and to consider and report to the General Assembly on the auditors' reports on the accounts of the United Nations and of the specialised agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diplomat-elected-to-un-advisory-committee-on-administrative-and-budgetary-questions-912501.html
07-11-2020||National||Five years of OROP a momentous occasion: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the One Rank One Pension scheme for armed forces veterans was a historic step to ensure the well-being of our soldiers, as he greeted them on the fifth anniversary of his government's decision to implement OROP. OROP is aimed at ensuring uniform pensions for veterans retiring in the same rank with the same length of service irrespective of when they retire. "Today, five years ago, India took a historic step towards ensuring the well-being of our great soldiers, who courageously protect our nation. #5YearsOfOROP is a momentous occasion. India waited for OROP for decades. I salute our veterans for their remarkable service!" Modi tweeted. He also posted highlights of the decision released by the defence ministry. According to the government, over Rs 10,795.4 crore was distributed among 20.60 lakh ex-servicemen and their family pensioners as arrears with a yearly recurring expenditure of about Rs 7,123.38 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-years-of-orop-a-momentous-occasion-pm-modi-912507.html
07-11-2020||National||Chief, 3 ICs appointed in CIC; three posts still lie vacant||Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha was on Saturday formally chosen as the new chief of the Central Information Commission (CIC), while three others -- Heeralal Samariya, Saroj Punhani and Uday Mahurkar -- were appointed as Information Commissioners in the transparency body where three more posts lie vacant. The appointment orders of Sinha, an incumbent Information Commissioner, and three others were issued by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday, taking the total number of Commissioners to eight in an 11-member body. The CIC can have 10 information commissioners and one Chief Information Commissioner. Sinha's appointment comes 72 days after the then CIC Bimal Jhulka retired with activists saying it was the fifth time in six years that the transparency body was left headless. The President administered the oath of office to Sinha in Rashtrapati Bhavan. The three information commissioners were administered oath of office by Sinha later. The new appointments also comes with a dissent note written by Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, a member in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led three-member Selection Committee. Home Minister Amit Shah is another member of the panel, which had met twice in October to finalise the names of the chief and other information commissioners. Former IAS officer Samariya was Labour Secretary before his retirement in September this year. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering and his area of expertise includes administration and governance. Punhani, an IA & AS officer, was holding the post of Deputy Comptroller & Auditor General (HR & Training) in Government of India and her area of expertise includes administration and Governance. Mahurkar, who was a Senior Deputy Editor with India Today and considers himself a follower of controversial right-wing figure Savarkar, is also the author of 'Marching with a Billion', a book on Modi's governance. Vanaja N Sarna, Neeraj Kumar Gupta, Suresh Chandra and Amita Pandove are the other Information Commissioners. Sources said Chowdhury has submitted a dissent note, objecting to the way in which the short-listing of candidates has been done.   Chowdhury is also learnt to have objected to Mahurkar's appointment as his name was not among the applicants but found space in the short-list. Seven persons, including Mahurkar, were short-listed for the post of Information Commissioner from among 355 applicants. While welcoming the appointments, transparency activists Anjali Bhardwaj and Amrita Johri of Satark Nagrik Sangathan said it was disappointing that all the vacancies have not been filled. "It is unfortunate that despite vacancies arising due to routine retirement of incumbent commissioners, the central government has been consistently failing in ensuring timely appointment of commissioners," they said. They also said that they were "extremely concerned" that the directions of the Supreme Court to ensure transparency in the appointment process have been violated. Citing the February 2019 judgement, they said the Supreme Court had directed the government the names of the members of the search and selection committees, the agenda and minutes of committee meetings, the advertisement issued for vacancies, particulars of applicants, names of shortlisted candidates, file notings and correspondence related to appointments, be placed in the public domain. The Court had also noted, “it would also be appropriate for the Search Committee to make the criteria for shortlisting the candidates, public, so that it is ensured that shortlisting is done on the basis of objective and rational criteria.” "Other than the advertisement issued for vacancies, none of the other information is available in the public domain. In fact, the DOPT even denied this information under the RTI Act...Lack of transparency in the selection process raises doubts in the minds of the public undermining faith in the institution," Bhardwaj and Johri said. Activists had earlier criticised the Modi government for allowing the CIC to remain headless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chief-3-ics-appointed-in-cic-three-posts-still-lie-vacant-912515.html
07-11-2020||National||Create ease of living for the poorest: PM Modi's mantra to IITians||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the country will ensure 'ease of doing business' for its youth while they should work for providing 'ease of living' to people, particularly the poorest of the poor, through innovations. Addressing the 51st annual convocation of IIT Delhi via video conferencing, he said that the post-Covid-19 world is going to be very different and technology will play the biggest role in it. Covid-19 has taught the world that globalisation is important but self-reliance is equally important, the Prime Minister said. "India is fully committed to give its youth ease of doing business so that the youth through their innovation can bring about a change in the lives of crores of people of the country," Modi said addressing the graduating students of IIT Delhi. "The country will give you ease of doing business but you do one thing, through your expertise, experience, talent and innovation... ensure ease of living for the poorest of the poor citizens," he said. Modi also urged the graduating students to focus on quality, never compromise, and make their innovations work at a mass scale. "Your work will give global recognition to our products. Your efforts will lead to swifter recognition of Indian products," Modi told the students, calling them the best brand ambassadors of Brand India. The nation has seen how technology can provide good governance and reach the poor and the needy in the last few years, he said. Technology has made last mile delivery of services efficient and reduced the scope of corruption, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/create-ease-of-living-for-the-poorest-pm-modis-mantra-to-iitians-912521.html
07-11-2020||National||Recovery in domestic air passenger traffic continues in October: Icra||Domestic air travel demand continued on an upward trajectory month-on-month, with the October volume witnessing a 33 per cent growth to 52 lakh passengers over September, Icra said. On a year-on-year basis, however, the domestic travel demand declined 58 per cent and internationally the fall was 87 per cent, it said. The Indian aviation industry has witnessed continued recovery in domestic passenger traffic in October with a sequential growth (over September) of around 33 per cent to around 52 lakh passengers, Icra said in a release on Friday. Icra further noted that the capacity deployment in October 2020 at around 52 per cent over the same month last year, is a significant increase over the around 33 per cent capacity deployed in August and around 46 per cent capacity in September this year. The Civil Aviation Ministry in June had permitted increasing the capacity to 45 per cent with effect from June 27 from a maximum of one-third at the time of resumption of domestic flights from May 25, which was further scaled up to 60 per cent from September 2. The capacity is expected to go up to 70-75 per cent in the coming days in view of the festive season, the government had said. According to Icra, the cumulative domestic passenger volumes since the resumption of domestic flight services in a graded manner from May 25, till October 31, was around 16 million. "The number of flights departing has also gradually increased from 416 on Day 1 to 1,749 on Day 156 (October 26, 2020). For October, the average daily departures were around 1,574, significantly lower than the average daily departures of 3,031 in October 2019, though better than around 1,311 in September 2020," said Kinjal Shah, Vice President, ICRA. Also, the average number of passengers per flight during October 2020, was 106, as against an average of 131 passengers per flight in October 2019, she said. Therefore, it is expected that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor (PLF) of around 68 per cent in October 2020, as against 83.6 per cent in October 2019, that too on a low capacity, she added. PLF or seat factor is a measure of how much of an airline's passenger carrying capacity is used or average percentage of seats filled in an aircraft. According to Shah, the PLF for October was higher than 63.2 per cent in September, despite the increase in capacity deployment by around 24 per cent. Under the Vande Bharat Mission, the international passenger traffic, both (inbound and outbound, was 10,96,709 between May 7 (when the services commenced) to October 31, as per Icra. The international passenger traffic declined 87 per cent to 255,075 year-on-year, though sequentially it improved by about 22 per cent, Icra said in the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recovery-in-domestic-air-passenger-traffic-continues-in-october-icra-912523.html
07-11-2020||National||Mayawati attacks Yogi govt over farmer arrests in stubble burning cases||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to make farmers aware about stubble burning and its impact on air pollution, before initiating any action against them. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "The atrocities on farmers in the garb of pollution caused due to stubble burning in UP is extremely condemnable. The government before taking any action against farmers, should make them aware and give them necessary assistance. This is the demand of the BSP." The tweet by Mayawati comes a day after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to ensure that farmers are not harassed or misbehaved with them when action is taken against stubble burning. The Chief Minister also said new experiments to use crop residue should be encouraged and projects to prepare bio fuel/power from stubble should be reviewed. "The farmers should be made aware of the impacts of stubble burning on the environment and pollution caused by it and asked the Agriculture Department to run awareness programmes for this. It should be ensured that farmers should not be misbehaved with or harassed while taking action against stubble burning," an official statement quoted the chief minister as saying. "Effective use of stubble can help farmers in increasing their income," Adityanath said, according to the statement issued here. On November 4, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu demanded the immediate release of all the farmers who have been allegedly arrested over stubble burning. Lallu claimed that the state government was lodging cases and harassing farmers in the name of checking the menace of stubble burning. He claimed that 16 farmers had been sent to jail in Saharanpur alone over the past week, while "hundreds" of others were forced to flee to evade arrest, adding that it was "deplorable". Lallu asked the government to stop the "atrocities" on farmers and instead take steps for resolving their problems, warning that the party would be forced to come onto the streets to protest against the alleged harassment of farmers.  यू.पी. में फैले प्रदूषण को लेकर खासकर यहाँ पराली जलाने की आड़ में किसानों के साथ हो रही जुल्म-ज्यादती अति निन्दनीय। जबकि इस मामले में सरकार को कोई भी कार्यवाही करने से पहले, उन्हें जागरूक व जरूरी सहायता देने की भी जरूरत। बी.एस.पी.की यह मांग।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-attacks-yogi-govt-over-farmer-arrests-in-stubble-burning-cases-912557.html
07-11-2020||National||Naidu bats for use of innovative tech in agriculture||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday called for multi-pronged efforts to make the country's agriculture sustainable and profitable. He said the country will be able to produce more in less area by changing its approach and practices. Inaugurating the 120th birth anniversary celebrations of Acharya N G Ranga, Naidu described him as a great freedom fighter, a farmers' leader, a social reformer and an outstanding parliamentarian. "A true son of the soil, he is considered as the father of the Indian Kisan Movement along with Swami Sahajanand Saraswati," the vice president said. Talking about the high standards of debates and parliamentary conduct shown by Acharya Ranga, Naidu recalled that there used to be rapt attention whenever he spoke in Parliament. As the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, Naidu said, it pains him to see the standards of debates going down. He appealed to all lawmakers to study the life and teachings of Ranga and learn from his conduct as a parliamentarian. Debates should be constructive and not disruptive, he said. Referring to the new wave of technology in agriculture, he said it was more than just the shift to mechanisation like the use of tractors. While basic mechanisation should further expand to all corners of the country, people should not lose sight of the cutting-edge technologies that are changing the way agriculture is practiced the world over, the vice president said. Calling for developing more climate-resilient seed varieties, Naidu stressed the need to adopt precision-agriculture practices, which have become the order of the day now with the use of drip irrigation, drones and sensors that cater to the needs of each individual plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naidu-bats-for-use-of-innovative-tech-in-agriculture-912558.html
07-11-2020||National||ISRO launches PSLV C49 with EOS-01, nine foreign satellites||In its first space mission in nearly a year, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Saturday launched the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) with the Earth observation EOS-01 and nine other foreign satellites. This is the PSLV’s 51st mission. The last time ISRO launched a satellite from Indian soil was on December 11, 2019, when the earth observation RISAT-2BR1 was placed in orbit. In January this year, the space agency had launched the GSAT-30 from French Guiana. Launched at 3.12 pm on Saturday from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, the EOS-01 is designed to provide satellite support in agriculture, forestry and disaster management. In a tweet, ISRO informed that the nine customer satellites were launched under a commercial agreement with NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), Department of Space. Among the customer satellites, one is from Lithuania for technology demonstration, four from Luxembourg for maritime applications and four from the United States for multi-mission remote sensing. The synthetic aperture radars onboard EOS-01 are designed to capture high-resolution images of the terrain. Radar imaging is unaffected by weather changes. High wave-length signals from the radars are capable of penetrating even dense tree covers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-launches-pslv-c49-with-eos-01-nine-foreign-satellites-912578.html
07-11-2020||National||Narendra Modi invites IIT graduates to explore start-up universe||"Don't be a Lite version", be original, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told budding technocrats as he exhorted them to explore setting up start-up ventures. Addressing the 51st annual convocation of IIT-Delhi, Modi listed out initiatives of the government for funding start-up ventures, including a Rs 10,000 crore 'Fund of Funds' and tax exemptions for setting up new businesses. “Focus on quality – never compromise. Ensure scalability – make your innovations work at a mass scale. Assure reliability – build long-term trust in the market. Bring in adaptability – be open to change and expect uncertainty as a way of life,” the Prime Minister said addressing the gathering through a video link. He asked students to be flexible and humble as they set out to achieve their goals in life. “At no point of your life must you shed your identity. Never be a 'Lite Version' of someone or something. Be the original version. Champion whatever values you believe in,” he said. “At the same time, never hesitate from fitting into a team. Individual efforts have their limits. The way ahead lies in teamwork. Teamwork brings completeness,” the PM said. He also asked students to be rightfully proud of their success and achievements. The Prime Minister said the government was encouraging innovation in diverse fields ranging from agriculture to space science. “For the first time, we have cleared the way for private investments in the space sector. We have also removed restrictions that tied up the fin-tech sector and allowed facilities such as 'work from home' and 'work from anywhere', besides simplifying the other services provider guidelines,” Modi said. “These initiatives would make the country's IT sector more competitive globally and create opportunities for young talent,” he said. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank was present at the convocation ceremony at the IIT-Delhi campus, where a total of 2,019 graduating students were awarded degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-invites-iit-graduates-to-explore-start-up-universe-912590.html
07-11-2020||National||Book examines Supreme Court judgements on sex, sexuality, gender||The Supreme Court has been performing a delicate balancing act between social practices and personal rights since its inception nearly 70 years ago but has woken up to the enormous task ahead of it in relation to issues of sex, sexuality and gender only in the relatively recent past, says a new book. "Sex and the Supreme Court: How the Law Is Upholding the Dignity of the Indian Citizen", edited by Saurabh Kirpal, attempts to explain and examine the impact that the law has had on different aspects of sex, sexuality and gender. The agency through which this impact has been felt most clearly is the Supreme Court and the book explores the relationship between the law, that is, the Constitution, the rights of an individual, and how these rights are enforced by the apex court. An examination of the nature of the Constitution, and the rights and principles contained therein, reveals that the court has to perform a delicate balancing act between social practices and personal rights, the book, published by Hachette India, says. "The Supreme Court has been performing this task since its inception nearly 70 years ago. However, it is only in the relatively recent past that it has woken up to the enormous task ahead of it in relation to issues of sex, sexuality and gender," it says. On September 6, 2018, the Supreme Court created history by reading down Section 377 - reversing an archaic law laid down by the British in 1860 and decriminalising homosexuality for the first time in modern India. Yet, this is not the only ruling that the Supreme Court has made in recent times championing the rights of an individual to her or his identity and dignity. From empowering the transgender community and lending teeth to the prevention of sexual harassment of women at the workplace, to protecting the privacy, rights and dignity of women and minorities on issues such as interfaith marriages, entering the Sabarimala temple, the controversial triple talaq and the striking down of the adultery law - the apex court has firmly placed the individual at the centre of the constitutional firmament, and set a course for progressive societal reform. The cases that form the subject matter of this book are the result of the adjudicatory process of the Supreme Court. In a way, the court, the Constitution and the judicial decision-making process are inextricably linked. In this collection of writings, legal luminaries offer insights into each of these crucial rulings. Justice M B Lokur writes on the issues that affect the transgender community; Justice B D Ahmed elucidates on Muslim law in the modern context; and Justice A K Sikri addresses the fundamental concept of dignity, which binds together all the essays in this book. Some of the best-known names in Indian law - Mukul Rohatgi, Madhavi Divan, Menaka Guruswamy, Arundhati Katju and Kirpal - offer legal perspectives of judgements on sex, sexuality and gender. Petitioners like Ritu Dalmia, Keshav Suri and Zainab Patel provide personal narratives of being a part of the LGBTQ community in India, while journalist Namita Bhandare gives an account of the struggle against sexual harassment. An unprecedented documentation of the rulings that have set a standard for the rights and liberties of sexual minorities and women in India, "Sex and the Supreme Court" also reveals the power of the country's courts to uphold the privacy, dignity and safety of its citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-examines-supreme-court-judgements-on-sex-sexuality-gender-912597.html
07-11-2020||National||SC directs for protection of witnesses in cases against MPs/MLAs||The Supreme Court has told the special courts, set up to try offences against former and sitting MPs and MLAs across the country, to provide protection to witnesses without any specific request by them, keeping in mind their vulnerability. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose also directed the special courts to follow "in full rigor" its judgement in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited vs CBI, (2018), which stated that any stay granted on trial would automatically expire within a period of six months. This judgement was reiterated on October 15, 2020 by a separate bench, which said, "Whatever stay has been granted by any court including the High Court automatically expires within a period of six months and unless extension is granted for good reason, as per our judgment, within the next six months, the trial court is, on the expiry of the first period of six months, to set a date for the trial and go ahead with the same." The bench pointed out the court had already passed directions on September 16 with respect to vacation of stay that may have been granted by the high courts. "In that order, we had directed the Chief Justices of the high courts to list the matters relating to the cases before an appropriate bench, and to decide on any issue relating to stay by keeping in view the principles laid down by this court," the bench said. Besides, the court also directed no unnecessary adjournments should be granted to avoid undue delay, keeping in mind the public interest involved in these matters. The court was dealing with a PIL by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for expediting the criminal cases against MPs and MLAs. Amicus curiae, senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, along with advocate Sneha Kalita suggested that the requirement for the witnesses to make an application seeking protection should be waived off. He also said in certain states, cases have been pending for more than 25 years, so it was imperative to appoint nodal prosecution officers who would be responsible to ensure that arrest warrants were being executed, and accused were being produced regularly. He also said the tenure of judicial officers dealing with such cases should be at least two years in order to ensure continuity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-protection-of-witnesses-in-cases-against-mps/mlas-912599.html
07-11-2020||National||VHP leader Sadhvi Prachi threatens to perform 'havan' in mosque, seeks capital punishment for 'love jihad'||Within days of offering of 'namaz' at a Mathura temple followed by recital of 'Hanuman Chalisa' in mosques, controversial VHP leader Sadhvi Prachi threatened to perform 'havan' (a Hindu ritual by fire) in the oldest mosque in Lucknow to protest 'desecration' of temples. ''I will be performing havan in the oldest mosque in Lucknow....it will also help in checking pollution,'' Sadhvi Prachi told reporters in Bareilly on Saturday. Launching attacks on those supporting 'namaz' in temples saying it would help strengthen communal harmony, the saffron leader said that most of the mosques in the country were constructed after 'demolishing' the temples. She also demanded capital punishment for those indulging in 'love jihad' (Muslim youths marrying Hindu girls under false pretenses). ''They should be hanged publicly,'' she said. Sadhvi Prachi's controversial remarks, however, came in for sharp criticism from the saints from Ayodhya, who asked the saffron leader not to give statements, which vitiated the communal atmosphere in the country. ''She should refrain from making such statements and let the police handle such matters,'' said Satyendra Das, the chief priest of the makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Barely a few days ago, BJP lawmaker Sangeet Som had called for 'tit for tat' action in cases of alleged 'love jihad' without waiting for action by the police. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also warned that those indulging in 'love jihad' should be ready for 'Ram Naam Satya' journey (Hindu funeral chant during the last journey). Adityanath had also said that the state government would soon enact a law to deal with the cases of 'love jihad'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-leader-sadhvi-prachi-threatens-to-perform-havan-in-mosque-seeks-capital-punishment-for-love-jihad-912612.html
07-11-2020||National||Gupkar Alliance to contest district council polls in J&K||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir, on Saturday unanimously decided to contest the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls unitedly. Soon after holding a meeting in Jammu, PAGD spokesperson and former minister Sajad Lone announced that the leadership has decided to contest the upcoming polls in J&K unitedly. The DDC elections will be the first polls to be held in Jammu and Kashmir after the scrapping of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. The first DDC elections will be held in J&K on December 1 and the poll process will be completed by December 24. Lone, who was accompanied by other PAGD leaders, said that all the modalities and new administrative rules will be looked into and the alliance president Farooq Abdullah will declare the names of contestants. “People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration met members of civil society, political parties and various communities including Gurjar-Bakarwals, SC/ST and Dalits. All of them are hurt by the decisions of August 5. We've decided to fight the upcoming DDC elections unitedly,” he added. The PAGD is an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, Peoples Conference, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference – and was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The PAGD also announced that it will fight for the return of migrant Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley as part of its agenda and their rehabilitation at all levels. The constituent members of PAGD on Saturday met at the Jammu residence of NC president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah. By holding DDC elections, the J&K government wants to complete the three-tier system of panchayati raj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gupkar-alliance-to-contest-district-council-polls-in-jk-912644.html
07-11-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Gambhir feels Virat Kohli must step down as RCB captain; SBI chairman expects Indian economy to bounce back||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Gautam Gambhir feels Virat Kohli must step down as RCB captain; Isro launches PSLV with the Earth observation EOS-01 and nine other foreign satellites; State Bank of India chief says economy expected to bounce back from the next fiscal; IISc-incubated startup developing Covid-19 vaccine which can be stored at higher temperatures and Democrat Joe Biden said he was going to win the US presidency.  Here are the top news of November 7, 2020: Former India opener and two-time IPL champion skipper Gautam Gambhir feels Virat Kohli's non-performance as Royal Challengers Bangalore captain should lead to his removal from the hot seat as it is now a question of accountability. Known for his straight-talking, the hero of India's two World title triumphs made it clear that Kohli's name as a leader shouldn't be taken alongside the likes of Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Rohit Sharma, who are IPL's most successful captains. In its first space mission in nearly a year, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Saturday launched the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) with the Earth observation EOS-01 and nine other foreign satellites.  This is the PSLV’s 51st mission. The last time ISRO launched a satellite from Indian soil was on December 11, 2019, when the earth observation RISAT-2BR1 was placed in orbit. In January this year, the space agency had launched the GSAT-30 from French Guiana. The country's economy, which has shown resilience to come out from a downturn caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to bounce back from the next fiscal, State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said on Saturday. There will be a "paradigm shift" which will lead to a more mature economy" with economic players learning to contain costs, he said. A startup incubated in the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, is developing a Covid-19 vaccine that can be stored at 37 degrees Celsius, a development that could be a game-changer for India which lacks sufficient cold chain facilities. “All (Covid-19) vaccine candidates in clinical trials currently require refrigerated temperatures of at least four degrees. Ours would not, in principle,” biophysicist Raghavan Varadarajan, who heads the startup Mynvax, told DH. Democrat Joe Biden said he was going to win the US presidency as his lead grew over President Donald Trump in battleground states, although television networks held off from declaring him the victor as vote-counting continued. "The numbers tell us ... it's a clear and convincing story: We're going to win this race," Biden said late on Friday, adding that he and his running mate Kamala Harris were already meeting with experts as they prepare for the White House. US President Donald Trump and some of his Republican supporters are testing out a rallying cry for his uphill fight to reverse the lead that Joe Biden holds in key battleground states: count all “legal” votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-gambhir-feels-virat-kohli-must-step-down-as-rcb-captain-sbi-chairman-expects-indian-economy-to-bounce-back-912672.html
07-11-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for norms on nominations to Maharashtra Legislative Council to avoid political intervention||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for issuing specific directions to prepare norms for nominations of Maharashtra Legislative council by the Governor in discretion from specified fields to avoid party in power to make recommendations for it. A Latur-based Head Master, Dr Jagannath Shamrao Patil contended that due to lack of specific norms or criteria, several eligible and deserving people are deprived from consideration of names for the purpose of their nominations as members of Maharashtra Legislative Council. The petitioner sought a direction to defer the nominations till the specific norms or the criteria are framed and approved by the office of the Governor. In the alternative, it may be directed to make such nominations under sole discretion of the Governor without any influence of the recommendation of the minister of councils of Maharashtra government. At present, there are 12 vacancies, which are to be filled by the Governor in its discretion in consonance with Article 171 of the Constitution. Clause 5 of the Article 171 of the Constitution has given mandate to the Governor that the nomination shall consist of "persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service". The petitioner said his limited grievance was that no norms have yet been framed or finalised for the purpose of making the nominations from five prescribed categories. "Thus, the political parties, who are in governance, are taking the undue advantage of this loophole and are making the recommendations of the names of the persons who are not from the prescribed category but who are either powerful in politics or to whom the political parties want to make powerful by way of such nomination," the plea filed on behalf of advocate R R Deshpande and Associates stated. The petitioner said Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi government, led by Uddhav Thackeray, may be directed not to intervene in the process of nomination so as to avoid the practice of nomination under political considerations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-norms-on-nominations-to-maharashtra-legislative-council-to-avoid-political-intervention-912675.html
07-11-2020||National||Hearing on pre-arrest bail plea of Deepika Padukone's manager adjourned||A court here on Saturday adjourned the hearing on a pre-arrest bail plea of Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash in a drug case till November 10. The Narcotics Control Bureau, which is probing the case, had told the court at the last hearingthat it will not take any "coercive" action (like arrest) against Prakash for now. It (the NCB's assurance) will continue but Prakash will have to cooperate with the investigation, special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. The NCB, which began probing an alleged nexus between drug peddlers and Bollywood following actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death by suicide, had questioned Prakash in September and again summoned her for questioning last month. Fearing arrest in the case, Prakash filed an anticipatory bail application before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court. At the last hearing, her lawyer had said Prakash will cooperate with the investigation and appear before the NCB. She visited the NCB office multiple times this week to record her statement. The NCB had summoned Prakash on October 28 after it allegedly seized 1.7 gm of hashish during a search at her residence here. The central agency had claimed that her name cropped up during the interrogation of an arrested drug peddler.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hearing-on-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-deepika-padukones-manager-adjourned-912677.html
07-11-2020||National||PM Modi, Xi likely to come face-to-face in four summits this month amid the India-China stand-off||Even as the six-month-long military stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary is still continuing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping will take part in as many as four virtual plurilateral and multilateral summits this month. Modi and Xi will take part in the virtual summits of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), which will be chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin on November 10 and 17. The Prime Minister and the Chinese President will also attend the 15th East Asia Summit, which will be held virtually along with the annual meetings of the ASEAN (Association of South-East Asian Nations) and the related forums from November 12 to 15. The East Asia Summit and the ASEAN meets will be chaired by Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc. Modi and Xi will also attend the virtual G-20 summit, which will be chaired by Saudi Arabia’s King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud on November 21 and 22. An extra-ordinary G-20 summit on March 26 was the last multilateral event both the Prime Minister and the Chinese President had participated – weeks before the soldiers of the two neighbouring nations got engaged in a stand-off. Modi and Xi had an “informal summit” in a seaside resort in Tamil Nadu in October 2019. It was the second “informal summit” and the last bilateral engagement between the two leaders before the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations and the Indian Army’s additional deployment in response resulted in the stand-off. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, however, had meetings with their counterparts in the Chinese Government, Wei Fenghe and Wang Yi respectively, on the side-line of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization’s meetings in Moscow last month. The stand-off, which started five months back, however, is yet to be resolved, notwithstanding regular talks between the diplomats and the military commanders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-xi-likely-to-come-face-to-face-in-four-summits-this-month-amid-the-india-china-stand-off-912683.html
07-11-2020||National||Gujarat: Identity of Covid-19 infected persons made public for violating home-isolation rules||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Saturday made public the identity of eight home isolated coronavirus infected persons in the city for violating the guidelines. The civic authority said that cases are being registered against them under pandemic act and they would be charged for their treatment as punishment at covid-19 care centres where they were brought. In a press statement, the AMC mentioned the name, age, gender, address and phone numbers of eight such persons who were not found at their homes when a team of doctors visited them. The civic officials said that "this exercise will continue to check the infection from spreading." This comes on a day when the state recorded 1,046 new positive cases in the last 24 hours, out of which Ahmedabad city reported 161, the highest in the state. When the pandemic broke out in April-May, the AMC and civic bodies of other cities had started making the names and addresses of infected persons public but they discontinued the practice after criticism. In some cases, petitions were also filed to make names of infected persons public which were rejected by the court. "I have no idea if my name and other details have been made public. I had gone out to buy lemon and orange for myself as advised by the doctors when the team of AMC arrived at home. They called me over phone and I returned in barely five minutes. There is no one at home except my 65-year-old father to fetch these essentials for me as I have sent my wife and children to my relatives' place. How else could I have bought these things and other essentials? None of the neighbours come for help," Ankit V Parmar, one of the eight persons who were found violating home-isolation rules, told DH over phone. When asked if he was aware of any police case, Parmar said, "If they file any case, I will straight away go to police and ask them to put me behind bars. I don't even have money for this covid care centre expenses. I would prefer to go to jail."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-identity-of-covid-19-infected-persons-made-public-for-violating-home-isolation-rules-912727.html
07-11-2020||National Politics||Bihar polls: Nearly 46% turnout till 3 pm in 3rd phase||An estimated 46 per cent of the total 2.35 crore electors exercised their franchise till 3 pm in the 78 assembly seats of Bihar where polling is underway in the third and final phase of elections on Saturday. While the polling so far has been peaceful, police had to open fire in the air in Purnia to disburse a crowd trying to disturb voting, even as people boycotted voting at 12 booths in Katihar in protest against barriers not being set up at two railway crossings. The poll opened at 7 am in the 78 assembly seats spread across 15 districts of north Bihar. According to the Election Commission, the poll percentage at 3 pm was 45.91, higher than the corresponding figure for the second phase (44.51), but marginally lower than that for the first phase (46.29). The maximum turnout of 51.12 per cent till 3 pm has been recorded in Supaul district, and the minimum in Darbhanga (41.15 per cent). In Araria, RJD candidate from Jokihat seat, Sarfaraz Alam, turned up for voting with a party badge pinned in his shirt which may invite charges of violation of the Model Code of Conduct. Araria District Magistrate Prashant Kumar said the matter has come to his knowledge and lawful action would be initiated in the candidate. Alam is the elder son of former Union minister Mohammad Taslimuddin and is pitted against younger brother Mohammad Sahnawaz, who is in the fray from Asaduddin Owaisi- led AIMIM party. In Purnia, the police had to fire in air to chase away people trying to disturb voting outside a booth under Dhamdaha assembly segment. In terms of polling percentage Supaul (51.12) is followed by Saharsa (48.98), Muzaffarpur (48.43), Kishanganj (47.55), Purvi Champaran (47.46), Purnia (46.46), Vaishali (46.34), Madhepura (46.33), Pashchim Champaran (45.58), Samastipur (45.05), Madhubani (44.96), Sitamarhi (44.65), Araria (43.22), Katihar (43.11), and Darbhanga (41.15). Voting is being held simultaneously in the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat, where a bypoll has been necessitated due to the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto. It has recorded a turnout of 45.58 per cent till 3 pm. Madhepura district's Bihariganj, from where veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadavs daughter Subhashini Yadav is making her poll debut on a Congress seat, has recorded polling percentage of 48.30 till 3 pm. Subhashini stood in a queue to cast her vote at a polling booth in Madhepura. After casting her vote, the 30-year-old said her father, who represented Madhepura multiple times in Lok Sabha, has worked honestly for development of the constituency and that is why he is respected by people of all religions and castes.   Plurals Party president Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who is also her party's chief ministerial candidate, cast her vote with her mother in a booth at Darbhanga. Speaker of the outgoing assembly Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and about one dozen ministers of the Nitish Kumar cabinet are in the fray in this round of voting. Minister Suresh Sharma cast his vote in Muzaffarpur. The coronavirus pandemic failed to dampen the voter's enthusiasm as several elderly and differently-abled electors, some assisted by their kin, some by security personnel and some others by volunteers, came out to vote in large numbers. The Election Commission has set up multiple model polling centres. A polling station in Saharsa has been beautifully decorated. The poll panel has also set up selfie points for people to click themselves after casting their votes. Some wheelchair-bound voters were also facilitated to cast the ballot. However, Covid-19 guidelines were being violated at several polling booths A PTI reporter found violations of coronavirus guidelines at many polling booths he visited in Samastipur with people not wearing masks and flouting distancing norms. Meanwhile, people at 12 booths under Kusail panchayat in Kadwa assembly constituency of Katihar are boycotting the polls in protest against barriers not being installed in nearby Minapur and Jhaua railway crossings. Block Development Officer Md Iftar and other senior officials have reached the area to persuade people to vote. The first phase of voting for the 243-trong assembly took place on October 28 and the second phase on November 3. The votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-polls-nearly-46-turnout-till-3-pm-in-3rd-phase-912606.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir directs DCs to cancel all mutations of illegally encroached lands immediately||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has directed deputy commissioners of Jammu division to cancel all mutations of illegally encroached land including those under the Roshni scheme from revenue records, and upload details of encroachers on websites of districts, officials said on Friday. The scheme initially envisaged conferment of proprietary rights of around 20.55 lakh kanals of land (1,2,50 hectares) to occupants of which 15.85 per cent of land was approved for vesting of ownership rights. But against the expected revenue from such occupants, the revenue actually generated was meagre, thereby failing to realise the objective of the scheme that was finally repealed by Satya Pal Malik, the former governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, on November 28, 2018. On October 9, a division bench of Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal ordered the CBI probe into irregularities in the scheme and directed the agency to file a status report every eight weeks. The DCs are directed to cancel all mutations of illegally encroached land from revenue records and upload details on websites of the respective districts, Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Sanjeev Verma said on Friday. Verma, who held a video conference with all DCs, asked the Deputy Commissioners of Jammu division to submit details of transferred land under Roshni Act and other encroached state land in the district. The Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, popularly referred to as the Roshni scheme or the Roshini Act, was believed to be a revolutionary step that had the twin objectives of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to occupants of state land. Verma passed these directions at a video conference meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of Jammu division convened in this regard. The Divisional Commissioner directed the DCs to submit details in prescribed format regarding land transferred under roshni Act in their respective districts.  He asked them to share details including number of beneficiaries in whose favour the land has been transferred, total number of land whether it is residential or agriculture, occupation of the beneficiary. Verma also asked the DCs to share details of other state land encroached in their respective districts.  The Divisional Commissioner also directed the DCs to hold meetings with concerned officers and finalise stamp duty rates of the immovable property in the districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-directs-dcs-to-cancel-all-mutations-of-illegally-encroached-lands-immediately-912346.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt 'misguiding' people on rail track blockade by protesters in state: Railways||The Railways on Friday accused the Punjab government of “misguiding” people over the extent of blockade of rail tracks in the state by the protesting farmers, hours after the state government issued a statement claiming that all tracks have been cleared for train movement. Earlier, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav had said 22 blockades still remained to be cleared by the state and the Railways will resume train services in Punjab only when both passenger and freight trains are allowed to operate. “The restriction on the types of trains, routes, destinations and cargo etc. are impossible to adhere to and create huge uncertainty and risk to the life and safety of our Railway personnel and property," the national transporter said. “The state government is misguiding by saying that all tracks are clear for movement of goods trains. We request the state government to clear the track and stations for operation of all trains,” it said. Train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24 due to farmers' protests. While they had resumed for a few days in October, the services were suspended again due to concerns over the safety and security of train crew members. A statement from the Punjab home department said over 30 farmers' organisations on Friday cleared the railway tracks in the state to allow the movement of freight trains following persuasion by the state government. Sources in the Railways said the demands made by the Punjab government were “irrational” and “unfeasible”. “The communication by the Punjab government is misleading. From the statement it appears that tracks have been cleared for all the Railway operations, which is far from the truth. The state seems to want Railways to run only goods trains for the time being... Assurance is available for goods trains and not for passenger trains. This is not acceptable to Railways," top sources in the railway ministry said. They said the Railways is seeking track clearance in all sections for all kinds of train operations, adding, "states cannot pick and choose type of trains for their convenience”. The three farm laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- were enacted recently. Farmers' bodies protesting against the laws have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate entities. They demand that the laws be withdrawn. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-misguiding-people-on-rail-track-blockade-by-protesters-in-state-railways-912347.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||7-year-old girl raped in Delhi||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an 11-year-old boy in north Delhi, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday near her home. The juvenile, who is her neighbour, was apprehended on the same day, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-girl-raped-in-delhi-912352.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Fire partially damages historic Pathar Masjid in Srinagar||A fire partially damaged the historic Mughal-era Pathar Masjid (stone mosque) here, officials said on Friday. Fire tenders reached the spot and doused the flames with the help of police and locals, the official said, adding that the fire broke out on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. According to preliminary investigations, the cause of the fire is believed to be electric short-circuit, the official added. Located in Nawabazar area of Srinagar on the banks of River Jhelum, the mosque was built by Mughal Empress Noor Jehan, the wife of Emperor Jehangir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-partially-damages-historic-pathar-masjid-in-srinagar-912353.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells along international border in J&K's Poonch, Kathua||Pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked firing and shelling on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Kathua districts in violation of the ceasefire, officials said on Saturday. Mortar shelling in the Mankote sector along the LoC in Poonch started around 2.30 am, while the cross-border firing along the IB in the Hiranagar sector continued throughout the night, the officials said. They said there was no report of any casualty or damage on the Indian side. "At about 2:30 am, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector. Army retaliated befittingly,” a defence spokesman said. The officials said the firing and shelling between the two sides stopped around 4 am. Pakistani Rangers started the firing on border outposts in Karol Krishna, Satpal and Gurnam around 10 pm on Friday, prompting strong retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel guarding the border, the officials said. The exchange of fire between the two sides continued till 5.10 am, they said, adding the Pakistani firing caused panic among the border residents who were forced to spend the night in underground bunkers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-along-international-border-in-jks-poonch-kathua-912467.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||CRPF to induct heavy-armoured vehicle Sherpa in Kashmir||With Srinagar city witnessing frequent encounters with militants this year, para-military CRPF is set to induct heavy-armoured vehicle ‘Renault Sherpa’, which can withstand explosives, for anti-militancy operations in Kashmir Valley. Sources said one such vehicle has been inducted on a trial basis and is expected to be inducted for the operational purpose soon. “The vehicle, which is known for its armoured prowess, and is highly mobile in war zones, is being tried in different terrains and will be inducted in the CRPF only after it meets the technical requirements,” they said. The vehicle, ideal for tactical missions such as scouting, patrol, convoy escort and command and liaison, was spotted in Srinagar on Friday. Inspector General of Police, CRPF, Kashmir Operation, Deepak Ratan said they will take a final call soon over the matter. Asked whether the vehicle has been inducted for operational purposes, he said, “It is an operational matter and can’t be discussed.” The Renault Sherpa Light was first showcased in India at the 2012 DefExpo and is also used by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at the Delhi Airport. The vehicle can accommodate four armed personnel who can fire from inside. It has a camera installed over it so that security personnel can have a better view of the enemy. Also, it is built using heavy iron so that even a 10 kg RDX blast cannot damage it. Earlier, the vehicle was seen in Srinagar on February 13, 2018, during a gunfight between security forces and militants in Karan Nagar area. In July 2016, after a militant attack on CRPF killed eight paramilitary personnel, the force was equipped with heavily-armoured Mine Protected Vehicles (MPVs) that were earlier used for anti-Naxal operations. Srinagar, the capital city has the largest presence of CRPF, followed by Anantnag. Most of the anti-militancy operations in Srinagar are carried out by J&K police and the CRPF while the army deals with the rest of the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-to-induct-heavy-armoured-vehicle-sherpa-in-kashmir-912529.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||BJP to counter PAGD campaign on Article 370 in J&K||In the backdrop of a campaign launched by People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) against the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, the BJP has decided to start counter-strategy to foil it. The PAGD is an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, Peoples Conference, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference - that was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K. After holding meetings in Kashmir, the PAGD leaders including three former chief ministers of J&K – Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar, and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, have reached Jammu to garner support. In this regard, the BJP convened a meeting of its J&K office bearers in Jammu, which among others was attended by Union Minister, Jitendra Singh, two MPs, Jugal Kishore Sharma and Shamsher Singh Manhas. Party insiders said the meeting, besides devising a strategy for upcoming District Development Council (DDC) poll, also discussed the strategy to launch an offensive campaign against PAGD, whose leaders held the first-ever meeting in Jammu on Saturday. The saffron party’s national general secretary, Tarun Chug who is on a two-day tour of Jammu, has conveyed to BJP’s leaders in Kashmir to go ahead with full vigour in upcoming DDC elections to make the regional parties irrelevant, they said. While confirming the development, BJP’s J&K president Ravinder Raina said the party has decided to launch a forceful counter-campaign against ‘Gupkar Alliance’. “We will not let them succeed in their designs. This is not People’s Alliance but the alliance of disgruntled politicians who deceived the people of the J&K over the years,” he alleged. Raina claimed that PAGD leaders were responsible for the promotion of secessionist Hurriyat and prevailing mess in J&K. “But now, the BJP will not allow them to succeed in their designs and party will launch a forceful campaign against them,” he vowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-counter-pagd-campaign-on-article-370-in-jk-912535.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Rishikesh: Janki bridge to open to public on Nov 10||The Janki suspension bridge in Muni Ki Reti area here is set to open to the public on November 10, Uttarakhand Agriculture Minister Subodh Uniyal said on Saturday. Built at a cost of Rs 48.85 lakh at Kailash Gate, the bridge will be an added attraction for tourists, the minister, who visited the site for an inspection, told reporters. The Janki suspension bridge will open to the public on November 10. It will address commutation woes of residents of Narendra Nagar and Yamkeshwar assembly constituencies, Uniyal said. Local farmers will be able to take their produce to Rishikesh Mandi far more easily with the inauguration of this bridge, he said. Other motorable bridges in Rishikesh include those at Garur Chatti and Pashulok Barrage. Ram Jhula and Lakshman Jhula, which is partially open to pedestrians, are other suspension bridges in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rishikesh-janki-bridge-to-open-to-public-on-nov-10-912540.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Ensure security to Indian Railways' staff, trains to resume services: Piyush Goyal to Punjab||With farmers' protest against farm laws hitting train operations in Punjab for the past several days, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday urged the state government to ensure the safety and security of the Railways' system to enable the national transporter to resume its services. "Urge Punjab Govt to ensure full safety and security of entire Railways system and allow running of all trains through and to Punjab so that goods and passenger trains can serve the people of Punjab," Goyal tweeted. Urge Punjab Govt to ensure full safety and security of entire Railways system and allow running of all trains through and to Punjab so that goods and passenger trains can serve the people of Punjab. "Operationally important that all tracks, stations & Railway property are clear for the safety of passengers, Railway staff & infrastructure. People of Punjab want to travel for festivals like Chhath Puja, Diwali & Gurupurab," Goyal tweeted. The train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24 due to farmers' protests. While the services had resumed for a few days in October, it was suspended again due to concerns over the safety and security of the train crew members. At as many as 22 sites, protesting farmers are still blocking railway tracks. Though Punjab Government assured us that all blockades will be cleared by Friday morning, it did not happen. The Railways needs 100% security clearance from the state to resume operations, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here on Friday. The stopping of railway operations has also hit the supply of fertilisers, coal and other commodities in the state. The state is also facing massive power outages as thermal power plants have run out of coal stock. The loss suffered by the Railways due to the agitation in Punjab over the Central farm reform laws has already crossed an estimated Rs 1,200 crore as protests on railway tracks continued. According to data from the national transporter, over 2,300 freight rakes carrying vital commodities could not be operated till date due to blockades caused by the protestors. Around 1,350 trains have been forced to be cancelled or diverted. Punjab farmers are protesting against three farm laws, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which were enacted recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-security-to-indian-railways-staff-trains-to-resume-services-piyush-goyal-to-punjab-912542.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Four dead, 15 injured as mini truck overturns in Madhya Pradesh||Four persons were killed and at least 15 others injured after a mini truck overturned at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Singrauli district early on Saturday, police said. The incident occurred around 2 am at Bhalaiya Tola village, about 60 kilometers from the district headquarters, Sarai Police Station in-charge Shankhdhar Dwivedi said. "The mishap occurred after the occupants of the mini truck were returning to their village (Langhadol) after attending a programme at a nearby place," he said. "The vehicle overturned as its driver lost control over it. Four persons died on the spot and at least 15 others suffered injuries," Dwivedi said. The condition of 10 of them is critical and they are being treated at a local hospital, he added. Senior officials, including District Collector Rajiv Ranjan Meena, Superintendent of Police Virendra Kumar Singh and Devsar MLA Subhash Ramcharit Verma visited the spot and the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-dead-15-injured-as-mini-truck-overturns-in-madhya-pradesh-912545.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Special prayers to be held in Delhi gurdwaras on 400th ‘Prakash Parb’ of Guru Teg Bahadur||Celebrations marking the 400th ‘Prakash Parb’ (birth anniversary) of ninth Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur will begin in Delhi gurdwaras with special prayers on Sunday, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) said on Saturday. Several programmes have been planned which will be held in coming months to celebrate the momentous occasion in a befitting manner, chairman of DSGMC Manjinder Singh Sirsa said. Around 400 Sikh organisations and charitable institutions in Delhi and NCR will be closely associated with the celebrations at the historic gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib where Guru Teg Bahdur attained martyrdom, he said. The concluding function will be organized with complete religious fervour at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj where mortal remains of Guru Teg Bahadur were consigned to flames, Sirsa said. An executive committee of 101 members including Sikh historians, academicians and celebrities, headed by the president of Takht Sri Harimandir, Patna Sahib, management committee Avtar Singh Hit has been constituted to finalise the broad contours for celebrations and chalk out programmes including seminars, symposia and lectures to throw light on various facets of life and philosophy of Guru Teg Bahadur, he said. Sirsa said an International seminar on the life and teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur will be organised in Delhi in February 2021. A grand ‘Nagar Kirtan’ ( religious processions ) led by 'Panj Pyaras' will start from Guru Teg Bahadur's birthplace in Amritsar and will reach Rakabganj Gurudwara in Delhi covering major cities and places associated with the Guru’s life over the course of 15 days, he said.  A mega  'Kirtan Darbar' at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium will be held in March 2021 in which 1,100  students from Guru Harkishan public schools will simultaneously recite ‘shabad’ and perform ‘kirtan’, Sirsa said. A laser show on the life, teachings and philosophy of Guru Tegh Bahadur will also be held at the event, he said. Other programmes like tree plantation, ‘ardas’ based on 'Gurbani', blood donation and medical camps, demonstrations of Sikh marshall arts and translation of  Guru's teachings in several international languages will be part of the celebrations, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-prayers-to-be-held-in-delhi-gurdwaras-on-400th-prakash-parb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-912553.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||CBI files case against ex-MTNL employee for using fake caste certificate to land job||The CBI has filed a cheating case against a retired MTNL employee for allegedly using a fake caste certificate, issued 44 years ago, to get the job and a house here under the Scheduled Tribe quota, officials said on Saturday. The agency has filed an FIR against Ramesh Chand Meena, who retired as senior manager from the PSU in 2018 after over three decades of service, they said. The fake Scheduled Tribe (ST) caste certificate was issued in 1976 from Rajasthan's Bharatpur by an SDM-rank officer who was not posted in the region during that time, the officials said. Meena allegedly used the certificate to land the job at Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL) and get a flat under the ST quota in DG-1 locality of west Delhi's Vikaspuri area in 1987, they said. In 1994, he was promoted as junior telecom officer in a departmental examination, they added. According to the CBI, Meena is a resident of west Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, where his forefathers owned land. The agency found that the certificate issued by the sub-divisional magistrate, Deeg, Bharatpur on September 10, 1976, did not have any serial number on it, the officials said. The officer under whose signature the certificate was purportedly issued, showing Meena to be a resident of Kaman village in Bharatpur, was never posted in the region during the period, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-files-case-against-ex-mtnl-employee-for-using-fake-caste-certificate-to-land-job-912560.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Will resume both freight and passengers or none, says Railway Board Chief||The railways on Saturday declined to resume only goods train services in Punjab as demanded by agitating farmers, who cleared tracks after squatting on them for over 40 days, and said it will operate both freight and passenger trains or none. Addressing a press conference online, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said states cannot "pick and choose" and it is not feasible to allow anyone to dictate which trains to run on which tracks. He said protesters still remained at one railway station in Punjab and have assembled just outside station premises in 22 other places threatening to move to tracks if passenger trains are run. "Statements from both the protesters and the state government are similar -- the tracks are clear for freight trains only. IR (Indian Railways) cannot operate in that way. If tracks are clear, they are clear for both freight and passenger trains. We request that the running of trains be left to the railways," he said. Officials of the state government and the national transporter have been discussing ways to resume train services in the state that were suspended on September 24 after peasants blocked tracks in protest against three recent farm sector laws. The state government in a statement Friday night said that the tracks had been cleared for train operations, but the railways claimed it was aimed at "misguiding" people who have been inconvenienced due to the suspension of trains during the festive season. Rejecting the protesters' demand, Yadav said, "We cannot run trains in a situation where protesters are demanding that we run certain trains and there is no assurance from the state government of the safety and security of those trains. The state government is also saying what the protesters are saying." "They (protesters) have conveyed to our station masters that they will allow railways to run freight trains but will come on the tracks if we run passenger trains. Our operating staff is not confident about running trains under these circumstances," he said. Yadav reiterated that the railways needs 100 per cent security clearance from the state government to resume train operations in Punjab. He said the railways is seeking track clearance in all sections for all kinds of train operations, adding that "states cannot pick and choose type of trains for their convenience". Yadav said that all passenger trains scheduled to be operated during the current festival season were fully booked and their cancellation was inconveniencing a lot of passengers. The railways also tried to run just goods trains between October 22 and October 24 and this had raised huge security concerns. "Trains were stopped to check whether they were goods or passenger services. We cannot stop trains for protesters to give us certificates to run trains.... There were times when possible accidents were averted. If people come in front of trains and try to stop trains, it is damaging for both railways and the persons involved,” he said. He also said that it was not feasible to allow anyone to dictate which trains to run on which tracks. "This is not possible operationally in any part of the country. We have conveyed this to the Punjab government again and again...if this is done then the entire IR system will be unable to work and from every corner of the country people will start telling us which trains to run. We run trains depending on technical feasibility of tracks only,” he said. Train services in the state have remained suspended since September 24 when farmer organisations organised protests on tracks and station premises against the farm laws. The suspension of railway services has led to a shortage in supplies in the state. The three farm laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- were enacted recently. Farmers' bodies protesting against the laws have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate entities. They demand that the laws be withdrawn. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-resume-both-freight-and-passengers-or-none-says-railway-board-chief-912586.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police registers case against Niira Radia, others for alleged loan fraud; her firm denies charges||The Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Nayati Healthcare's Niira Radia and four others for alleged embezzlement of over Rs 300 crore of bank loan, following a complaint filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajiv Sharma from whom they had acquired two hospitals. Rejecting the allegations as baseless, Nayati Healthcare said it had "duly reported" to the police certain issues of "misappropriation and maliceness" detected in a forensic audit of activities of the previous management under Sharma. Sharma's OSL Healthcare, which had a hospital in south Delhi and an upcoming facility in Gurgaon, was acquired through Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd and later renamed as Nayati Healthcare NCR. According to the FIR dated November 4, Sharma has accused Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, Niira Radia, Karuna Menon, Satish Narula and Yateesh Wahaal of "cheating, criminal breach of trust, falsification of accounts, fraud, forgery, embezzlement of funds" and other charges. Police sources said all the charges are subject to investigation as of now. In his complaint, Sharma has alleged that Naarayani had borrowed more than Rs 600 crore from various sources, including DHFL, and invested Rs 311 crore for acquiring a majority stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR. After taking over management of the new entity, Naarayani and the four individuals got a loan of Rs 300 crore from Yes Bank for the development of a Gurgaon hospital, but instead, they siphoned off and embezzled the loan amount using fictitious transactions, Sharma alleged. He further alleged that the accused also borrowed Rs 60 crore from Yes Bank for another hospital project, but embezzled that fund as well. Sharma also alleged that the five accused wrongfully brought down his stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR from 49 per cent to 6.3 per cent in less than a year and increased their own stake to 93.7 per cent. When contacted, a Nayati Healthcare spokesperson said, "The FIR is baseless and the allegations of Dr Sharma are also baseless." The spokesperson further said, "Dr Sharma being a member of the board was a party and signatory to all the actions of the company. Due to differences that arose pursuant to conducting of a forensic audit of the activities of the previous management under Dr Sharma, certain issues of misappropriation and malicenses came to light." "These issues were taken up with Dr Sharma and was duly reported to the police in the form of a complaint," it said. The spokesperson also said, "Nayati Healthcare NCR remains committed to cooperating with investigations and reposes its full faith in the investigating agency. All evidence of the forensic audit that demonstrates the act of misappropriation by Dr Sharma has been provided to the police." Nayati Healthcare, set up a few years ago by PR consultant-turned-entrepreneur Radia, had in 2018 announced acquisition of 51 per cent stake in OSL Healthcare, which was at that time headed by Sharma. Nayati also has other hospitals including in Mathura and Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-registers-case-against-niira-radia-others-for-alleged-loan-fraud-her-firm-denies-charges-912605.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||AIIMS Delhi, CMC Vellore enlisted under Swastha Sathi Scheme||Beneficiaries of the West Bengal governments Swastha Sathi health scheme will now be able to avail free treatment at AIIMS, Delhi and CMC, Vellore after the two medical establishments were enlisted under the ambit of the scheme, an official said on Saturday. "We have several thousands of people from West Bengal who go for treatment to Vellore's CMC as well to the AIIMS. We have seen that the patient parties have to bear huge expenses making it tough for them to continue the treatment there for long. Seeing this we decided to enrol these two hospitals under our Swastha Sathi scheme," he said. All beneficiaries registered with the Swasthya Sathi scheme will be able to avail free treatment in these two hospitals, he said. Under the Swasthya Sathi scheme, people get free treatment in all the government and several private hospitals across the state. Christian Medical College, Vellore and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi are the latest additions. Around 11.7 lakh people in West Bengal have been enrolled under the Swastha Sathi scheme to avail absolute cashless treatment at the over 1,500 hospitals in the state hospitals enlisted under this scheme. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had in 2016 floated the scheme to provide free-of-cost health services for secondary and tertiary care up to Rs five lakh per annum per family. Under the scheme, there is no cap on the family size and parents from both the spouses are included. The entire premium is borne by the state government and no contribution from the beneficiary is required for the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-delhi-cmc-vellore-enlisted-under-swastha-sathi-scheme-912616.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Man sets 15-year-old Dalit girl ablaze for rejecting sexual advances: Police||A 15-year-old Dalit girl was set ablaze in a village here in Ballia district by a youth for rejecting his sexual advances, police said on Saturday. The girl was set on fire by 21-year-old youth Krishna Gupta, a resident of her village on Friday after which the victim was admitted to a hospital in Ballia, said Dubhar police station SHO Anil Chandra Tiwari. As the girl situation turned critical, she was referred to a hospital in Varanasi, he said. On the girl’s father complaint, the police registered a case against the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girl’s father told police that the accused abducted his daughter from his house and set her on fire as she had been consistently rejecting the man’s sexual advances towards her.  The accused has been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sets-15-year-old-dalit-girl-ablaze-for-rejecting-sexual-advances-police-912620.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Punjab launches mission to achieve 100% school results||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday launched the 'Mission Shat Pratishat' for 2020-21, aimed at empowering schools to achieve 100 per cent results despite the Covid-19 pandemic. At the virtual event, which connected him to teachers, students and their parents from more than 4,000 schools and ministers, MLAs, officials and non-teaching staff, the chief minister also announced the creation of 8,393 pre-primary school teachers posts and said they would be filled up soon by the education department, according to a government release. Pointing to the challenges in education in view of the Covid-19 situation, Singh said the mission is aimed at further strengthening the digital education infrastructure in schools through e-books, EDUSAT lectures, e-content, online classes, broadcast of lectures through television and video lectures prepared by the teachers. "The mission will help further boost the standards in government schools, which had witnessed massive improvement in the education quality and performance in the past three years, in line with the state government's decision to curb all malpractices in board exams," he said. A National Achievement Survey held early in 2017 had shown Punjab could not perform on expected lines, he recalled, adding that the strictness brought in thereafter had led to "exceptional improvement" in the students' performance. In fact, the chief minister said, the increasing shift of students from private to government schools is one of his government's biggest achievements, and noted that government schools had outperformed private schools in board results for two successive years. Lauding the contribution of smart schools to raising educational standards in Punjab, Singh said of the total 19,107 schools in the state, 6,832 are smart schools, to which another 1,467 were being added on Saturday. He said 13,859 projectors would be provided to the remaining schools too, in order to make them smart schools. The chief minister said a budgetary provision of Rs 100 crore had been made this year for digitisation of schools. On this occasion, 2,625 tablets were distributed to students in 372 primary government schools. To mark the conclusion of the Punjabi Week on Saturday, the chief minister directed minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to draw out a detailed plan for the promotion of the Punjabi language and revival of the Patiala Central Library, which was facing an acute funds shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-launches-mission-to-achieve-100-school-results-912651.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Won't impose ban on firecrackers: Punjab to NGT||With several states including Delhi, Odisha, and West Bengal banning crackers due to rising air pollution, the Punjab government has told the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that there is no need for a ban on the use of firecrackers as no part of the state falls in the National Capital Region (NCR). The NGT,  which is hearing a plea on seeking a ban on crackers due to air pollution, sought a response from 18 states including Karnataka and Punjab. The Tribunal will deliver its order on November 9 whether to ban crackers till November 30 or not. In its reply, Punjab said that it has installed Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) in the non-attainment cities of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Patiala, Jalandhar, and Khanna and the Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the range of good in August, satisfactory in September and moderate in October. It said that the Punjab government had notified the time restrictions on bursting of firecrackers during Diwali, Gurpurab, Christmas, and New Year by issuing a public notice in the various newspapers through the State Pollution Control Board. "In view of the above-stated facts and after due consideration of the matter in the background of Covid-19 pandemic, it is respectfully apprised that ban on the use of firecrackers is not required in the state of Punjab," it said. Earlier, the NGT  noted the air quality monitoring report of the  Central Pollution Control Board which said that in 122 cities in the country, air quality norms fall below a threshold level. Though the original petition was seeking a crackers' ban in NCR, later the NGT expanded its ambit and sought response from 18 states where these 122 falls. The NGT had on November 2 issued notice to the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four states on whether to ban the use of firecrackers from November 7 to 30 in the interest of public health and environment. The tribunal was hearing a plea by the Indian Social Responsibility Network, seeking action against pollution by use of firecrackers in NCR during the time air quality is unsatisfactory with the potential of severity of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-impose-ban-on-firecrackers-punjab-to-ngt-912657.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Railways services continue to remain suspended in Punjab||Train services continue to remain suspended in Punjab after Indian Railways on Saturday declined to resume only goods train services in the state as demanded by the agitating farmers, who cleared tracks after sitting on them for over 40 days, and said that it will operate both freight and passenger trains or none. Addressing a press conference online, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said that states cannot "pick and choose" and it is not feasible to allow anyone to dictate which trains to run on which tracks. He said protesters still remain at one railway station in Punjab and have assembled just outside station premises in 22 other places threatening to move to tracks if passenger trains are run. "Statements from both the protesters and the state government are similar -- the tracks are clear for freight trains only. IR (Indian Railways) cannot operate in that way. If tracks are clear, they are clear for both freight and passenger trains. We request that the running of trains be left to the Railways," he said. The state government in a statement on Friday night said that the tracks have been cleared for train operations, but the Railways claimed it is aimed at "misguiding" people who had to face inconvenience due to the suspension of trains during the festive season. Yadav reiterated that the Railways needs 100 per cent security clearance from the state government to resume train operations in Punjab. Yadav said that all passenger trains scheduled to be operated during the current festival season were fully booked and their cancellation caused problem to a lot of passengers. The train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24 due to farmers' protests. While it had resumed for a few days in October, it was suspended again due to concerns over the safety and security of train crew members. Punjab farmers protesting against three farm laws -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- were enacted recently. The stopping of railway operations hit the supply of fertilizer, coal, and other commodities in the state. The state is also facing massive power outages as thermal power plants run out of coal stock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-services-continue-to-remain-suspended-in-punjab-912660.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||13% increase in Covid-19 infections in Delhi due to air pollution; masks, air purifiers may not be enough: IMA||Delhi has reported more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days and 13 per cent of this increase has been estimated to be due to air pollution, the Indian Medical Association said on Saturday. Stating that N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full-time protection,  the doctors' body stressed on the implementation of long-term measures to bring down pollution levels. Air pollution damages the inner lining of the lungs and hence increases the severity of Covid-19 infection. "Increased air pollution leads to increased inflammatory response. In the last few days, Delhi has reported more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases per day. 13 per cent of the increase has been estimated to be due to pollution," the IMA said. In the last 10 days, the national capital and its neighbouring areas have seen a sharp spike in air pollution levels.  The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi on Saturday remained above 350 while the safe limit is 0-50. The WHO's ambient air pollution data shows that the levels of PM 10 and PM 2.5 in Delhi are way above the normal levels, the IMA stated. Poor air quality may result in the aggravation of asthma, COPD, high BP and even cardiovascular diseases. Merely walking could result in health complications due to the high concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in Delhi's air.  "N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full-time protection. An AQI of above 300 makes it difficult not only for people with respiratory problems but healthy people as well. Hence, it is advisable that people do not go out early in the morning when pollution levels are the highest. Elderly and children are more likely to develop infections and allergies due to smog," the doctors' body said.   The major sources of air pollution in Delhi are vehicular pollution, construction activities, carriage of construction material, dust on roads, burning of agricultural or crop residue, industrial and powerhouse emissions, burning of municipal wastes, thermal energy power plants and mining in Aravalli hill areas, it said. It listed measures such as the use of public transport, buying energy-efficient vehicles, planting a garden wherever possible, making use of solar energy, using recyclable products which can be adopted by the people to help reduce pollution. There is also a graded response action plan in Delhi and NCR which includes measures such as the prohibition on entry of trucks into Delhi, ban on construction activities, the introduction of odd and even scheme, closure of brick kilns, ban on diesel generator sets, garbage burning in landfill etc. The banning of crackers and stubble burning in the hinterland are helpful public health measures. "Implementation of long term measures is important," the IMA added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-increase-in-covid-19-infections-in-delhi-due-to-air-pollution-masks-air-purifiers-may-not-be-enough-ima-912669.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Seven-year-old raped, murdered in Uttar Pradesh's Sant Kabir Nagar||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped, raped and murdered at a village here, police said on Saturday. The body of the girl, who had gone missing on November 4 from her agriculture field, was recovered on Saturday, police said. SP Brijesh Singh said the body was sent for a post-mortem, which confirmed rape. The SP said police are investigating the matter and the culprits will be arrested soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-year-old-raped-murdered-in-uttar-pradeshs-sant-kabir-nagar-912671.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||No respite from 'severe' air in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The air quality remained “severe” in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Saturday, according to a government agency. Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 439 in Gurgaon, 436 in Ghaziabad, 428 in Greater Noida, 426 in Noida and 414 in Faridabad, according to the CPCB's Sameer app. It was 433 in Ghaziabad, 421 in Greater Noida, 415 in Faridabad, 406 in Noida and 392 in Gurgaon on Friday. PM 2.5 and PM 10 were the prominent pollutants in these satellite cities of Delhi, where the average AQI remained at 427 on Saturday, as per the app. According to the CPCB, an AQI in the "severe" category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, as per the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-respite-from-severe-air-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-gurgaon-912673.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||Can't remain silent spectator to situations: EC Chandra on Bihar polls amid Covid-19 pandemic||Noting that the coronavirus pandemic presented a unique challenge for the poll panel in holding safe elections, Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Saturday said various facilities were extended to Covid-19 patients to cast their vote in the Bihar assembly polls, including postal ballot facility and extension of polling time. He said the Election Commission cannot remain "silent" to situations where persons suffering from Covid-19 are unable to exercise their democratic right. "This time, besides senior citizens and women, we had to make additional arrangements for Covid patients... We extended polling time by one hour," he said addressing an event. Chandra said though postal ballot facility was extended, any person wanting to cast vote at the polling station was free to do so. "Our polling officials were fully equipped with PPE kits and other measures to handle the situation," he said. Many people suffering from Covid-19 came to cast their votes in all the three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 (Saturday). "We cannot remain silent, we cannot remain, spectators, that a person suffering from Covid ... and he be deprived of casting vote. That is the basic theme of EC," he said. Chandra said the voter turnout in the first two phases has dispelled all fears and doubts, adding the voters of Bihar have defeated the fear of virus as they came out in large numbers. In its broad guidelines issued in August for holding polls amid the pandemic, the poll panel extended the option of postal ballot for electors who are marked as persons with disabilities and those above 80 years. Electors who are Covid-19 positive or are suspected of having the infection and in quarantine at home or at an institution were also allowed to exercise the postal ballot option. An official explained that this postal ballot facility is different from the one extended to service voters. Here, those willing to use the facility have to fill up a form. Officials then carry the ballot to the residence of such voters and videography the voting to ensure transparency. "Covid-19 patients who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote at the last hour of the poll day at their respective polling stations, under the supervision of health authorities... Sector magistrates shall coordinate this in their allocated polling stations," the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-remain-silent-spectator-to-situations-ec-chandra-on-bihar-polls-amid-covid-19-pandemic-912679.html
07-11-2020||North and Central||FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers from January 1, 2021||To further augment electronic toll collection, the government on Saturday said it has made FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers including old vehicles from January 1, 2020. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has issued a notification for promotion of digital and IT-based payment of fees through FASTags. The government has issued a notification "making FASTag mandatory to be available by January 1, 2021, in old vehicles also i.e. M and N category of motor vehicles (four-wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017, through amendments in CMVR, 1989", the MoRTH said in a statement. As per Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheeled vehicles since December 1, 2017, and is being supplied by the vehicle manufacturers or their dealers. "It had further been mandated that the renewal of fitness certificate will be done only after the fitment of FASTag for the transport vehicles. Further that for national permit vehicles the fitment of FASTag has been mandated since October 1, 2019," the statement said. The government also said that a valid FASTag is mandatory while getting new third party insurance through an amendment in FORM 51 (certificate of Insurance), wherein the details of FASTag ID shall be captured. This shall be applicable w.e.f. April 1, 2021. The move is a major step for ensuring that the payment of fees is done at toll plazas through the electronic means only and that the vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas. "The steps for ensuring the availability of FASTag at multiple channels are being made through physical locations and also through online mechanism so that the citizens are able to have them affixed at their vehicles within the next two months at their convenience," the statement said. The National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) programme, the flagship initiative of the MoRTH, has been implemented on a pan-India basis in order to remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless movement of traffic and collection of user fee as per the notified rates, using passive radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. FASTag is a prepaid tag that enables automatic deduction of toll charges and lets the vehicle pass through the toll plaza without stopping for the cash transaction. The radio-frequency identification (RFID)-based FASTag is affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle. It allows for direct payment of fee from the prepaid or savings account linked to it and enables vehicles to drive through without stopping for transactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fastags-mandatory-for-all-four-wheelers-from-january-1-2021-912701.html
07-11-2020||Opinion||A letter to the US President, about the next 4 years||Dear Mr. President: The American people face enormous challenges. Your immediate task is obvious: The economy is in a deep hole, and will need immediate help. In the short run, beat the virus to boost the economy. This downturn is different from past recessions because the current economic crisis was caused by a public health crisis. The pandemic has made it more dangerous for people to go about their economic lives. It’s as if every service-sector transaction came with an added tax, paid in increased health risk rather than dollars. The key to the recovery will be to remove this tax. This suggests that your most potent economic tools will be public health measures. Some of the measures your public health team will suggest — like widespread testing, a more robust contact tracing infrastructure or bigger investments in vaccine distribution — will come with a hefty price tag. Before you blink, consult your economists, because a raft of careful research has shown that the benefits of beating the bug exceed the costs. The logic is simple: The US economy is large, and the coronavirus is very disruptive. Indeed, the Harvard economists David Cutler and Larry Summers have estimated that once you account for deaths and damage to physical and mental health in addition to the direct loss of income, on average a family of four will have endured total pandemic losses valued at nearly $200,000. That study was published in October, and the pain has continued to mount since then. Unless you take powerful measures, the damage could be much larger. So far, the country’s economic weakness reflects the reasonable precautions that people are taking against the pandemic. But isolation exhaustion might set in, and if people resume their economic lives without concern for others, the virus is likely to rip through the population. I fear that the current recession is mild compared with the devastation an uncontrolled pandemic might wreak. Beyond public health measures, you must make fiscal stimulus a priority. Before the election, the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives passed roughly $3 trillion in new stimulus, while the White House countered with $1.8 trillion and Senate Republicans offered only $500 billion. Ultimately, the negotiators came up with nothing, though the economy is still in a hole that’s roughly as deep as the darkest days of the last recession. As you devise a new fiscal package, remember that the twin health and economic crises have had very uneven effects, so targeted help can both stimulate the economy and strengthen the safety net for those who have been hit hardest. In the medium run, inoculate the economy against future shocks. Think of this initial fiscal stimulus as a down payment on your most important medium-term macroeconomic goal, which must be to fortify the economy against future shocks. Another downturn could be catastrophic for many households and businesses that are teetering now. Your policy options will be severely limited if Congress is deadlocked, and the Federal Reserve has already pushed interest rates as low as they can go. The only reliable rule of recessions is that they’re caused by a shock you don’t see coming — whether it’s a natural disaster, financial disruption, a global slowdown or a surging virus — and you must make sure that you’ve built the financial infrastructure you’ll need to respond with force. The last few months have shown how much remedial work needs to be done. It’s striking that an outfit like Amazon can deliver thousands of products to American doors in only two days, yet in March and April it took the federal government weeks to deliver $1,200 checks to taxpayers. And when the government tried to tweak unemployment benefits, state agencies pointed out that sensible choices — like raising benefits by a fixed percentage — were infeasible because it would take months to reprogram their archaic computer systems. Your government should pay for states to modernize their systems so recipients no longer need to send faxes, websites can deal with the crush of new applicants that recessions bring and you will have the flexibility to make changes if the economy craters. The problems aren’t just bureaucratic; they’re also political. Emergency fiscal measures got tangled in reelection politics, and measures that one side might normally favor were rejected lest they help political rivals. The fading sense of urgency over recent months suggests that stimulus fatigue is real, and it’s unhelpful. When enhanced unemployment benefits expired in July, both your party and its opponents argued that jobless workers needed further help. But Congress dithered. In the end, the program was never renewed, after a paralyzing period of uncertainty for the unemployed that ultimately turned into disappointment. The solution is to introduce a form of fiscal autopilot designed to counter economic turbulence even in the absence of congressional action. In econ-speak, we call this an “automatic stabilizer.” Current examples include safety net programs, like unemployment insurance, that automatically put money in people’s hands when the economy falters, and progressive income taxes that are structured to reduce tax rates and revenues when incomes fall. Automatic stabilizers should be built into just about everything the government does. This means that all programs should be guided by funding formulas that ensure spending will rise — and taxes fall — whenever the economy tanks. Devise those rules now, before it becomes clear whether they’ll ultimately help a Democratic or a Republican incumbent. And do it while the recession has created an appetite for reform. Solving long-run problems starts today. And finally, Mr. President, don’t lose sight of your longer-run goals. The environment is under threat. Inequality is rising. Health care remains inefficient. The safety net is frayed. Many of America’s most important institutions need renewal. And the pathway to a post-pandemic economy will involve wrenching structural change. If you put these issues off until the next crisis, and then wait for another election cycle, and then your successor does the same, and then … well, you can see how these problems fester. As daunting as these issues might seem, remember that economists have spent decades exploring many of them. Our textbooks are full of potential fixes. While the politics are tricky, often the economics is not. As a believer in specialization, I’m going to leave you to navigate the politics, but as you do so, remember that the economics profession stands ready to offer you the technical advice you need to design better policy responses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-letter-to-the-us-president-about-the-next-4-years-912438.html
07-11-2020||Opinion||Who are the Biden and Trump lawyers slugging it out?||By Jenna Greene When it comes to celebrity supporters, Joe Biden dominates the A List. Think Taylor Swift. Among lawyer nerds, the same thing could be said about Biden's stand-out legal team, with former White House counsel Bob Bauer, former deputy White House counsel Dana Remus and election law giant Marc Elias at the helm. Also on board are former solicitors general Walter Dellinger III and Donald Verrilli Jr., plus former Attorney General Eric Holder. The Trump campaign, by contrast, has tapped less prominent lawyers in filing election-related challenges, although we can't overlook William Consovoy and Jay Sekulow, who've risen to prominence during his presidency. Also on board is Mark “Thor” Hearne II, former President George W Bush’s national legal election counsel. But overall, the bigger legal names are in the Biden camp. To be clear, I’m not suggesting that any attorneys aren’t up to the task at hand — or for that matter, that having lawyers who are household names is any guarantee of success. David Boies, arguably the most famous lawyer in America, couldn’t save presidential candidate Al Gore in the court battle with George W. Bush in the 2000 election. And Elias was general counsel to Hillary Clinton, for all the good it did her when she lost the presidential election to Trump in 2016. Filing frenzy For Trump’s team, while its lawyers might not be famous, they are certainly busy. In Georgia, for example, the Trump campaign and the Georgia Republican Party on November 4 sued to stop the counting of absentee ballots in Chatham County. The suit was filed by lawyers from Robbins Ross Alloy Belinfante Littlefield as well as Taylor English Duma in Georgia. Neither is among the largest or best-known firms nationally. However, former deputy White House counsel Stefan Passantino, now a partner at 242-lawyer Michael Best & Friedrich, adds additional muscle to the complaint. On Thursday, Chatham County Superior Court Judge James Bass Jr. threw out the lawsuit, finding “no evidence” that local election officials failed to comply with the law. Passantino and Vincent Russo of Robbins Ross did not respond to requests for comment. Michigan litigation In Michigan, Hearne, of four-lawyer True North Law, sued in Michigan to stop vote counting and demand greater access to the tabulation process. Michigan Court of Claims Judge Cynthia Stephens tossed the suit on Thursday. Hearne in an interview said the campaign would make a decision whether to appeal once they see the judge’s written decision. In the event of a recount, he said, the key issue — to ensure “transparency and oversight and observation for the various stakeholders” — will be crucial. I couldn't agree more. In Nevada, the campaign on Thursday said it planned to file a federal suit to stop vote counting, citing what it called voting irregularities. An earlier suit was filed in state court by lawyers from the small firms of Marquis Aurbach Coffing, the O’Mara Law Firm and Harvey & Binnall, seeking greater access for election observers. Keeping track of the Trump campaign litigation is general counsel Matt Morgan, a former deputy assistant to the president and deputy chief of staff to the vice president. Included in that litigation are multiple lawsuits pending in Pennsylvania, led by perhaps the Trump campaign's biggest guns, Consovoy, of Consovoy McCarthy, and Sekulow. They've asked the US Supreme Court to intervene in a fight over counting absentee ballots that they say are "untimely and unlawful." Biden response Biden lawyers are pushing back. Bauer told reporters on Thursday that the legal challenges were a “meritless” distraction and “part of a broader misinformation campaign that involves some political theater.” As for Elias, who did not respond to a request for comment, post-election litigation is familiar ground. The Perkins Coie partner previously served as lead counsel for former Democratic Senator Al Franken in the 2008 US Senate election recount in Minnesota; for Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring in a 2013 recount fight and for former Senator Harry Reid in connection with his 1998 recount. Elias came under fire in 2016 for hiring Fusion GPS on behalf of the Clinton campaign to conduct research on Trump’s ties to Russia. Fusion then hired former British spy Christopher Steele to dig up dirt. As the Biden campaign’s litigation point person, Elias has kept up a steady stream of Tweets sharing case updates in real time. “Trump is losing in court, because his claims have no merit,” Elias tweeted on Thursday. The Trump campaign, meanwhile, is fundraising on its website for its legal election defense fund. “We need your help to ensure we have the resources to protect the results and keep fighting even after Election Day.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-are-the-biden-and-trump-lawyers-slugging-it-out-912474.html
07-11-2020||Right in the Middle||Comic relief||I vividly recall the day my artist grandfather held my hand and led me into the enchanting world of comics four decades ago. It was at the Sunday bazaar in the old Majestic area in Bengaluru where used comic books were on sale. A cartoonist himself, he would diligently select some for me – Blondie, Sad Sack, Richie Rich, Phantom, Casper the Friendly Ghost, to name a few. A gamut of emotions packed in a small panel of a comic strip would hold my attention for hours together. Dagwood eating loaded sandwiches in the wee hours of the morning with Daisy looking at him with those round innocent eyes was my favourite. I would be mesmerised by the wealth of Richie Rich and would dream of falling asleep wherever I wanted just like Sad Sack. The antics of Dennis the menace and the plight of Mr. Wilson was a treat for the eyes. Reading a comic had the potential to take you into their world, the illustrations made it easier. Before I reached my teens, my grandfather had left this world, bequeathing me with his passion for cartoons. Growing up with Tom and Jerry I happened to meet Archie and his gang in my teens. Oh! the fantastic journey into the world of Betty, Veronica, Jughead and the others was filled with colours of romance and laughter. I also secretly wished that my college principal would be like Mr. Weatherbee, the principal of Riverdale High. I vaguely remember I had a withered old comic called Hi-school romance which boasted of vintage romantic tales. Needless to say, Indian comics such as Indrajal comics who launched Bahadur fighting the dacoits, Chacha Chaudhary to name a few also had a place in my collection. Then came Uncle Pai who created Shikari Shambu, Suppandi and many others with a beautiful title ‘Tinkle’, which caused tinkles in my heart every time I picked up a copy even though I was ab adult. Every morning, my day starts with the cartoon strips in the newspaper which brings a smile on my face be it Snoopy the dog or Hagar the Horrible. Last but not the least this piece would be incomplete without the mention of the polka-dotted frock girl--the Amul girl. A news item packed in a dollop of butter makes my day. I sign off quoting Snoopy’s family quote, ”The best part of life’s journey is who you get to share it with”. For me, I have shared it with all those comic characters all my life!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/comic-relief-912431.html
07-11-2020||Second Edit||Welcome guidelines on payment of alimony||The guidelines issued by the Supreme Court on payment of alimony to divorced women by their former husbands will ensure better justice for them. The norms for payment of maintenance to estranged wives are important because cases of separation are increasing and most women who claim maintenance are in distress and need support for themselves and their children. The norms have varied, and because of the absence of clear and standard rules, many women have suffered. Many men have tried to use loopholes to reduce the payment or to delay it. The court has issued detailed guidelines that will help to close the escape routes for many men. The rules have been tightened and implementation sought to be made more effective.  The court has laid down a number of criteria for calculating the quantum of maintenance. These include detailed affidavits disclosing all sources of income at the time of application for maintenance. The maintenance has to be paid from the date of filing of the petition, and this will discourage men from prolonging the cases through various stratagems. The ruling came in the case of a woman whose plea for maintenance dragged through various courts for seven years. Since the quantum of maintenance is to be based on the financial position and assets of the partners at the time of the petition, husbands will not be able to dispose of some properties during the pendency of the case to pay less to the partner, as is done by some men. The basic needs of the wife, expenses of children, and inflation should be taken into consideration in calculating the alimony amount. If the woman had given up her job after marriage to look after the children, the loss of that income will also be a factor.  These are welcome norms to ensure that the quantum of alimony is computed fairly, and cases would not be unnecessarily delayed. Even when norms are in place, their implementation has been a problem in many cases. The court has ordered that the decree of maintenance may be implemented like that of a civil court with the help of provisions used to enforce a money decree that enables attachment of property and civil detention. These norms will hopefully ensure that many women who were dependent on their husbands would not be deprived of their rights after separation. The court has spelt it out clearly: “Maintenance laws have been enacted as a measure of social justice to provide recourse to dependent wives and children for their financial support so as to prevent them from falling into destitution and vagrancy.” They should therefore be implemented effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/welcome-guidelines-on-payment-of-alimony-912429.html
07-11-2020||South||Madras HC Chief Justice A P Sahi tests positive for Covid-19||Madras High Court Chief Justice A P Sahi tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here, a senior health official said on Friday. His condition was stable, the official said. The CJ had gone to the hospital on Thursday with complaints of cough, drowsiness and discomfort and he tested positive on Friday. Justice Sahi underwent a CT scan and other tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-chief-justice-a-p-sahi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-912368.html
07-11-2020||South||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. But there is no cause for concern. However, I request all those who had contact with me in New Delhi last week to test for Covid or be under observation to be on the safe side," Khan tweeted. Hon'ble Governor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan said :"I have tested positive for Covid19.But, there is no cause for concern. However, I request all those who had contact with me in NewDelhi last week to test for Covid, or be under observation to be on the safe side":PRO,KeralaRajBhavan The Governor, who was in New Delhi, had returned to the city on Friday morning and had got himself tested on Saturday, Raj Bhavan sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-912526.html
07-11-2020||South||Customs Act violation: Kerala Minister K T Jaleel summoned||The Customs has summoned Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel to appear before it as part of its investigation into the alleged violation in accepting consignments of Holy Quran imported by UAE consulate officials in Thiruvananthapuram for personal use through the diplomatic channel. According to official sources, the Customs has served notice to Jaleel to appear in its office here on Monday. The sources said besides the issue of import of Quran, the agency will seek clarification from the minister on other matters under its investigation. They, however, did not elaborate. Jaleel was earlier questioned by the NIA probing the terror angle in the gold smuggling case. He was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) in accepting consignments of Holy Quran brought from UAE through diplomatic channels. The Customs department has registered two cases in connection with allegedly accepting consignments of the Holy Quran and thousands of kilograms of dates imported by the UAE consulate officials for their personal use through diplomatic channels. It has launched a probe into the role of "some powerful persons" who allegedly violated the laws. Customs officials have said the state government had accepted 18,000 kg of dates imported by the UAE consulate officials in Thiruvananthapuram in 2017 for their personal use. Similarly, consignments of the Holy Quran imported by the UAE consulate were also accepted by the state government officials. Officials have said there were clear cases of violation of Customs Act as the state government officials accepted those items brought by the diplomats for their personal use by availing tax exemption certificate. They have said the state government officials very well know that they were forbidden from taking anything from the foreign government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-act-violation-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-summoned-912569.html
07-11-2020||South||Congress staunchly opposes release of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts||Opposing the release of seven Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts, Congress in Tamil Nadu said on Saturday that political parties making this demand was unacceptable. Against the backdrop of parties, including its key ally in Tamil Nadu the DMK pressing for release of the convicts, including A G Perarivalan, whose plea for pardon is pending with the Governor, TNCC chief K S Alagiri said only the judiciary should decide on remission of their sentences. If the Rajiv case case convicts were to be set free, a demand would arise for the release of all "murder convicts" who have spent over 25 years in prison, he said. "If the court announces the release of seven Rajiv case convicts, we will accept it. However, political parties rooting for their release is unacceptable," Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief Alagiri said in a statement. "It is not Tamil culture to lend support for convicts who assassinated a former Prime Minister and brought harm to India." Propping up a movement for the release of murder convicts meant that there was no need for police stations, courts and also necessity to talk about law and order maintenance, he said. Those convicted for murder should be considered only as convicts and addressing such persons as "Tamils" is inappropriate, he said. "Release seven Tamils" is a phrase usually used by several pro-Tamil, Dravidian groups and parties to strengthen their demand for remission to Rajiv case convicts and its use is perceived to have undertones to the decades old conflict in Sri Lanka. It is a thing of pride to address leaders like Abdul Kalam, Kamarajar, Perarignar Anna, Kalaignar Karunanidhi, Jeevanandam and math genius Ramanujam as Tamils, and not the convicts, the TNCC leader said. P Jeevanandam (1907-63), popularly known as 'Thozhar' (comrade) Jeeva was a pioneer of the Left movement in Tamil Nadu. The over a decade old demand for the release of all seven Rajiv case convicts recently gained momentum with the DMK demanding Governor Banwarilal Purohit accept the 2018 Tamil Nadu government's recommendation, remit their life sentences and set them free. Most parties in Tamil Nadu, including the ruling AIADMK support the release of the convicts. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court had expressed unhappiness over the pendency of Perarivalan's plea (seeking pardon in the Rajiv case) for over two years with Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Nalini, V Sriharan alias Murugan, Santhan, A G Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P Ravichandran are the seven convicts in prison for nearly three decades. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on May 21, 1991 at Sriperumbudur near here by a woman suicide bomber, Dhanu, at an election rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-staunchly-opposes-release-of-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convicts-912591.html
07-11-2020||South||As Kamala Harris inches closer to victory, Tamil Nadu's twin villages prepare for early Diwali||With Democratic candidate for the Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris confident of her victory, the people of two villages in Tamil Nadu, which are native to her maternal grandparents, are also equally conviced that she would emerge victorious and eager to celebrate her win, an early Deepavali. The mood is upbeat at Thulasenthirapuram and Painganadu, tucked away in a corner of Tiruvarur district, a part of the fertile Cauvery delta region, and people are waiting only for a formal declaration that Kamala has won alongside Joe Biden to start celebrations. The villagers have now kept firecrackers ready to hail a win for Kamala Harris, also a US Senator. Women are also planning to draw a mega rangoli in front of the village temple. "We have collected Rangoli powders in different colours and are planning to draw the image of Kamala Harris. It is a matter of pride for the entire womenfolk," said Meenakshi, a housewife at Thulasenthirapuram. The people feel proud that their villages happen to be the native place of the grandparents of Kamala Harris. The road leading to Thulasenthirapuram and Painganadu villages from nearby Mannargudi town is filled with wall posters and digital banners wishing a resounding win for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. Though it may sound strange, US presidential election results are an animated topic of discussion presently in this hinterland of Tamil Nadu in public places like tea stalls. Some people are also glued to the television looking for updates on US elections. Earlier, on November 2, when the US went to the polls, the people performed special prayers in the local temple praying for a win for Kamala. Thulasenthirapuram and Painganadu are agrarian villages and are located very close to each other near Mannargudi which is about 50 km from here. Kamala's grandfather P V Gopalan moved out of Thulasenthirapuram village as a young man and took up a job in the British government service. Her grandmother Rajam belonged to the nearby Painganadu village. Though Kamala's ancestors left the village many decades ago, family members had kept their connections with the temple at Thulasenthirapuram intact. Gopalan and other family members have made donations for temple renovation during various periods. As recently as 2014, a donation was made says the temple trustee Ramani. "It all started about a year back when Kamala Harris herself disclosed about her grandfather in social media.We realised that someone connected with our village was becoming prominent in the US. Everyone here started talking about her," said Ramanathan, a retired school teacher in the village. "We don't know much about her ancestors. Yet, it feels good she is creating history in the US," he added. In all likelihood, Thulasenthirapuram and Painganadu villages appear to be headed for prolonged celebrations. Confident of their victory in the US presidential election, Democratic candidate Joe Biden and his running mate Senator Kamala Harris have begun working on the task ahead by focusing on two critical areas of public health and economy, both battered by the raging Covid-19 pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-kamala-harris-inches-closer-to-victory-tamil-nadus-twin-villages-prepare-for-early-diwali-912625.html
07-11-2020||South||Manjeshwar MLA Kamaruddin arrested in cheating case||An MLA from Kasargod district in Kerala was arrested by the police on Saturday in connection with a series of complaints of cheating investors of a jewellery business headed by him. M C Kamaruddin, MLA of Manjeshwar and a leader of the Indian Union Muslim League, was arrested after quizzing for several hours. Already 115 cases were registered against  Kamaruddin at police stations in Kasargod and Kannur districts that involved cheating to the tune of around Rs 15 crore. Kamaruddin alleged that the arrest, which came a day after the local body elections in Kerala was announced, was a politically motivated move. He said that a case filed by him seeking quashing of the FIRs against him was scheduled to be considered by the High Court on Monday. Hence the swift arrest was planned as per the government's directive. But the IUML leadership is unlikely to back the MLA. IUML is a key coalition partner of the Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front in Kerala. The cheating pertained to  Kasargod based Fashion Gold Jewellery business. Kamaruddin was chairman of the shop and IUML local leader T K Pookoya Thangal is managing director. The firm shut shutters in January citing business loss. The MLA earlier maintained that he could return all the investments and the present case was politically motivated. Around 700 people were said to have invested in the firm. The Kerala police’s crime branch already took over the investigation in 77 of the cases and found solid evidence for cheating to the tune of Rs. 13. 3 crore. Hence the arrest was initiated, Crime Branch sources said. Pookoya Thangal is also likely to be arrested soon. The investor started filing cheating cases against the MLA in August. Following pressure from investors, most of whom were from weak financial backgrounds, the IUML leadership in September directed Kamaruddin to repay all the investments within six months. But Kamaruddin did not submit the details of the liabilities to the party. The CPM had earlier alleged that nine mahal committees of Kasargod had illegally invested in the MLA's jewellery business. Kamaruddin was elected to the Kerala Assembly last year in the by-polls following the death of P B Abdul Razak. He also faced allegations pertaining to a land deal. A trust headed by Kamaruddin purchased two acres of land at Trikaripur in Kasargod from the Wakf Board at a very low rate. After the deal became controversial, the land was returned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/manjeshwar-mla-kamaruddin-arrested-in-cheating-case-912652.html
07-11-2020||South||Stringent action will be taken against those violating timing for bursting crackers: CoP||Chennai police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday warned strict action against those violating the timings fixed for bursting crackers during Deepavali festival. The Commissioner, who reviewed security arrangements in place for festive shopping in the arterial T Nagar area, particularly in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, claimed there was "good awareness" among the members of the public on government rules regarding bursting firing crackers during Deepavali. "Nevertheless, the police will take stringent action as per the law if there are any violations," he told reporters here. The Tamil Nadu government had for the second year in a row in 2019 fixed time slots for bursting crackers during Deepavali, in line with the Supreme Court order. As per the state government's directions, residents could burst crackers between 6 and 7 AM and again from 7 to 8 PM. The festival falls on November 14 this year. Mahesh Kumar who directed the police to ensure a crime-free Deepavali shopping and accident-free celebrations informed that 100 CCTV cameras have additionally been installed in shopping areas in Mambalam and Pondy Bazaar in T Nagar, to effectively monitor the movement of the crowd and take appropriate action in case of any suspicious movement. About 500 police personnel would additionally be deployed to manage the crowd during weekends and 10 beat constables equipped with smart jackets with body cameras, would be deployed for round-the-clock patrolling in 15 sectors. Police watchtowers at vantage points, apart, mini- control rooms and police assistance booths have been established. Similar security arrangements would be in place for the shopping areas in other parts of the city. The police have deployed drones and installed closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras with face-recognition software.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stringent-action-will-be-taken-against-those-violating-timing-for-bursting-crackers-cop-912655.html
07-11-2020||South||Bineesh Kodiyeri's custody extended till November 11||A special court dealing with money laundering cases on Saturday extended custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to the Enforcement directorate by four more days. The ED produced him before the special court as the five-day custody ended today. The agency arrested Bineesh on October 29 in a money laundering case linked to a drug seizure in Karnataka. The agency sought four days custody, saying they found drug peddler Mohammed Anoop's debit card at his residence and needed to make further investigations. The ED has charged that the hotel Anoop was operating in Bengaluru was Bineesh's Benami property. The probe agency has charged Bineesh with transferring huge amounts of money into Anoop's bank account. The ED probe stems from a Narcotics Control Bureau investigation that claimed to have busted an ecstasy pills drug trafficking racket in Karnataka in August along with the arrest of Anoop and two others. Bineesh has maintained that he knew Anoop and his family and the latter had borrowed money from him and some others for setting up a restaurant business in Bengaluru a few years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bineesh-kodiyeris-custody-extended-till-november-11-912656.html
07-11-2020||South||Trump's imminent loss definite blow to right-wing forces: CPI||The CPI said on Saturday that the imminent defeat of President Donald Trump in the US election was a "definite blow" to the right-wing forces and their policies, adding that this would be replicated in the Bihar assembly polls. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden is on the cusp of being declared as the winner of the November 3 elections, as the 77-year-old former US vice president was leading in the key battleground states of Pennsylvania and Georgia where counting of votes is continuing. "The results of the US elections against Trump, though officially yet to be announced, is a definite blow to the right-wing forces and their policies," CPI general secretary D Raja said during the celebration of the 103rd anniversary of the October Revolution at the party headquarters in New Delhi. "The October Revolution gave birth to a working class-led state. Today, it assumes special significance in the background of the rejection of Donald Trump and his rightist policies by the American people," he said. Paying tributes to Vladimir Lenin, Raja said his teachings and tactics of uniting the working class with the peasantry in the fight against the right reactionary forces were relevant even now. "In India, too, the working class and the farmers are hands in hand in the joint struggle against the anti-people, anti-worker and anti-farmer policies of the Modi government," the CPI leader said. "We extend our full support to the November 26 general strike and workers-farmers agitation. The Bihar assembly election verdict will also be a blow to the right-wing communal forces in India," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trumps-imminent-loss-definite-blow-to-right-wing-forces-cpi-912659.html
07-11-2020||South||Karnataka govt appoints vice-chancellors for new cluster universities||The Karnataka government on Saturday appointed new vice-chancellors for four cluster universities. According to a notification issued by the Higher Education Department, Dr L Gomathi Devi, a professor in the Department of Chemistry in Bangalore University, Bengaluru will be the vice-chancellor of Maharani Cluster University, Bengaluru. These four are the first vice-chancellors to head the newly established cluster universities. Dr Harish Ramaswamy, a professor in the Department of Political Science, Karnatak University, Dharwad, will be the vice-chancellor of Raichur University, Raichur. Dr Shrinivas S Balli, professor and head of Mechanical Engineering Department in the Basaveshwar Engineering College (Autonomous), Bagalkot, will be the vice-chancellor of Nrupathunga University, Bengaluru. Dr Puttaraju, Principal, SJB Institute of Technology, Bengaluru will be the Vice-Chancellor of Mandya University, Mandya. They will serve as vice-chancellors for a period of four years from the date of assumption of office or till they attain the age of 67 years, whichever is earlier, said the notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-govt-appoints-vice-chancellors-for-new-cluster-universities-912693.html
07-11-2020||South||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao proposes a 2,000-acre film city near Hyderabad||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced an idea of setting up a film city of international standards on the outskirts of Hyderabad for which the government would allot 1,500 to 2,000 acres of land. “There are ample opportunities to further develop the film industry here. Plots (in the film city) will be allocated to the film production companies to set up studios with state-of-the-art technologies and to suit needs of the future. Provision will be created at the proposed film city for an airstrip. All other infrastructure facilities will be provided,” the chief minister said. Prominent Telugu film personalities Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna met the Chief Minister at Pragathi Bhavan on Saturday for a discussion on the development of the film industry and its expansion in Telangana. The CM instructed that a delegation of officials and film personalities should visit the film city in Bulgaria and prepare a plan for the film city proposed in Hyderabad. Chiranjeevi, Nagarjuna told the CM that shootings have resumed following permissions given by the government and theatres too would be opened shortly. "About 10 lakh people in Telangana are either directly or indirectly dependent on the film industry. Due to the cancellation of shootings and closure of theaters on account of the Covid-19 restrictions, they lost their livelihood. Resume shootings by complying with Covid-19 guidelines. Open theaters too. The families dependent on the film industry should not suffer more,” the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-proposes-a-2000-acre-film-city-near-hyderabad-912696.html
07-11-2020||South||Kerala girl surprises Shashi Tharoor with tongue twister||A 15-year-old girl from Idukki district in Kerala has surprised even Congress leader Shashi Tharoor by presenting tongue-twisting words with ease and even introducing a long word that Tharoor, who is known for using long words, was quite unfamiliar with. Diya Teresa Binoy hailing for Parathodu near Adimanly in the hilly district had even become a sensation among the English language lovers as she presented the tongue-twisting words with ease. The tenth-standard student of De Paul Public School at Rajamudi in the district is giving credits to her immense vocabulary skills to her love for reading and the support she has been receiving from parents and teachers. It was during an online programme organised by an FM radio recently that Diya could interact with Tharoor, which has been her long-pending desire. Tharoor’s vocabulary and usage of tongue-twisting words like floccinaucinihilipilification had enhanced her desire to look for lengthy words and pronunciation. ‘Lopadotemachoselachogaleokranioleipsanodrimhypotrimmatosilphiokarabomelitokatakechymenokichlepikossyphophattoperisteralektryonoptekephalliokigklopeleiolagoiosiraiobaphetraganopterygon’ was the 183 letter word, which is a fictional dish, that Diya pronounced with ease and surprised Tharoor.  Tharoor tweeted: "Wonderful story of brilliant 10th-grader Diya, who has mastered tongue-twisting English words I've never heard of." Diya told DH that she found the word and learnt its pronunciation herself after referring to many books and doing research. “I developed a love towards English from the age of ten and I had read a range of books. It indeed helped me improve my vocabulary,” she said. Diya, daughter of a small scale businessman Binoy Cyriac, is ambitious of becoming an Indian Foreign Service officer. Diya's vocabulary skills assume more significance as she hailed from Idukki, which has a general perception of a backward district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-surprises-shashi-tharoor-with-tongue-twister-912711.html
07-11-2020||South||Covid-19: Telangana estimates Rs 52,750 crore revenue loss this fiscal||The Telangana government has estimated a revenue loss of Rs 52,750 crore in the current financial year due to the Covid-19 pandemic forced lockdown and other related circumstances. Chief Minister Chandrashekhar Rao held a mid-term review of the 2020-2021 state budget on Saturday, where the finance department officials suggested alterations, and amendments to the budget in view of the severe revenue deficit situation. CM Rao instructed officials to fix priorities accordingly and prepare a financial management plan, since “there will be a shortfall of Rs 52,750 crore in the state’s overall income.” Explaining the state’s financial condition arising because of the pandemic, officials said that the government had received Rs 39,608 crore revenue for the seven months (April to October) of 2019-20 through taxes and other non-tax resources. "Till October this year, the state received only 33,704 crore. The 2020-2021 budget proposals were made estimating that the state’s revenue growth rate would be 15 per cent. But to the contrary, due to Covid-19, the revenues fell compared to last year,” the officials said, according to a press statement from the CMO. The estimated revenue in 2020-2021 through taxes and non-tax resources was Rs 1,15,900 crore and the budget proposals were made accordingly. But latest estimates show the probability at only Rs 68,781 crore. With this, the state’s own income will be reduced by Rs 47,119 crore. The officials claimed that the money received under the state government’s share in the central taxes and through the centrally sponsored and assisted schemes, has also reduced considerably this year. “No flood assistance from the centre” Finance officials informed Rao that “so far not even a paisa is received from the centre” towards the rehabilitation of the victims of the recent rains and floods in the state, especially in Hyderabad city. The Rao government estimated a loss of Rs 5,000 crore. The CM, on October 15, wrote to PM Narendra Modi requesting Rs 1,350 crore as immediate relief. A central team subsequently visited the state and assessed the damages. “But as on date, not even a single rupee is released,” the officials told CM. "The centre has once again proved that it makes empty promises and does not take any action. It is highly regrettable that help has not been extended even when a city like Hyderabad has suffered heavy losses,” Rao, said according to a CMO release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-telangana-estimates-rs-52750-crore-revenue-loss-this-fiscal-912716.html
07-11-2020||South||Only 'green crackers' during Deepavali: Karnataka government||The sale and bursting of 'green crackers', as per Supreme Court guidelines, will be allowed during Deepavali, the Karnataka government said on Saturday,as it stressed on restrictions to contain the coronavirus infection. Hours after indicating that the state would ban fireworks due to the pandemic,Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had appealed to the people yesterday to celebrate the festival in a simple way by using only green crackers. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said more stringent measures are needed to be initiated to check the spread of the disease. "Keeping in mind the existing situation, there is a need to celebrate the festival in a simple, meaningful and devotional way," the chief secretary said in his order. He said only green crackers will be sold from Saturday to November 16 in an open space where social distancing can be maintained. The surroundings of the cracker shops should be sanitised and the shopkeepers have to arrange hand sanitisers. They not only have to wear face masks but also ensure that the customers too are using it. The Chief Minister had said on Friday that there will be restrictions on bursting of crackers. Yediyurappa had earlier said the state government will issue an order banning the use of firecrackers during the festival in view of the pandemic situation. Several states, including Rajasthan, Odisha and Delhi,have already decided to ban firecrackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/only-green-crackers-during-deepavali-karnataka-government-912729.html
07-11-2020||State||Be liberal in granting leave to Covid-19 hit staff: Karnataka govt to employers||The Karnataka government on Friday requested all public and private sector employers to be liberal in granting leave for staffers infected by the coronavirus and are under home quarantine. Additional Chief Secretary-Labour Department Rajkumar Khatri, in an official note said, the period during which workers affected by Covid-19 are under quarantine should not be considered as unauthorised leave. In case any employee was unable to work due to Covid-19 and does not have leave left in his account, then employers can allow for transfer of leaves remaining with other employees and to use them as per rules. The request by the government came following a direction from the Karnataka High Court based on a public interest litigation. Employers can grant special holiday in case there were no leave remaining or if the employers are unable to approve leave on their own, it said, adding this can be decided through a consultation between employers and the workers. Also, employers can allow an employee to avail in advance the leave that may be applied for in the future, in case he or she has used up all their leave. it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/be-liberal-in-granting-leave-to-covid-19-hit-staff-karnataka-govt-to-employers-912344.html
07-11-2020||State||Karnataka State Law University students demand online exams||The intermediate semester students of Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) have been demanding the withdrawal of physical/offline examinations announced by the university. The students have demanded the university to consider other modes of evaluation, including open book online exams or considering marks scored in vivas conducted through an onlineplatform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-state-law-university-students-demand-online-exams-912680.html
07-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CBI officials take former minister Vinay Kulkarni in their custody||Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, arrested in connection with the murder case of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Member Yogesh Gouda, was taken into custody by CBI officials here on Saturday. Kulkarni, arrested on Thursday, had been lodged in the Central Prison, Hindalga here after the court ordered one-day judicial custody. The court on Friday sent Kulkarni to three-day CBI custody. CBI officials arrived at the prison on Saturday and took Kulkarni along with them for inquiry. Today also happens to be the birthday of the former minister, but since he is in the CBI custody no celebrations will be held. Sources said that Kulkarni shed tears in the prison as he could not celebrate his birthday with his family members. He also urged CBI officials to allow him to talk with his family members. Police security outside the prison was increased with supporters of Kulkarni expected on the premises in wake of his birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cbi-officials-take-former-minister-vinay-kulkarni-in-their-custody-912470.html
07-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM urges people to switch to green means of transport to curb pollution||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday urged the people of the state to shift from private vehicles to public transport, bicycles and walking to help reduce air pollution. Noting that clean air and clear water was the right of every citizen, he said, "due to global warming and pollution, a clean and pure environment is becoming difficult, which is causing a negative impact on the human being and the earth. "Hence, conservation of environment should be our priority," the CM said while launching the Clean Air Testbed Drive on Church Street in the city. The Clean Air testbed drive is a joint initiative of the Directorate of Urban Land Transport, Indian Institute of Science and United Kingdom's Catapult Network. Under this initiative, which will run till February 2021, there will be a ban on any kind of vehicles on Church street and only pedestrians will be allowed. On other days, electric vehicles will be encouraged on the stretch. Pointing out that at least 50 per cent of the air pollution in cities is caused by vehicles, Yediyurappa said Bengaluru has more than 85 lakh private vehicles, which increases by 10 per cent every year. The Chief Minister said, "We can make our cities inhabitable by replacing private vehicles with public transport, bicycle and walking." Every person should treat conservation of the environment as his or her primary duty and take an oath to actively get involved in environment conservation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-urges-people-to-switch-to-green-means-of-transport-to-curb-pollution-912623.html
07-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Study finds Carnatic music can increase Maths ability in children||Music may soothe the savage heart but science shows that it can also trigger an enhancement of mathematical ability in young children. In a year-long study conducted at a private school in New Delhi, researchers from Delhi University examined the influence of Carnatic Vocal music on children aged five-and-a-half years old to 8 years old. They found that the children exhibited a “statistically significant improvement in mathematical ability,” afterwards. “The children involved in the study were subject to a standardised international psychometric test to assess their mathematical ability before and after the Carnatic music intervention was executed,” Dr Vidya Raja, the corresponding author of the study, said. “Care was ensured that the children involved in the research were controlled for influencing factors such as private music lessons etc,” she added, explaining that many of the children largely hailed from lower socio-economic backgrounds. The children were assessed for their mathematical ability using the standardised psychometric tests at the end of the music intervention, researchers said. The psychometric tests included age-level mathematical activities such as addition, division and other arithmetic tasks. “Results from the study revealed a statistically significant improvement in mathematical ability for the students in the experimental group in comparison to the control group,” Dr Vidya said. The study was published in the international journal of Taylor and Francis, Early Child Development and Care. Dr Vidya added that learning music activates high brain processes with the brain carrying out complex tasks in the background while the child performs. The well-known Carnatic musician R K Padmanabha, who is not connected with the study, said that the ability of the classical music form to engender mathematical ability is well known because the rhythmic spans and frequencies of the music exercise an inherent mathematical ability among performers. “But this mathematics is aesthetic in nature. It is known to increase the retention power of the brain owing to many notes that are required to be memorized, plus it enhances lyrical awareness and concentration,” he said. Dr Vidya added, “There are a lot of mathematical concepts embedded in the learning of Carnatic music. The child is subconsciously processing these mathematical concepts.” She specified that most of the children involved in the Delhi study hailed from South Indian families. She was subsequently awarded a senior research fellowship by the Ministry of Culture to conduct a second study programme at the Swami Vivekananda Rural Higher Secondary School in Chandapura. The study, with 200 children, most of from working-class families, have led to similar findings being made, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/study-finds-carnatic-music-can-increase-maths-ability-in-children-912687.html
07-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Assault on minor girl: Plaint against 3 women cops||Instead of protecting the minor girl who had been to Bajpe police station to file a complaint on harassment by a youth, three women police allegedly assaulted the victim. As a result, the victim is undergoing treatment at the Wenlock Hospital. A case has been registered against three women police of Bajpe police station at the Women’s police station at Pandeshwar. Following the incident, the City Police Commissioner has ordered for a probe and the CWC has taken the issue seriously and has asked the commissioner to submit a detailed report on the incident. It was said that the minor girl had come in contact with a youth on Facebook. Later, he started harassing her. When the girl, along with her parents, had been to Bajpe police station to file a complaint, the youth too had come. In the name of investigation, girl and the youth were taken inside the station and the victim was allegedly assaulted by the women police. When the complaint reached the CWC, the members of the Committee visited the victim in the hospital. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that the women police station inspector has been asked to conduct a probe into the incident. The details will be known after the investigation is completed.    CWC president Renni D’Souza said that case under IPC Section 323, 324, 504 against the women police. As the victim is a minor, the police should have booked the case under Pocso Act and Prevention of Atrocities on Children ActAlleging that cases are not registered properly, the CWC will write to the Commission for Protection of Child Rights, as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/assault-on-minor-girl-plaint-against-3-women-cops-912714.html
07-11-2020||West||Nashik: Onion prices continue slide at Lasalgaon market||Onion prices continued to fall in Nashik's Lasalgaon APMC market with the average cost of a quintal of the kitchen staple on Friday being Rs 3,200, a drop of Rs 451, said officials. During the day, the maximum price per quintal was 4,100, the minimum price was Rs 1,151 while the average was Rs 3,200 against Rs 3,651 on November 5, they said. In contrast, the average price for a quintal on October 30 was Rs 5,501, while the maximum and minimum were Rs 6,001 and Rs 1,011 respectively, the officials pointed out. Skyrocketing onion prices in the past few weeks had led to the Centre stepping in and laying down wholesale and retail stock limits, which in turn got traders agitated with most of them boycotting auctions in markets, including at Lasalgaon, Asia's largest for the crop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nashik-onion-prices-continue-slide-at-lasalgaon-market-912348.html
07-11-2020||West||Actor Milind Soman booked for 'promoting obscenity'||Goa Police have registered a case against model Milind Soman for allegedly promoting obscenity after he recently posted a picture of himself running nude on a beach in the state to mark his birthday, a police official said on Saturday. The case was registered on Friday (November 6), a day after Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), a political outfit, lodged a complaint in this connection, he said. Soman had shared his picture on his Instagram profile, which showed him running nude on a beach to mark his 55th birthday. "Soman has been booked under IPC section 294 (obscene act in public place) and section 67 of the Information and Technology Act after the complaint by Goa Suraksha Manch," Superintendent of Police (South) Pankaj Kumar Singh said. In the Instagram post, Soman gave the photo credit to his wife Ankita Konwar. The GSM in its complaint has alleged that the model had indulged in obscenity at a public place. It also said that the picture projected Goa in a wrong manner. On Thursday (November 5), the police had arrested actor-model Poonam Pandey and her husband for allegedly trespassing on government property and shooting an "objectionable" video at a dam in Canacona town in South Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-milind-soman-booked-for-promoting-obscenity-912498.html
07-11-2020||West||Maharashtra accords industry status to hospitality sector||The Maharashtra government has formally accorded “industry status” to the hospitality sector. The status was actually accorded to the sector back in 1999 due to the continuous efforts of the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) and the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) but had unfortunately remained only on paper and had no meaningful benefits. However, effective from April 1, 2021, hospitality as an industry will be levied tariffs and duties on electricity, water, property, development and non-agricultural taxes at industrial rates. “The Cabinet has approved the “industry status” proposal for hotels in Maharashtra. This is a landmark moment for the hotel industry. After reduction of pre-establishment licences from 70 to 10, industry status will give much-needed support to hotels,” tweeted State Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray. The HRAWI and FHRAI have welcomed the move and thanked the Government in aiding the revival of the sector. “The status had remained only on paper for over two decades but now with its implementation, hospitality will be entitled to receive benefits under special schemes and subsidies, with minimal to none procedural roadblocks,” says Sherry Bhatia, president, HRAWI. “With its implementation, the operating cost of hotels and other tourism-related sectors will drastically come down due to lower annual electricity rates and other land-related rates. The industry is hopeful that apart from the first stage of benefits, the Government will issue various other benefits listed in the GR, which would help alleviate to some degree the huge burden being felt post-Covid-19,” says Vivek Nair, past president, FHRAI. “The industry status unburdens the sector of utility payments and duties to the State which were at commercial tariff rates. This includes some of the high-cost items like electricity, water and property, among others. At industrial rates, the operational costs will go down to a great extent. This is a big relief for our sector and has come at a time when hotel and restaurant businesses are severely hit because of the pandemic enforced lockdown and low consumer confidence,” says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, HRAWI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-accords-industry-status-to-hospitality-sector-912510.html
07-11-2020||West||Armed forces must be ready to combat hybrid threats, says IAF Chief Bhadauria||Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria on Saturday said that today's battle-space is "highly complex and multi-dimensional" with unpredictable security scenarios, and the armed forces have to be prepared for hybrid threats emanating from multiple fronts. He also hailed the creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and Department of Military Affairs (DMA) as the beginning of the "most historic phase of higher defence reforms" in the country. Bhadauria was addressing the cadets of the National Defence Academy (NDA) hereafter reviewing the passing out parade of its 139th course. "The NDA is not just the cradle of leadership, but a true cradle of jointmanship. The vast experience of joint training at the NDA needs to be carried forward to the respective academies," he said. "Today's battle-space is highly complex and multi-dimensional with unpredictable security scenarios and high operational tempo. In the battle-space, operational response and demand will be an integrated synergistic approach to all operations," he added. "Therefore, bonds of friendship that you have forged here, with your course-mates, with your squadron-mates, need to continue throughout your life, as you go into your service career and should translate always into better synergy at every stage of your career," Bhadauria advised the cadets. "The appointment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and formation of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) marks the beginning of the most historic phase of higher defence reforms in our country," he said. "As budding military professionals, you should begin to understand that geopolitical churnings around the world have a direct bearing on the security environment in our neighbourhood," the IAF chief said. "Our armed forces have to be prepared for hybrid threats emanating from multiple fronts. This mandates very high levels of knowledge, dedication, commitment and sacrifice and leadership at all levels at all times. This is what each service and the nation would expect from you," he added. The convocation ceremony of 139th NDA course was held the academy on Friday. A total of 217 cadets- 49 from science stream, 113 from Computer Science stream and 55 from Arts stream- were conferred the degree of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), an NDA official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/armed-forces-must-be-ready-to-combat-hybrid-threats-says-iaf-chief-bhadauria-912517.html
07-11-2020||West||Goa govt revokes nod to Sunburn EDM fest after facing flak||The Goa government has withdrawn the permission granted to the organisers of Sunburn electronic dance music (EDM) festival to hold the event in the state in December this year. The Congress party had protested in the city on Friday against the decision to allow Sunburn to be organised in the state. On Friday evening, state Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that the department has decided to withdraw the permission granted to the organisers of Sunburn 2020. "The decision has been taken in view of the pandemic situation in Goa. We don't want huge crowds to gather as it can lead to the spread of the virus," he added. The festival was scheduled to be held from December 27 to 29 at Vagator village in North Goa. Percept Live, the company which organises this event, had said that they were given in-principle approval by the Tourism Department's State-Level Program Committee (SLPC) to host the festival. The organisers had said on Friday that they were ready to cancel the festival if the pandemic situation worsens in the state. They had also said that the event would be held by obeying all the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-revokes-nod-to-sunburn-edm-fest-after-facing-flak-912524.html
07-11-2020||West||Daily Covid-19 infection count wanes in Maharashtra, say officials||The coronavirus situation in Maharashtra, where the infection count has crossed the 17 lakh-mark so far, appears to be improving gradually as the last one lakh cases were added over a period of 16 days as compared to the earlier average period of less than 10 days. While the case count had crossed the 16-lakh mark on October 20, the infection tally reached 17,03,444 on November 5. According to officials, this is the third slowest growth period as far as addition of one lakh cases is concerned since the outbreak began in March this year. In the state, which remains the hardest-hit in the country by the pandemic, the number of single-day infection cases has come down in the range of 4,000 to 7,000 in the last couple of weeks after witnessing 20,000-plus daily cases for a sustained period in September. Officials have attributed this decline in daily cases to the tracing, tracking and testing methods adopted by various government agencies and increased awareness among people. "After the outbreak began, the first one lakh cases in the state were reported between March 9 and June 12. It means that it took 94 days to reach the first one lakh-mark. But the two lakh-mark was recorded in the next 23 days after that as the infection spread further," a senior health department official said. "Since then, from three lakh cases to the 16 lakh- mark, maximum time taken for adding every one lakh cases was less than 10 days," he said. "Since the state reached the two lakh cases mark, this is the first time it has taken 16 days to add one lakh cases. It is indeed an achievement of the staff and awareness drive undertaken by various agencies in slowing down the infection spread," the official added. There was a time in September when Maharashtra reported more than 20,000 cases on a daily basis. For instance, the case count jumped from eight lakh to nine lakh in just five days. The state had reported eight lakh cases on September 1 and it reached the nine lakh-mark on September 6, the data shared by the health department shows. "But over the last couple of weeks, the state has been reporting 4,000 to 7,000 cases daily, mainly due to its lowered prevalence. The tracing, tracking and testing method adopted by the state government has been effective in curbing the spread. "Besides that, people have also grown conscious as they are taking necessary precautions. It has helped in slowing down the pace," the official said. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope, however, said, "It is just the first indication of putting a check on the spread of Covid-19 cases. We need to bring down the mortality rate as well as bring back life to routine so that people can perform their duties with ease. We will continue with our current testing and treating drive as it is still necessary." Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads the state task force for Covid-19 said, "The winter season poses another threat. It is routine that cough, cold and fever cases increase in winter season, but this time everyone must be careful before discarding similar symptoms as normal fever." "If anyone catches cold, cough or feels weakness, the person should visit a physician and undergo proper medical checking," he said. The coronavirus tally in the state till Friday night was 17,10,314 as it added 5,027 new cases during the day. As many as 15,62,342 people have recovered from the infection so far and the number of active cases is 1,02,099. The virus has so far claimed 44,965 lives in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daily-covid-19-infection-count-wanes-in-maharashtra-say-officials-912532.html
07-11-2020||West||Elgar case: Father Stan Swamy files plea seeking straw, sipper in jail||Eighty-two-year-old Father Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case, has filed an application before a special court here, seeking that he be allowed to use a straw and sipper in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he is currently lodged. Swamy was arrested from his home in Ranchi last month in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in January 2018. The accused, through his lawyer Kritika Agarwal, moved the plea before the special NIA court on Friday seeking straw and sipper in jail citing health issues. The special court judge D E Kothalikar has asked the national probe agency to file its reply on the matter on November 26. NIA officials have said that investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA has also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. It also alleged that Swamy had received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA officials have claimed. They said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Last month, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet in the matter against eight people, including Swamy. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case so far under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The probe into the Elgar Parishad case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. The Pune police have claimed that speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held on December 31, 2017, at Shaniwarwada in Pune city, led to the violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people having Maoist links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-case-father-stan-swamy-files-plea-seeking-straw-sipper-in-jail-912537.html
07-11-2020||West||A platform to understand the Maharashtra's Konkan coast||The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), in association with Shell, jointly launched the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Assessment Tool (CoMBAT) on Friday. CoMBAT was a result of a massive exercise by BNHS to assess Maharashtra's Konkan coast for its biodiversity and to identify ecologically-important pockets for more focussed and effective conservation efforts. It is a user-friendly open-source platform using advanced computing technology to make informed decisions by stakeholders about coastal development that can pose a threat to the unevenly explored habitats. In Phase 1 of the project, seven Ecologically Important Marine and Coastal Biodiversity Areas (EIMCBA) had been identified along the Konkan coast. The tool was launched by N Vasudevan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Managing Director, Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra Limited. He launched the web tool in the presence of 35 guests that included environmentalists, government officials, and corporate professionals. The tool affords easy navigation and accessibility to a wide range of scientifically-vetted information related to the coastal biodiversity of Maharashtra. The aim was to get these assimilated in the functions of Maharashtra State Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and Mangrove Foundation. In Phase II, the data was further refined. Phase III was primarily to develop a Decision Support System tool named CoMBAT that integrates the primary and secondary data and provides various stakeholders free of cost access to the scientific knowledge generated through this project. The platform is dynamic in nature and additional information layers shall be systematically updated in the coming days. The project was sponsored by BG Exploration & Production India Limited (part of Royal Dutch Shell plc group of Companies) as part of its social investment initiatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-platform-to-understand-the-maharashtras-konkan-coast-912548.html
07-11-2020||West||Drugs case: Showik Chakraborty seeks bail for third time, cites Supreme Court ruling||Showik Chakraborty, arrested in a drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, has once again sought bail from a special court here, citing a recent Supreme Court order. This is Showik's third attempt to seek bail since his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in September. Earlier, the special court, as well as the Bombay High Court, had rejected his bail pleas. In the application filed recently before the special court hearing cases related to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, Showik relied on a recent apex court judgment, which says that "confessional statements" made to the NCB officials cannot be considered as evidence. "The Supreme Court, in its recent order rightly held that the officers who are invested with powers under section NDPS Act (pertaining to the current case) are police Officers within the meaning of section 25 of the Evidence Act. As a result, any confessional statement made to them cannot be taken into account in order to convict an accused under the NDPS Act," Showik said in his plea. As per section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence, it said. "In view of the apex court's judgment, there has been an obvious change in circumstance which would warrant a fresh consideration for bail," the plea, filed through his advocate Satish Maneshinde, said. In the application, Showik reiterated that he has been "falsely implicated" in the case. The accused has been booked under section 27(A) mechanically and without application of mind, it said. The plea said that the remand applications produced thus far are completely silent as to any allegation of harbouring of offenders as mentioned under Section 27A of the NDPS Act. It claimed the case of the NCB was silent on the amount of financing, quantum of drugs and type of drugs allegedly procured and financed by Showik. The probe agency's case, in layman terms, is that Showik used to co-ordinate the delivery of drugs for the late Sushant Singh Rajput. In essence, his alleged role, if any, is the purchase of a small quantity of drugs for the late actor. Hence, the allegations against him are is bailable in nature, the plea said. It alleged that the probe agency spun a false narrative that portrays Showik as being someone who finances and procures drugs. The matter is likely to be heard next week, Maneshinde said. The agency has alleged said that actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik used to facilitate drug deliveries and payment through credit cards, cash and other payment gateways. The NCB is probing multiple drug angles linked to Singh's death. It began its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to Rajput's death case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs. Rhea, who was also arrested by the NCB in September, was released on bail last month. Rajput was found hanging at his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-showik-chakraborty-seeks-bail-for-third-time-cites-supreme-court-ruling-912562.html
07-11-2020||West||Shiv Sena invokes Donald Trump to taunt BJP over Arnab Goswami's arrest||Taking a swipe at the BJP, the ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday likened the hue and cry over the arrest of television journalist Arnab Goswami with the reaction of Donald Trump to the outcome of the US Presidential elections. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said the reaction of Trump who is on the verge of defeat amounted to belittling the post he was holding. "Just like Trump's actions that included spreading fake news and demanding that counting of votes be stopped and moving the court are against the law and prestige of America, BJP leaders in Maharashtra are protesting against the arrest of a suspected accused in an abetment to suicide case," the Sena said without naming Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV. The BJP had alleged that the arrest of Goswami by Raigad police on Wednesday in the 2018 case was politically motivated and amounted to muzzling the freedom of press. "When prime minister Narendra Modi was chief minister of Gujarat, BJP leaders, including (incumbent Union home minister) Amit Shah, were tried in several cases of (2002) Gujarat riots. They were acquitted as per law, but the BJP did not say then that the actions (cases) were politically motivated or part of vendetta," the editorial said. The Sena further alleged that the BJP was maligning the image of the family members of Anvay Naik, the interior designer who had committed suicide in 2018 allegedly over non-payment of dues by Republic TV. Referring to posters showing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhhav Thackeray with Indira Gandhi, who had imposed Emergency in 1975, the Sena said the comparison with the late prime minister was a matter of pride. "The BJP has gone out of its mind by putting up posters of Uddhav Thackeray and Indira Gandhi reminding people of Emergency, in Delhi. This is not only childishness but also ignorance. Comparison with Indira Gandhi is a matter of pride. The iron lady had avenged partition of our country by breaking Pakistan in 1971," the editorial said. The Congress is one of the constituents of the Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, apart from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Sena also took a swipe at the BJP for announcing wearing of black badges by its leaders until Goswami is released. "Thankfully, they haven't resorted to jail bharo and fasting as part of protests," the editorial said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-invokes-donald-trump-to-taunt-bjp-over-arnab-goswamis-arrest-912571.html
07-11-2020||West||ED conducts searches in Goa in land grab case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has conducted searches in a money laundering complaint linked to an alleged land grab and cheating case in Goa. It said the raids were carried out against former Attorney of Comunidade of Serula Angelo C Lobo, his brother Reginaldo Lobo and former official of Comunidade of Serula Joseph D'Sa and its former clerk Rajesh Suhas Verenkar. The action was undertaken under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a case of illegal allotment of plots as well as the illegal acquisition of land belonging to Comunidade of Serula in Goa, the central probe agency said in a statement. Comunidade is a Portuguese-era community institution, which has land holdings across the state. "Incriminating documents and records relating to the illegal allotment, acquisition of plots and land belonging to the Comunidade of Serula have been seized," the ED said. "The incriminating documents include old blank Indian stamp papers of 1960s, old blank papers having Portuguese stamps used for making forged documents and deeds of sale used for illegal acquisition of land," it added.  The ED said the documents seized also include old registers belonging to the administrator of Comunidades, Bardez, which were being used for the purpose of "illegal" allotment of plots. The ED's money laundering case is based on an FIR of the crime branch of the Goa Police. "As per the FIRs (filed by Goa Police), the members of the managing committee of Comunidade of Serula were involved in illegal allotment of plots by fraudulently citing and using duplicate file numbers pertaining to files of offices of various administrators of Comunidades and gazette notifications of Goa government thereby cheating the Comunidade of Serula and other authorities," the ED alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-conducts-searches-in-goa-in-land-grab-case-912574.html
07-11-2020||West||Fake TRP: Bombay High Court seeks Maharashtra government's reply over charges against cops||The Bombay High Court on Saturday asked the Maharashtra government, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and two other police officials to respond to a plea filed by Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the complainant in the television rating points (TRP) scam, alleging harassment by the police. The petition filed by the company and three of its senior officials alleged that the city police was conducting the probe in an "illegal and highly objectionable" manner. The petition claimed that the company's officials were being "harassed and coerced into making false statements" and sought for the probe to be transferred to the CBI. The petition has named Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze and Assistant Commissioner of Police Shashank Sandbhor as the ones who were harassing them. On Saturday, advocate Devadutt Kamat, appearing for the government, Param Bir Singh and the two police officers, refuted the allegations and said the petitioners are being called for questioning only when required. He further told the court that investigation in the case is still on and certain material has also come to the fore against the petitioners. The bench, however, noted that since the petitioners are complainant in the case, they should not be called to the police station without any reason. "They are the complainant and not the accused in the case. We are not saying stop the investigation, but call them only when required and on specific days and for reasonable time," Justice Shinde said. Kamat agreed and told the court that the petitioners would be called for questioning twice a week for a reasonable time. The bench then posted the petition for further hearing on November 25 and directed the respondents (the government, Param Bir Singh, Sachin Waze and Shashank Sandbhor) to file their affidavits. The petitioner's advocate C S Vaidyanathan argued that the police was pressurising the petitioners to implicate certain news channels. "The police were repeatedly coercing the petitioners to make false and incorrect statements. When the petitioners expressed inability to do so, they were threatened by the police saying they would be booked in the same offence and placed under arrest," the petition said. The company claimed that their senior officials are being harassed by the city police, which calls them for recording of statement at odd hours and then detaining them in the Crime Branch office for long hours and threatening that they would be placed under arrest. "There has been a constant threat by the police that the petitioners would be arrested for conniving and being hand in gloves with Republic TV," the petition said. It also sought a stay on the investigation being conducted by the city police in the case and a direction to not take any coercive steps against the petitioners. The plea claimed that the FIR was registered on October 6, 2020 and since then the police has been harassing the petitioner company and its officials, asking them to make false and incorrect statements. "Later, media reports quoting the police said that preliminary forensic audit report has revealed suspicious transaction of Rs 32 lakh between the petitioner company and Republic TV. The petitioner has no dealing with Republic TV directly," the petition claimed. "The petitioner's group company Hansa Vision had a transaction with Republic TV in 2017. There has been no dealing in the year 2018 and 2019," it added. The petition claimed that the company and its officials are suffering collateral damage as they are being used by the police to fight their battle against certain sections of the media. Hansa Research Group had lodged a complaint against its employee Vishal Bhandari on October 6 after he was found allegedly accepting payments illegally to make certain households watch specific TV channels, allegedly to fudge TV TRP ratings. Ten arrests have been made so far, including those of former employees of the company. The police, after preliminary inquiry, had claimed that two local regional channels and Republic TV was also involved in the scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-trp-bombay-high-court-seeks-maharashtra-governments-reply-over-charges-against-cops-912598.html
07-11-2020||West||Medium-intensity quake hits south Gujarat; no casualty||An earthquake measuring 4.3 on the Richter scale rocked south Gujarat on Saturday afternoon, an official from the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. According to the ISR, the medium-intensity earthquake hit south Gujarat at 3.39 pm with its epicentre 36 km east-south-east from Bharuch and was also felt in Surat district. The tremor was felt at a depth of 5.9 km and caused panic among locals, it was stated. "As per the primary report, no damage to property or casualty has been reported from anywhere in the district due to the earthquake," an official from the disaster management department of Bharuch said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/medium-intensity-quake-hits-south-gujarat-no-casualty-912615.html
07-11-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to develop Hanuman’s birthplace Anjaneri||Close on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi performing bhoomipoojan of grand Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided to develop Anjaneri, the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. The Anjaneri hills nestled between Nashik and Trimbakeshwar is considered the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. Lot of pilgrims, trekkers and nature lovers visit Anjaneri. Anjana or Anjani is revered as the mother of Lord Hanuman – and thus, the name of the hill. The Nashik district is often referred to as the pilgrimage capital of Maharashtra as the Kumbh Mela is held there along the banks of Godavari river. Anjaneri is around 25 kms from Nashik and 7 kms from Trimbakeshwar. Thackeray’s son and state’s Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray announced that a detailed plan will be made. “Anjaneri in Nashik is the birth place of Lord Hanuman. We intend to not let the sanctity and purity of the place be altered with the ecology being disturbed or destroyed,” Aaditya said. “We also intend to make a detailed plan, to provide facilities to pilgrims and trekkers in a way that is in sync with the sanctity of the place, but not anything that will harm it,” he said. It needs to be mentioned that over the last few weeks, there have been protests against the Public Works Department’s move to construct a 14-km road through forest land to connect Anjaneri hill-top with Muley village. “The long proposed and discussed road will not happen as originally proposed thrice earlier,” assured Aaditya. He has also spoken to Nashik MP Hemand Godse so that there is a smooth execution. “The MVA government is committed to sustainable development. We discussed the sensitivity of the ecology of Anjaneri, for example, the “Ceropegia anjanerica” is a plant species found nowhere else in the world, than Anjaneri,” he said. “Only development that is eco friendly, sustainable and in sync with nature will be given a boost in the State. Reiterating the fact that the MVA government is committed to development that is sustainable and in sync with the best interests of the environment and the human race,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-develop-hanuman-s-birthplace-anjaneri-912617.html
07-11-2020||West||Bombay High Court reserves order on Arnab Goswami's interim bail plea, no immediate relief||The Bombay High Court on Saturday reserved its order on an interim bail plea of Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in abetment of suicide case, without giving him any immediate relief. After hearing arguments, a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they will pass the order at the earliest, without giving any date. "We will pass the order at the earliest. Pendency of this matter, however, does not preclude the accused persons from approaching the sessions court to seek regular bail," the court said. Goswami was arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over non-payment of dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-reserves-order-on-arnab-goswamis-interim-bail-plea-no-immediate-relief-912635.html
