09-11-2020||First Edit||Flip flop again by Karnataka government||A number of states, including Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Odisha, have banned the use of firecrackers ahead of the festival week, but unfortunately the Karnataka government has done a flip flop on the matter, as it has done on some other matters in the past. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced in the morning on Friday that the sale and bursting of firecrackers would be banned during Deepavali, but retracted the statement in the evening. He appealed to the people to burst only green crackers and to keep the celebrations simple and meaningful. Health Minister K Sudhakar had earlier said that the technical committee overseeing the fight against Covid-19 had recommended the ban as the smoke from crackers would have a negative impact on the health of people, especially those who have recovered from Covid-19.  The Covid situation in Karnataka is still bad, and the state has the second largest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra. Its cities, especially Bengaluru, has been a hotspot and the recent fall in the number of infections could be deceptive. There is no reason to relax the vigil against the pandemic. It is widely believed that the winter and the increase in air pollution will aid the spread of the pandemic. The bursting of crackers is a major cause of pollution, and even in normal years there were calls for a ban on them. The chief minister has said that the government has taken the necessary measures to control Covid-19, but it is doubtful if all the viruses in the state know about these steps. It is also not known whether they distinguish between green crackers and the more deadly ones and lie low when the more benign ones burst. The meaning that can be conveyed with the burst of crackers can only be of lack of concern for public health.   Bengaluru is not considered to be a good place for those who have respiratory problems and ailments. Covid-19 targets the respiratory system, and the pollution from cracker bursts could make people more vulnerable to the virus. Bengaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Davanagere are among the 122 non-attainment cities (cities that have fallen short of air quality standards for the last five years) listed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as very vulnerable to disease during the festival. The tribunal has issued notices to Karnataka and some other states on the matter and is set to issue its orders on Monday. Why did the government go back on its right decision? No festival is bigger than health, and if the government acted under pressure from any lobby or vested interests, it did not have the best interests of the people in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/flip-flop-again-by-karnataka-government-913172.html
09-11-2020||In Perspective||Demographic dividend and skilled society ||Skilling, upskilling and reskilling  to tackle the future, is what India’s demographic dividend requires to stop it from becoming a  challenge in itself. While the country’s foremost technical institutes – the IITs - have made a name for themselves globally, our ITIs (Industrial Training Institutes) need to acquire similar global recognition for producing skilled quality manpower. The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) and its flagship skill training initiative, the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY), which is claimed to have trained close to 73 lakh of the country’s youth, has a robust approach towards developing a skill eco system.  Importantly, its functional arm, the National Skill Development Corporation, set up as a Public-Private Partnership company, catalyses  the skills landscape through the 15,000-odd ITIs, funding skill initiatives and sustaining  38 industry-led Sector Skill Councils (SSC) in services, manufacturing, agriculture and allied services, and informal sectors.  There are 38 SSCs tasked with skilling on a large scale with speed and challenging targets. These are autonomous industry-led bodies that create standards, quality specifications,  develop competency frameworks, conduct Train the Trainer Programmes and skill gap studies, and assess and certify trainees by aligning them to pan-country curriculum and standards.  Consider one of them for clarity of understanding, the Infrastructure  Equipment Skill Council (IESC), set up to train over a million Operators and Mechanics in the next decade.  In the five years of its existence, however, it has been able to train around 48,000 trainees  through its 61 training centres and 500 certified trainers.   Mobilisation of potential trainees for undergoing training is a major issue for IESC.  Today’s youth is highly aspirational, everyone wants a career plan, preferably not in the field where infrastructure equipment is deployed. So how to get sufficient numbers of qualified youngsters?  The MSDE runs the ITIs and one solution is to make it mandatory for students to attend IESC training programmes so that they acquire the requisite skills and pursue careers in this segment if it interests them.  Training assignments Another way of making mobilisation aspirational is already being attempted by IESC by starting to undertake training assignments in West Asia. Trained and certified operators and mechanics are valued overseas and would result in overseas jobs and opportunities for India’s youth. Similarly, IESC is taking strides to equip women employees with these skill sets.  Several women employees have started attending operator and mechanic training programmes widening their career horizon and opening up new avenues for themselves.  Why do existing operators and mechanics need to undergo IESC  programmes in the first place?  Driving a car or even a two-wheeler requires a licence whereas anyone can climb into the cabin of an expensive infrastructure machine and operate state of art equipment with its accompanying risks (including third party risks) to life and property. The nodal ministry should mandate only qualified operators, and mechanics can work on these expensive machines making it an offence to work without a suitable licence.  Insurance companies stand to gain when expensive infrastructure machines are operated by certified and skilled operators. It is in their interest to ensure insurance policies are issued only when the machine is operated by certified operators similar to insurance coverage of motor vehicles only when the driver has a licence. Similarly, finance companies and banks that finance the equipment should offer concessional interest rate when the machines are operated by skilled and certified operators. Skilled operation will ensure longer life and durability of the infrastructure equipment in question.  It is proving difficult for IESC to grow their collection of training partners to carry out mandated training programmes. Most private training partner associates find the training model non-viable because of the earnings disbursed under the flagship PMKVY scheme which are too paltry. It does not even cover the cost of diesel incurred by the partner to provide the machines for operator training.   It is necessary to augment work being done by MSDE through innovative thinking, tweaking insurance and finance companies, adapting their policies, encouraging skill certification and upgradation, even making licensing mandatory for infrastructure equipment leaving H S Mohan, the current CEO of IESC, who has his task cut out, to focus on mass mobilisation with quality training and certification.  The balance SSCs too have to ensure skill development to become the backbone of each ambitious programme by similarly ensuring mass mobilisation and quality standards in their respective sectors. Other high-growth industries that lack training instructors and facilities, such as logistics, healthcare, construction and hospitality must be encouraged to have vocationally trained workforces.  Intertwined with the success of its youth, India’s demographic dividend must evolve into a skilled society where there is prosperity and dignity for all.   (The writer is a former Executive Director on the Board of BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/demographic-dividend-and-skilled-society-913174.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Efforts on to include Yakshagana in school curriculum||The Karnataka Yakshagana Academy is making an effort to include Yakshagana in school curriculum. The Academy is confident that the State government will issue an order in this regard shortly, said Yakshagana Academy President Prof M M Hegde. He was speaking at the Yakshasiri, Yakshagana Academy Gaurava Prashasthi and Pusthaka Bahumana distribution ceremony in Mangaluru on Sunday. "By including Yakshagana in school curriculum, an awareness will be created among children on Yakshagana. There is a need to constitute a textbook committee for the same. We had appealed to the minister to allow Yakshagana in the curriculum just like dance, music and Yoga. The minister had responded positively," he added. Documentation A workshop to document the tradition of Bannada Vesha of Thenkuthittu form of Yakshagana will be organised by the Academy at Kollangana on November 9. The Academy will give priority to the publication of Yakshagana-related works. Mayor Diwakar said there is a need to create awareness on Yakshagana among school and college students. DK Kannada Sahithya Parishat unit President Pradeep Kumar Kalkura and Tulu Sahithya Academy President Dayanand Kathalsar also spoke. Awardees Expert Dr Chandrashekar Damle was conferred with the 'Yakshagana Academy Gaurava Prashasthi' for 2019. While 'Yaksha Siri' annual awards were conferred on Kuriya Ganapathi Shasthri and Ubaradka Umesh Shetty. 'Pusthaka Bahumana' were conferred on Krishna Prakash Ulithaya and Yashvanth Vitla of Guru Deva Prakashana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/efforts-on-to-include-yakshagana-in-school-curriculum-913156.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||78 fresh covid-19 cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||Seventy-eight fresh covid-19 cases have been reported in Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday. A total of 98 recovered have been discharged from hospitals and from home isolation. DK has recorded one more fatality and total deaths have reached 688. In the last 24 hours, 95 cases have been booked for violating the rules on masks in rural areas (SP limits) and a sum of Rs 9,500 has been collected as fine, while in Mangaluru city, 15 cases have been booked and a sum of 1,075 has been collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/78-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-913157.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||42 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Udupi||A total of 42 people were infected with Covid-19 on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 40 have been recommended for home isolation and two have been hospitalised. A total of 1,487 swab samples were collected for testing on Sunday. The district has recorded a total of 22,203 cases so far. The district has 378 active cases undergoing treatment. Already, 21,639 have recovered and discharged from hospitals and home isolation. Out of fresh cases, 29 are from Udupi, 6 are from Kundapura and 7 are from Karkala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/42-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-udupi-913158.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Balepuni GP shows way in percolation, soak pits construction||Using funds under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Balepuni Gram Panchayat has taken up an initiative to dig rainwater percolation pits and soak pit construction work. Waste water management is a huge challenge in today’s world. Owing to lack of planning and infrastructure for waste management, leads to unhygienic conditions, giving rise to diseases and unhealthy situations. Realising it, District Sanitation ambassador Sheena Shetty, Jana Shikshana Trust motivated the gram panchayat to take up a drive to construct soak pits in the households. The drive has yielded good results and over 50 soak pits have been completed already. There are plans to construct 100 soak pits under the MGNREGS. Going by the progress, it may cross 100, said Sheena Shetty to DH. The soak pits constructed at household-level under the MGNREGS is helpful in solving waste water management issues, he added. The construction of pits aims at collection of waste water from the kitchen and bathrooms in a hygienic manner, thereby not letting it to flow down the roads and open public places. To facilitate the percolation of water, gravels and sand is also used in the soak pits. The cement ring or laterite stones are used for the construction. After the construction, work on channeling waste water into soak pits is taken up, said Shetty. In fact, Zilla Panchayat CEO R Selvamani too visited the site of construction of soak pit in Balepuni recently and lauded the efforts. Under the MGNREGS, Rs 7,000 for wages and Rs 7,000 for materials, are given for the construction of soak pits. House, owners possessing job cards under the MGNREGS, can also take up the work on their land and get paid for the work. To improve the ground water table, the Gram Panchayat has started works on rainwater percolation pits on 10-acres of land belonging to the Gram Panchayat. Already, 157 percolation pits have been dug by the job card holders, including women. The percolation pit is 5 feet long, 2 feet deep and 2 feet width. The job card holders get Rs 250 for digging each percolation pit, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/balepuni-gp-shows-way-in-percolation-soak-pits-construction-913159.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more held in murder case||The Konaje police arrested one more person in connection with the murder of Palliyabba at Ira Padavu. With this, the number of arrested has risen to five. The arrested is Althaf. Palliyabba went missing from October 29. His body was found buried after three days. Already, the police have arrested Hamza, Azaruddin, Ameer and Arfaz.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-held-in-murder-case-913160.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Unique start-up generates employment opportunities||This unique start-up is not only diverting some solid waste, which otherwise, would have gone to landfill, is also generating employment. Within eight months after its launch, city-based ‘Mangala Resource Management Private Limited (MRMPL),’ as many as 17 apartments have embraced the concept of ‘community composting’ to achieve the goal of zero wet waste to landfill. MRMPL Managing Director Dilraj Alva told DH that individual flat owners enrolling in “Our Waste, Our Responsibility Campaign,” are paying Rs 1,000 (refundable in the third year) and paying Rs five per day. In return, each flat will receive two free bins. “Every morning, the flat owner hands over the wet waste to the MRMPL staff and returns with another empty bin. The wet waste is turned into compost under the pot composting method,” informs Alva. Swami Ekagamyananda, convener of Ramakrishna Mission’s Swach Mangaluru campaign, says nearly 450 flats in 16 apartments are involved in converting tonnes of wet waste into some useful compost. Nearly 65 apartments have contacted MRMPL with a desire to be involved in community composting. “If all 30,000 flat owners in 1,500 apartments join the community composting campaign, the garbage being dumped in Pachhanaday dumping yard will be reduced by 30 to 40 tonnes and more youth will be gainfully employed,” he says. Many apartment associations would join the campaign only if the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) acts tough against them (bulk waste generators), informs Alva. The MRMPL, undeterred by the roadblocks, has initiated a pilot project of collecting dry waste also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unique-start-up-generates-employment-opportunities-913162.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Public meets against farm laws in Karnataka||To save the tradition of Indian farming system and to oppose tweaking of labour laws and the contentious farm laws, jathas and public meetings will be held across Dakshina Kannada from November 18 to 23, said Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene state secretary Ravikiran Punacha. The three contentious Farm Acts will be opposed. To create awareness on the Acts, an awareness programme will be inaugurated at Kallugundi in Sullia on November 18. Former MLC Anna Vinayachandra will inaugurate the programme. A vehicle jatha will be held in all the Assembly constituencies in the district. Public meetings will be held at 23 places. The valedictory will be held at Town Hall in Mangaluru on November 23 at 10 am. High Court retired judge H N Nagamohandas will inaugurate. Prior to the valedictory, a jatha will be held from Ambedkar Circle to the Town Hall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/public-meets-against-farm-laws-in-karnataka-913163.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodi, Idya beaches to be developed for Blue Flag certification||Soon after getting the Blue Flag certification for the Padubidri beach, it is likely that the Kodi beach in Kundapura too will get the certification shortly. The Union government has now come forward to adopt three more beaches in the coastal districts for development. Under sea shore cleanliness programme of the Union government, Kodi in Kundapura, Idya in Surathkal and Gokarna beach in Uttara Kannada have been selected. The Environmental Management and Policy Research Institute (EMPRI), that works under the department of Ecology and Environment has been entrusted with the responsibility of cleaning the beaches. The government wants these three beaches to get Blue flag certification under second phase. As a prelude to it, the Centre has sanctioned money for cleanliness and maintenance of these beaches. Two staffers have been deployed to these beaches for cleanliness and maintenance. The deployed staff have to create awareness on maintaining cleanliness on the sea shore among the tourists and public, along with keeping the beach clean. Further, they have to give priority for greenery in the surrounding areas.   Dr Y K Dinesh, Regional Director department of Environment, said: “For the first six months beaches will be maintained by the Forest and Environment department. When the beaches are on the verge of getting selected for the Blue Flag notification, both Centre and the State governments will release funds for its development. The beaches will be developed on a par with international standards.” Already, preparations for beach adoption has been finalised. In the second phase of the Blue Flag recognition, five beaches — Idya in Surathkal, Tannirbhavi, Kodi in Kundapura, Bailur in Murdeshwara and Karwar beaches have been listed for the Blue Flag recognition. Recommendations have already been sent to the Union government. Tenders will be floated for the development of these beaches, Dr Dinesh added. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said the district administration is striving for the Blue Flag recognition for all the beaches in Udupi district. The Blue Flag recognition helps in the comprehensive development of the beaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodi-idya-beaches-to-be-developed-for-blue-flag-certification-913166.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Treat transgenders equally: Naveen Bhat||Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Naveen Bhat said that there is a need to create awareness among people on treating transgenders equally. Speaking after inaugurating the district-level legal awareness workshop for gender minorities, the CEO said that ill-treatment towards gender minorities has led to several problems. Transgenders should be treated with respect and dignity. All are equal before the law and minorities should be assured of legal facilities entitled for all. He stressed that the housing scheme facilities should be also available, since only five among the transgenders are given houses. The CEO said henceforth the benefits of the scheme will be offered on priority, to the community people. Resource person and member of the district Juvenile Justice Board, Amritakala said there are 85 gender minorities in the district and only a few of them have been registered. Gender minorities are treated equally before law and they enjoy all legal rights including voting rights. The legal services authority is available for them to help in case they are traumatised. District Women and Child Welfare department inspector Chandrika elaborated about the Maitri scheme, training for self-employment, education facilities, among others. The department has several programmes to bring transgenders to the mainstream. Financial assistance for self-dependency is also assured, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/treat-transgenders-equally-naveen-bhat-913168.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Solar lighting system installed||With the help of donors, a solar home lighting system worth Rs 12,000 was installed in the house of a differently-abled senior citizen, Joseph Telis, at Kukkudakatte in Balepuni Gram Panchayat. The solar lighting system was installed under Solar Grama Abhiyana initiated by Jana Shikshana Trust, Selco Foundation and Balepuni Gram panchayat. Mudipu Church Priest Fr Cyril Lobo inaugurated the system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/solar-lighting-system-installed-913169.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Alumni donate solar unit for school||The alumni of St Aloysius High School have donated 30 kW capacity solar unit to their alma mater. The solar unit was inaugurated by St Aloysius Group of Institutions Rector Rev Fr Melwyn Pinto. The students of 1974 batch have donated the solar unit to the school. It was an alumnus of 1974 batch, Clarence Pereira, who brought all the students together and donated something memorable for their alma mater. Headmaster Gerald Furtado was present. The alumni have informed the school that they will plan on providing scholarships to poor students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alumni-donate-solar-unit-for-school-913170.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Pachanady disaster a wake-up call for responsible SWM: Akshy Sridhar||If citizens invest little effort in segregating waste at source and turning wet waste into organic manure, crores of rupees spent on solid waste management can be diverted for development works, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Akshy Sridhar stressed on Saturday. He was addressing the flat owners after inaugurating Mangala Resource Management Private Limited’s unique biocomposting waste model at Inland Eon Apartment in Matadakani. The commissioner said that the MCC was spending about Rs 16 crore to remove waste in landfill areas. The MCC is again spending crores for collecting over 300 tonnes of solid waste from the Pachanady dumping yard. “After the massive garbage slide at Pachanady, the MCC is now disbursing compensation to the tune of Rs 22 crore to the victims, on the directions of the High Court,” he said. The MCC also could not apply for ranking under the Swachh Bharat Mission due to the Pachanady incident. If public co-operated with the MCC, crores of rupees spent on garbage, which is again taxpayers’ money, could be utilised for the development works in Mangaluru. Pachanady disaster is a wake-up call on the need to shift to responsible management of solid waste, he said, and added that instead of enforcement he was in favour of appealing to public on managing their wet waste. Swamy Ekagamyanandaji of Ramakrishna Mission said the unique model was being implemented for a modest fee in the 17th apartment. Thus, nearly 450 flat owners in 16 apartments are turning their waste into compost. “There are over 1,500 apartments in MCC limits. If each household were to turn one kg of wet waste into compost, the total garbage being dumped in Pachhanady would dip by nearly 30 to 40 tonnes. Just as we wash own clothes, we should learn to manage our waste too,” he stressed and urged the MCC to ensure that bulk waste generators adopt such unique compost models. Local corporator Sandhya Acharya said she was turning her waste into compost at her flat. Inland Eon Apartment Owners’ Association president Krishnadas Prabhu revealed that from January, they were keen on turning the waste generated in their apartment into compost. But Covid-19 pandemic was delaying the implementation of the unique model. He appealed to other apartment associations to implement the model and make Mangaluru, a role model to all cities across India. Mangala Resource Management Private Limited Managing Director Dilraj Alva was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pachanady-disaster-a-wake-up-call-for-responsible-swm-akshy-sridhar-913171.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||M M Hill temple gets FSSAI license to prepare laddus||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), offered food license to laddus and other prasada prepared at Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple, a popular pilgrim centre in the district. The Male Mahadeshwara Hill Temple Development Authority had applied seeking license from FSSAI six months ago. FSSAI is the legal authority to offer food licenses. Authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy said that with the FSSAI issuing certificate, all food safety measures and quality standards will be followed at every stage, from preparation to distribution. The authority will follow all guidelines, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/m-m-hill-temple-gets-fssai-license-to-prepare-laddus-913332.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||D H Shankarmurthy requests PM Modi to confer Bharat Ratna on L K Advani||Former legislative council chairman D H Shankarmurthy has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to accord Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian award, on L K Advani. In the letter, he said, Lal Krishna Advani has been in public life for the past seven decades. His service, sacrifice, and contribution to the cause of motherland through the RSS, Bharatiya Janata Sangh, and the BJP is phenomenal. "Impeccably clean and honest in his personal and public life, a leader with utmost credibility, and a man with abundant knowledge and experience on national and international affairs, Advani is one such person of whom every one of us feels proud," he said. The senior BJP leader also said, it is the ardent desire of thousands of party workers in particular and people in general that Advani should be conferred with Bharat Ratna. "I, on the behalf of thousands of party workers in Karnataka, request you to kindly confer Bharat Ratna on Advani," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/d-h-shankarmurthy-requests-pm-modi-to-confer-bharat-ratna-on-l-k-advani-913490.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Plans to shift Sandalwood Musuem to Mysuru Palace||The Sandalwood Museum at Aranya Bhavan in Ashokapuram of Mysuru, is likely to be shifted to Mysuru Palace premises, for better reach to tourists. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, who visited the museum, at Aranya Bhavan, Forest office, said, "It is planned to shift the museum to Mysuru Palace where thousands of people visit every day." The minister said that he held a discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on inauguration of the museum at Aranya Bhavan. "The CM has agreed to inaugurate the museum during his visit to Mysuru on November 24 or 25. The space reserved for the museum at Aranya Bhavan is small. Thus, we plan to shift it to the Palace premises. It will help both the Forest department as well as tourists," he said. "The tourists can enjoy the museum along with the Palace and the Forest department can generate more revenue. I will discuss the matter with Forest Minister Anand Singh and Chief Secretary over shifting of the museum. The authorities concerned can discuss the issue with the Palace Board authorities, seeking space," Somashekar said. "The museum aims to encourage farmers to cultivate sandalwood. The farmers as well as the general public can get extensive knowledge and information about cultivation, market and benefits of sandalwood. Sandalwood has great demand and farmers can earn good income," he said. Earlier, the minister held a discussion with the Forest department officials and asked them to take measures to create awareness about sandalwood cultivation. The officials explained about the benefits and measures taken to promote sandalwood. The minister inspected the sandalwood logs, stored in the Forest office. Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H V Rajeev, Additional Principal Chief Conservator Jagat Ram, Deputy Conservators of Forest K C Prashanth and M G Alexander were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plans-to-shift-sandalwood-musuem-to-mysuru-palace-913514.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Urgent need for state-of-the-art hospital in Hanur||The demand for a full-fledged hospital in Hanur town, is increasing, especially after 40 people sustained injuries, when a mini lorry toppled in the taluk recently. They had to be shifted to Kollegal and Mysuru, for treatment. Even after three years of getting taluk status, Hanur is yet to get a hospital and other basic infrastructure. Netizens have began a debate on the social media, alleging lack of will, by elected representatives and the officials. There is a primary health centre, which has a labour ward and an outpatient department. The '24-hour service' mention on the board has no meaning, the PHC closes by 8 pm, said residents. According to the government's guidelines, there should be a 100-bed hospital at all taluk headquarters. But, even after three years, no step is taken to even upgrade the existing PHC. The population of Hanur, which was 11,000 as per 2011 Census, may have exceeded 15,000. But, the people still depend on Kollegal, Chamarajanagar or Mysuru for medical services. After Sulwadi temple poison case on December 14, 2018, there was a demand for a hospital in Hanur town. There were debates and protests, but, no initiative is taken so far. Hundreds of people visit Male Mahadeshwara Hills, Hogenakkal falls, Chikkallur and others tourist destinations in Hanur taluk. In case of a medical emergency precious lives can be saved with timely treatment in the vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/urgent-need-for-state-of-the-art-hospital-in-hanur-913516.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||AIMS conducts record Covid-19 tests||The authorities of the Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), BG Nagara, Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district, claim that the institution has conducted a record number of Covid-19 tests, among private hospitals in the state. In a communication released by AIMS principal Dr M G Shivaramu, the institution has conducted over 51,000 tests. “AIMS has conducted the highest number of tests among private institutions,” he stated. The institution has also treated Covid-19 patients and special arrangements were made to care for the patients. The institution has a facility of 150 oxygenated beds and ICU. Thousands of patients have successfully recovered and were discharged from the hospital. The hospital has served patients from Bengaluru, Mandya, Hassan, Tumakuru and other districts. The institution has established a lab as per the guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The lab obtained approval from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aims-conducts-record-covid-19-tests-913517.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||M M Hill temple prasada gets FSSAI licence||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued food licence for laddus and other prasada, prepared at Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple, Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district. M M Hill Development Authority had applied for the licence six months ago.  Authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy said, “With FSSAI issuing the license, all food safety measures and quality standards will be followed at all stages, from preparation to distribution.” Laddu price up Meanwhile, the authority has increased the price of laddus by Rs 5 per piece, from November 8. Each laddu, weighing 100 gm, was sold at Rs 20. Now, it costs Rs 25. The decision to increase the price was taken to balance the production cost.  According to the authority, the laddu price was increased after seeking permission from District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/m-m-hill-temple-prasada-gets-fssai-licence-913526.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Betting goes online at Mysore Race Course||In a first-of-its-kind in the country, the Mysore Race Course (MRC) has launched an online platform for horse race betting. However, the participants must be from Karnataka only.  MRC president Dr N Nityananda Rao said that while registering online, the participants should provide their Aadhar number and bank details.  Winter season horse race will commence on November 11 and it will have online betting, he added. The clubs in Mysuru, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata have obtained permission for online betting. Among them, MRC is the first to implement the online system. Visit: www.betmysore.com/ www.turfwinners.com / www.mysoreraceclub.com||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/betting-goes-online-at-mysore-race-course-913528.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Speed of trains on seven railway sections to go up||Trains can run at higher speeds of up to 110 kmph on seven sections of South Western Railway, thanks to the consistent push for tack renewal, increase of super elevation at curves and other works. The seven sections are: 177 km-track between Baiyappanahalli and Dharmavaram; Penukonda-Sri Sathya Sai Prashanthi Nilayam-Dharmavaram (53 km); KSR Bengaluru-Jolarpettai double line (281 km); Yeshwantpur-Tumakuru double line (128 km), Birur-Chikjajur (68 km) as well as the recently approved Londa-Miraj (186 km) and Sanvordem-Vasco (19 km).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/speed-of-trains-on-seven-railway-sections-to-go-up-913530.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Temple on govt land: HC converts plea into suo motu PIL||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday converted a petition alleging encroachment of forest land by a temple authority into a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL). The court said that the petitioner cannot be allowed to continue as a pro bono litigant since he insists that he would continue to visit the temple, which according to him is on government land. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed by A Velumurugan, a resident of MC Halli in Tarikere taluk. The petitioner had claimed that Shiva Subramanya Swamy temple at Bhadragiri in Tarikere taluk, Chikkamagaluru district, and other buildings are on government and forest land. In the previous hearing, the court had asked the petitioner to make a choice and tell the court whether he still wants to continue his visits to the temple. The petition stated that the temple generates an annual income of Rs 65 lakh. The temple administration encroached upon the forest land to the extent of around 20 acres and built several structures, the petitioner had contended. In his affidavit, Velumurugan said the temple was built around 50 years ago and it was only recently that he came to know that it was on government land. On verification, he said that he also found that other buildings, such as food choultry, wedding hall and guest houses, were built encroaching upon the forestland. Velumurugan further said that his family have been devotees of the temple. He said his religious faith would not come in the way of submitting grievances regarding the mismanagement of the temple. The bench, after going through the affidavit, said the petitioner cannot be allowed to continue as a pro bono litigant and converted the petition into a suo motu PIL. The bench also granted time to the state government to comply with the direction issued by the court. The court had directed the government to initiate immediate action in accordance with law based on a report submitted by the tahsildar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temple-on-govt-land-hc-converts-plea-into-suo-motu-pil-913535.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Former MLA Rathan Kumar Kattemar passes away||Moodbidri former MLA Rathan Kumar Kattemar passed away on Sunday. He was 82. He was MLA from Moodbidri constituency in 1967 and had contested from Swathantra Paksha. He had contested from Surathkal constituency later and lost in the election. Condoling the death of former MLA, Swastishri Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Pandithacharyavarya of Jain Mutt, Moodbidri said, "Kattemar was the voice of poor. He had given shelter to several poor students in his house at Mangaluru and helped them to continue their studies. Let the family get strength to bear the loss."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-mla-rathan-kumar-kattemar-passes-away-913161.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka politics: Cabinet aspirants head to Delhi||With Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa looking to expand his Cabinet, BJP MLCs A H Vishwanath and R Shankar are said to have travelled to Delhi to secure their Cabinet berths. They were among the 17 MLAs who had switched from the Congress-JD(S) coalition government to the BJP after being apparently assured of a Cabinet berth. The two, along with MLC M T B Nagaraj and RR Nagar BJP candidate Muniratna, are yet to be inducted into the Cabinet. Following Yediyurappa's announcement that Cabinet expansion will take place after by-poll results are announced on November 10, several aspirants are making efforts to be part of the Cabinet. The disgruntlement within the party had spilled out in the open in August this year. Vishwanath and Nagaraj had lost in the 2019 bypolls, while Shankar was denied ticket from Ranebennur. All the three were subsequently nominated as MLCs by the Yediyurappa administration. If Yediyurappa has his way, Shankar, Nagaraj and Muniratna will make it to the Cabinet. Sources said that there have been reservations over the induction of Vishwanath, as he had contested the bypolls in 2019 going against the advice of the BJP leadership. He is learnt to have travelled to Kolkata from Delhi. The list of aspirants vying for Cabinet berths include eight-time legislator Umesh Katti, MLAs Murugesh Nirani and Raju Gowda, MLC C P Yogeeshwar among others. Meanwhile, the governor accepted the resignation of Kannada and Culture minister C T Ravi, which was notified by the government late on Friday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-politics-cabinet-aspirants-head-to-delhi-913183.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM will be changed after Bihar poll results: Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday reiterated his claims that the ruling BJP will change its Chief Minister in Karnataka after the Bihar assembly poll results are out on November 10. The statement has come days after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had rubbished similar claims by Siddaramaiah terming it "irresponsible" and had even said the latter will be removed as leader of opposition by the Congress, following the party's defeat in bypolls to two assembly segments in the state. "I have information that after Bihar election results on November 10, there will be a change. Talks have been going on for long- to change," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters in Shivamogga, he said there are two to three factions in BJP and talks are on for the last six months to change. "The information that I have is that the central leadership is also eager to change as there is rampant corruption in this government," he added. Siddaramaiah had earlier too said that Yediyurappa will be removed as the CM after the bypoll results on November 10, and had based this claim on information from sources in Delhi. Despite state BJP denying it, speculations about a possible change in leadership in the future, considering Yediyurappas age (77 years), refuses to die down, with some within the party like MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements. Not giving much credence to exit polls predicting victory for BJP in both Sira and R R Nagar assembly segments for which byelections were held on November 3, Siddaramaiah said while the ruling party campaigned by distributing money, his party had gone to the people and hence was confident of winning both seats. "Exit polls have said that BJP will win both seats, I'm not sure on what basis they (pollsters) have said it. I had personally campaigned four days each in both constituencies. In my opinion, the liking of the people was towards Congress. I'm confident that we will win both seats," he said. Exit polls have indicated that BJP will sweep RR Nagar, Sira bypolls. He, however, said exit polls predicting RJD led Mahagathbandhan winning Bihar polls was on expected lines, as people there wanted to change, there was a strong anti-incumbency against Nitish Kumar led NDA government with unemployed youth and migrant labourers not happy with the current administration. Siddaramaiah also hit out at the BJP government for the arrest of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni by CBI in a murder case, terming it 'politically motivated', and alleged that Union Minister Pralhad Joshi's pressure led to the arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-will-be-changed-after-bihar-poll-results-siddaramaiah-913199.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||BSY is foster son of corporate companies: Raitha Sangha President||Rajya Raitha Sangha President Badagalapura Nagendra criticised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, calling him the 'foster son' of corporate companies. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he asked people not to call Yediyurappa, who took charge as chief minister in the name of farmers as the son of a farmer, as he is meting out injustice to farming community. "Yediyurappa, who climbed the ladder through his struggle for farming community, has changed his stand now. The government has passed legislations against farmers, Dalits and workers through ordinances. Farmers association condemns such legislations. State core committee meeting will be held in Dharwad on November 11. The next course of action will be decided there," he said. He also urged the Centre to release grants to the state government to tackle the post-drought and post-flood situation. It must provide compensation to farmers who have lost their crops due to flood and drought. It must announce a special package of Rs 1 lakh crore to the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is releasing grants to many states even when they have not sought any aid. But he is turning blind eye to Karnataka, the farmer leader alleged. He also demanded the government to set up paddy and maize procurement centres and sugar factories clear the pending dues to the growers, and demanded that it must fix a price of Rs 4,500 per tonne of sugarcane. He also demanded the Centre not to implement Kasturirangan panel report on Western Ghats as it would enhance problems of tribal people and farmers of malnad region. Acacia trees must not be grown in MPM plantations. The government must take back forest land leased to MPM.  Rajya Raitha Sangha Honorary President Chamarasa Mali Patil, General Secretary Nulenuru Shankarappa and others were present in the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-is-foster-son-of-corporate-companies-raitha-sangha-president-913408.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP will be in trouble if party high command tries to dethrone BSY: Renuka Veerasomeshwara Swamiji||Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka will be in trouble if the party high command embarks on dethroning Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, warned Rambhapuri Peeta pontiff Renuka Veerasomeshwara Swamiji. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, the seer said that the party had to suffer a lot as a similar attempt was made earlier. "There are talks in the party circle on the imminent change of the Chief Minister as he is 78-year-old. Yediyurappa is very enthusiastic at this age. He is making a sincere effort to solve the problems of the people by touring the state even now. He has earned the confidence of all classes and communities. Even opposition parties know about the working style and effort of Yediyurappa," he told. Stating that Rambhapuri Peeta would not like to speak on politics, the seer said that the BJP is in power both in state and at the Centre. "Yediyurappa has built the BJP from the grassroot level. The party high command will definitely allow the Chief Minister to complete the remaining term," the pontiff stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-will-be-in-trouble-if-party-high-command-tries-to-dethrone-bsy-renuka-veerasomeshwara-swamiji-913519.html
09-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress protests handing over Mangalore International Airport to Adani Group||Members of the District Congress Committee staged a protest against the privatisation of airports and handing over of Mangalore International Airport (MIA) to Adani Group on Monday. The protesters shouted slogans against the BJP-led Central government. Former minister B Ramanath Rai addressing the protesters said U S Mallya was instrumental in ensuring that Mangaluru had an airport. It is an injustice to the coastal district, that an airport set up by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and parliamentarian U S Mallya was privatised. "Modi government is following anti-people policy,” charged Rai. Former MLA J R Lobo said that the name of Mangalore Airport too was renamed after it was handed over to Adani. Modi government had already merged banks that took their birth in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district and erased names of the founders of the banks. He appealed to people not to get carried away by the emotional statements issued by BJP leaders. "Think practically, the BJP government has not done anything for the development of the district," he said. Youth Congress President Mithun Rai said, “BJP has no concern for the district and is supporting capitalists by privatising PSUs. The airport should be named after prominent leaders of Dakshina Kannada district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-protests-handing-over-mangalore-international-airport-to-adani-group-913524.html
09-11-2020||Main Article||Exposing weak foundations||When Covid-19 started its march across the world in February and March of this year, it was immediately obvious that this would be a two-front battle. First, the spread of the aggressive virus had to be checked lest it decimated the most vulnerable of our people. Secondly, we had to minimise the economic shock that would inevitably result from social and physical distancing measures that were required to fight the virus.  In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose signature style is effecting drastic changes, announced a crushing lockdown giving people a window of just four hours to get their affairs in order. This was accompanied by multiple statements from various quarters of government that were plainly unscientific.  Similar scenes were seen in America too where President Donald Trump continues to deny the pandemic and defy health experts, and in the UK, a number of policy flip flops have reduced the pandemic response to a partisan political issue. No surprise then that these countries that vacillated in their approach to the pandemic have been amongst the worst hit. It is also not coincidental that the heads of government in these countries pay little or no attention to the rigours of governance.  Coming back to India, what unfolded was not merely the economic shock that had been predicted. The shoddy decision-making resulted in a humanitarian tragedy involving migrant workers stranded in cities without any support from the government or their employers.  The only way to make good of the lockdown was to ensure that our public health infrastructure was ramped up fast. A ‘test and isolate’ protocol was required to ensure that hotspots are identified and local containment measures put in place. Nearly 80 lakh confirmed cases later, we know that none of this was done.  The lockdown was enforced first through lathi-wielding policemen, once again reinforcing that the government’s first recourse in the face of a behavioural challenge is the use of brute coercive force. In truth, this is not enforcement, this is merely a reflection of poor capacity.  Next, much of the messaging around the pandemic emanating from the Prime Minister himself was self-congratulatory and simply bereft of substance – something that continues to this day. Following a tested political communication strategy of grand announcements may have insulated the Prime Minister from criticism, but it did little to provide any confidence to the people that they could trust the government.  The pandemic is just the latest instance in a long history of events that has challenged our implementation capacity. Our governments are under constant pressure to improve the quality of service delivery in a wide range of sectors. Where the government continues as the primary provider, the demands on its institutional capacity and on the quality and number of frontline workers is high.  These resource constraints are real as over-burdened and under-resourced bureaucrats are unable to carry out simple daily tasks. The local education officer, responsible for monitoring schools on his beat, is unable to do so simply because he has no fuel for his motor bike. The village health worker (or ASHA) is responsible for a wide range of tasks starting from collection and recording of administrative data to nutrition to ante-natal and post-natal care.  It is anybody’s guess how a government that is short of human resources – in both quantity and quality – is supposed to implement policies effectively. The Financial Times reports that India has only one government doctor for every 10,189 people (about 10 times worse than the World Health Organisation’s recommended ratio), and needs an additional 1.9 crore health workers in its clinics and hospitals. India’s police forces are about 10 lakh personnel short of the sanctioned strength.  These problems cannot be fixed overnight, and certainly not by a government that has focused its energies on consolidating power through communal polarisation. This is also the reason the government believes that people must be kept distracted from the real issues of the day. With the limited administrative capability devoted to this kind of obfuscation, when the government claims that it does not have data on migrants who took to the roads or on the numbers of jobs lost and enterprises destroyed, there is little surprise.  The pandemic has once again exposed our core weaknesses – poor administrative capacity means that any such crisis will turn out to be insurmountable for us as a country. The economic downturn over the past two years, accelerated in 2020, should have provoked serious introspection on economic policy and Centre-state relationship. Instead, this too has been turned into an opportunity to ram through poor legislation and protectionist economic policy.  It is important to take a moment though and ask if the government really cares about all this. As the Covid-19 crisis has unfolded, the government has kept busy stirring the communal pot as well as throwing at people, one distraction tactic after another. As we stay engrossed in inconsequential Bollywood gossip, we are becoming poorer as a nation, and both brains and capital are looking for exit options. The foreign investment that we supposedly are seeking will not be attracted to a land where ‘rule of law’ does not exist and where crony capitalism rules the roost.  The ruling establishment has continued its war against students, activists, NGOs and professional expertise in general. It sees autonomous institutions and professional bureaucracy as a hindrance to its quest for complete political dominance, and is too busy to take notice of this crisis. Perhaps these questions of governance and development are meaningless, as we are currently striding along towards the goal of becoming a Hindu rashtra, so what if we are turned into an impoverished wasteland in the process? (The writer works on governance projects in South Asia and East Africa)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/exposing-weak-foundations-913175.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Encroachment clearance drive in Mandya; petty shops razed||In an early morning operation, the City Municipal Council employees began an encroachment clearance drive and razed petty shops thus reclaiming government land in the city on Sunday. Many people were found occupying the vacant places on the narrow roads by setting up petty shops. A petty shop on a narrow road between two buildings was cleared and the CMC reclaimed the 20 square feet area in Ashok Nagar. According to the authorities, the CMC had reserved kept the narrow space for the civic workers to use it for cleaning purpose. However, it was occupies for several years. Following a complaint, the local body found tht the space was rented out also. The encroachment was cleared in the presence of police personnel. Municipal Commissioner S Lokesh said that some people had encroached upon the government property setting up shops, on VV Road, Ashok Nagar 1st, 2nd and 3rd cross, and several other places. Some have been running petty shops, eatery among other businesses.  The public should voluntarily clear the encroached places and cooperate with the authorities, he added. Meanwhile, the traders on the VV Road said that the encroachment clearance drive should not be restricted to petty shops only. They alleged that houses had been constructed by encroaching on the government land and the CMC should clear such encroachments also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/encroachment-clearance-drive-in-mandya-petty-shops-razed-913180.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Devotees disappointed as entry into Hasanamba temple restricted||Hundreds of people are visiting Hasanamba temple, in Hassan city, every day, with the hope that they may get an opportunity to enter and have darshan of the deity. But, they are returning disappointed as the district administration has prohibited devotees from entering the temple this year, in the wake of Covid 19. There was a huge rush to enter the temple on the first day (November 5), when the temple was opened for the annual festival. The temple will remain open till November 16. However, except invitees and dignitaries, there was no entry for others. A section of the people have been complaining that the ordinary people too should be allowed to have darshan and fulfill their vows. Letters to deity The devotees also used to write letters to the deity, seeking divine intervention to solve their problems. Last year, around 150 letters were found in the offering box. Some of them included seeking medical seat for daughter, solve problems faced by the sister, reduce father’s anger, release lover in the jail, own site, new house and many more. Hundreds of devotees from various places visited the temple on Sunday too, but had to return disappointed. Many were seen offering prayers in front of the LED screens and offering money at the boxes in front of the temple and fulfilling their vow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/devotees-disappointed-as-entry-into-hasanamba-temple-restricted-913184.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Amendments to APMC, Land Reforms Act boon for farmers: S T Somashekar||District in-charge and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said that the state government is committed for the welfare of the farmers and the amendments to Land Reforms and APMC Act are a boon to the farming community. Addressing party workers at a meeting ahead of Gram Panchayat elections, at Bettadapura, in Periyapatna taluk of Mysuru district, on Sunday, he said, with the amendment to APMC Act, the farmers can sell their goods anywhere they want. Explaining the Land Reforms Act, Somashekar said, the government will never ask the farmers to sell the fertile land. The barren land will be identified to establish industries. This would help in generating jobs for the youths. He blamed the opposition parties for misleading the farmers about the amendments to the Acts. He asked the party workers to strengthen the party in the region ahead of gram panchayat elections. The workers have to work with 100% dedication to ensure the party candidates win majority of seats, he said. BJP district unit president Mangala Somashekar, taluk unit president Prakash Baburao, former minister C H Vijayashankar and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/amendments-to-apmc-land-reforms-act-boon-for-farmers-s-t-somashekar-913186.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Police impose Rs 1.90L fine for not wearing masks||The city police have collected Rs 1.90 lakh as fine from 1,024 persons for not wearing face mask. The drive was conducted on Saturday. The city police are strictly enforcing the mask rule to prevent violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The Siddartha traffic police collected highest amount of fine (Rs 19,800) in 84 cases followed by Udayagiri police (Rs 15,500), Devaraja traffic police, Devaraja police and Lashkar police (all Rs 13,250), VV Puram, Nazarbad, Alanahalli and Lakshmipuram police have collected Rs 10,000 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/police-impose-rs-190l-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-913188.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Celebrate Deepavali by lighting diyas: AIISH Director||With Deepavali just a few days away, All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru, Director M Pushpavathi urged the people to shun crackers and celebrate the festival safely by lighting diyas. Participating in the phone-in programme organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani, here, on Sunday, she said bursting crackers will not only affect the environment but will also have serious effect on the health of the people, especially during the Covid time.  “The festival must be celebrated by lighting oil lamps rather than bursting crackers. Air pollution will pose a threat to humans in the long run”, she said. Pushpavathi said, the smoke from the crackers may pose threat to the Covid patients and also on those who have recovered. It may lead to several health issues in the long run. The Director welcomed the government’s decision of allowing the sale of only ‘green crackers’. “I thank Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on behalf of AIISH for his decision on cracker sale,” she said. Assistant Professor of Audiology Dr K Sriraj said, there should be at least four metres of distance between the fireworks and the person lighting the cracker. As per the norms, fireworks must not produce sound more than 125 decibels but, most fireworks emit 140 decibels, which would affect the ears, he said. High decibel crackers may damage sensitive parts of the ear, like ear drum, slender bones, and cells. They may also cause a permanent hearing loss, he said. Thus, it is best to stay away from crackers, he suggested. The Director also warned against extensive honking by the riders. Majority of the vehicle users use horn unnecessarily. The Police must take measures to control unnecessary honking, he said. Sriraj also urged the Police to take legal action against shrill horn and altered silencers, which produces harsh sound causing noise pollution.   Ear phones Pushpavathi also suggested people not to use low quality ear phones as it may affect the ears. As sound exceeding 85 decibel leads to problem in ears, she suggested not to listen to music with above 60% volume level and suggested to use ear muffs or plugs. Professor Dr Animesh Burman was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/celebrate-deepavali-by-lighting-diyas-aiish-director-913189.html
09-11-2020||Mysuru||Engaged couple drowns as photo shoot goes wrong in Mysuru||A young couple drowned as the coracle in which they were sitting, capsized, during a pre-wedding photo shoot, in River Cauvery, at Mudukuthore, Mysuru district, on Monday. The deceased are Shashikala (20) and Chandru (30). Residents of Kyathamaranahalli in Mysuru, they got engaged last week. The wedding was scheduled for November 22. According to sources, Shashikala and Chandru, along with a photographer and two relatives, visited Mudukuthore for the photo shoot, which went awry. They were sitting on a small coracle, along with a fisherman. The coracle moved a little distance and the couple came close, posing for the photographer when it capsized due to imbalance. "While the fisherman swam to safety, the couple fell into the river and drowned," said police. Fire and Emergency personnel retrieved the bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/engaged-couple-drowns-as-photo-shoot-goes-wrong-in-mysuru-913472.html
09-11-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on November 9||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 85 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 85,88,487 as of November 9 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,27,005  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 79,38,535 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-november-9-913210.html
09-11-2020||National||Delhi air quality in 'severe' category for 5th straight day||The national capital's air quality remained “severe” for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, with calm wind speed exacerbating the effect of stubble burning. The city's air quality index (AQI) stood at 469 at 9 am. Its 24-hour average AQI was 416 on Sunday, 427 on Saturday, 406 on Friday and 450 on Thursday, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 458. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (462), Ghaziabad (483), Noida (476), Greater Noida (482), and Gurugram (475) also recorded “severe” air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 575 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 637 µg/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores.  The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – were 366 µg/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe.  According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed was 3 to 4 kilometres per hour in the morning and the minimum temperature 10 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said a “significant improvement in air quality is not likely” owing to slow wind speed, particularly during night time, and contribution from farm fires.  “The farm fire count over Punjab remains very high which is likely to impact the air quality of Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India,” it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said surface winds have become calm and are predicted to remain so for the next two days. “This is a major factor due to which no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place,” it said. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 29 percent on Sunday. It was 42 per cent on Thursday, the maximum this season so far. Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi's pollution had peaked to 44 percent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.  Delhi: National capital continues to reel under pollution. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-air-quality-in-severe-category-for-5th-straight-day-913237.html
09-11-2020||National||Prison staff may soon start donning body-worn cameras||Prison staff may soon start donning body-worn cameras (BWCs) to record their interactions with jail inmates for "transparency, accountability, security and protection of human rights". The government-police think-tank -- Bureau of Police Research and Development -- has now suggested that the states start the implementation of BWCs scheme in a phased manner and published a model Model Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on its implementation. Currently, BWCs are being used in the country mainly by the traffic personnel and law and order police to counter allegations of police high-handedness. "It is recommended that state correctional institutions can start implementation of BWCs scheme in a phased manner, carefully choosing pilot sites, where randomized controlled trials can be conducted on the benefits of BWC implementation," the BPRD has said in a five-page note. Usage of the BWCs will provide evidence/footage as an "additional tool" to the correctional institutions in order to help secure the correctional staff and inmates and protect their human rights as well, the note said. As such, it said, the pilot roll-out may be monitored and evaluated to study the benefits of the BWCs. This will help to set the standards for all other correctional institutions where similar schemes may be implemented, it added. Citing the 2018 figures, the note said that 560 out of the 673 people who escaped were in judicial custody and there were 30 incidents of jailbreak and 106 instances of clashes inside jail premises. Emphasising that maintaining security and safety measures at correctional homes is a crucial issue faced by the correctional administration, it also cited the inadequate staff strength, where only 60,024 personnel were assigned to look after 4.66 lakh inmates. According to the BPRD, these cameras will help in dealing with various complaints on smuggling, human rights violation, manhandling, high-handedness of inmates as well as allegations of staff against inmates in terms of behaviour and vice-versa. It is also expected to smoothen procedural impediments of security maintenance in correctional homes as well as facilitate the role of correctional staff at cells, entrance security level, judicial section, etc., wherever the direct contact with inmates is established. The note said that BWCs could be used for searching and frisking, especially when inmates come back from courts and hospitals as well as during surprise checks to detect illegal items like mobile phones, contraband, currency, weapons and cigarettes and while handling high-risk criminals. According to the SOP, the staff with BWCs will switch on and start recording once their duty starts and switch it off on the completion of the shift. "Staff with BWCs may switch off BWCs at his/her discretion for maintaining privacy of inmates and their own (for example during visit to wash-rooms, etc) with intimation to the control room. The back-up of recorded data will be secured for at least seven days," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prison-staff-may-soon-start-donning-body-worn-cameras-913258.html
09-11-2020||National||Complete ban on selling, bursting firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till November 30||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) and highly polluted cities in the country from midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) fell under the ''poor'' and above categories. "The cities/towns where air quality is ''moderate'' or below, only green crackers be sold, and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals like Diwali, Chhath, New Year/Christmas Eve, etc., as may be specified by the state concerned," the bench said. "At other places, ban/restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the bench said.  The NGT also directed all states and Union Territories to initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of the potential of aggravation of Covid-19. The Tribunal passed this order after hearing a plea seeking ban on crackers in NCR due to rising pollution and fearing a rise in Covid-19 cases. The Tribunal sought reply from 18 states whether to impose ban on crackers in the interest of the public health. Already several states and Union Territories including Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odhisha and Chandigarh have banned the use of crackers during Dewali festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-ban-on-selling-bursting-firecrackers-in-delhi-ncr-till-november-30-913264.html
09-11-2020||National||India records 45,903 new Covid-19 cases, 490 more deaths; tally at 85,53,657 cases with 1,26,611 deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 85,53,657 with 45,903 new infections being reported, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 79 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the disease climbed to 1,26,611 with 490 new fatalities being registered, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 79,17,373, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 5,09,673 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 11,85,72,192 samples have been tested up to November 8 with 8,35,401 test being conducted on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-45903-new-covid-19-cases-490-more-deaths-tally-at-8553657-cases-with-126611-deaths-913281.html
09-11-2020||National||PM Modi asks people to buy local products this Diwali||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a fervent appeal to people that along with 'vocal for local', they should promote 'local for Diwali' big time and buy local products this festival season. Celebrating Diwali with local will give a new boost to the economy, he said. While extending festival greetings to people, Modi said, "You are seeing today that along with vocal for local, the mantra of local for Diwali is resonating everywhere." "I would like to say to the people of Varanasi and all countrymen that promote 'local for Diwali' big time," he said while inaugurating projects for Varanasi via video conferencing. When every person will buy local products with pride, will talk about local products, hail them and will take the message to others that our local products are so good, this message will go far, Modi said. "Not only local identity will be strengthened, the people who make these local products, their Diwali will also brighten up more," he said. "Going for local doesn't mean only purchasing 'diya' but everything you use in Diwali. It will encourage those making them," the PM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-people-to-buy-local-products-this-diwali-913298.html
09-11-2020||National||Farm laws will connect farmers directly to market: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the agriculture reforms introduced by the government will connect farmers directly to the market and "send middlemen out of the system". "The agriculture reforms will give direct benefit to farmers. They will be directly connected to the market and the middleman will be out of the system. The farmers of Purvanchal (eastern Uttar Pradesh) will also be benefitted from this," the Prime Minister said while launching various projects for his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi via video-conferencing. Highlighting various schemes launched by the government, Modi said under the Swamitva scheme, farmers will be issued property cards, which will not only help them get loans, but the "game of grabbing their properties will also end." He said Varanasi is witnessing all-round development in all sectors and this is giving a new identity to the city. "The development in Varanasi is not only helping the people of Purvanchal, who now will not have to go to Delhi for their works, but also helping people from other parts of the country," he added. He hailed the farmers of Purvanchal, saying even during the pandemic, they worked hard in their fields and are witnessing good crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-will-connect-farmers-directly-to-market-pm-modi-913305.html
09-11-2020||National||HC issues notice to media outlets on Bollywood producers' plea to restrain their reporting||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued a notice to Republic TV and Arnab Goswami and Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now and its editors Rahul Shivshankar and Navika Kumar and others on a plea by Bollywood producers to restrain them against "irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory reporting" following the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. Justice Rajeev Sakhdher asked the media organisations and individuals named in the civil suit to file their written submissions and posted the matter for consideration for Dec. 14. During the hearing, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar and Akhil Sibal, appearing for the Film and Television Producers Guild of India and others, pointed out vitriolic attacks, insinuations and epithets used during their coverage. Although the court pointed to the constitutional rights of the media in reporting, it lamented the lack of fair reportage and civility in discourse from the broadcasters. "In the case of Princess Diana, she died because she was racing away from the media. You can't just go on like this. The courts are the last ones to want to regulate," the court said. The court told the counsel appearing for the TV channels that because they were engaged in prejudging things, there were more opinions and less news.  "What are we to do about this? It is a general remark across the board. All of you have to think about it. It is a little disheartening and demoralises everyone," the court said. The court asked the plaintiff to include some individuals as parties and allowed them to amend the petition. The plea asked the court to direct the specific media channels to refrain from "conducting media trials of Bollywood personalities and interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with Bollywood". The petitioners also sought a direction to them to adhere to the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, and to withdraw, recall and take down all defamatory content published by them against Bollywood. They objected to the highly derogatory words used for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, “druggies” and expressions such as “it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned”, “all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood”, “this is the dirtiest industry in the country”, and “cocaine- and LSD-drenched Bollywood”. The petitioners claimed that the privacy of the members of Bollywood was being invaded and their reputations were being irreparably damaged by painting the whole of Bollywood as criminals, seeped in drug culture, and making being part of Bollywood synonymous with criminal acts in the public imagination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-issues-notice-to-media-outlets-on-bollywood-producers-plea-to-restrain-their-reporting-913314.html
09-11-2020||National||TataMD launches new Covid-19 test with a capacity of testing 10 lakh people per month||Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd (TataMD) on Monday launched new diagnostic testing for Covid-19 -- claiming it to be more efficient and simpler than the existing ones -- with the ability to scale up test on a large scale across the country. The company's test 'TataMD CHECK' has been developed in partnership with CSIR-IGIB (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology). It has been approved by Indian Council of Medical Research and Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) and will be available through diagnostic centres and hospitals across India shortly, the company said. To make the test available across India, the company is talking to hospital chains, diagnostic players and laboratories for partnership and it is ready with a monthly production capacity of 10 lakh units a month to start with at its Chennai factory. "We have come to a solution which provides end-to-end testing experience. We make the testing much more efficient and reliable and scalable, that creates more access and availability. Moreover, this whole thing is developed in India," Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd CEO Girish Krishnamurthy told PTI. In June, CSIR-IGIB came up with a breakthrough to detect the Covid-19 virus by gene sensing through innovation on a platform called FELUDA using the latest CRISPR technology, which is generally used for gene editing, he added. "We partnered with IGIB lab and then worked very closely with them. Getting the whole science from the lab into a product, today we are ready for a commercial launch of the product within about 100 days. We worked very very hard to get this system," he added. TataMD CHECK is a paper strip-based test with an image-based visual result readout. It requires standard laboratory equipment and small batches of tests can be conducted. Moreover, it has a fast reaction time of 45-50 minutes in the laboratory and the total testing time from RNA-extracted samples in the lab to result is 75 minutes only, the company said. Also, it can "provide high quality, quick results using standard equipment and minimally trained staff allow for rapid adoption and scale with potential to reach remote locations of the country". Elaborating on the advantages of the test, Krishnamurthy said this product does not require any complicated machine, unlike the current testing models, thereby making it easier to set it up in a lab. Besides, it also takes lesser steps as compared to the current models and hence making it less complicated and reducing inefficiencies. Moreover, a major advantage of the company's test is that testing can be done in any denomination of sample, while the current models of testing require the test to be run in batches of a certain number of samples and bring out the results in a batch. "Here, this test can be done in any denomination. That makes it very very efficient. From the time a sample is taken and brought to the lab, you can publish the results almost immediately," he claimed. When asked about the company's preparedness to meet demand, he said, "Today we have created a capacity for one million per month to start with. Then we will scale it as we move along and mature it. (We are) scaling it for the need of the country because we are here to solve the problem and whatever it takes to solve the problem we will do". The company is currently producing the testing kit in its factory in Chennai, he said. When asked about pricing of the test, Krishnamurthy said it is currently getting standardised and regulated by the states. "The testing pricing is done through the laboratories and diagnostics. We give the whole end-to-end testing model to the labs and diagnostics, so the pricing comes from them, but since we have a lot of efficiencies and other things we are building in, automatically it will play an impact on the pricing," he said without putting an exact number. He further said, "We are not selling a test, we are selling a testing experience. The pricing is on the overall testing, which is done by hospitals, laboratories and diagnostic centres. We are giving a very efficient and simple test to them and that will play a role with them". On the company's future plans, he said, "We are entering into the diagnostics space with a fantastic futuristic technology which is in line with our strategy. The TATA Medical and Diagnostics is focussing on science-based futuristic technology to address a larger problem and Covid happened to be the first problem we are trying to solve". The similar technology has got a lot of relevance in a lot of other areas and other diseases, he said, adding "certainly we will be coming into multiple fronts for product and space. The problem here and now is Covid-19 and there is a huge demand and huge problem to be solved. That is our first focus..." Krishnamurthy said, "The pandemic has encouraged us to reflect on the healthcare sector and our role in bridging the many gaps that exist. Our collaboration with R&D institutions will continue to be a critical part of our strategy to introduce new diagnostic technologies like CRISPR, and develop R&D-led healthcare solutions for consumers for Covid and other infectious diseases".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tatamd-launches-new-covid-19-test-with-a-capacity-of-testing-10-lakh-people-per-month-913315.html
09-11-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh bypolls vote count on November 10||The effect of the Jyotiraditya Scindia factor in the changed political scenario in Madhya Pradesh will be known when the votes polled for by-elections to 28 Assembly seats in the state will be counted on Tuesday. The BJP needs to win at least eight of these 28 seats to retain power and attain a simple majority in the 230-member Assembly, whose effective strength is 229. The bypoll results are also crucial for former chief minister Kamal Nath, who lost power in the state seven months ago when a section of Congress MLAs revolted against him after Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP. The counting will be held from 8 am on Tuesday in 19 districts where the by-elections were held on November 3, an official said on Monday. The Election Commission's guidelines regarding Covid-19 will be in place so that counting agents do not assemble in large numbers at the counting centres, he said. A candidate, his poll agent and counting agent can remain present in the counting hall, as per the EC's instructions. "Results can be displayed from the control unit on a big screen as per the EC's directives," the official said. The average voting percentage in the 2018 Assembly polls in these 28 constituencies, most of them in the Gwalior-Chambal region, was 72.93 per cent, the official said. For the first time in Madhya Pradesh, bypolls have been held in as many as 28 Assembly seats in the 230-member House in one go. The by-elections to 25 of these seats were necessitated as the sitting Congress MLAs resigned and joined the BJP. They contested the bypolls as BJP candidates. In the remaining three Assembly segments, bypolls were held due to demise of the sitting legislators. One more Congress MLA resigned recently. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-vote-count-on-november-10-913335.html
09-11-2020||National||CIC asks CBI to justify denial of information in RTI response||The Central Information Commission (CIC) has directed the CBI to provide a justification for denial of information on the ground that the disclosure might impede an ongoing investigation or the prosecution of an accused and not merely cite the relevant clause in its RTI response. Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to provide a cogent explanation while citing the exemption clause — section 8(1)(h) of the Right to Information (RTI) Act — on how a disclosure of information would adversely affect an investigation or prosecution. Section 8(1)(h) allows a public authority to withhold information, the disclosure of which would impede the process of an investigation or the apprehension or prosecution of offenders. The Delhi High Court, in the Bhagat Singh case, had clearly held that merely citing the exemption clause is not enough and a public authority must justify how a disclosure of information would attract the section as disclosure was the rule while withholding information was an exception. Sarna was hearing the case of an RTI applicant, who had sought to know the status of a preliminary enquiry by the CBI in the MSME Development Institute in Chennai. The CBI, in a number of cases, has denied the information by merely citing the section, without giving any justification how a disclosure of the information would impede its investigation or prosecution. "The Commission observes upon a perusal of the facts on record that the CPIO had merely invoked Section 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act without providing any justification as to what inquiry was pending as on the date of their reply or as to how the disclosure of the information would have impeded the process of the inquiry or apprehension or prosecution of offenders," Sarna noted. She agreed with the petitioner, S Harish Kumar, that the disclosure of the status and outcome of the case as available at the relevant time would not have impeded the process of the averred inquiry by any measure. "Pertinently so, the representative of the CPIO also failed to provide any substantial submissions regarding the applicability of Section 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act during the hearing," Sarna said. She directed the CBI CPIO to provide a revised reply to Kumar, incorporating a "cogent explanation" justifying the applicability of section 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act with respect to the information sought in the application. "In addition to this, the CPIO is directed to provide the available information regarding the status and outcome of the case as referred to in the RTI application...," Sarna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cic-asks-cbi-to-justify-denial-of-information-in-rti-response-913341.html
09-11-2020||National||#SaveMolem: Why are Goans protesting?||Goa, known for its fantastic beaches and churches, has been struggling to protect its natural diversity from industrialists. Recently the government of Goa and the Ministry of Environment cleared three projects that would threaten diverse wild species in the state. During the 57th meeting of the standing committee of the National Board of wildlife, three projects were approved by the state government, they are:  1) Double tracking of the railway line from Castlerock to Kulem (cleared in the 56th meeting of the SC-NBWL dated 17th December 2019) - 138.37 ha of forestland required; 22,882 trees to be felled. 2) Four-laning of NH 4A (cleared in the 57th meeting of the SC-NBWL dated 7th April 2020) - 63.615 ha of forestland required; 20,340 trees to be felled. 3) Laying a 400kV transmission line (Cleared in the 57th meeting of the SC-NBWL dated 7th April 2020) - This project could put the lives of over 59,000 trees in danger and cause a loss of 170 hectares of protected forest land in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. 'Save Mollem' protests: The protests in the state gained momentum on social media a few weeks ago with environmentalists, scientists and other professionals writing petitions to the government. The government approved these projects virtually during the lockdown and after backlash from the citizens of the state, it has been trying to defend its move in the name of 'public interest'. “The forest tree enumeration stands at 43,201. However, the actual felling or trimming of trees in the forest area would be 14,700, which is just 35% of the enumerated quantity. Moreover, as per the prevailing regulations, payments against the enumerated 43,201 forest trees, are being paid to the forest department. Out of the 14,700 trees expected to be felled/trimmed, only 1,000 trees would be felled/trimmed in the wildlife sanctuary," Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd (GTTPL) told The Times of India. However, on November 5 refuted all the claims made by activists and environmentalists. The group, that is one of the shareholders in the projects, tweeted, "The Adani Group refutes and condemns #FakeNews circulated by politically motivated groups about fictitious business interests comprising road and railway projects in the state of Goa." Nine-year-old activist, Licypriya Kangujam also took to Twitter to urge CM Pramod Sawant to withdraw the projects. In response to the protests, an FIR was filed by the police against the protesters calling it "unlawful assembly, rioting and wrongful restraint."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/savemolem-why-are-goans-protesting-913348.html
09-11-2020||National||Vaiko urges PM to get TN boats released from Sri Lanka||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate steps for release of over 100 impounded mechanised boats of Tamil Nadu fishermen from Sri Lanka or ensure compensation. Citing news reports, he said a Sri Lankan court has ordered 121 boats seized from the fishermen to be 'destroyed', adding it was shocking. Of the over 100 boats, as many as 88 were from Rameswaram, Vaiko, a Rajya Sabha MP, said in a letter to Modi. Officials in Rameswaram, quoting information received by them, had on Sunday said a court in Jaffna has permitted authorities to destroy several Indian mechanised fishing boats seized in the last 3-4 years for allegedly crossing into the island nation territory. "The government of India should take up this issue with the Sri Lankan government either for releasing the boats or to pay due compensation to the boat owners of Tamil Nadu. I would request you to take immediate effective steps in this regard," Vaiko said in the letter. The cost of a mechanised boat was about Rs 25 lakh to Rs 40 lakh and fishermen obtained loans to buy them and were still paying huge interests, he said. Also, the MDMK leader recalled his representations on this issue to Modi during 2015-16||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaiko-urges-pm-to-get-tn-boats-released-from-sri-lanka-913351.html
09-11-2020||National||Bollywood plea: HC asks Republic TV, Times Now to ensure no defamatory content is displayed||The Delhi High Court Monday asked media houses AGR Outlier Media and Bennett Coleman and Company to ensure that no defamatory content is uploaded on social media or displayed on their channels, while hearing a plea by Bollywood producers seeking to restrain them from making irresponsible remarks. In strong observations while hearing the plea, the high court cited the death of Princess Diana while trying to escape the media chase, and said there needs to be "some toning down" as people are "afraid of the fourth pillar of democracy" because of its powers. The court sought replies from Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar, and intermediaries Google, Facebook and Twitter on the plea. Leading Bollywood producers have sought to restrain them from making or publishing allegedly “irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks" against the film industry and conducting media trials against its members on various issues following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The lawsuit by four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading producers, has also sought to restrain them from interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with the industry. Justice Rajiv Shakdher was assured by the counsel for the media houses that they will follow the programme code and the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act. The court questioned the plaintiffs for not making individual celebrities parties in the suit and being represented through associations. “If the individuals are affected, why are they not joining the proceedings individually? If individuals are aggrieved, they should come on their own and take steps,” the judge said. To this, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing the producers, the celebrities are members of the associations and said he would take instructions on making them individual parties. The high court issued summons to the media houses and intermediaries and listed the suit for further hearing on December 14. It also asked senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing the Bennett Coleman Group, as to what is the next step if the channel does not follow self regulation. “There needs to be some toning down. As an officer of the court, tell me what is the next step if you do not follow self regulation. What do we do about this. Your undertakings to the court does not seem to be working. All of you have to do something. It is disheartening and demoralises everyone," the high court said. “It has to be fair reportage. Tomorrow it could be your (legal) fraternity also. You need to rise above your brief and tell me what should be done,” it said. The high court added that people are afraid of the fourth pillar of democracy because of the power which it has and courts are the last one to interfere in this. "In the case of Princess Diana, she died because she was racing away from the media. You can't just go on like this. The Courts are the last ones to want to regulate," the judge said. “See the kind language of language you are using on TV. Participants in the debate are using curse words,” the judge said, adding that neutrality is expected from the media and the black and white Doordarshan era was much better. Nayar said it all started with the suicide of Rajput, which later became a murder, then Bollywood became criminal, then drug peddlers and now ISI marks. “This is how the course of this defamatory -- scurrilous -- I must say, campaign changed,” he argued. The suit said, “This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as ‘dirt’, ‘filth’, ‘scum’, ‘druggies’ and expressions such as ‘it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned’, ‘all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood’, ‘This is the dirtiest industry in the country’, and ‘cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood’.” Those who have filed the suit are The Film and Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine and TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Fflims,Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz and Dharma Productions. The list also includes Emmay Entertainment and Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment, Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez. The other plaintiffs are Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films. “The livelihood of persons associated with Bollywood is being severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the Defendants,” the plea said. It claimed that the privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded and their reputations are being irreparably damaged by painting the entire industry as “criminals, seeped in drug culture, and making being part of Bollywood as synonymous with criminal acts in the public imagination”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-plea-hc-asks-republic-tv-times-now-to-ensure-no-defamatory-content-is-displayed-913361.html
09-11-2020||National||Arnab Goswami files bail plea in Alibaug sessions court||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in connection with the alleged suicide of an interior designer, on Monday filed a bail application before the sessions court at Alibaug in Maharashtra's Raigad district. The sessions court is currently also hearing a revision application filed by the Alibaug police challenging a November 4 order of the magistrates court denying them custody of Goswami and two other accused in the case and remanding the three in judicial custody. "We have filed a bail plea this morning before the sessions court," Goswamis lawyer Gaurav Parkar said. Goswami and two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. After his arrest from his residence in Mumbai, Goswami was taken to Alibaug, where the Chief Judicial Magistrate refused to remand him in police custody. The magistrate's court remanded Goswami and the two others in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which has been designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. On Sunday, he was shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody. Goswami had also filed a petition in the Bombay High Court against his illegal arrest and sought interim bail. On Saturday, the HC while reserving its order said pendency of the matter does not preclude the accused persons from seeking regular bail before the sessions court concerned. The HC had said if such a plea is filed, then the sessions court shall hear and decide the same in four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-files-bail-plea-in-alibaug-sessions-court-913363.html
09-11-2020||National||BJP rigged UP bypolls, will give details after results are out: Akhilesh Yadav||A day before the announcement of the results for bye-elections to seven Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of rigging the elections in its favour. He, however, did not elaborate on the accusation, and said he would provide detailed information after the results are out on Tuesday. At a press conference after a number of former lawmakers from the BSP and the Congress joined the party, Yadav said, "The BJP has done 'dhandhli' (rigging), 'dhokha' (fraud) and whatever it could by (misusing) the administration. The government had made such an arrangement that the voters could not come out (to exercise their franchise)." "I will give detailed information after the results of the bye-election are declared on November 10," he said. About the Bihar elections, the SP president exuded confidence that the exit polls predicting an edge for the RJD-led opposition alliance over the ruling NDA would be correct and that the tenure of those who "started spreading hatred in the society" was coming to an end. Even abroad, those who wanted to rule by dividing the society have been ousted by the people, he said. "I am happy that there is a group of journalists there (in the US), which claimed that in past four years there, a president lied more than 22 thousand times. If the journalists here count the lies of the UP chief minister and the prime minister, then it will come out in lakhs." On demonetisation, he said those who had no black money suffered a lot and those with black money left the country. "The BJP is responsible for the condition of the country's economy. The result of demonetisation is that, till date, the economy of the country has not been able to recover. It not only ended the big businessmen, but also the small traders, small farmers and the poor," Yadav said. "By demonetisation, BJP won in Uttar Pradesh. It was done so that BJP could win in UP. Not only demonetisation, whatever decisions the government has taken have disappointed the people. The BJP has broken the trust of the people of the entire country," he added. The leaders who joined the SP were former Bahujan Samaj Party MPs Kailash Nath Singh Yadav and Kaiser Jahan, former Congress MP Bal Kumar Patel, and former MLAs Ram Singh Patel, Sunil Kumar Yadav, Ramesh Rahi and Dhirendra Prakash. The Samajwadi Party chief also celebrated the birthday of Khazanchi Nath -- the child who was born while his mother was standing in a bank queue in Kanpur dehat post-demonetisation in 2016 -- by cutting a cake and giving him gifts. The SP celebrates his birthday every year to mark the "failure" of the BJP government's demonitisation move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-rigged-up-bypolls-will-give-details-after-results-are-out-akhilesh-yadav-913366.html
09-11-2020||National||Committee simply going through motions is grave injustice: Derek O'Brien to Par panel on Personal Data Protection Bill||Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien has accused the Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 of rushing through the deliberations at a time the country is in the middle of a pandemic and said it was "unfortunate" that the "essence" of the panel is being violated. O'Brien wrote to panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, a senior BJP MP, on Saturday expressing disappointment at the functioning of the joint committee, as it is planning to start a clause-by-clause examination of the contents of the Bill between November 11 and 13. The date may be extended depending on the completion of the task. The Trinamool MP, who is a member of the 30-member multi-party panel, said it has raised "serious concerns" as the panel is going ahead before completing its consultations with all stakeholders. He said the stakeholders who are yet to be called include, but not limited to, consumer groups, e-commerce companies, online streaming platforms and aggregators, civil society groups and think-tanks operating in the domain. More legal groups with expertise in the areas of cyber policy, data privacy and data protection should also be invited to depose. The committee had recently summoned Google, Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, Jio platforms, Paytm, Ola and Uber among others. Claiming that indications are there that the panel is trying to hurry the process of legislation, he said there have been 18 meetings over a period of 10 months. In the first seven months, he said, the committee met only five times while in a span of next three months, there were 13 meetings. "Now in the middle of a pandemic, the committee is meeting three days a week. This might work well for those MPs who live in Delhi-NCR. For those of us who have to take flights every week, this is not safe. This is why I have been asking for virtual meetings of the committee since March. But this request has not been granted yet," he said. "I urge you not to rush through this. This is not how a Joint Parliamentary Committee functions. For a Bill that seeks to establish a comprehensive data policy in India, a committee which is simply going through the motions is a grave injustice," he said. O'Brien said the committee has been formed with the mandate of both Houses of Parliament but it was "unfortunate that the essence of the JCP is being violated". He urged Lekhi to invite a more diverse group of stakeholders while emphasising the need to further examine the potential issues that can affect these stakeholders as a result of the Bill. "The Bill in its final form should be a reflection of the serious, deliberative law-making process that the Parliament of India stands for," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committee-simply-going-through-motions-is-grave-injustice-derek-obrien-to-par-panel-on-personal-data-protection-bill-913385.html
09-11-2020||National||BJP to meet same electoral fate as Donald Trump: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday attacked the BJP governments’ policies and referring to the Bihar assembly exit poll predictions, asserted that "the party will meet the same fate as the outgoing US president Donald Trump." Days after the Bihar assembly exit polls predicted an edge for the Mahagathbandhan led by RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, the PDP chief said, “I want to congratulate Tejashwi who is a young man and has set a narrative with a focus on Roti, Kapda Aur Makan (bread, clothes and house).” Soon after congratulating Yadav, she added, “The BJP raked up the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A and opening of J&K for the people across the country but it did not work for them as people are more concerned about their meals,” The former J&K chief minister also referred to the Centre’s new farm laws and land laws in Jammu and Kashmir and said, “The BJP failed to provide two square meals to the people, leave aside the creation of promised two crore jobs every year.” “The party instead tried to sell the abrogation of Article 370 to the voters in the country,” she added. Accusing the BJP of misleading people and diverting their attention from real issues by playing the politics of "communal hatred", she said, “When oppression increases, it soon vanishes too.” “Today is their (BJP's) time and tomorrow, our time will come. The same thing will happen to them (BJP) what happened to Trump (who lost the US presidential election last week),” she said. Accusing the BJP of being the “most corrupt” party in the country, she said it would sell all the resources of the country before it goes out of the power. “They are accusing us of corruption. I think they have beaten all previous records of corruption. They were not having any foothold but look at the huge office buildings of the party today. Where has the money come from and how have their accounts swelled in the name of party fund?” she asked. Mehbooba expressed displeasure over some media houses allegedly propagating the BJP's agenda instead of the Constitutional provisions and said it was heartening that Trump's speech was blocked midway despite being the most powerful president in the US. “Some (news) channels, I don't want to name them, are running BJP's agenda and not following the Constitution. This country will be run by the Constitution which binds the people together,” she said. “If the BJP agenda is adopted, the same situation will emerge as is being witnessed over the past six years,” she said accusing the BJP of engineering Hindu versus Muslims, Muslims versus Muslims and Jammu-versus Kashmir and Dogra verses Kashmiri. “It (BJP) does not have anything else to give to the people of the country. And therefore, they are dividing the people in the name of religion, regions and castes,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-to-meet-same-electoral-fate-as-donald-trump-mehbooba-mufti-913392.html
09-11-2020||National||India Mobile Congress to be held from December 8-10||The government-supported telecom sector event India Mobile Congress (IMC) will be held through virtual mode between December 8-10. Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) Director General Lt Gen SP Kochhar, while announcing the dates at a curtain raiser for IMC, said the event is likely to see huge participation. Telecom Secretary Anshu Prakash said there was a question mark on if the event should be skipped in 2020, but along with challenges it offers huge opportunity. He said the Department of Telecom (DoT) will extend all support to make IMC 2020 a success. "We have to rise to the occasion. I am told that this (is the) largest technology event in South Asia. We should build upon it. DoT is funding at least 30 SMEs (small and medium enterprises) and start-ups to participate in this event," Prakash said. COAI Chairman Ajai Puri said senior executives from across the world are expected to participate in IMC. Kochhar said more than 15,000 participants are expected to attend the event. Minister of State for Communication Sanjay Dhotre, in a video message, said the number of base stations have grown by 220 per cent in the last six years and mobile telephony has reached all corners of the country. "Telecom sector has emerged as backbone of digital infrastructure.Covid-19 has brought many challenges, but the telecom sector has proved its mettle. We believe IMC 2020 will showcase technology driven initiatives," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mobile-congress-to-be-held-from-december-8-10-913420.html
09-11-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Bihar prepares for counting day, Virat Kohli to go on paternity leave after 1st Australia Test||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, NGT imposes a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region; Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accuses the BJP of rigging the elections in its favour; Bihar prepares for Assembly election results day; Congress asks senior leaders to be in their place in all the 38 Bihar districts and keep a close watch over the EVMs kept in the strongrooms; Virat Kohli to go on paternity leave and TMC MP Derek O'Brien accuses Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 of rushing through the deliberations.    Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of November 9, 2020: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in 'poor' and above categories. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A day before the announcement of the results for bye-elections to seven Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of rigging the elections in its favour. He, however, did not elaborate on the accusation, and said he would provide detailed information after the results are out on Tuesday. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bihar might be on the cusp of a major generational shift in politics as it braces for Tuesday's counting of votes for the assembly election, with most pollsters predicting a landslide for the five-party Grand Alliance led by the young RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav. Counting will be taken up at 55 centres across 38 districts where the outcome will decide the fate of the Nitish Kumar government that has helmed the state for a decade and half. Most exit polls have predicted a rout for the ruling JD(U)-BJP combine and a resounding victory for the Grand Alliance. According to Chief Electoral Officer H R Srinavasa, central armed police forces have been deployed at the strong rooms, where the EVMs have been stored since the completion of voting, and the halls where these will be unsealed Tuesday morning after counting of postal ballots gets over. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Apprehending that rivals might indulge in "foul play" following encouraging exit polls predictions in favour of the Grand Alliance, Congress has asked its senior leaders to be in their place in all the 38 districts and keep a close watch over the EVMs kept in the strongrooms for counting on Tuesday. Buoyed by the exit polls projections, the party has sent its senior leaders including general secretary Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pande, chairman of the BPCC screening committee, to Patna for proper coordination with the allies and possibly also to keep its flock together after the results are declared. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- India captain Virat Kohli was on Monday granted paternity leave by the BCCI after the first Test against Australia next month, while his limited-overs' deputy Rohit Sharma was added to the red-ball squad after being initially left out due to a hamstring injury. Kohli will miss three Test matches in Australia to be with his actor wife Anushka Sharma as the couple welcomes its first child in early January. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien has accused the Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 of rushing through the deliberations at a time the country is in the middle of a pandemic and said it was "unfortunate" that the "essence" of the panel is being violated. O'Brien wrote to panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, a senior BJP MP, on Saturday expressing disappointment at the functioning of the joint committee, as it is planning to start a clause-by-clause examination of the contents of the Bill between November 11 and 13. The date may be extended depending on the completion of the task. Source: DHNS/ PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bihar-prepares-for-counting-day-virat-kohli-to-go-on-paternity-leave-after-1st-australia-test-913421.html
09-11-2020||National||India to be key driver of global oil demand in coming decades: Dharmendra Pradhan||India's fuel demand has almost recovered to pre-Covid-19 levels and the nation will experience the fastest growth in energy consumption among all large economies in the coming decades, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. In October local sales of gasoline, gasoil and cooking gas in India, the world's third biggest oil consumer and importer, rose from year-ago levels, Pradhan said oil conference ADIPEC. He said India's share of global energy consumption was set to rise from the current 7% to 12% by 2050.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-be-key-driver-of-global-oil-demand-in-coming-decades-dharmendra-pradhan-913427.html
09-11-2020||National||Saffron bowl may now extend to the northeast||The saffron bowl, which has so far been confined to Kashmir, may now expand to the northeast as well. The Northeast Centre for Technology Application and Reach (NECTAR), a body under the Department of Science and Technology, supported a pilot project to explore the feasibility of growing saffron in the northeast region of the country with same quality and in higher quantity. The Botany and Horticulture department of Sikkim Central University carried out tests to understand the soil condition of Yangyang of Sikkim and found it comparable to the saffron-growing places of Kashmir. "Saffron seed/corms were purchased and air transported from Kashmir to Yangyang site by the department. One saffron grower was engaged and stationed to look after the complete growing process, along with the faculty of the university," the DST said in a statement. The corms were irrigated during September and October, which ensured timely sprouting and good flower yields. "The matching of climatic and geographical conditions between Pampore (Kashmir) and Yangyang (Sikkim) led to the successful sample farming of saffron in Yangyang," the DST said. The project also focused on post-harvest management and value addition of saffron so that quality saffron drying and efficient post-harvest processing can improve saffron recovery, thereby improving its production, it added. Further, detailed analysis and testing of all parameters, including soil testing, quality, quantity and possible value addition are planned for immediate results and extrapolation of the project to other parts of the northeast region along with micro food enterprises, the department said. Saffron production has long been restricted to a limited geographical area in the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir. Pampore region, in India, commonly known as the saffron bowl of Kashmir, is the main contributor to saffron production, followed by Budgam, Srinagar, and Kishtiwar districts. As saffron growing was confined to very specific areas in Kashmir, its production remained limited. Though the National Mission on Saffron focused on several measures to improve its farming, the measures were still limited to the specified areas of Kashmir, the DST added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saffron-bowl-may-now-extend-to-the-northeast-913429.html
09-11-2020||National||HC questions celebs for not joining proceedings individually, filing plea through associations||The Delhi High Court sought to know on Monday as to why Bollywood celebrities have not raised the "media trial" issue as individuals and are being represented via associations in a suit seeking to restrain the media from making alleged “irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks" against the film industry. The high court also observed that people are afraid of the media, the fourth pillar of democracy, because of its powers and cited that Princess Diana died while racing away from the media. It further stated that the black and white Doordarshan era, though seems stale, used to be much better and had "lovely broadcasters". The court’s observation came while hearing a lawsuit by four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading production houses including those owned by Aamir Khan, Shahrukh Khan, Salman Khan, Karan Johar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, Rohit Shetty, as also Yash Raj Films and R S Entertainment. No celebrity has filed a suit against the media in individual capacity although advocates, during the hearing, cited instances related to targeting of Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone. They have sought to restrain various news channels including Times Now and Republic TV from interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with the industry. "In the case of Princess Diana, she died because she was racing away from the media. You can't just go on like this. The courts are the last ones to want to regulate,” the court said. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, who said there is a need for some toning down by news channels, also acknowledged some of the outstanding work done by the media. During the hearing, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, appearing for the plaintiffs, said there is one channel which was following actress Deepika Padukone since the beginning from her Goa residence to Goa airport and then from Mumbai airport to Mumbai residence, “Now it is alleged as if Shah Rukh Khan has links with Pakistan and ISI,” he said. To this, the judge, “The only question I have is that there are some individuals who claim to be aggrieved, why are they not made plaintiffs? Why is it half hearted?” When Nayar replied that the individuals are members of the association which has filed the suit, the judge said “I understand that. But there is defamation of a class and defamation of individuals. If the individuals are affected, why are they not joining the proceedings. They should come on their own and take steps”. The counsel said he will take instructions from his clients on this aspect and apprise the court on the next date of hearing. Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, representing Bennett Coleman group, raised a preliminary objection that the plaintiffs are referring to an individual's social media chats but they are not making him/ her a party to the suit. The high court asked him to rise above his brief and answer large issues as tomorrow it could by legal fraternity in place of Bollywood. “There needs to be some toning down. There are orders from NBSA (News Broadcasting Standards Authority). But it seems that news channels are not following that. As an officer of the court, tell me what is the next step here if you do not follow self-regulation?,” the judge said, adding that it is a general remark across the board and everyone should think about it. “It is a little disheartening and demoralises everyone...we expect fair reportage,” Justice Shakdher said and recalled the black and white DD era. “We used to find Doordarshan very stale, but we had some lovely broadcasters then... I think the black and white DD was much better,” the judge said. Advocate Malvika Trivedi, appearing for Republic TV and Arnab Goswami, said the court should also see the outstanding work done by the Media and that recently, it cannot be ignored that there was a lot of information concerning the mysterious deaths of two personalities which had come to the public domain due to the media's role. To this, the judge said he will be the first person to say that the media has done some outstanding work and made it clear that the court was not saying the media cannot report but they were on the manner of reporting. “See the kind language of language you are using on TV. Participants in the debate are using curse words,” the court said. It also said courts hesitate in restraining media reports because it is a constitutional right but fair reportage and neutrality is expected. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Arvind Nigam and Sajan Poovayya, appearing for the intermediaries, said they are only platforms and they will abide by the orders passed by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-questions-celebs-for-not-joining-proceedings-individually-filing-plea-through-associations-913447.html
09-11-2020||National||19 auctioned coal blocks to generate Rs 7,000 crore||The government has finally opened up the coal sector to the private players by auctioning 19 coal blocks for commercial mining. "The government auctioned 19 coal blocks out of 38 mines put on auction. These 19 blocks can generate total revenues of around Rs 7,000 crore per annum and create more than 69,000 jobs once they are operationalised," Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Monday. A total of 42 companies participated in the auction, out of which 40 were private players. Some of the corporate biggies that have bagged blocks include Adani Enterprises, Vedanta, Hindalco Industries and Jindal Power. "With a combined peak-rated capacity reaching 51 MT per annum, it is expected that these 19 mines will generate a total revenue of nearly about Rs 7,000 crore,"  Joshi told reporters here. "The auction of these mines witnessed fierce competition and companies have offered great premiums," he said. "I appeal to the state governments to cooperate with the bidders. The sooner these coal blocks are operationalised, the sooner the state governments will get revenue from these blocks," he added. The minister further said except for coking coal, all other coal imports should be stopped in the coming years. The results of these auctions have been historic and clearly proves that opening up the coal sector was a step in the right direction, he emphasised. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-auctioned-coal-blocks-to-generate-rs-7000-crore-913457.html
09-11-2020||National||India likely to see behavioural change in urban mobility in post Covid-19 period: Puri||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday that in the post-Covid-19 period, India is likely to experience a behavioural change in urban mobility Addressing the 13th Urban Mobility India Conference on the theme ''Emerging Trends in Urban Mobility'', he said, "In the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, India is likely to experience a behavioural change in urban mobility. This crisis also presents an opportunity to guide the recovery of urban transport towards long-term development goals." In a statement, the Ministry said that it has issued a detailed advisory as to how the nation needs to move ahead in these testing times. It rests on three key pillars -- the promotion of public transport system, leveraging technological advancements, and penetration of Non-Motrised Transport systems in the urban transport paradigm. "The future of mobility is about striving towards environment-friendly, integrated, automated and personalised travel on demand. New advancements, like intelligent transportation systems and traffic management applications, are in the pipeline for enhanced mobility in major cities," Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-see-behavioural-change-in-urban-mobility-in-post-covid-19-period-puri-913466.html
09-11-2020||National||Gaurav Bhatia asks CJI to take Suo Motu cognisance of Arnab Goswami case||Senior advocate Gaurav Bhatia has shot off a letter to the Chief Justice of India asking him to take Suo Motu cognizance of the blatant violation of basic human rights in the Arnab Goswami case and put a stop to "travesty of justice being inflicted by the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police on him". He accused the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police of acting in a malafide, arbitrary and unconstitutional manner from the beginning. The citizens of the country are watching this and the arrest of a reputed journalist, Goswami who is the Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of the Republic Media Network is a direct assault on the Media, the fourth pillar of democracy, Bhatia, also BJP spokesperson, said in his letter. Republic Media and Goswami are being targeted and vilified for performing their duty. They are being penalised for asking tough questions to the Maharashtra government in cases like the brutal murders of priests in Palgarh, Maharashtra, Sushant Singh Rajput case and others, he claimed. "This court has always been the last refuge for every citizen of this country for the protection of his fundamental rights and with this gleaming hope I write this letter," he said. He said Goswami was abruptly shifted from Alibaug Jail quarantine center to Taloja Jail in a jail van with windows covered with black screens on November 8. Goswami can be heard shouting for his life and stating that he has been assaulted. He is also seen shouting that there is a grave threat to his life in prison. "The fact that he faces a serious and imminent threat to his life, has compelled me to write this letter to Your Lordship. A valuable human life cannot be endangered due to procedural norms and thus I beseech your Lordship to intervene and ensure that life and liberty of a citizen is protected," Bhatia said in his letter. The Supreme Court has in a catena of judgements laid down the law, that a person even under arrest should be treated with dignity, more so when he is not a habitual offender and a hardened criminal, he said. In a related development, a senior employee of Republic Media Network, Pradeep Bhandari, also wrote a similar letter asking the CJI to take Suo motu cognizance in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gaurav-bhatia-asks-cji-to-take-suo-motu-cognisance-of-arnab-goswami-case-913471.html
09-11-2020||National||Winters, festivities may upend gains made against Covid-19, says Harsh Vardhan at review meet||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed on Monday the Covid-19 situation in nine states, including West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, and expressed concern that the winters and the festive season could potentially threaten the gains made against the viral infection. Interacting with the state health ministers and principal secretaries or additional chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, he stressed that India has the highest recovery rate and one of the lowest fatality rate, globally. Vardhan informed the meeting that of the total active cases in the country, only 0.44 per cent were on ventilator support, 2.47 per cent in ICU and just 4.13 per cent occupied oxygen-supported beds, according to a Health Ministry statement. He, however, said the nine states and some districts there have been reporting a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, high average daily cases on a weekly average, decline in testing, high rate of mortality within the first 24 or 48 or 72 hours of hospitalisation, high doubling rate and higher death among the vulnerable population. Vardhan said the trajectory of the disease was being monitored personally by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The prime minister has held intense discussions with all chief ministers and Head of UTs. His latest address was only of 10 minutes but had the important message of continued adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and its transformation to a Jan Andolan (people's movement)." Sharing the nation’s journey in the fight against the pandemic, he said the number of laboratories increased from one in January to 2,074 now and the testing capacity has increased to 1.5 million daily. The Union health minister also spoke about the increased number of general, oxygenated and ICU beds at each level of Covid care hierarchy. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested all States to focus on 10 key areas to contain the infecton and gain an upper hand over its trajectory. These are increasing testing, targeted testing at market-places, workplaces, religious congregations which could have the potential to become super-spreaders, increasing the share of RT-PCR in testing, compulsory testing of symptomatic RAT negatives, completion of contact tracing within the first 72 hours, tracing of an average of 10-15 contacts per new case detected. National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director Sujeet K Singh apprised everybody on the trajectory of the coronavirus disease and the public health response efforts in the states. The State Health Ministers shared a brief snapshot of the actions taken for containment, surveillance and treatment of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/winters-festivities-may-upend-gains-made-against-covid-19-says-harsh-vardhan-at-review-meet-913489.html
09-11-2020||National||India likely to press Joe Biden administration to restore GSP trade privilege||Clinching the much-awaited India-America trade deal is likely to be one of New Delhi’s top priorities for its engagements with Joe Biden’s administration in Washington DC once he takes over as the new President of the United States. New Delhi is likely to press Biden Administration for early restoration of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) trade privilege for India. The privilege was withdrawn by outgoing President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington DC in June 2019 and India has been prodding the United States to restore it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi will seek to speed up negotiation on its proposed trade deal with the US soon after the swearing-in ceremony of the new American President on January 20 next, sources told DH. The Modi government, is, however aware that it might not be easier to clinch the trade deal with the Biden administration. Biden’s “Made in All of America” policy, which was articulated during his campaign ahead of the presidential elections, is not exactly the same as Trump’s “America First”, but it does have some of the protectionist streaks of the trade strategy the outgoing US President pursued. India is likely to stick to its demand for the rollback of higher tariffs the US imposed on some steel and aluminium products as well as for greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile and engineering. A trade deal was expected to be signed after Modi-Trump meeting in New York on September 24, 2019 – just two days after the two leaders appeared together at the “Howdy! Modi” event in Houston. But the two sides could not narrow differences and the deal was not signed. A “mini trade deal” with “limited scope” was then expected to be inked after Trump-Modi meeting in New Delhi on February 25, but it was also shelved as Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and the US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer could not agree on several points despite hectic negotiation. The Prime Minister and the US President however acknowledged progress in the talks and agreed to add a legal framework to the understanding reached till then even while continuing dialogue to narrow differences on the remaining issues. Goyal and Lighthizer had the last round of talks in September this year. The Commerce Minister later said that New Delhi had made a “very good offer” to the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-press-joe-biden-administration-to-restore-gsp-trade-privilege-913496.html
09-11-2020||National||India supports expansion of NDB membership at BRICS meet||India on Monday supported expansion of the membership of New Development Bank (NDB) set up by India and other BRICS nations. Participating in the first BRICS Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting under the BRICS Russian Chairmanship, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought a consensus solution to ensuring fairness, equity and sustainability of tax systems, an official statement said after the meeting. "The Finance Minister supported the expansion of the membership of NDB and emphasised on the importance of regional balance," it said. Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa are currently the members of Shanghai–based NDB, which aims at providing long-gestation infrastructure finance. The agenda of the meeting included discussions on the outcomes of G20 Saudi Presidency in 2020, a digital platform to encourage infrastructure investments and expansion of the membership of the New Development Bank. The Finance Minister observed that the G20, of which all BRICS countries are members, has delivered some very significant initiatives this year including the G20 Action Plan in response to Covid-19, which has provided broad guidance to navigate a collective global response to the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-supports-expansion-of-ndb-membership-at-brics-meet-913513.html
09-11-2020||National||Telangana student of Delhi LSR college ends life due to financial woes||A 19-year-old student of the Lady Shriram College for Women died by suicide last week allegedly due to lack of financial means to study. Aishwarya Reddy, student of BSc, Mathematics at the reputed college in New Delhi, hanged herself at her home in Shadnagar in Telangana on November 2. The student’s death came to light on Monday. The LSR unit of the Student Federation of India, a Left student organisation, has alleged that Aishwarya was forced to end her life, as her INSPIRE scholarship provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology, was delayed, “resulting in extreme financial pressure.” Aishwarya was a topper in her town, scoring 98.5% in intermediate (+2). She then joined the undergraduate course in the nation’s capital, residing in LSR’s hostel. Aishwarya has been at home since the Covid-19 lock-down in March and was finding it difficult to cope with the online classes without a laptop. Her father Srinivas Reddy, a motor vehicle mechanic, could not afford the gadget. The lesser income because of the pandemic has compounded their financial woes. The family has reportedly mortgaged their one-room house already to provide for their elder daughter’s education. Aishwarya’s younger sister Vaishnavi had to discontinue studies after 8th standard. The extreme step by the daughter even as her father was exploring ways to arrange a laptop has shocked the locality. In a purported suicide note in Telugu, Aishwarya wrote, “My education has become an economic burden on my parents. But I cannot live without education.” “Please see that the INSPIRE scholarship amount of at least one year is received (by her family),” she says in the note. Reddy, the aggrieved father says, “Do not assume that all Reddys (a forward caste community) are rich. My appeal to the government is to aid the poor students; remove this OC, BC etc. categorisation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-student-of-delhi-lsr-college-ends-life-due-to-financial-woes-913515.html
09-11-2020||National||Court sends Firoz Nadiadwala's wife to judicial custody||A special court on Monday remanded Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife to 14-day judicial custody, a day after her arrest by the NCB for alleged possession of drugs. The accused, after being sent to jail under judicial custody, filed an application seeking bail. A special Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court will hear her bail plea on Tuesday. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Nadiadwala's wife on Sunday after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. A team of NCB sleuths searched the residence of the Nadiadwalas and seized 10 grams of ganja, officials had said, adding the contraband was procured from one Wahid Abdul Kadir Sheikh alias Sultan who was arrested earlier. She was booked under the NDPS Act. The NCB has so far arrested five persons, including Nadiadwala's wife, during its latest crackdown on drug peddlers and their clients. A total of 727.1 gram ganja, 74.1 gram charas, 95.1 gram MD and Rs 3,58,610 in cash have been seized till now from the accused, another official said earlier in the day. In a related development, Nadiadwala appeared before the NCB on Monday to record his statement, an official of the central agency said. Nadiadwala was summoned by the anti-drugs agency on Sunday, but he failed to appear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-sends-firoz-nadiadwalas-wife-to-judicial-custody-913522.html
09-11-2020||National||CCI orders probe into Google's alleged abuse of market dominance to promote payments app||India's antitrust body on Monday ordered an investigation into allegations that Alphabet Inc's Google was abusing its market position to promote its payments app as well as forcing app developers to use its in-app payment system. Reuters reported in May that the Competition Commission of India (CCI) was looking into a complaint that alleged Google was hurting competition by unfairly promoting its Google Pay app, which allows inter-bank fund transfers and other payment services. In its 39-page order, the CCI said Google's agreements with some smartphone makers to have the Google Pay app pre-installed might "disturb the level playing field" and should be investigated. The probe has been handed over to the CCI's investigation unit. The case has been filed by an informant whose identity has been kept anonymous. The CCI said there was no merit in investigating some other allegations against the Google Pay app. In a statement, Google said it was pleased that the CCI had rejected several allegations, and remained confident the watchdog will find Google Pay operates in an "extremely competitive environment". However, in its order the CCI said that Google Play Store's in-app billing system - that will from March 31, 2022 force app developers to use it and pay a 30% commission - should be investigated. Google, whose Android operating system powers nearly 99% of India's roughly 500 million smartphones, has faced criticism from several Indian startups in recent weeks who have publicly voiced concerns about the 30% commission they say is too high. The mandatory use of Google's payment system "restricts the choice available to the app developers", the CCI said in its order. Google's statement said its billing system helps ensure its continued investment "in the many important things needed to make developers successful." The case is one of several antitrust challenges that Google faces in India, including a case on alleged abuse of dominance in the smart TV market as well as in its mobile Android operating system segment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cci-orders-probe-into-googles-alleged-abuse-of-market-dominance-to-promote-payments-app-913523.html
09-11-2020||National||'Local for Diwali': Senior ministers, BJP leaders back PM's call, urge people to buy local products||Several senior ministers and BJP leaders on Monday backed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for promoting 'local for Diwali' and urged people to buy local products this festive season. Prime Minister Modi made a fervent appeal to people to promote 'local for Diwali' big time and buy local products this festival season, saying it will give a new boost to the economy. Soon after the prime minister's appeal, several ministers and senior BJP leaders took to Twitter to back Modi's clarion call. BJP chief J P Nadda urged every Indian to go "Local4Diwali", saying that to realise the national aspiration of a self-reliant India, "let's commit ourselves to light a lamp of happiness and prosperity in the lives of our weavers, artisans and local businesses by becoming vocal for local". "From decorative items to earthen diyas and local crafts, #Local4Diwali not only brings prosperity to the lives of our craft persons but also symbolises our rich heritage and culture. I earnestly request all to join the clarion call of PM Narendra Modi ji and support indigenous items," he said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said this Diwali, let us go 'Vocal4Local' by using and gifting locally-made products. "Bring in the festivities by supporting PM Narendra Modi’s clarion call for encouraging our artisans, weavers and businesses," he tweeted, using the hashtag 'Local4Diwali'. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also backed the prime minister's call and urged people to buy local products this Diwali. He said this will also strengthen 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' as well. Textiles Minister Smriti Irani said artisans, weavers, traders and small businesses depend on people for their livelihood. "Your one step will make big difference to their lives; go #Local4Diwali - shop from local craftsmen & workers to make their Deepavali happy and joyful!" she tweeted. Supporting Modi's call, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said Diwali is a perfect occasion to fulfil commitment to 'VocalForLocal'. "Do visit 'Hunar Haat' being organised at Delhi Haat, Pitampura, from 11th November and make purchases and encourage indigenous products of artisans, craftsmen and strengthen Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign," he said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also backed the prime minister's appeal to promote 'local for Diwali'. Several ministries and Indian embassies and posts abroad also urged Indians to promote 'local for Diwali'. Extending festival greetings to the people during an event to inaugurate development projects for Varanasi, Modi said, "You are seeing today that along with vocal for local, the mantra of local for Diwali is resonating everywhere." "Celebrating Diwali with local will give a new boost to the economy. I would like to say to the people of Varanasi and all countrymen that promote 'local for Diwali' big time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/local-for-diwali-senior-ministers-bjp-leaders-back-pms-call-urge-people-to-buy-local-products-913540.html
09-11-2020||National||Data discrepancies mar fight against Covid-19 in India||Even after ten months, data discrepancies still mar India’s fight against Covid-19, putting a question mark on the accuracy of many official claims on how the country is coping up with the outbreak. No doubt the number of tests is on the rise with 2074 laboratories from a lone one in March. But a random comparison in September and October showed a gap of 2-2.5 lakh tests in the state and central data. On Sept. 24, ICMR reported 14,92,409 tests but a compilation of test data from all the states and Union Territories, gives a figure of 12,16,516 – a gap of more than 2.75 lakh tests. Such gaps are 1.13 lakh on September 27 and 1.86 lakh plus on Sept 30. The difference is 1.88 lakh on October 5 and 2.38 lakh on Oct 21. It dropped to 53,000 plus on October 6 and 48,000 on November 4, but rose to 2.55 lakh on October 22, according to a table prepared by Ayan Banerjee, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Kolkata.  Testing is just one example. Sources in the Union Health Ministry told DH that many states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand regularly reconciled their Covid-19 death data to plug the gaps in the reporting system. For instance on Oct 18, Maharashtra reported 463 Covid-19 deaths in the previous 24 hours – way above its daily figures of 100 plus deaths. On the same day, the hill state of Uttarakhand reported 95 deaths all of a sudden. Both were cases of reconciliation, sources said. Again on November 5, Maharashtra reported 300 deaths in a single day, out of which only 112 were reported in the previous 24 hours. The remaining 188 deaths were those that happened in Pune in the last two weeks but escaped the official reporting system. After West Bengal reported 4,000 plus new cases for several days in the last week of October, the number of such cases dropped to 3,900 in each of the next 13 days notwithstanding the crowd seen during the Durga Puja festivities. The daily toll on each of the last two weeks varies between 54 and 64. The data from Bihar is also suspect. Bihar alone has done more than one crore Covid-19 tests so far (10% of India's total tests) and still kept its test positive rate less than 5% for over two months. The decline is remarkable for a resource poor state! Surprisingly each of the 38 districts in Bihar without any exception show a declining trend in the epidemic after a spike in August. "It's important to deal with evidence properly and discuss it before making policy intervention rooted in evidence,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist associated with the Ashoka University. But such a gap between policy and evidence clearly exists in India, noted many other researchers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-discrepancies-mar-fight-against-covid-19-in-india-913550.html
09-11-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveils A-SAT missile model at DRDO Bhawan||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday unveiled a model of Anti-Satellite (A-SAT) missile at the DRDO Bhawan premises, an official statement said. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari and Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman - DRDO, G Satheesh Reddy were also present present on the occasion, it added. 'Mission Shakti' was the country's first ever A-SAT missile test successfully conducted on March 27, 2019 from Dr AP J Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha, where a fast-moving Indian orbiting target satellite in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) was neutralised with pinpoint accuracy, the statement by the road transport and highways ministry said. This was a highly complex mission, conducted at extremely high speed with remarkable precision. The successful conduct of Mission Shakti made India the fourth nation in the world with the capability to defend its assets in outer space. On this occasion, Singh appreciated the innovative accomplishment of the team of scientists, it added. Reddy stated that the installation of the A-SAT model will inspire the DRDO fraternity to take up many more such challenging missions in future, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-unveils-a-sat-missile-model-at-drdo-bhawan-913551.html
09-11-2020||National Politics||BJP announces candidates for MLC elections in UP, Maharashtra||The BJP on Monday announced the names of its candidates for the MLC polls in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashra to be held on December 1. The names of 11 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh MLC polls and seven for Maharashtra were released by the party. The state legislative council teacher and graduate constituency polls are scheduled to be held on December 1 in both states. A fixed number of seats in the legislative council are set aside for the graduate and teacher constituencies. The Maharashtra Legislative Council has a strength of 78 members. Of the total seats, the elections will be held for seven graduate and teacher constituencies. Similarly, the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council has 100 seats, of which 11 fell vacant in May -- six teacher constituencies, five graduate constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-announces-candidates-for-mlc-elections-in-up-maharashtra-913395.html
09-11-2020||National Politics||Modi govt destroyed countless homes due to ‘deliberate’ lockdown, demonetisation: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the Modi government of destroying countless homes due to the ‘deliberate’ lockdown and demonetisation. He tagged a news report of a 19-year-old Telangana girl who took her own life, citing financial stress on the family due to the lockdown. "My condolences to the family members of the girl in this very sad moment. The BJP government destroyed countless homes due to the deliberate demonetisation and countrywide lockdown. This is the truth," Gandhi said on Twitter.   Aishwarya, a second year student of Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women in Delhi, was found hanging at her hometown in Telangana on November 2. She was allegedly worried about pursuing education in view of the poor financial condition of her family, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-destroyed-countless-homes-due-to-deliberate-lockdown-demonetisation-rahul-913425.html
09-11-2020||National Politics||Results of Bihar Assembly elections and bypolls in 10 states will mirror the mood of the nation||Results of Bihar Assembly elections and 54 Assembly constituencies across 10 states including 28 in Madhya Pradesh, eight in Gujarat, seven in Uttar Pradesh, two each in Jharkhand, Karnataka, Nagaland and Odisha and one each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana, and Telangana, will be considered as a reflection of the nation's political mood. While the JDU-led NDA in Bihar, which has been in power in the state for 11 of the last 15 years, is predicted by exit polls to lose badly, what is also being watched closely is the results of Assembly bypolls including in states like Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, where the BJP has weaned away MLAs from the rival Congress through its tried and tested formulae of Operation Lotus, which originated first in Karanataka way back in 2008 to garner majority for the B S Yeddyurappa-led government. Since BJP is in power either by itself or through an alliance in seven of the eleven poll-bound states, any common trend of the results will also be read as an indicator of the political mood of the nation towards the ruling party, though in Bihar, as the exit polls suggest, the anger is particularly directed against the ally JDU led by Nitish Kumar, with the BJP poised to perform much better than its ally and emerge at least as the second-largest party in the state. BJP is part of Democratic Alliance of Nagaland while the saffron party on its own is ruling in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana. JMM-led Opposition alliance rules in Jharkhand, TRS is in power in Telangana, and Naveen Patnaik-led BJD is at the helm in Odisha. Congress is the ruling party in Chhattisgarh. So far, it has been indicated that BJP will do well in Gujarat and will breathe easy in Madhya Pradesh, where a favourable results could stabilise the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, which came to power after ousting the one and half year government of Kamal Nath, following the rebellion of Jyotiraditya Scindia against Congress. With Scindia crossing over to the BJP, Congress lost a government in one of the three states it had won in 2018, the other two being Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Congress had won Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh after a gap of 15 years and hence the loss rankled more. In UP, where most of the seven seats had fallen vacant after the death of legislators including two due to Covid-19, a result, either way, is inconsequential for Yogi Adityanath government, which has a huge majority but a loss could give the divided Opposition in the state an impetus to raise the chorus of the government becoming gradually unpopular because six of the seven seats were earlier held by the BJP. But all eyes will be on the mother of all elections in Bihar, where an interesting aspect could be the revival of the Left, which is on a backburner in the adjoining West Bengal. Indications are that the CPI-ML has done reasonably well in its old area of influence Bhojpur, a region of intercenine caste war in past, while the CPI has also managed to put up a moderately good show. Their alliance with RJD seems to have cemented the votes of OBCs and Dalits and has also given sort of a caste neutral layer to the caste-based parties, adding a twist of class politics in the state. RJD and Congress with three Left parties seem to have brought out a new social coalition and indications are that politics is going there in the 1990 mode, when it was a bi-polar scenario between RJD and BJP. These elections are the first after the Covid-19 outbreak and the states going to polls like UP, Bihar, MP and Chhattisgarh have a big migration for employment. Large populations from these states working in metros had to return because of coronavirus lockdown and the results will also be a referendum on the handling of the migrant issue by the respective state governments. These are also farm-based states, where the Central government's recent farm laws have been criticised by the opposition parties who seek to build an "anti-farmer" narrative against the BJP government. How the political narrative is being built by the Opposition around these polls is evident from the editorial of Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', which said without naming the NDA that "Balloons of lies were released in the air, but they disappeared in the air itself".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/results-of-bihar-assembly-elections-and-bypolls-in-10-states-will-mirror-the-mood-of-the-nation-913483.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees record single-day spike of 7,745 coronavirus cases||Delhi recorded its biggest single-day jump of 7,745 coronavirus cases on Sunday, with the positivity rate increasing to 15.26 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution, the health department said. The new infections, which took the national capital's tally to 4,38,529, came out of 50,754 tests conducted the previous day, according to a health bulletin. There are 41,857 active cases in the city, the bulletin said. Seventy-seven more fatalities took the death toll to 6,989, it said. On Saturday, Delhi had reported 79 deaths, the highest in over four months. On Friday, over 7,000 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city for the first time, while the recovery rate was over 89 per cent. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Sunday stood at 34,772 and RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT test figures were 15,982 in all, totalling 50,754, the bulletin stated. The number of containment zones in Delhi increased from 3,857 on Saturday to 3,878 on Sunday. The sudden spike in cases comes amid the festive season and rising pollution level. While Durga Puja celebrations ended on October 25, Diwali and Chhath Puja will be celebrated on November 14 and 20 respectively. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the national capital has hit the peak of the third wave of Covid-19 and the number of cases suggests it has been the worst so far. The government has increased the number of beds for Covid-19 patients in city hospitals but there is no plan to rope in hotels and banquet halls, he said. The minister attributed the increase in the number of cases to aggressive testing and contact tracing. He, however, said laxity on the part of the people has been a major reason behind the spike in new cases. The National Centre for Disease Control, in a report drafted recently, had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases daily taking into account the upcoming winter season, related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings. According to the Sunday bulletin, out of the total 16,027 beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 7,955 are vacant. It said 527 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by people under quarantine including travellers who have returned as part of the Vande Bharat Mission and via bubble flights. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the last few days, with the count crossing the 60,000-mark several times. As of Sunday, the number of tests done per million population was over 2.68 lakh while the total number of tests stood around 51 lakh. The bulletin said 3,89,683 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation rose to 24,723 on Sunday from 24,100 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-7745-coronavirus-cases-913202.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||PM Modi inaugurates projects worth Rs 614 crore for Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a fervent appeal to people to promote 'local for Diwali' big time and buy local products this festival season, saying it will give a new boost to the economy. He also spoke about the agriculture reforms introduced by the government, saying they will connect farmers directly to the market and "send middlemen out of the system". While inaugurating and laying foundation of various projects worth Rs 614 crore for his Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi, via video conferencing, he said buying local products will not only strengthen local identity but will also brighten up Diwali for those who make them. Extending festival greetings to the people, he said, "You are seeing today that along with vocal for local, the mantra of local for Diwali is resonating everywhere." "Celebrating Diwali with local will give a new boost to the economy. I would like to say to the people of Varanasi and all countrymen that promote 'local for Diwali' big time," he said. "When every person will buy local products with pride, will talk about local products, hail them and take the message to others that our local products are so good, this message will go far," Modi said. "Going for local doesn't mean only purchasing 'diya' but everything you use in Diwali. It will encourage those making them," the prime minister said and added in a lighter vein that by going local he doesn't mean "throwing things you have bought already in the River Ganga". Highlighting various schemes launched by the government, Modi said under the Swamitva scheme, farmers will be issued property cards, which will not only help them get loans, but the "game of grabbing their properties will also end". "The agriculture reforms will give direct benefit to farmers. They will be directly connected to the market and the middleman will be out of the system. The farmers of Purvanchal (eastern Uttar Pradesh) will also be benefitted from this," he said. The prime minister also said that Varanasi is witnessing all-round development in all sectors and this is giving a new identity to the city. "The development in Varanasi is not only helping the people of Purvanchal, who now will not have to go to Delhi for their works, but also helping people from other parts of the country," he added. Starting his address in Bhojpuri with "Har Har Mahadev", the prime minister appreciated the people of Varanasi for their "social unity" in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. He hailed the farmers of Purvanchal, saying even during the pandemic, they worked hard in their fields and are witnessing good crops. Modi also credited UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the various development projects. "The credit of these projects goes to the chief minister and his team of ministers and officers. Now with laying foundation of new projects, we are also inaugurating projects and the process will continue. Whatever is being done here is due to the blessing of Baba Vishwanath," he said. As the coronavirus situation improves, tourists will start coming and they will return with a "good image" of the city, where dangling wires will go underground, ghats are beautified and LED lights illuminating the city, he said, adding that besides the rail network, the country's first inland water port has been set up in the city. During his address, the prime minister talked in detail about the projects in his constituency and also interacted with basketball player Prashanti Singh, housewife Neelima Mehta and businessman Vipin Kumar Agarwal. While talking to Neelima, the prime minister, after spotting a clean lane in which she was sitting, appreciated locals, and remarked, "one can also have food sitting in this lane". Neelima spoke about how the Smart City and other projects have changed the city with long pending water, sewer and other problems being resolved. When the prime minister asked how it feels in the night when LED lights glow, Neelima replied, "It is a wonderful feeling." From Prashanti, the prime minister asked about Diwali preparations in the city and how sports activities were going on amid the pandemic The basketball player urged the prime minister to consider setting up a Khelo India Centre of Excellence in Varanasi too and was assured that the suggestion would be looked into. Adityanath, who joined the event from Lucknow, said that in his six-year tenure as MP the "PM gave projects worth Rs 18 thousand crores to Varanasi. While projects of about Rs 9 thousand crores have been launched the rest are in pipeline." These projects, he said, have give a new identity to Varanasi worldwide. The projects inaugurated by the prime minister include upgradation of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital Ramnagar, sewerage related works, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows, a housing complex for players in Sampurnanand Stadium, multi-purpose seed storehouse and Sarnath Light and Sound show. During the event, the prime minister also laid the foundation stone for projects including redevelopment of Dashashwamedh Ghat and Khidkiya Ghat, barracks for PAC police force, upgradation of the multi-purpose hall in Girija Devi Sanskritik Sankul, repair work of roads in the city and development of tourist places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-inaugurates-projects-worth-rs-614-crore-for-varanasi-913293.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Live hand-grenade found in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba, defused||A live hand-grenade was found during digging near a temple in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, officials said on Monday. The explosive weapon was defused safely later, they added. The live hand-grenade was found during digging at a private land near a temple in the Gagwal area and people immediately alerted the police, the officials said. A bomb disposal squad rushed to the area and defused it safely, thus averting a tragedy, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/live-hand-grenade-found-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-samba-defused-913306.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi to adopt Dungarpur's model of rainwater harvesting, says Water Minister Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government will adopt the cost-effective model of rainwater harvesting currently being implemented in the tribal-dominated Dungarpur district of Rajasthan, city Water Minister Satyendar Jain has said. A seven-member delegation, led by Jain, was on an official visit here to witness the rainwater-harvesting system that costs just Rs 16,000 as compared to the conventional one, which costs between Rs 50,000 and Rs one lakh per household. Jain said the Dungarpur model was an innovative idea that was centred on routing the rainwater to a bore well, instead of a regular rainwater-harvesting pit. "It is a closed-loop system. The rainwater collected on the rooftop is being routed to the casing of already existing bore wells in households. They have created sand filters in the conduit pipe itself and included a way of backwash too," he told PTI here. Jain said he wanted to witness the system himself as he was sceptical of the model when K K Gupta, the chairman of the Dungar Municipal Council, first told him about it. "I am satisfied now. It is an excellent system. We are going to implement it in Delhi, others should follow it too," the minister said. "Normally, the construction of a rainwater harvesting system costs between Rs 50,000 and Rs one lakh, but the one being implemented in Dungarpur costs just Rs 16,000," he added. Gupta claimed that there will be no shortage of water in Delhi if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government implements the Dungarpur model of water harvesting in the national capital. "The minister could not believe it when I first told him that we have developed a water harvesting system that costs only Rs 16,000. In Delhi, the administration spent lakhs on creating large rainwater-harvesting pits. "Delhi reels under a shortage of water. The issue will be resolved 100 per cent if the city implements this model," he said. Gupta said the Dungarpur administration gives a 50-per cent subsidy per household for installing a rainwater harvesting system. "Effectively, it costs Rs 8,000 per household. We have covered around 400 households and government buildings in the last three years," he said. A government official in Dungarpur said the construction of large water-harvesting pits is not an economically sustainable idea. "Our concept focusses on making the rainwater harvesting system affordable so that more and more people can use it. "Not everyone has the means to pay for an expensive rainwater harvesting system, so most people avoid creating one. The one we have developed cuts the cost drastically and does its job effectively," he said. The official said the system can collect and route 3,000 litres of water per hour if the rainfall is light to moderate. "The conventional system has more storage capacity and the speed of groundwater recharge is slightly better, but most people do not take it up as it is expensive. "If we wanted to create a conventional rainwater harvesting system in Dungarpur, hardly 10 people would have agreed to it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-adopt-dungarpurs-model-of-rainwater-harvesting-says-water-minister-satyendar-jain-913309.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality severe for the fifth day straight, relief unlikely soon||The national capital's air quality remained “severe” for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, with calm wind speed exacerbating the effect of stubble burning. V K Soni, the head of the India Meteorological Department's environment research centre, said a major improvement in Delhi-NCR's air quality was highly unlikely in the coming days. “The air quality is likely to be recorded in the upper end of the 'very poor' category on Diwali if we discount firecrackers emissions. If people burst crackers, pollution levels can increase to 'severe' to 'severe plus' category (emergency),” he said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". An official said the newly-constituted Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas is likely to hold a review meeting on Monday considering the situation. The city's air quality index (AQI) stood at 474 at 11 am, according to Central Pollution Control Board data. Its 24-hour average AQI was 416 on Sunday, 427 on Saturday, 406 on Friday and 450 on Thursday, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 458. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, and Gurugram also recorded “severe” air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 591 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 10 am, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 637 µg/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 levels are considered in the “severe plus” category if their concentration is more than 500 microgram per cubic meter, according to the Graded Response Action Plan for Delhi-NCR notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2017. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores.  The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – were 381 µg/m3 at 11 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe.  According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed was 3 to 4 kilometres per hour in the morning and the minimum temperature 10 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. There was shallow to moderate fog in the morning which led to smog. It reduced visibility to 600 meters at the Safdarjung Observatory, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. He said the situation is likely to continue till November 15 as the wind speed is not expected to pick up significantly. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said a “significant improvement in air quality is not likely” owing to slow wind speed, particularly during night time, and contribution from farm fires.  “The farm fire count over Punjab remains very high which is likely to impact the air quality of Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India,” it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said surface winds have become calm and are predicted to remain so for the next two days. “This is a major factor due to which no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place,” it said. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 29 per cent on Sunday. It was 42 per cent on Thursday, the maximum this season so far. Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi's pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-severe-for-the-fifth-day-straight-relief-unlikely-soon-913320.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Haryana's 75% reservation policy for locals to impact ease of doing business: ACMA||Auto component industry body ACMA on Monday requested the Haryana government to reconsider the 75 per cent employment reservation for locals in private enterprises, saying the move would adversely impact the ease of doing business in the state. On November 5, the state assembly passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill that mandates 75 per cent reservation in factories and other blue-collar jobs in the private sector for locals. Stressing on the need for reconsidering such a provision, ACMA President Deepak Jain said the Indian auto and component industry is a global one and the production not only caters to the domestic demand but also international markets. The Indian component industry today exports more than 25 per cent of its production, with the US and Europe being the leading markets, he added. "Our industry requires a skilled workforce to produce high-quality products that are globally competitive. Hiring in our sector is done on the basis of talent and skills needed by the industry rather than on the domicile of the candidates. "Such a move would not only adversely impact the ease of doing business in the state but also be detrimental to Haryana's image of an industry-friendly state and in attracting future investments," Jain said. Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) is the apex body representing the interest of the Indian auto component industry. Its membership of over 850 manufacturers contributes more than 90 per cent of the auto component industry's turnover in the organised sector. Currently, the turnover of the auto component industry is $57 billion, contributing 2.3 per cent to India's GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryanas-75-reservation-policy-for-locals-to-impact-ease-of-doing-business-acma-913331.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Army officer found dead under mysterious circumstances in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||An Army officer of Major-rank was found dead under mysterious circumstances at the Rashtriya Rifles camp in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Monday morning, police said. The body was found at the camp in the Thanamandi belt of the district and brought to the knowledge of the police, they said. Senior Army and police officers rushed to the spot, and an investigation has been started, the police said. A court of inquiry has been ordered in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-officer-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-913334.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Machil still on to rule out presence of militants: BSF||The BSF on Monday said the operation along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Machil sector, in which four security forces personnel and three militants were killed on Sunday during a failed infiltration bid, was on to rule out the presence of other ultras in the area. Three Army personnel, including an officer, a BSF constable and three militants were killed as the ultras made a failed infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machil sector in north Kashmir's Kupwara district. "The operation is still on. The area comprises a tough terrain and uneven ground. To rule out the presence of any other militant, a sanitisation operation is on in the area. We will satisfy ourselves that no militant is there," Additional Director General of the Border Security Force (BSF) Surinder Pawar said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony of Constable Sudir Sarkar at the BSF STC, Humhama on the outskirts of the city. Pawar said it was an infiltration attempt and not a Border Action Team (BAT) attack. He said the security forces had received inputs about infiltration attempts by militants in the sector a fortnight ago. "We received inputs about 15 days ago that militants will try to infiltrate. So our ambush-cum-patrolling party patrolled the area during the night. Around 1 am (on Sunday), the patrolling party observed some suspicious movement and challenged the militants. The militants retaliated and Constable Sarkar was badly injured. But he fought bravely and killed a militant, before succumbing to the injuries," Pawar said. The ADG, BSF said two other militants fled the spot and the border-guarding force then alerted its other posts and the Army. "With the first light on Sunday, the Army and the BSF launched a joint operation in which the two militants were killed. In the exchange of fire, Army Captain Ashutosh Kumar and two soldiers were also killed," he said. Asked about the status of infiltration this year, Pawar said only 24 to 25 militants have managed to enter the Indian side of the LoC so far this year, compared to the 135 to 140 last year. About 250 to 300 militants are at launchpads across the LoC, waiting to infiltrate, the BSF officer said, adding, "Our counter-infiltration grid is very strong and making improvements to it is a continuous exercise."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/operation-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-machil-still-on-to-rule-out-presence-of-militants-bsf-913339.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar crime file: 22-yr-old woman found dead, 8-yr-old child molested||A 22-year-old woman was found dead near an ancient bridge over a dry rivulet in Chhapar police station area of the Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Monday. The body of the unidentified woman with boy-cut hair was found at a desolate place near ‘Bawan Darrah’ bridge on Sunday, police said, adding nothing was found on the itim's body to identify her. The body has been sent for post-mortem and efforts are on to identify here, the police said. In another incident in the neighbouring Shamli district, an eight-year-old girl was molested by a 21-year-old youth, who was arrested after the incident was reported to the police. The incident occurred in Kairana town of the district where accused Momin lured his neighbour’s daughter to his house and molested her. After the victim's father reported the matter to the police, a case was registered against Momin under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code for using criminal forces to outrage the modesty of the girl child and he was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-crime-file-22-yr-old-woman-found-dead-8-yr-old-child-molested-913343.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Militancy in Kashmir on rise during BJP rule: Mehbooba Mufti||Former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti, Monday claimed that militancy in the Valley witnessed a sharp rise during BJP-rule as “youth prefer to take arms than go to jail.” “The incumbent government is following an iron-fist policy and whosoever speaks against them is being pushed to jail. It is only because of this highhandedness that youth in Kashmir prefer to hold guns rather than going to jail,” she told reporters at her party office in Jammu. The former CM also stated that they want Article 370 back in Jammu and Kashmir and added that BJP will have to return everything snatched from the people of J&K. “The Article 370 and other provisions of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir were not meant for Muslims of Kashmiris alone but were for the entire state and were indeed brought by Maharaja (Hari Singh) to save the Dogra culture,” the PDP president said. “The darkness that started after August 5, 2019, has engulfed the whole region and people in Jammu are too much worried with the sequence of events,” she added. Asked about her controversial remarks over the holding of the national flag, Mehbooba said that she has taken oath on both Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and Constitution of India and will hold both flags together. “The government of India must learn from foreign policy adopted by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and to restore normalcy on borders with Pakistan where innocent people are drying due to firing. I reiterate the slogan of (late) Mufti Mohammad Sayeed for opening of more routes along Indo-Pak borders.” she said. While hitting over the BJP government the former CM said, “Even the sand and clay from rivers of Jammu and Kashmir are being snatched with local people here. Locals of J&K are not getting placed in employment now which is cause of concern and is worrying.” “Look what has happened in America. Trump has gone. So, will the BJP,” she added. Mehbooba lauded the RJD chief and Mahagathbandhan’s CM face in the Bihar elections, Tejaswi Yadav, and said, “I would like to congratulate Tejashwi Yadav. He set the right narrative in the election.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militancy-in-kashmir-on-rise-during-bjp-rule-mehbooba-mufti-913345.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Rape accused kills cousin, implicates victim's family to 'force' compromise||A rape accused allegedly hacked to death his cousin and implicated the family members of the victim in the crime to 'force' them to withdraw the rape case against him. The shocking incident happened in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad district, about 350 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, Naseem Ahmed, a resident of Kundarki area in the district, had allegedly raped a girl of the same locality a few months back. He had been enlarged on bail recently. Ever since his release on bail, Naseem had allegedly been exerting pressure on the rape victim's family to compromise and withdraw the case against him, but they refused. Irked over their refusal, Naseem hatched a conspiracy to kill his 15-year old cousin Sher Mohammed and implicate them in the matter, thinking that it would force them to compromise. As per the plan, Naseem took his cousin out on the pretext of going to the market and hacked him to death after taking him to a secluded place near Agra highway a fortnight back. The boy's beheaded body was recovered later by the cops. Naseem then told the cops that he had seen the members of the rape victim's family with Sher Mohammed on the day he had disappeared.  The CCTV footage and mobile surveillance, however, revealed that the deceased was with Naseem on that day. Police detained Naseem on Sunday and the latter admitted to killing him during interrogation, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-accused-kills-cousin-implicates-victims-family-to-force-compromise-913349.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Terrorist hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch, arms and ammunition recovered||Security forces busted a terrorist hideout and recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Monday, officials said. Based on a specific input, a joint search operation was launched by the special operations group (SoG) of the J-K Police and the 10 Assam Rifles of the Army in the general area of Kirni sector in Poonch early Monday, Senior Superintendent of Police, Poonch, Ramesh Angral said. During the search, he said, a huge bag carrying arms and ammunition and hidden under boulders near the Line of Control was found. The arms and ammunition included four AK-56 rifles, 4 AK magazines, 141 AK rounds, two AGL grenades, two hand-grenades, diaries, one camel bag besides AK accessories and one rucksack, Angral added. He said the initial investigation revealed that the consignment was to be smuggled into the Kashmir Valley for Lashker-e Taiba terrorists. An FIR was registered in police station Poonch in this regard, he said, adding further probe is underway. The operation was conducted under the supervision of Deputy Superintendent of Police, Poonch, Manish Sharma and the 10 Assam Rifles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-arms-and-ammunition-recovered-913350.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya gears up for fourth Deepotsav celebrations||Ayodhya is gearing up for the fourth Deepotsav celebrations started by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in 2017, the first since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the commencement of the Ram temple construction, with preparations going on in full swing to make it a historic and memorable event. The celebrations that went on for five to seven days in the previous years will be held for three days this year. Grand cultural evenings will be organised during the celebrations, with major women participation to promote the "Mission Shakti" campaign. The culture department has prepared a roadmap for this and has started work on it. In order to make the festival a grand success, women artistes from Uttar Pradesh and other states will make Ayodhya a centre of grand celebrations on the occasion of the coronation ceremony of Lord Ram returning from exile, officials said. "The fourth Deepotsav will promote Mission Shakti through its cultural programmes. The theme of the celebrations will be women empowerment. Hundreds of women will showcase their talent in all the events. Not only this, the Ramlila at Ram Katha Park will be organised by women this year and most of the volunteers involved in the lighting of diyas at the main event held on the banks of the Sarayu river will be women," Additional Chief Secretary Awaneesh Awasthi told PTI. Talking to PTI, Ayodhya District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said, "Amidst the echoes and hails of Lord Ram, 5.51 lakh earthen lamps will illuminate the city of Ayodhya. Preparations for the Deepotsav celebrations are on in full swing." The top bureaucracy and police brass of Uttar Pradesh visited Ayodhya on Sunday to take stock of the preparations for the celebrations starting November 13. Officials informed that all the Covid-related protocols will be strictly adhered to and all roads leading to the Sarayu river and Ramjanmabhoomi will be barricaded. Nobody other than the invitees will be allowed at the Deepotsav venue, where the governor and the chief minister will be present, they added. Awasthi said, "This will be the fourth Deepotsav in Ayodhya after it started in 2017. It has been given the status of a state fair. The chief minister has given elaborate instructions for this Deepotsav as for the first time in 492 years, after the apex court mandated in favour of the Ram mandir, the temple of Ram Janmabhoomi will be illuminated with thousands of diyas, along with about 300 other religious sites, including temples, ghats and kunds." "This Deepotsav will be celebrated under the strict guidelines related to Covid-19, maintaining social distancing," he added. Along with Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Information Navneet Sahal, Principal Secretary, Tourism and Culture Mukesh Kumar Meshram, Additional Director General of Police (Law and order) Prashant Kumar, ADG, Lucknow Zone S N Savant, Director General, Tourism GN Ravikumar and Director, Information Shishir were among the government functionaries who visited Ayodhya to take stock of the Deepotsav preparations. The main event will start at 3 pm on November 13. It will be broadcast live on public address systems and showed on 70 LED vans in Ayodhya. State broadcaster Doordarshan will also telecast the live coverage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-gears-up-for-fourth-deepotsav-celebrations-913355.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||7-year-old boy sodomised, accused arrested: UP Police||A seven-year-old child was allegedly sodomised by a youth in a village in Roza area of the district, police said on Monday. Accused Vimal has been arrested on charges of committing the sexual offence against the order of nature, said Shahjahanpur’s Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Kumar. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when the child was grazing goats in a field. Vimal approached the child and offered him Rs 20 to accompany him to a secluded place where he sodomised the child. After the child's family members came to know of the incident, they reported the matter to the police, which arrested the accused from his house on Monday. In the medical examination, the child was found to have been sexually assaulted, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-boy-sodomised-accused-arrested-up-police-913356.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Indore officials free land occupied by 'Computer Baba'||Authorities in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Monday said they have freed 40,000 square feet of land worth Rs 13 crore from alleged encroachment by spiritual leader Namdevdas Tyagi, better known as Computer Baba. Tyagi, who held ministerial status under the previous Congress government in MP as chairman of Nadi Sanrkashan Nyas (River Conservation Trust), is accused of illegal construction on encroached land. He was arrested on Sunday when the administration was removing encroachment from government land in Jamburdi Hapsi village near Indore, during which a rifle and air pistol were found in his ashram. Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Rajesh Rathore on Monday said illegal construction on 20,000 square feet of land adjacent to a temple in the city's super corridor area was demolished, including those carried out on land included in a scheme of Indore Development Authority (IDA). "The market value of this freed land is around Rs 5 crore. In another move, the administration's squad freed 20,000 square feet from the baba's illegal possession in the premises of Shri Dakshin Kali Peeth Trimahavidya temple in Ambikapuri Extension. This land has a market value of Rs 8 crore," he said. The SDM said Baba had illegally occupied the temple premises and constructed five rooms, all of which had been reclaimed now. These rooms were emptied of Baba's possessions but have not been demolished and have been handed over to the residents' association of Ambikapuri Extension Colony for maintenance. "In the approved map of Ambikapur Extension, the place where the temple was built was earmarked for a public garden. However, a temple got built and Computer Baba occupied it," Rathore said. Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Ajaydev Sharma said registry of 3.125 hectares of agricultural land in Ajnod village here has been seized and it showed 'Namdevdas Tyagi aka Computer Baba' as the buyer. "It is clear from this registry that Computer Baba was involved in the purchase of land in his own name as well. An account in the name of Namdevdas Tyagi has also been found in a bank branch in Gandhi Nagar area. We have sought transaction details etc from the bank," Sharma informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-officials-free-land-occupied-by-computer-baba-913359.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti bats for talks with Pakistan, opening of cross-border roads to resolve J&K issue||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday asserted that the dialogue with Pakistan and the stakeholders within J&K and opening of cross-border roads to bring the divided parts together can bring peace and everlasting solution to the problem. Mehbooba Mufti made the assertion while advising the BJP to take a leaf out of former Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's book. The former chief minister warned that militancy is on the rise in the Valley with more youths preferring “militancy over going to jail” after “no middle path was left and voices of dissent silenced through the muzzle of power”. “Attempts are being made to vitiate the atmosphere by politics of hatred and division. The people like us are facing problems to live in Kashmir due to an increase in militancy under their (BJP) rule. “They were saying militancy has finished but the reality is that at least 10 to 15 youth are joining militancy from each village,” Mehbooba told reporters here at the end of her five-day visit to Jammu. It was her first visit to Jammu after release from 14 months of detention under the Pubic Safety Act (PSA) following the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir last year. Asked how it is possible when there is no let-up in Pakistani shelling and mounting civilian casualties, she said, “We have to pick up a leaf from former Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's book.” “Despite the Kargil war and Parliament attack, he entered into a friendship with Pakistan as a result of which the militancy had come down and the border firing also had stopped,” she said. “We have to take a leaf out of that book and start a dialogue with them (Pakistan) and with the stakeholders in J&K. When we can hold eight rounds of talks with China which martyred our 20 soldiers and we did not even raise our finger,” she asserted. "We are talking to them to seek one inch of our land, though they have occupied 100 square km of our land. Why this double standard? They should remember Vajpayee who is also their mentor and act upon his policy book,” Mehbooba said. She said “both sides of Jammu and Kashmir are ours. We have to open the roads to bring the two parts of J&K together and look for an everlasting solution to the J&K problem so that peace returns to the region and China, which is showing aggression, stops.” Mehbooba said she wanted J&K to become a bridge of “peace and friendship” between India and its neighbours. ”The border residents are facing problems every day due to cross-border firing and are unable to work in their land.” The PDP leader said her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed had a vision of opening cross-border roads between the two parts of J&K like Suchet Garh-Sialkot, Srinagar-Kargil-Skardu, Nowshera-Mirpur and Kotli and the solution to the problem lies in the dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-bats-for-talks-with-pakistan-opening-of-cross-border-roads-to-resolve-jk-issue-913362.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Darbar Move: Civil Secretariat reopens in Jammu amid tight security||The Civil Secretariat, the seat of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, reopened in Jammu on Monday as part of the biannual 'Darbar Move' after functioning in Srinagar during the summer season. The nearly 150-year-old practice was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape the summer heat of Jammu and the cold winters in Srinagar. Tight security arrangements have been put in place to ensure smooth functioning of the civil secretariat and other move offices, including the Raj Bhavan and the police headquarters in Jammu, officials said. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha arrived at the Civil Secretariat and inspected the guard of honour in the presence of Director General of Police Dilbag Singh as part of the practice of reopening the Darbar move offices. The state government spends crores of rupees to shift between the two capital cities twice a year, besides paying a similar amount as allowance to the several thousand employees, who shift bases with the government. The COVID-19 pandemic delayed the Darbar Move from Jammu to Srinagar this summer. The Civil Secretariat and other move offices, which observe a five-day week, closed in Srinagar on October 30, while the offices observing six-day weeks closed the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/darbar-move-civil-secretariat-reopens-in-jammu-amid-tight-security-913388.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Deceased woman's photo circulated as Hathras victim's; HC asks Centre why no action on complaint||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Centre as to why no action was taken on a man's plea claiming that his deceased wife's photograph was being wrongly depicted on social media platforms as the victim of UP's Hathras rape case. Justice Navin Chawla noted that the petitioner had sent a representation on October 17 to the Centre but no action has been taken till date. In response to the court's query, central government standing counsel Monika Arora said the man has to first provide certain details, like specific URLs and web pages where the offending content was being displayed, the death certificate of his wife, his Aadhaar card and any FIR lodged by him regarding the issue raised in his plea. The petitioner's counsel told the court that over 200 uniform resource locators (URLs), also termed as web addresses, were provided to the government along with his representation on October 17, but no action has been taken till date. He further contended that the court in its October 13 order had directed the government to take action within three days of receiving the representation. The court asked the petitioner to hand over a copy of his representation to Arora and asked her to do something about it quickly as it was a "grave case". It also directed the government to file its status report within a week and listed the matter for further hearing on November 23. The court on October 13 had said if the man's complaint is found to be correct, the government should act on it expeditiously by issuing necessary directions to Facebook, Google and Twitter in this regard. The man, in his plea, has contended that the photograph of his deceased wife is being circulated on various social media platforms wrongly depicting her as the victim of the unfortunate incident of rape and murder of a young girl at Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. He also argued that even otherwise, revelation of the identity of the rape victim is an offence under the Indian Penal Code, though in the present matter image of a wrong person is in circulation. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deceased-womans-photo-circulated-as-hathras-victims-hc-asks-centre-why-no-action-on-complaint-913396.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Vistara starts operating Delhi-Dehradun flights||Vistara on Monday launched flights on Delhi-Dehradun route, marking its entry into Uttarakhand. "The airline will operate three (Delhi-Dehradun) flights a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays," said the full-service carrier's press release. The carrier said its first flight on Delhi-Dehradun route departed from Delhi at 1.50 pm on Monday and landed in Dehradun at 2.55 pm. Vistara's Chief Commercial Officer Vinod Kannan said, "We see Dehradun as an important addition to our network, given the nature of air traffic to and from the city which includes corporate and leisure travellers, SME owners, students, members of the civil society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vistara-starts-operating-delhi-dehradun-flights-913411.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Will hold tricolour, Jammu and Kashmir flag together: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti on Monday asserted that she will hold the tricolour and the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir together, saying as an MLA she had reaffirmed her faith in the J-K Constitution and the sovereignty and integrity of India as both are inseparable. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister had last month said that she was not interested in contesting elections or holding the national flag till the constitutional changes enforced on August 5 last year were rolled back, sparking protests in Jammu. "We are the people, especially in the Kashmir Valley, who upheld the tricolour high over the years at the cost of thousands of our workers who were martyred," Mufti told reporters here at the end of her five-day visit to Jammu - her first after release from over one-year-long detention under the Pubic Safety Act (PSA). Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, besides the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) without naming it, she said, "Those moving with half pants and where their leader sits do not hoist the tricolour (at their headquarters) and they are giving us lessons on the national flag." She said her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed picked up the national flag when they were being dismissed as 'insects of filthy drain' and subjected to social boycott. "We, including the BJP members, have taken an oath (in the assembly and council) that we will affirm our faith in the Constitution of J-K and will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India. First, it was the J-K Constitution and then the sovereignty and integrity of the country. How is it, they cut one finger and leave the other, it is not right," she said. Asked whether she will hold the tricolour, Mufti said, "I had already replied that I have taken an oath of the J-K Constitution when I became the MLA for the first time and I affirm my faith to the Constitution of J-K and uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India - both of which are interlinked. J-K flag and Indian flag, I will uphold both these flags together." She accused the BJP of "breaking the relations" of Jammu and Kashmir with the country by its last year's decision of abrogating the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcating it into union territories. "I am saying give us our flag and the Constitution back…the merchandise you have looted in the daylight after conspiring under the darkness of the night have to be returned with interest," the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president said. She said the people in Nagaland had recently said they do not accept the flag of this country and the Constitution, why these "half pants" did not take out protest marches against them. "When I said we will raise both the flags, they came out with protests and burnt my effigies but when the people in Nagaland are saying, there is no murmur and discussion on the television,"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-hold-tricolour-jammu-and-kashmir-flag-together-mehbooba-mufti-913416.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Need to strictly enforce laws, SOPs to minimise air pollution: Air quality management panel||The newly-constituted Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Monday stressed on the need for enforcing existing laws, directions and standard operating procedures to minimise air pollution on an emergency basis. The major immediate measures suggested by the commission include minimising the use of personal transport to the extent possible, restricting travel unless absolutely essential and working from home. "Future action will necessitate consultation with various stakeholders. However, at this stage, the commission stresses on the need to strictly enforce existing laws, rules, guidelines, directions and standard operating procedures to minimise air pollution on an emergency basis," it said in a statement. The panel also called for encouraging "coal-using industries in NCR to minimise the use of coal in the coming months" It asked the implementing agencies to strictly enforce laws and rules regarding dust control measures, including at construction sites and burning of municipal solid waste and biomass. Intensifying water sprinkling, particularly in dust prone areas and use of anti-smog guns at pollution hotspots, especially at construction sites, were among the immediate measures suggested by the commission. The blanket of smog over Delhi thickened on Monday, reducing visibility in parts of the city to just 400 metres as the air quality remained "severe" for the fifth consecutive day. Government agencies and experts said calm wind was exacerbating the effect of stubble burning and a "quick recovery" is not possible unless the number of farm fires reduces drastically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-strictly-enforce-laws-sops-to-minimise-air-pollution-air-quality-management-panel-913423.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||LSR student's suicide: Students, women groups stage stir in Delhi||Students and women groups staged protests in Delhi on Monday, demanding justice for a student of the Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women, who allegedly committed suicide last week over concerns of pursuing education in view of the poor financial conditions of her family. Aishwarya, an IAS aspirant, was found hanging at her Shadnagar house in Telangana's Ranga Reddy district on November 2. In a suicide note purportedly written by her, the 19-year-old woman said she did not want to burden her parents with her educational expenses, police said. While members of the Congress-affiliated National Students' Union of India (NSUI) protested outside the residence of Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank", the Left-affiliated All India Students 'Association (AISA) staged an agitation outside the Delhi University's Arts Faculty. According to the police, seven NSUI members were detained for a few hours and a case was registered against them under the Disaster Management Act. "Scholarships are to reward a student's academic achievement and educational prowess. Be it while starting your career or studying in high school to grow new abilities, receiving a scholarship is a prominent achievement. The Indian education system begets issues in it. One of the major issues is the increase in the cost of college, school and university fees," NSUI national secretary Lokesh Chugh said. "The student from Telangana committed suicide after being denied scholarship for over a year by the government. She had written to the administration about the problems she was facing but unfortunately, received no response from the authorities. This is just a recent example of how imperative scholarships are for students. When the government delays the provision of funds to students, it puts them and their families under immense pressure," he added. LSR principal Suman Sharma, however, denied that the student had reached out to the college authorities. "We have a counsellor at the college to help students if they are facing any challenges emotionally or mentally. However, nobody knew about her state of mind. It is unfortunate, we wish she had reached out either to her teachers or the counsellor or anybody in the college," she said. In a statement, the AISA said, "We pledge to stand and struggle in solidarity with all the forces dedicated to deliver justice to the family and the student community. We demand that all the un-disbursed fellowships and scholarships be disbursed immediately to both the grieving family and the student community." The All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) said "in a country where the gross enrolment ratio of girl students into higher educational institutions shows a pathetically skewed figure, a girl such as the LSR student, who struggled to reach Delhi with the dream for education, has been killed". "We believe that the present government ruled by the BJP not only has been criminal in its actions towards Indian students and citizens, but has eroded all principles of justice and equality. It is consistently trampling upon the lives and livelihood of poor people in the country. It is therefore important to rise up against the policies and actions of the government," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lsr-students-suicide-students-women-groups-stage-stir-in-delhi-913468.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||AAP claims 1.25 lakh MCD employees on strike; BJP says 'cooked up' story ||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday claimed that 1.25 lakh employees of the three municipal corporations here are on strike, even as the BJP termed it a "cooked up" story, saying Delhi saw normal work by staff of the civic bodies. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) are led by BJP mayors. The AAP, which is in power in the national capital, also alleged that the BJP is doing politics over salaries of municipal corporation workers to defame the Delhi government. A section of employees of the NDMC are on strike over non-payment of salaries. "Today, 1.25 lakh employees of all three MCDs are on strike for non-payment of salaries, all offices are closed and all work has been stalled," AAP leader Durgesh Pathak told a press conference. He also said that "if you look around Delhi, we will see that there are hundreds of hoardings around the city and if we calculate the total cost of these advertisements, then I think that by this money the salaries could have been paid". But the BJP does not want to do anything constructive, Pathak alleged. "What they want is to politicise the matter and to blame the AAP falsely," he said, adding that on behalf of the AAP, "I just want to tell the BJP that enough is enough". "If they cannot pay salaries of their employees after ruling the MCD for the last 14 years, then they should not have any kind of moral rights to stay in the power. We demand that the BJP should immediately release the salary or (its mayors) should resign from the MCD," Pathak said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor refuted the allegations. "We are shocked and anguished to see AAP leader Durgesh Pathak issuing cooked up stories related to MCDs. Pathak's today's claim of strike in three MCDs is totally false as today Delhi saw normal work by municipal staff," he said. Since early morning sanitation workers are working normally, teachers took online classes, hospital and health centres saw normal work and maintenance department workers could be seen working, and all offices worked at normal strength, Kapoor said. "No doubt civic employees are facing salary problems but the same can be solved tomorrow if the Arvind Kejriwal government releases constitutional municipal funds as due for 2020-21," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-claims-125-lakh-mcd-employees-on-strike-bjp-says-cooked-up-story-913495.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Harish Rawat slams Centre for not resuming goods trains in Punjab||Congress general secretary Harish Rawat on Monday hit out at the Centre for not resuming goods trains in Punjab despite farmers clearing all rail tracks and said it was an "injustice" to the state. The Railways on Saturday declined to resume goods trains in Punjab, saying it will either operate both freight and passenger trains or none. The train services in Punjab are suspended since September 24, when farmers started their "rail roko" agitation against three recently enacted central farm laws. Goods trains resumed briefly after farmer unions announced on October 21 that they would be exempted from their rail blockade. However, the Railways suspended the trains again, saying farmers are still blocking the tracks. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a party event here, Rawat said farmers have lifted their 'dharna' from rail tracks in the state following an appeal from Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. "Despite this the central government has not resumed freight trains in Punjab," he said. Rawat also said the Punjab government and the Congress fully support the farmers opposing the "anti-farmer" laws. The government should listen to the farmers' voices, said Rawat, also the Punjab Congress affairs in-charge. The suspension of goods trains has led to a power crisis as the supply of coal to thermal plants in Punjab has been hit. It has also adversely affected the supply of fertilisers for rabi crops, movement of foodgrain stocks besides impacting the state industry, which is unable to get raw material and send finished goods outside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harish-rawat-slams-centre-for-not-resuming-goods-trains-in-punjab-913509.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||No firecracker ban in Madhya Pradesh but avoid Chinese made: CM Chouhan||There is no ban on bursting of firecrackers in Madhya Pradesh during Diwali but those imported from China and crackers with pictures of deities on their packets can not be sold in the state, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. Chouhan's statement came in the backdrop of some states moving to ban or strictly regulate use of firecrackers this Diwali in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and to curb noise and air pollution. The CM was replying to a Twitter user who wanted to know if the state government has any plan to ban use of firecrackers. Madhya Pradesh is a state of happiness. We never ban happiness here. There is no restriction on firecrackers in the state. "Yes, there is a ban on Chinese firecrackers. Celebrate the return of Lord Rama to Ayodhya, burst firecrackers and celebrate Diwali with great fervour, Chouhan tweeted in the evening. In reply to another Twitter user, Chouhan said, Yes, and one important thing..." "While bursting firecrackers, it must be kept in mind that do not sell or buy fireworks having pictures of any deity. These are completely banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-firecracker-ban-in-madhya-pradesh-but-avoid-chinese-made-cm-chouhan-913531.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||14 killed in separate road accidents in Madhya Pradesh||Fourteen persons, including eleven members of two families, were killed on Monday in three separate road accidents in Madhya Pradesh, police said. These accidents occurred in Satna, Chhatarpur and Katni districts, officials said. In Satna district, seven members of a family, including a child, were killed and five others were injured when their jeep collided with a dumper-truck around 8 am on Satna-Nagod road, about 20 km away from Satna district headquarters, said Additional Superintendent of Police Shailendra Kumar Jain. The victims were returning to Rewa after taking part in a family programme in Panna, he said, adding that the deceased included a child and three women. In Katni district, four members of a family, including two children, were killed when their motorcycle was knocked down by a bus on Katni-Barhi road in afternoon, said Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Shikha Soni. The deceased were returning to their home from their agricultural field when the incident occurred, she said, adding that the bus has been impounded. In another incident, three persons were killed around 8.30 AM when their car fell into a well along Khajuraho- Binaganaj road after hitting a tree, about 40 kms from Chhatarpur district headquarters, said SDOP Manmohan Singh Baghel. The deceased were in the age group of 32 to 35 years, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-madhya-pradesh-913544.html
09-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt sanctions over Rs 19 crore for salaries of employees of four DU colleges||The Delhi government on Monday sanctioned over Rs 19 crore for payment of salaries to staff of four Delhi University colleges funded by it, according to an official order. The funds were sanctioned to Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Bhagini Nivedita College, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Dr BR Ambedkar College. "I am directed to convey sanction for release of funds of Rs 19.40 crore and Rs 1.675 crore under salary and other than salary heads for payment of outstanding salaries to four Delhi University colleges funded by Delhi government," Deputy Director of Higher Education Narender Passi said in the official order. The decision, however, did not placate the Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) which has been at loggerheads with the Aam Aadmi Party dispensation over the release of funds for colleges. "The Delhi Government refuses to acknowledge its role in the precipitation of crisis in these colleges with its obdurate refusal of grants to these colleges, as a result of which the employees of these colleges have been forced to survive without salaries for more than six months," the DUTA said in a statement. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said last week that a special audit of seven DU colleges funded by the Delhi government had revealed serious financial irregularities and violation of University Grants Commission norms. The audit found that these colleges did not release salaries of staff despite having surplus funds, he had said. Sisodia, who is also the education minister, had said the Delhi government was exploring legal proceedings on the basis of the audit, which was conducted following repeated allegations by the colleges that the city government was withholding funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-sanctions-over-rs-19-crore-for-salaries-of-employees-of-four-du-colleges-913545.html
09-11-2020||Opinion||Joe Biden risks slow start without smooth Trump transition||By Mohamed A. El-Erian President-elect Joe Biden is preparing to lead the US at an increasingly troubling time. Americans face a host of challenges, from surging Covid-19 infections and slowing economic growth to worsening inequality and deep political and social divisions. The Biden administration will be under pressure from Day One and would have a better chance at getting off to a strong start if it were afforded a smooth transition. Biden and his team will need to be able to take quick actions, and it would greatly help if they were taken with as full an information set as possible. Biden made it clear in his victory speech on Saturday evening that he is wasting no time in getting ready for the White House, especially when it comes to containing the pandemic. On Monday, he plans to appoint a 12-member task force that will work to create policies for dealing with Covid-19 that could start as soon as he is sworn in on Jan. 20. He is right to make the pandemic his first priority. Daily coronavirus cases have surged past 100,000, suggesting that the US is following the type of path that has forced most of Europe to reimpose various forms of lockdowns in the face of increasingly strained healthcare systems. But that’s only one of the many challenges he must deal with quickly. Even before any new renewed Covid-19 restrictions, US economic data has continued to point to a deceleration. The inequality trifecta – of income, wealth and opportunity – is also worsening, adding to social tensions and an erosion in the country’s longer-term growth and prosperity potential. And the Congressional elections have done little to overcome deep political divisions that were aggravated by the recent disagreements over the nomination and approval of a new Supreme Court justice.  Having united the Democratic party, President-elect Biden now has work to do in dealing with a likely divided Congress and bringing together the American people as a whole. His Congressional challenge involves quickly securing the support of enough lawmakers to pass a fiscal package that goes beyond the important objective of helping with Covid-19 relief. It should also be directed at improving the country’s ability to live with the virus in a healthier and economically-less disruptive manner, and at countering downward pressure on longer-term productivity and household economic security. Biden also needs to get enough of the country behind him in the collective fight against Covid-19 or risk the loss of more lives, greater disruptions to livelihoods, and longer-term economic, institutional and social scarring. Biden’s ability to do these things depends in part on how well the transfer of power takes place in the next few weeks. The experience of the last two transitions points both to the opportunities and challenges. In November 2008, President-elect Barack Obama benefited from the cooperation of the Bush administration as he prepared to take over in the middle of the global financial crisis. Without the intense briefings that took place with then-current White House staff, it would have been very hard for the Obama team to prepare for the series of domestic measures and international interactions that proved essential to avoid a potentially devastating economic depression. It also allowed the Obama administration to hold on to some Bush officials for at least a few months to gain from their expertise. The experience eight years later was less encouraging. While both the Obama administration and the incoming Trump administration blamed each other for the messy 2016 transition, their interaction was not conducive to a smooth transfer of power. And there was little appetite for any carryover in officials, even for the very short term. Fortunately, there was less at stake then, with the economy on the mend and the pandemic only a hypothetical (a remote or tail event). Not so today. Many expect the 2020 presidential transition to be a repeat of 2016 rather than 2008. That would be unfortunate for America, with significant potential consequences in terms of lives and livelihoods. It is also avoidable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joe-biden-risks-slow-start-without-smooth-trump-transition-913287.html
09-11-2020||Opinion||In search of ‘a suitable lingo’||In recent weeks, A Suitable Boy has been in the spotlight. Much ink has been expended over the show’s brevity, whether or not it was true to the printed word, its costumes, acting and much else. While many things about the show deserve praise, the stilted dialogue that sounded unnatural and grating to the ears has been universally panned. Something about it didn’t quite ring true. It sounded inauthentic and fake.  Should the dialogue have been done differently? What were the possibilities? Didn’t the fact that it was an Indian show shot entirely in English compromise it from the beginning? Also, could it be that the dialogues of A Suitable Boy do not lend themselves to being used in everyday conversation which is something we have come to expect from the visual medium? Its convoluted sentences written in the Queen’s English do not suit everyday banter and hence, the chorus of disapproval.  These kinds of questions lead one to ponder over the role of dialogue in films and TV shows and what works and what doesn’t. And what were the unseen elements that influenced language, diction and the other elements that went a long way in endearing a production to its viewers? Dialogue writing as an art form In the documentary, In Search of Guru Dutt (1989) by Nasreen Munni Kabir, writer Abrar Alvi holds forth on how in the movie Mr. and Mrs. 55 (1955), he and Guru Dutt pioneered a zingy way of dialogue-writing and delivery that brought a certain deft touch to this hitherto ignored aspect of film-making.  Two scenes stood out in this respect. In one scene, Lalita Pawar asks Guru Dutt, ‘Kya communist ho?’ and pat comes the reply: ‘Ji nahin, cartoonist.’ This is as Alvi says ‘a phonetic punning on the words’ since a cartoonist could well be a communist, but in writing the dialogue in this manner, the scene acquired a certain everyday feel to it that movies of that time lacked.  Another scene had Guru Dutt mouthing the words ‘Ji haan’ to a series of questions that Pawar fired at him, her fury mounting as he used the same two words, but with subtle differences in tone, to respond.  This was dialogue writing as an art form that used humour and creativity to convey a range of emotions.  A few years prior to Mr. and Mrs. 55, an up and coming writer in the Tamil film industry by name M Karunanidhi had penned powerful dialogue for the movie Parasakthi (1952). This film was a vehicle for the propagation of the Dravidian ideology that questioned the existence of God, railed against caste injustices and encouraged individuals to oppose the establishment. Here, dialogue was used to provoke and educate.  In the ‘70s, especially in the Salim-Javed movies that created the persona of the ‘Angry Young Man’, ‘dialogue-baazi’ often became the device for establishing the brooding persona of Amitabh Bachchan, who literally and figuratively towered over these productions. In turn-of-the-century movies like Satya and Company, a very specific form of the Bambaiyya crime world argot was used, peppered with unusual terms like ‘khoka’ (a crore) and ‘tapkana’ (to kill) to evoke that dark world. This was a stab at authenticity.   Remnants of the colonial mindset?  Which brings us back to the world of A Suitable Boy. Among the things the makers have put out in press interviews are that the accent (and by extension, the dialogue) was done the way it was to reflect that time period. Having determined that a ‘la-di-dah’ accent was necessary to evoke that time, the dialogue was probably then written to suit the accent. In some sense, perhaps the right decision. If the accent had to be so posh, it would have been unimaginable to hear it mouth Hinglish.  Or was it the other way around? Dialogue first, ergo the accent. It doesn’t actually matter. Either way, perhaps what should be up for questioning is the logic itself. By the dictates of this logic, a movie like Shakespeare in Love had to use Shakespearean English to reflect the time period. But it didn’t. With a few archaic expressions, period costumes and sets, the time period was depicted well. Similarly, The Godfather, set in a very particular Italian-American milieu managed fine by retaining its peculiar accents and intonations. It did not seek to use ‘standard American’ (if such a thing even exists).  Why then was it felt necessary to have Indians of the '50s talk with strange accents and in full sentences to 'reflect that time period'? What are the larger forces at play in the minds of the film-makers, scriptwriters and voice coaches? Is it the old colonial mindset that has prompted this unusual turn? Or is it the need to tailor the content to the preference of British audiences (since the show was for a British audience originally) even if the depiction that emerges is a little off? And while it might sound unkind to say it, given that the idea of the British Empire is still popular in Britain despite evidence about how it ravaged Asia and Africa, was this series that unabashedly evoked the tone of Empire, merely pandering to that lowest common denominator? A confident nation produces confident artistes who find creative ways to depict historical circumstances without slipping into caricature and lampooning. It is precisely in this space that the series has fallen short. That it was felt necessary to evoke the period mood through resorting to hackneyed accents and funny-sounding dialogue demands interrogation. It is of a piece with that oh-so-persistent longing for an Oscar to ‘legitimise’ the world credentials of an Indian film.  The home truth that A Suitable Boy has delivered is this: The sun still shines on aspects of the Empire.  (Karthik Venkatesh is a Bengaluru-based editor and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-search-of-a-suitable-lingo-913326.html
09-11-2020||Panorama||China’s coercive territorial aggrandisement  ||The recent trends in Chinese aggrandisement policies have seen the resurgence of the ‘grossraum’ (great space) debate. History has been witness to the Chinese occupation of Tibet in 1950, its salami tactics in the slicing of Aksai Chin and the developments leading to the 1962 Sino-Indian border war.  This was followed by the disastrous Chinese invasion of Vietnam in 1975, its occupation of Johnson Reef in 1988, Mischief Reef in 1995, Scarborough Shoal in 2012, transformation of the geopolitical map in the South China Sea and Beijing’s more recent aggressive postures in Doklam, Naku La, Pangong Lake, Galwan River Valley and Hot Springs. China’s state media has even been churning out stories that the Pamir Mountains in Tajikistan and Mount Everest on the India-Nepal border belong to China.  With the end of the cold war, scholars began to speak of the demise of the days of forceful occupation. However, the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 opened out a new chapter. Russia’s moves in Georgia’s Ossetia and Abkhazia regions in 2008 which was a case of land grab. This was followed by the developments in Eastern Ukraine and the occupation of the Crimean. It is in this context that the concept of territorial aggrandisement calls for a deeper analysis.   Carl Schmitt, a conservative revolutionary, had extended the Grossraum theory in the 1930s and 1940s and his name got linked to Hitler’s expansionist policies.  In 1928, the year the Kellogg-Briand Pact was signed, Schmitt began to ponder over the discrepancies between the illegality of war and the continued validity of military occupation.   Though Schmitt distanced himself from the Nazi justification and theories, his doctrine tended to provide a politico-judicial justification for re-territorialisation, especially that of the Third Reich. The issue is how an ‘empty space’ is re-territorialised. Schmitt’s originality lay in how he translated these ideas/concepts into international law.   Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s wild imagination of coming out with a new political map has been rightly dismissed by the Indian government as Pakistan’s absurdity and obsession with territorial aggrandisement. The map shows the Union Territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir as well as Sir Creek and Junagadh as being part of Pakistan.  The map was released on the occasion of the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370. Pakistan, China and Turkey now seem to be hand-in-glove on J&K. India has objected to all the three interfering in what are clearly India’s internal matters.  India has had to contend with China’s land grab across its borders. China seems to be exploiting the pandemic to double-down on its illegitimate claims.  India faces a dilemma as a result of the Chinese belligerence and cancerous expansion of its territorial outposts. Beijing has been continuously eating into India’s Himalayan borderlands.  An Intelligence Bureau official argues that India has lost almost 2,000 sq kms of land to the Chinese in the last decade alone. China has had to stand cover for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).  Strategic expert Brahma Chellaney terms this as China’s “cabbage approach” to borders. This approach helps Chinese to cut off access to an adversary’s previously controlled territories and gradually surrounds it with civilian and security layers.  Attention needs to be paid also to China’s territorial aggrandisement - in the South China Sea, through physical occupation of land, Beijing is laying out a demarcation line. Some writers refer to it as a ‘maritime insurgency’ and an ‘attacking octopus’. The Chinese have put into place 3,000 m runways, naval berths, hangars, ammunition bunkers, missile silos and radar sites.    Beijing’s belligerent and revisionist attitude, as well as its pretensions to indisputable sovereignty over the Spratly and Paracel islands, is in violation of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Permanent Court of Arbitration’s ruling in the Philippines v China case. The Philippines have a strong case in legally contending that the artificial islands cannot be considered as ‘naturally created’ islands.  Land reclamation Moreover, Manila wants the ‘nine-dash line’ to be invalidated. Beijing’s land reclamation commenced after the ‘critical date’ - the time when the dispute crystallised between Manila and Beijing. Beijing’s attitude constitutes a challenge to the UNCLOS regime.  Even the US is finding it difficult to handle China’s belligerent attitude, given its continental conception of sovereignty. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo termed China’s ‘great wall of sand’ claims as unlawful. The issue is ridden with a variety of legal and strategic implications.  Washington deployed two US Navy guided-missile destroyers to the Paracel and Spratly islands to conduct freedom of navigation operations. Even two aircraft strike groups were deployed for joint operations in the region. All these are meant to demonstrate US’ resolve to protect the freedom of the seas for the US Navy to operate. India has also argued that the South China Sea is part of the global waterways.  Japan also finds itself at the receiving end over the Senkaaku islands. China opines that the nationalisation of these islands by Japan is a “challenge to the post-war order”.  The UN Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East came out with a report in 1969 which indicated the possibility of huge oil reserves in the seabed north of Taiwan. From then on, Beijing argues that the islets are part of the province of Taiwan and hence a part of China.  Japan seeks a solution to the problem based on law, justice and diplomatic decency.  The Chinese seem to have adopted a policy of territorial aggrandisement. By doing so it raises the risk of a conflict in the Indo-pacific region. The opacity of China’s decision-making system further aggravates the situation. The Chinese leadership has mastered the art of executing diplomatic and military aggression for the sake of territorial aggrandisement. For the Chinese, territorial aggrandisement seems to be an indulgence thereby keeping the tenets of ‘grossraum’ alive and kicking.   (The writer is former Dean, Faculty of Arts, Bangalore University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/china-s-coercive-territorial-aggrandisement-913177.html
09-11-2020||Panorama||Off The Record-9 November||Perfect timing On Saturday, Kerala PCC president held a press conference to brief the media about the strategy of the Congress-led United Democratic Front for the local body polls to be held next month. He said that UDF’s slogan during the campaign would be ‘one vote against corruption’. In what could be considered perfect timing, at the same time Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin was arrested by the police in connection with cheating hundreds of people who invested in his jewellery business. Kamaruddin, a member of Indian Union Muslim League is a key ally of Congress, the development has taken the shine off UDF’s slogan. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  A meeting, a request Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit met the top brass of the Union Government last week during his visit to New Delhi. Though the visit was primarily to consult the Centre on issues related to the state, Purohit seems to have surprised Delhi by seeking a transfer. It has been three years since he came to Chennai and the former journalist wants to now leave Tamil Nadu and settle in a “politically peaceful state.” Stumped by Governor’s sudden request, the top brass has asked him to wait for some time. The Governor is under fire from Opposition parties on a slew of issues. E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai  Mixed feelings  The CPI(M) Central Committee finally gave its nod for the party to enter into an electoral understanding with Congress in the Assembly elections scheduled next year. So far, the Prakash Karat-led faction, which is supported by the Kerala unit, wanted no truck with Congress. However, with the political situation changing, they came around to the party General Secretary Sitaram Yechury’s line to engage with all secular parties, including Congress, to take on the BJP. With the Kerala lobby coming out in full support, it was expected that there would be not a single dissenting voice. There were reports that at least three voted against the move, but this claim was rebutted by the party leadership. It seems the anti-Congress sentiment is still being harboured by some comrades as around 10 leaders, including a few from Kerala, abstained from voting. Shemin Joy, New Delhi In the name of the farmer The rising prices of pulses and vegetables are pinching the common man. However, the Modi government claims that the increase in food grain prices, particularly pulses and coarse grains, is due to the hike in minimum support price, which has been aligned with the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee report. The agricultural scientist had recommended fixing MSP at 1.5 times the cost of production incurred by the farmer. Senior ministers in the government claim that farmers were the direct beneficiaries of the increase in prices and not the middlemen as was the case during previous regimes. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi History with Bollywood  The entertainment industry is like a family, said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as he shared his family’s relationship with Mumbai’s Tinseltown. “My father (the late Shiv Sena supremo, Balasaheb Thackeray) made showcards for film studios. He was an artist, cartoonist. My uncle (the late Shrikant Thackeray) was a music director,” he said, adding that they had friendly relations with several other top stars. “Stars like Dev Anand, Raj Kapoor, Dilip Kumar, Dharmendra, Rajesh Khanna were regular visitors,” he said, adding that he had accompanied his uncle to recording studios and seen Mohammed Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Mukesh and Manna Dey. He recalled how late Dev Anand had called him, “as soon as the coloured version of the film (Hum Dono) was released, he called me. Uddhav kidhar ho? (Uddhav where are you?) I was not even the chief minister then. I was just among the invitees, sitting at the back,” the CM said, adding, “such was the relationship.”  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-9-november-913178.html
09-11-2020||Panorama||The right approach to life||According to the creation plan of Almighty God, human beings are placed in situations where they have to face hardships from time to time in their lives. Everyone knows that life is not a bed of roses and one has to struggle hard. Difficulty and sadness are integral parts of creation and of the creator. No man has the power to extricate himself from this life of trial and tribulations. This arrangement is to remind man of the fact that the present world has not been for luxury and comfort but rather as a period of trial which will help to find whether he is eligible for eternal life in paradise. In spite of the tremendous development, adverse conditions still exist. Owing to their lack of awareness of God’s creation plan, they do not understand why this is the condition. So, they continue to react negatively to the situations and by giving such a response, prove themselves in the eyes of God to be failures. On the contrary, reacting positively to such situations leads to passing the test. In short, a soul of paradise is one that has opted for the way of forgiveness in moments of anger, temper, brawling, who has converted sentiments of jealousy into those of well-wishing, who has converted negativity into positivity. Who has converted hatred into love, who has diffused tensions, instead of causing them to mount, on the day of judgment shall you be paid full recompense. Only he who is saved far from the fire and admitted to the garden will have attained the object of life: for the life of this world is but goods and chattels of deception. (AL QURAN 3:185) . It is said in Bhagavat Gita’s second chapter, that which is born must die and that which dies must be reborn. The soul before taking any new life will have to pass through a test and there will be accountability on the day of judgment by the creator. According to his merits and demerits, he will be given a new life. Even Jesus Christ said the man has to face an accountability test after death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-right-approach-to-life-913179.html
09-11-2020||Panorama||Joy in India as Joe Biden and Harris win, but questions too||From the moment the sun came up in Thulasendrapuram, in Tamil Nadu, people started stringing firecrackers across the road. They poured into the temple and wrote exuberant messages in big, happy letters in front of their homes, like this one: “Congratulations Kamala Harris, pride of our village.” If there was one place in India that relished the triumph of Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Harris, his running mate, in America’s presidential election, it was Thulasendrapuram, the hamlet where Harris’s grandfather was born more than 100 years ago. Her name is scrawled on a board by the temple. People there love her and identify strongly with her. For four days, Thulasendrapuram’s 500 or so residents had been waiting anxiously. They’d been praying at the temple, draping Hindu idols with rose petals and strings of sweet-smelling jasmine, and alternately searching for good omens and checking their cellphones for the latest updates. On Sunday, a wave of joy burst. “Kamala has made this village very proud,” said Renganathan, a farmer, who rushed to the village’s main temple. “She’s a great lady and an inspiration. She belongs to this soil.” Although Harris has been more understated about her Indian heritage than about her experience as a Black woman, her path to the vice presidency has also been guided by the values of her Indian-born mother and her wider Indian family, who have stood by her all her life. In several major speeches, Harris has gushed about her Indian grandfather, P.V. Gopalan, who inspired her with his stories about the fight for India’s independence. Her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who went to America young and alone in the late 1950s and made a career as a breast cancer researcher before dying of cancer in 2009, remains one of the people Harris talks about most. In her victory speech in Delaware on Saturday, Harris said her mother was “the woman most responsible for my presence here today.” “When she came here from India at the age of 19, she maybe didn’t quite imagine this moment,”  Harris said. “But she believed so deeply in an America where a moment like this is possible.” Indians have been watching this election extremely closely, less because of Harris’s heritage than for what it might portend for India-United States relations. In the past few months, the two countries, the world’s largest democracies, have drawn closer. Part of the reason is China. Since Chinese troops surged across the disputed India-China border in June, sparking clashes that killed more than 20 Indian soldiers, the United States and India have bolstered their military relationship, sharing more intelligence and planning more coordinated training exercises, both sides motivated by a desire to contain China. How things will change under a Biden-Harris administration is the big question Indians are now asking. The incoming administration is definitely much more familiar with India. Harris spent a lot of time in India as a young woman, visiting family and developing a fondness for Indian food and culture. And Biden, even before he was President Barack Obama’s vice president, was a champion for India in the Senate, pushing hard for a nuclear deal between the two nations. Biden has also promised to allow more visas for skilled immigrant workers, which President Trump drastically reduced, and Indian workers could benefit enormously from that. But foreign policy experts expect that the Biden-Harris team will also be tougher on India. They say that the policies of the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, have made life more difficult for Muslims in the country, and while the Trump administration has kept quiet about changes in Kashmir and the passage of a new, blatantly anti-Muslim citizenship law, Harris and Biden are likely to be more critical. Harris has already indicated that she is concerned about the way India has tightened control over Kashmir, a Muslim-majority territory that is disputed between India and Pakistan. People who know her well expect her to speak up more. “Kamala is a very strong personality who feels very strongly about certain issues like human and civil rights,” her uncle G. Balachandran, said by telephone from his house in New Delhi on Sunday morning. “She may say things if she feels India is going against humanitarian rights.” Most analysts believe that human rights overall will probably get more attention under a Biden administration, which might make Modi nervous. Shortly after midnight, Modi tweeted his congratulations to Biden and Harris. “Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans,” he wrote in a separate message to Harris, using a Tamil term of endearment for aunts that she herself used in her speech accepting the vice-presidential nomination in August. A handful of Harris’s relatives still live in India, including an aunt who has been in her corner for years. She once lined up 108 coconuts to be smashed at a Hindu temple to bring Harris good luck in a race for California attorney general. (Harris won that election, by the slimmest of margins.) But Harris’s grandfather left the ancestral village of Thulasendrapuram, more than 80 years ago. She no longer has close relatives there. Still, that’s not stopping the village from hatching big plans. Some people are hoping the government will now build a college there, a wish the village has been making for years. Others say Harris’s ascension might bring a better road. Or at least some more donations for the temple. On Sunday, packs of women in bright saris thronged the temple, carrying buckets of freshly made sweets. The smell of gunpowder hung in the air, from all the firecrackers. A light rain fell. “From the moment she announced that she was a candidate, we have been praying,” said Arul Mozhi Sudhakar, a village councilor. “God has been listening to our prayers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/joy-in-india-as-joe-biden-and-harris-win-but-questions-too-913200.html
09-11-2020||Right in the Middle||My encounter with squirrels||One early morning, after waking up from my bed, I strolled out to the veranda. Still drowsy, gazing around me. Birds were perched cosily on the trees in our compound, chirping incessantly. The morning zephyrs were drawing swarms of butterflies that flitted about around blooms joyfully. I was engrossed in eying these enchanting spectacles of nature, having shed my drowse, when all of a sudden, I was yanked out of my aesthetic delights with my gaze being drawn to our compound-wall, where appeared, to my immense amazement, a tiny creature, wheat-hued with black eyes, puny mouth, tender limbs and a bushy, constantly-swinging tail. A little squirrel squatted there with its beady, roving eyes riveted on me. Suddenly, it began scurrying on the wall at lightning speed towards our guava tree. In no time, scampering into the leaves of the tree, it simply vanished. I presumed that it would not be spotted again, but surprisingly, it made its appearance once again on the compound wall. This time it had a guava clasped in its hands. The squirrel was uncannily spitting out tiny pieces from the bitten guava. I could not figure out why it indulged in such funny deeds, instead of eating the guava. While I was struggling to decipher this strange act, there came running another squirrel onto the compound-wall. The first squirrel, abandoning its nibbling, launched into chasing the new squirrel. In a few minutes, I noticed the swift chasing of the two squirrels on the wall. I wondered whether they were fighting for the guava, but I found no guava in the hands of the first squirrel. Now the squirrels, squeaking all the way, were racing up the guava tree, up to the terrace of the house, down the tree, into the foliage of the tree, on to the compound-wall. As I watched the two squirrels scampering on the ground, so near to me, I experienced a unique joy springing in my heart. ''What is all this? What are these squirrels doing?” I wondered. "Maybe, they are playing a funny sport, or they are courting each other, ” I surmised. Racing on the ground for a while, the squirrels clambered to the compound-wall and after making a few more rounds, both vanished. With the unbounded joy generated by this beautiful, morning encounter with squirrels--the tiny beauties of nature. I rose from the veranda of our house and stepped into a pleasant morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-encounter-with-squirrels-913176.html
09-11-2020||Second Edit||Important milestone in US history||Joe Biden’s victory in the US presidential election is historic for many reasons. He has won the largest number of votes ever in the US history. While votes are still being counted in some states, Biden has not only won the popular vote but also a majority in the electoral college. The victory of Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, is even more path-breaking as she will be the first woman and the first person of colour in US history to be elected vice-president. Her win signifies the shattering of what were till now impregnable glass ceilings in American elections: gender and race. The Biden-Harris victory is an important milestone in American history as it has brought to an end one of its most controversial periods: the Donald Trump presidency. Under President Trump, the stature of the American presidency, US democratic institutions and values as well as standards of governance and public decency plunged to historic lows. Never before in history has the American president been more ridiculed by American citizens and the world. Millions of Americans will heave a sigh of relief that Trump’s divisive and destructive presidency has finally come to an end. The decency and commitment to democratic and inclusive values that Biden and Harris signified earned them the votes of youth, Blacks and suburban voters. But ultimately, Trump defeated himself; his incompetent leadership especially through the Covid-19 pandemic drove Americans to vote against him in enough numbers to oust him from power. Biden’s victory is unprecedented for another reason; Trump has refused to concede defeat so far in contrast to the long-standing American tradition of defeated candidates conceding defeat once the result was obvious and even after the most acrimonious campaigns. Trump also continues to question the validity of vote counts, undermining the prestige of the country’s democratic processes. There is concern that his turning to the courts to challenge the electoral verdict and the looming possibility of his supporters unleashing violence will jeopardise peaceful transfer of power, a vital principle of democracy. Trump has been defeated but not Trumpism, the ideology that defined his governance as president. White supremacist views, xenophobia, crony capitalism, the politics of hate and humiliation and misogyny which defined his views and those of his supporters continues to thrive. Biden has won but Trumpism has not been repudiated robustly enough as evident from the fact that almost half the number of Americans who voted in the presidential election supported Trump. This is reason for alarm as governing a country that is so deeply and bitterly polarised as America is today will not be easy. President-elect Biden faces daunting challenges ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/important-milestone-in-us-history-913173.html
09-11-2020||South||Telangana's Dubbak bypoll counting on Tuesday||Counting of votes polled in the bye-election to the Dubbak Assembly constituency, witnessing a three-cornered contest involving the ruling TRS and opposition BJP and Congress, will be taken up on Tuesday. Tight security measures have been put in place for the counting of votes, with the Siddipet police having made elaborate arrangements to thwart any untoward incident, a senior official said. "Around 500 policemen have been deployed to oversee security arrangements," Police Commissioner Joel Davis said on Monday. A good voter turnout of about 82 per cent was recorded on the polling day on November 3. The bypoll was necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy due to health problems in August this year. His widow Solipeta Sujatha is the ruling party's choice. K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS has a massive majority of 100 MLAs in the 120-member House and a win here would only further consolidate its hold in the state politics. However, a win for the Congress or the BJP should come as a morale-booster to the respective national party, especially ahead of the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. While the Congress has fielded Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, who jumped ship from TRS just ahead of the bypoll, the BJP had nominated M Raghunandan Rao, who lost from herein the 2018 Assembly elections. Though 20 others are also in the fray, the contest is virtually confined between TRS, Congress and the BJP. The outcome of the bypoll would give the winning party the much needed morale booster ahead of the GHMC polls. In the 120-member house, which includes a nominated Anglo-Indian legislator, Congress has six MLAs while the BJP has one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-dubbak-bypoll-counting-on-tuesday-913352.html
09-11-2020||South||IIT-M researchers develop technology to enhance industrial ovens||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) here have developed a disruptive sensor technology that is expected to greatly enhance efficiency of industrial ovens in fertiliser, petrochemical, chemical, and manufacturing sectors. Known as ‘μTMapS’ (or) ‘Multi Point Temperature Measurement Sensor,’ the researchers say, provides automated and intelligent measurements that can replace existing heat process control systems that cause expensive forced shutdowns and early retirement of components well before its designed life. Patented in India and the US, this technology also generates data in real-time through Industrial Internet of Technology (IoT) devices, which will provide inputs to the industry to greatly improve their manufacturing processes and enhance their process efficiency. The Ultrasonic Waves-based temperature Measurement Sensors can accurately measure temperatures in the range of -100°C to 1,400°C. “Any industry that uses a lot of heat to process materials such as metals or polymers has to ensure that the entire furnace has a uniform temperature across the board. This is critical to reducing defective products. However, existing technologies for this purpose have a lot of gaps and our Research Team at Centre for Non-destructive Evaluation set out to address these gaps,” Prof. Krishnan Balasubramaniam, Institute Professor, and Head, Centre for Non-destructive Evaluation, IIT Madras, said, He said the technology has been licenced to an IIT Madras-incubated start-up called ‘Xyma Analytics,’ which has been field testing the technology for the past one year in Indian industries to establish its reliability, performance and benefits. "We plan to commercially introduce this technology for Indian and foreign manufacturing industries within the next one year," Prof. Krishnan Balasubramaniam added. The data generated by these sensors can be processed through Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to develop better designs for ovens and furnaces that can greatly reduce the cost and enhance efficiency for industries, the researchers said. Dr. Nishanth Raja, Chief Executive Officer, XYMA Analytics, said the company was looking at Indian and foreign markets, targeting industries that need industrial ovens at temperatures above 50°C. "Our targets are refineries, fertiliser, petrochemical, chemical and manufacturing industries such as metal, steel, aluminium, glass, polymer and copper. The semiconductor industry is also of great interest to us as temperature control is important for this industry too," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-researchers-develop-technology-to-enhance-industrial-ovens-913368.html
09-11-2020||South||Journalist hacked to death by gang near Chennai||In a shocking incident, a 29-year-old journalist working with a Tamil television channel was hacked to death on Sunday night outside his home in neighbouring Kanchipuram district by a gang, which was reportedly upset with his coverage on their illegal sale of land. G Moses, who was working as Sriperumbudur reporter with Tamizhan TV, was at his home in Nallur village, when one Manoj called him on his mobile phone at around 10.30 pm on Sunday and asked him to come out. A few minutes later, Moses' father J Gnanaraj Jesudasan, also a journalist by profession, rushed out of his home after hearing his son screaming for help. His father told the media that two people hacked his son to death, while Manoj, who had dialled his son a few minutes earlier, escaped from the spot. Jesudasan said his son did not file a police complaint despite being harassed by the group that hacked him to death, but only informed the police “orally.” Moses died on his way to Chromepet Government Hospital on the outskirts of Chennai. Hours after the incident, the Kanchipuram district police arrested four people – Manoj, Navamani, Vignesh, and Venkatesh – for Moses' murder. The culprits had been suspecting Moses of passing on information to the police, villagers said. D Shanmugapriya, Superintendent of Police (SP), Kanchipuram, confirmed that Moses had tipped-off police about a robbery incident in the past. “Within two hours of the incident, we have nabbed three people who were involved in the incident and the other person who hatched the conspiracy. The investigation is on and prima facie it appears personal vengeance is the reason for the murder. The gang and the reporter have had problems over land deals,” Shanmugapriya told DH. A J B Sagayaraj, President of Working Journalists Union of India and Chief Reporter of Tamizhan TV, told DH that Moses had been exposing illegal sale of poramboke land and sale of ganja in his area. “He was a very committed journalist and he worked with us for eight years. We would have lodged a police complaint if Moses had informed us of the threats he was receiving. He never told us. This is a cold-blooded murder and government should ensure that the guilty are punished,” he said, and demanded a legislation to prevent attack on journalists. Jesudasan said his son had done detailed reports on illegal sale of ganja and land grabbing in the region and had been receiving threats from groups involved in such activities. “My son had exposed several land grabbing activities by the gang in our village. He was targeted by them for the past few months and today he is no more,” Jesudasan said. Meanwhile, DMK President M K Stalin condemned the incident and expressed shock over Moses' murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/journalist-hacked-to-death-by-gang-near-chennai-913386.html
09-11-2020||South||Kerala capital sees emergence of apolitical forum, with an eye on development||Kerala's capital Thiruvananthapuram is witnessing the emergence of a new movement of professionals for the development of the city, which has been triggered by the objections raised by the mainstream political parties against the city airport's privatisation, among several other airports in the country. Titled 'Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnetam' (TVM), meaning Thiruvananthapuram development movement, the forum plans to field candidates in the elections to the Thiruvananthapuram corporation next month. Twenty20, a people's initiative backed by the CSR activities of a corporate firm at Kizhakambalam in the outskirts of Kochi, that won 17 of the 19 local body seats in 2015 is an inspiration to TVM. Bodies like Confederation of Indian Industry, Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India and Trivandrum Agenda Task Force are taking the lead and known persons like founder chief executive officer of Tehnopark, G Vijayaraghavan, are in the forefront of the initiative. TVM aims at winning at least 35 seats in the 100 seat Thiruvananthapuram corporation so that it could emerge as a decisive force. The forum had its origin when the ruling CPM-led left front and the main opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala vehemently opposed leasing out of Thiruvananthapuram international airport to private parties. While the political party leaders justified their stand maintaining that they were not against privatisation but only acting as per the people's will, many prominent personalities of the civil society flayed the government stand. Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry president S N Raghuchandran Nair, who is one of the spokespersons of TVM, told DH that the fresh initiative is the urge of the local people for the development of the state capital. Though the state capital had huge potential for development, political parties were showing neglect. Hence TVM is a mark of protest also. TVM plans to field young well educated youth in the fray. The considerable techie voters who generally abstain from voting, and residents of flats are the major target of the forum. The forum would be rolling out its development agenda soon. The move of TVM is a cause for concern for the main stream political parties as no parties had a clear majority in the city corporation in the 2015 elections. The left-front had been ruling the corporation over the last several terms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-capital-sees-emergence-of-apolitical-forum-with-an-eye-on-development-913410.html
09-11-2020||South||Outpatient services through tele-medicine platform for Covid-19 patients||As coronavirus is yet to be contained completely, people can now avail themselves of Covid-19 outpatient services through a tele-medicine platform e-Sanjeevani. People, suffering from the virus infection, and those with post-Covid-19 syndrome can use the service, state Health Minister K K Shylaja said here on Monday. It is essential to seek treatment either directly or through the e-sanjeevani if any related health problem is found in those recovered from the coronavirus. "The OP service is available daily between 9 am and 5 pm via e-sanjeevani outpatient department. Those suffering from any health issues even after getting rid of the infection should make maximum use of this platformand seek expert treatment," she said. It would be a great help not only for those suffering from the disease but also for those who are tested negative for the infection and those suspecting to have infected with the coronavirus, she said. Virtual screening, treatment and reference are possible through the platform. Specially-trained doctors are conducting the OPs. Stating that post-Covid syndrome is one of the most important issues when it comes to the impact of the infection, the Minister said the state Health Department had already opened post-Covid-19 syndrome clinics in hospitals. "However, many still find it difficult to go directly to the hospitals. That's why the OP clinics are opened through the e-sanjeevani platform also," Shylaja added. e-sanjeevani is a consultation platform that allows people to get treatment without having to go hospitals during the time of the pandemic. It helps people to avoid unnecessary hospital visits during the Covid-19 pandemic and thereby ensure expert treatment at home. The state government hadbecome part of the e-Sanjeevani as asustainable solution for non-Covid-19 patient care while avoiding direct interface with doctors during the Covid-19 crisis. Developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), the app, offering high-utility features, was launched on June 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/outpatient-services-through-tele-medicine-platform-for-covid-19-patients-913450.html
09-11-2020||South||DMK chief Stalin writes to Kamala Harris in Tamil, recalls her links to Tamil Nadu||DMK president M K Stalin on Monday wrote to US vice-president elect Kamala Harris in Tamil recalling her links to Tamil Nadu and expressed confidence that she would bring more laurels to America during her tenure. Wishing and greeting her with 'Vanakkam,' Stalin said it was a matter of pride for the state's people that America's first woman vice-president has a link to Tamil Nadu as her mother hailed from the state. He said he chose to write in Tamil since it would bring more happiness to her, the mother tongue of her mother Shymala Gopalan Harris. Her victory has given the Dravidian movement a sense of confidence, which believed in an egalitarian society and gender equality, he said in the letter, a copy of which was also posted on his Facebook page. The DMK chief said Harris's victory through hard work and her outlook has proved that a woman with Tamil roots is qualified to govern even the United States of America. "Let your tenure bring more laurels to America and herald the pride of Tamil heritage to the world," he said adding Tamil Nadu looked forward to her visit. He expressed his happiness over her election and lauded her for her victory. Kamala Harris's mother Shyamala Gopalan's family hails from Thulasenthirapuram and Painganadu in Tamil Nadu's Tiruvarur District. The ancestral villages of Kamala Harris on Sunday erupted in joy over the Democrat Senator's elevation and ushered in an early Deepavali with firecrackers and sweets to celebrate her win.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chief-stalin-writes-to-kamala-harris-in-tamil-recalls-her-links-to-tamil-nadu-913462.html
09-11-2020||South||'Miyawaki Method' produces lush green patches in Chennai||Lush green micro-forests with native trees in key localities of Chennai. Sounds Good. Isn't it? This is what the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is doing as part of its efforts to expand green cover in the metropolis by creating micro-forests using the famous 'Miyawaki Method', conceived first by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki. Three such micro-forests with dense plantations have already come up in this metropolis in Kotturpuram, Valasaravakkam, and Mugalivakkam. Buoyed by the success in the first two places, the GCC is now on fill-swing to create Miyawaki Forests in more localities across the city. The civic body feels the initiative will not just have an impact on the micro-climate but also help create awareness among people on planting saplings. The first success came in Kotturpuram, where the GCC converted an abandoned land measuring 2,300 square meters into a lush green forest, in just about eight months. The empty land was an eyesore as people dumped garbage there but the GCC, using the Miyawaki method, transformed it by planting over 2,000 saplings. "The area now looks like a forest with green cover all over. The aim is to have small green patches in parts of the city. This will help people understand the need for green cover and plant saplings in and around their houses. Miyawaki forests will certainly have an impact on the micro-climate in the immediate periphery," Alby John, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), GCC, told DH. People who cross what was a "dumping site" once now slow down their vehicles to look at at the micro-forest. Officials and environmentalists said the Miyawaki forests can be created anywhere by people which will not bring in a remarkable change in terms of climate in the whole of the city but will help improve microclimate same in limited space. "Replenishing the soil and dense plantation of native trees help creating the micro-forests. If the soil is depleted, it loses its original nutrients and it is of no use. Replenishing the soil helps grow the trees that are planted. The success in Kotturpuram has inspired us to create more such micro-forests in many other localities in the city," John added. The GCC also plans to open up these micro-forests as recreational areas for communities who live close-by after a few months. "We have closed it for the people now as we want to ensure unhindered growth of plants. We have set up walkways in the outer perimeter of the forests that will serve as a public green space," the bureaucrat said. The GCC has plans to create at least another 10 such micro-forests through the Miyawaki method, which refers to restoration of native forests from seeds of native trees on degraded soils. Abandoned and unused lands are being identified for converting them into such forests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/miyawaki-method-produces-lush-green-patches-in-chennai-913488.html
09-11-2020||South||Many on Sabarimala duty test Covid-19 positive despite stringent norms||Despite the stringent Covid-19 protocol, at least ten people including a few temple employees and police personnel on duty at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala for the week-long monthly pooja last month have tested coronavirus positive. This has prompted the state government to enhance the Covid-19 protocol for the two month-long pilgrimage beginning from November 15. The fresh norm that stipulates a Covid-19 negative test result will be done 24 hours prior to reaching the Nilakkal base camp, which was 48 hours during last month, forcing most devotees from other states to conduct tests after reaching Kerala. A series of facilities for conducting the antigen test will be set up in the state and the rate is fixed at Rs. 625. A health department official told DH that at least three temple employees and police personnel were among those tested Covid-19 positive after the monthly pooja in October. Hence the protocols have been tightened. N Vasu, president of the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple, said that the employees who have tested positive are those engaged who were at Pamba base camp. A few police personnel on duty have also tested positive. But there is no conclusive evidence that they got infected while being on Sabarimala duty. Health department sources said that antigen test reports are not conclusive and hence allowing devotees based on Covid-negative test results pose a risk of the infection spreading. After the lockdown, pilgrims were allowed at Sabarimala only from October 17 to 21 for the pooja. A Covid-19 negative test result obtained within 48 hours of trekking or mandatory testing at the base camp was required. Only a few tested positive and prevented from proceeding to the temple. The fresh guidelines for the annual pilgrimage include advisories like sanitising hands every 30 minutes, maintaining six feet physical distance with others and wearing face masks whenever possible. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 are also advised to undergo a graded exercise program and pulmonary rehabilitation program before embarking on the pilgrimage. Only 1000 pilgrims will be allowed on weekdays, 2000 on holidays and 5,000 on special occasions. Entry would be allowed only through the existing virtual queue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/many-on-sabarimala-duty-test-covid-19-positive-despite-stringent-norms-913499.html
09-11-2020||South||After NIA and ED, K T Jaleel quizzed by Customs too||Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel has been quizzed by the Customs at Kochi in Kerala on Monday morning. Jaleel was quizzed mainly in connection with importing 18 tonnes dates and religious materials weighing around 4.5 tonnes from UAE by the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram by availing tax exemptions. The quizzing that began in the morning lasted till evening. Jaleel has been quizzed by the NIA and Enforcement Directorate earlier. Gold smuggling case accused and former employee of consulate Swapna Suresh is found to be in touch with Jaleel. He also faced allegations of accepting Ramzan relief kits from the consulate and distributing it at his native place and constituency. Jaleel said in a social media post soon after leaving the Customs office that even as thousands of investigation agencies are conducting probe against him, they would not be able to find any evidence against him as he is confident that he did not indulge in any unlawful act. Meanwhile, a probe is likely to be conducted into the Ph.D. thesis of Jaleel from Kerala University. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the chancellor, directed the University authorities to take follow-up action on a petition filed by a forum alleging that there was not much contribution of Jaleel in the thesis done in 2006. The thesis was based on the Malabar rebellion of 1921.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-nia-and-ed-k-t-jaleel-quizzed-by-customs-too-913506.html
09-11-2020||South||Manjeshwar MLA Kamaruddin sent to police custody in connection with cheating case||Majeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin has been sent to two-day police custody for further investigation into the cheating case against him. A local court in Kasargod sent the MLA to police custody. His bail application will be considered on Wednesday. He was arrested by the police on Saturday as over 100 cases were registered against him in connection with allegedly cheating those who invested over Rs 15 crore in his jewellery business. He is a leader of the IUML, which is a key ally of Congress-led United Democratic Front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/manjeshwar-mla-kamaruddin-sent-to-police-custody-in-connection-with-cheating-case-913518.html
09-11-2020||South||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja features on Vogue India for handling of Covid-19||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja has been featured by Vogue India in Women of the Year 2020 series considering the state's handling of Covid-19. The fashion and lifestyle magazine had also put Shailaja's picture on its cover and social media handle. During her tenure, Kerala’s minister of health and social justice managed to control the infectious Nipah virus first, and then the coronavirus pandemic. Now, her name features among the small set of women in power who are lauded globally for their response to the crisis, says the magazine. Shailaja earlier received an honour from UN as she was invited to speak on United Nations Public Service Day among several leaders from various countries. She received appreciations from many during the online event. Many international media had also appreciated Shailaja and was even called as the 'Corona virus slayer'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-features-on-vogue-india-for-handling-of-covid-19-913542.html
09-11-2020||State||Over 20,000 trees in Karnataka to be axed for Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway||As many as 20,748 trees in Karnataka limits will have to make way for the proposed Bengaluru-Chennai eight-lane Expressway under Phase 1 (71 km) of the project, which extends to the Tamil Nadu border. The land acquisition for the road will affect nearly 30,000 people. The expressway, whose total length is 330 km, will be constructed in three phases. The first phase starts from the edge of Bengaluru and ends near Bethamangala near Mulbagal. The biggest loser of greenery is the dry regions of Kolar where 16,049 (85%) of the trees are located in the ‘right of way’ (ROW) of the road. These include 9,805 horticultural trees. Bengaluru Rural district will lose 4,699 trees, of which 2,837 are horticultural. While the felling of eucalyptus — seen as Kolar’s curse — won’t make much impact, the loss of mango, coconut, teak, guava, neem, tamarind and other trees is likely to change the landscape, not to mention the livelihood of farmers. The alignment of Phase I passes through areas under the limits of 72 villages. A total of 5,611 families comprising 28,055 members will be affected due to the acquisition of 1,890 acres of land. The road itself will directly affect 1,720 people in 344 households, who need to be rehabilitated. The National Highway Authority of India had sought clearance for the project from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change in 2018. Following the suggestion of an expert committee, the officials have sent a detailed report on environment impact assessment. Industries excited The expressway will also build a spur route to KGF at a time when there is demand from locals to restart the gold mine and re-energise the existing industries. Tenders for the project were called last week — a move welcomed by industrialists in both states. The demand for an expressway was made much before the government came up with a structured plan for the Chennai-Bengaluru economic corridor. Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)’s Karnataka Chapter, Sandeep Singh, who is the managing director of Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Co Ltd, said the expressway will give a shot in the arm for development activities in both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “Besides the inter-industry activity on Karnataka-Tamil Nadu belt, it will also provide industries here the best connectivity to the ports in the neighbouring state. This is a long-pending demand and we are all very excited the project is finally taking off,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-20000-trees-in-karnataka-to-be-axed-for-bengaluru-chennai-expressway-913185.html
09-11-2020||State||Covid-19: 2,740 new cases reported in Karnataka, 22 deaths||Karnataka has reported 2,740 new cases of Covid-19 and 22 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 8,46,887 and the death toll to 11,391, the Health Department said late on Sunday night. The day also saw 2,360 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 2,740 fresh cases reported on Sunday, 1,579 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of Sunday, cumulatively 8,46,887 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 11,391 deaths and 8,01,799 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. It said that out of 33,678 active cases, 32,794 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 884 are in ICU. According to Health Department officials, the Covid-19 media bulletin was delayed on Sunday due to technical issues. Eleven out of total 22 deaths reported on Sunday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Ballari (3), Belagavi, Dharwad and Mysuru (2 each), and Dakshina Kannada and Haveri (1 each). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,579, Mysuru 135, Mandya 111, Chitradurga 106, Hassan 95, Dakshina Kannada 78, Dharwad 60, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,49,327 infections, followed by Mysuru 48,755 and Ballari 37,673. Among discharges as well Bengaluru Urban topped the list with a total of 3,26,989 discharges, followed by Mysuru 46,712 and Ballari 36,514. A total of 87,38,226 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,17,345 were tested on Sunday alone, and 26,811 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-2740-new-cases-reported-in-karnataka-22-deaths-913204.html
09-11-2020||State||Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar not on good terms: S T Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Monday slammed Congress party leaders, saying "First, let them resolve their internal dispute." Speaking to reporters, he also said that KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Oppostion Party Leader Siddaramaiah are not in good terms. "While Shivakumar wants Siddaramaiah to step down from his position, Siddaramaiah wants the KPCC leadership t o change. "Congress party leaders are levelling charges against BJP and projecting change in Chief Minister position only to hide their lapses. There will be no new CM," he said. Somashekar also said, that BJP candidates for RR Nagar and Sira bypolls would win. In RR Nagar, while 50% people voted for Munirathna's work, the other 50% voted for BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-d-k-shivakumar-not-on-good-terms-s-t-somashekar-913318.html
09-11-2020||State||T B Jayachandra, his wife test positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||Former Congress minister T B Jayachandra and his wife G H Nirmala were admitted to hospital after they tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, party sources said. This comes on the eve of the Sira bypoll result, which will be out Tuesday (November 10). Jayachandra fought the November 3 election against BJP’s CM Rajesh Gowda and JD(S) candidate Ammajamma. According to sources, Jayachandra developed a severe cough and congestion. Jayachandra and his wife have been admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Jayachandra, 71, was an incumbent minister when he lost from Sira in the 2018 Assembly election. He is known as an aide of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/t-b-jayachandra-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised-913464.html
09-11-2020||State||Results of Assembly bypolls, Council elections on November 11||The results of bypolls held for two Legislative Assembly constituencies and polls of four Legislative Council constituencies will be out on Tuesday. While security is beefed around counting centres, prohibitory orders will be in place within 100 metres of counting centres. Briefing about arrangements at Jnanakshi Vidyaniketan School, where counting of RR Nagar constituency will take place, Bengaluru city police Commissioner Kamal Pant said bursting of crackers or celebrating the victory of any candidate in groups are forbidden in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Action will be initiated against those who violate these directions, he said. Similar arrangements are made at Government Polytechnic College, Tumakuru, where votes of Sira constituency are to be counted. Prohibition on the sale of liquor is also in place in both the constituencies ahead of the results. Counting of votes for elections from Bengaluru Teachers’ and Southeast Graduates’ constituencies of the Legislative Council will take place at Government Arts College, Bengaluru. Votes for the Karnataka West Graduates’ constituency will be counted at Agriculture University, Yettinagudda, Dharwad, while Gulbarga University (Kalaburagi) is the counting centre for the North East Teacher’s constituency of the Council. While Assembly polls is a battle of prestige for the ruling and Opposition parties, the ruling BJP is trying to shore up its numbers in the Council by trying to secure all the four seats. Winning all four would secure the single largest party tag for the BJP in the Council, replacing the Congress. Before the polls, BJP had 27 seats in the Council against Congress’ 28. JD(S) has 14 MLCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/results-of-assembly-bypolls-council-elections-on-november-11-913534.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Radio | The Lead: Akkai Padmashali on her political journey||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Rajyotsava Prashasti awardee and transgender activist Akkai Padmashali on why she entered politics. Hi and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. In today's episode, DH's Nina C George talks to Rajyotsava Prashasti awardee Akkai Padmashali. Akkai, who has for years been a grassroots activist, has recently entered the field of politics by joining the Congress. Listen in to the conversation.  Nina C George: Welcome to DH Radio? Another milestone in your life. Akkai Padmashali: Yeah. Nina: Did you ever think that you would join politics? Akkai: Thanks for the welcome, Nina. Ten-fifteen years ago, I did not think about it. Due to the circumstances and the amount of social recognition, the amount of activist that has gone through, I think somewhere I strongly felt that without political participation, it is also not difficult to be part of the legislation process. These experiences have brought us to the forefront to join politics today... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-radio-the-lead-akkai-padmashali-on-her-political-journey-913211.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP OBC leader allegedly asks man to rape girl to recover loan||Jagaluru police nabbed District BJP OBC Mocha Vice president Chikka Ujjayini Sagar Aanjanappa after an audio clip in which he reportedly asked a man to rape a girl to recover his loan went viral on social media networking sites. According to the audio clip, Revanasiddappa sought suggestions from the BJP leader to recover some loan from Umeshappa of the Madiwala community. The BJP leader reportedly asked him to rape the girl of the community and promised that he would get him out of jail. After it went viral, people of several communities staged silent protest in front of the police station demanding that the BJP leader be arrested. Meanwhile, District BJP expelled him from primary membership of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-obc-leader-allegedly-asks-man-to-rape-girl-to-recover-loan-913269.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drug racket: Rudrappa Lamani's son arrested for sheltering 'peddlers'||The Central Crime Branch on Monday arrested Darshan Lamani, son of former minister and Congress leader from Haveri Rudrappa Lamani, for sheltering two persons who were absconding in the drugs racket case. Darshan's arrest comes just days after the arrest of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakshnan. Darshan Lamani was among three persons arrested on Monday by the CCB officials in connection with the drug peddling racket via the darknet. Soon after CCB officials busted an online racket on November 5, accused Hemanth and Suneesh were on the run even as the accused Sujay was caught red-handed while receiving the consignment of 500 grams of hydro ganja from a foreign country by paying them through bitcoins. He revealed the names of Hemanth and Suneesh but they managed to escape. The CCB officials got a tip off that the duo were in Goa and the team rushed and arrested them. When they went to arrest the duo, they were given shelter by Darshan Lamani. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said that Darshan had provided shelter to the accused. All three were taken into police custody and the CCB is trying to ascertain Darshan's role in the racket and also how drugs were procured through the darknet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drug-racket-rudrappa-lamanis-son-arrested-for-sheltering-peddlers-913373.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Let there also be noiseless Fridays, bloodless Bakrid: Senior BJP leader Yatnal||Firebrand BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Monday called for “noiseless Friday, bloodless Bakrid and crackerless 31st night” in an apparent jibe at non-Hindu festivals and practices. In a social media post, Yatnal, a former union minister, suggested that only Hindu festivals came under the scanner for their practices. “Hindus come together once in a year to celebrate Ganesha, Dasara-Durga pooja, Deepavali...But, during the Ganesha festival, it is preached to have eco-friendly idols and that Deepavali should be noiseless,” Yatnal said. “Going forward, along with eco-friendly Ganesha and noiseless Deepavali, let us have a noiseless Friday, bloodless Bakrid and crackerless 31st night (New Year’s Eve),” he said. “Let’s not have blood flow on Bakrid, no crackers on 31st night, no shouting on the speaker on Friday, no namaz on the roads and no firecrackers on the streets,” he said. “We will light a lamp at home, let them do namaz without a loudspeaker and not on the road.” Yatnal’s comments come just days after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa urged citizens to celebrate the upcoming Deepavali in a simple manner by opting for ‘green crackers’. Yatnal, the Bijapur City MLA, is not new to controversies. In 2018, Yatnal publicly asked BJP councilors not to work for Muslims and that he did not need their votes. In October 2019, Yatnal was issued a show-cause notice by the party for criticizing the BJP government in providing flood relief. Last month, Yatnal publicly claimed that Yediyurappa’s time was up and that he would be replaced as chief minister by someone from north Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/let-there-also-be-noiseless-fridays-bloodless-bakrid-senior-bjp-leader-yatnal-913383.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar demands judicial probe into suicide of retired professor||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the death of retired Bangalore University professor NS Ashok Kumar. Shivakumar claimed that Kumar (64), who was found hanging at his Mico Layout home on November 8, had paid Rs 2.5 crore to “influential people” in exchange to get appointed as vice-chancellor to four new universities. “He borrowed loans and was made to wait 5-6 months. But, he did not get the position. Therefore, he took the extreme step. This is what’s being discussed widely,” Shivakumar told reporters. “There were influential people, the minister...they all seem to be involved,” he said, without naming anyone. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan is the higher education minister. On November 7, a day before Kumar was found dead, the state government appointed vice-chancellors to four new universities - Gomathi Devi L (Maharani Cluster University), Harish Ramaswamy (Raichur University), Shrinivas S Balli (Nrupathunga University) and Puttaraju (Mandya University). “Kumar was told that there was some problem with his file and his money wasn’t returned,” Shivakumar said. “The appointment of vice-chancellors is mired in corruption. In every university, the staff and students talk that the V-C’s post is for sale. People go to Vidhana Soudha and ministers’ homes for this,” he said. “I ask the chief minister to constitute a judicial commission under a sitting High Court judge to probe Kumar’s death,” Shivakumar said. “There’s an attempt being made to malign your name,” he said, addressing Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. After retiring from Bangalore University where he headed the department of electronic media, Kumar was the registrar of Garden City University at the time of his death. He was also registrar (evaluation) of the state-run Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and his tenure there was marred by alleged tampering of marks cards. The police said a note was found, purportedly written by Kumar himself, stating that he was responsible for his own death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-demands-judicial-probe-into-suicide-of-retired-professor-913387.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||To create alibi, Vinay Kulkarni travelled to Delhi before, after BJP worker's killing: CBI||Former Karnataka minister Vinay Kulkarni had travelled to Delhi before and after the killing of BJP worker Yogesh Goudar in Dharwad on June 15, 2016, to use it as an alibi, the CBI has alleged. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had arrested Kulkarni, a Congress leader, on Thursday. The CBI probe into the killing, so far, shows that Kulkarni, who was sent to judicial custody on Monday by a special court, had left for Delhi on June 12, 2016, at 11.30 am by a flight and returned the next day at 10.40 am. Similarly, he allegedly left for Delhi on June 16, 2016, evening, a day after the murder, and returned on June 18, 2016, according to the probe by the CBI, which took over the investigation into the case on the recommendation of the Karnataka government. "The tickets were booked on the same day of the journey and the purpose of the journey was to create an alibi," the CBI has alleged. Goudar, a BJP Zilla Panchayat member, was killed in his gym in Dharwad by unidentified men on June 15, 2016, officials said. Goudar's murder was a result of political rivalry as Kulkarni, the then MLA and minister, had allegedly asked him not contest the Zilla Panchayat elections, which the former had refused, according to the agency's probe. Kulkarni and Goudar had entered into verbal altercations on several occasions, and a "serious altercation" took place during a Zilla Panchayat meeting chaired by Kulkarni on April 22, 2016, the CBI has alleged. The agency has also alleged that the altercation triggered the conspiracy to murder Goudar. The Congress has denied the allegations against Kulkarni and has called the case a political witch hunt. "Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni's arrest by the 'puppet CBI' reflects the blatant conspiracy & malicious intent of CM, Yediyurappa & BJP leadership," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted. B S Yediyurappa should know that Congress leaders will not be cowed down by such cowardly attacks of the BJP and its pawn, the CBI, he said. Surjewala accused the Centre of "misusing " central agencies to "hound" Congress leaders. He had also tweeted that a "fledgling" Yediyurappa government and the BJP "misuse its frontal organisations, the CBI-ED-Income Tax to hound Congress leaders- Sh. D.K.Shivakumar, Sh. G.Parameshwara, Sh. Vinay Kulkarni & many others". The CBI has alleged that as part of the conspiracy, Kulkarni had intervened and assisted to broker a real-estate agreement between Basavaraj Muttagi, an accused in the case and Nagendra Todkar on May 24, 2016, less than a month before the killing. The local police had shown the deal to be a purported property dispute between Muttagi and Goudar, and termed it as motive for murder in its charge sheet. During the CBI probe, the owner of the property allegedly denied having any dispute with Goudar and also deposed before the trial court. The agency has alleged that the killers, who had come from Bengaluru, were made to stay at a resort owned by a close confidante of Kulkarni on June 7, 2016, during first attempt to murder, the officials said. The CBI has also alleged that Kulkarni had booked a room at a Bengaluru hotel between June 8 to June 20 and also met Muttagi a day after the murder at 01.30 am on June 16, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/to-create-alibi-vinay-kulkarni-travelled-to-delhi-before-after-bjp-workers-killing-cbi-913399.html
09-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||C N Ashwath Narayan stresses on implementation of MoUs||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday said the state does not merely want signing of memoranda of understanding but their effective implementation. We are just not interested in signing MoUs. We are very particular and committed to take them to the logical end, Dr Narayan, who holds the portfolio of Information Technology and Biotechnology, said at a global meet here with foreign delegates ahead of the Bengaluru Tech Summit-2020 from November 19 to 21. Narayan laid emphasis on the proper follow-up of the implementation of the MoUs. So what has been signed (in the past) has to be taken up properly and we will see to it that the implementation happens effectively, he said. Stating that the innovation partners were keen on collaborations to take their businesses and technology forward, the Deputy Chief Minister said Karnataka too wishes that the collaborations happen in the state. He emphasised that the collaboration should not limit to just science and technology but also extend to the exchange of ideas, innovation, startups and access to the market. In this context, he underlined that lots of policy reforms have been introduced in Karnataka, which make the state ahead of other states and turn it into an investment destination. "The Bengaluru Tech Summit-2020 will provide a platform for about 50 startups of India to expand to the European market and the Karnataka government will ink 12 MoUs with partner-countries of Global Innovation Alliance (GIA)," said Narayan. He said the Hague Business Agency would launch a 'Digital Soft-Landing' programme for Indian start-ups during the summit. The programme would enable some 50 Indian tech start-ups to take their technology to Europe. In addition, two MoUs would be signed in the areas of cyber security and agri-tech where both sides would work together on mentorship, honing skills, start-ups, and R&D. There has been an overwhelming response from the sectors of AI, cyber security, healthcare, 5G, robotics, machine learning, space, agri-tech, defence technology, the Deputy Chief Minister said. More than 25 countries, 15 GIA sessions, 10 minister-level delegates, over 60 GIA speakers, more than 500 international delegates would witness this flagship event, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/c-n-ashwath-narayan-stresses-on-implementation-of-mous-913505.html
09-11-2020||West||Actor Arjun Rampal summoned by NCB after search at home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday carried out a search at the residence of actor Arjun Rampal here as part of it probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood and also asked him to appear before the agency on November 11, a police official said. Electronic gadgets were seized during the search at the house of the 47-year-old actor in suburban Mumbai, he said. According to NCB sources, summons was also issued to Rampal, asking him to appear before the drug law enforcement agency on November 11. The search at the residence of the model-turned-actor came a day after the NCB arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede told PTI on Sunday that Firoz Nadiadwala was summoned by the anti-drugs agency earlier in the day, but he failed to appear. "We have arrested Firoz Nadiadwala's wife under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Further investigation is on," he had said. On Sunday, a team of NCB sleuths searched the residence of the Nadiadwalas and seized 10 grams of ganja, officials said, adding the contraband was procured from one Wahid Abdul Kadir Sheikh alias Sultan who was arrested earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-arjun-rampal-summoned-by-ncb-after-search-at-home-913299.html
09-11-2020||West||Mumbai corporation bans sale and use of firecrackers, ahead of Diwali||The Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday announced a ban on the use of firecrackers and fireworks in the city, ahead of Diwali, saying the step was being taken to check coronavirus spread. The civic body has, however, permitted use of 'mild firecrackers' on Laxmi Pujan (November 14), saying Mumbaikars can use 'anar' (cracker known for a sparkling display and showers of coloured sparks upwards) and fulzadi (sparklers) at their private premises on that day. In a circular, the BMC also appealed citizens to celebrate Diwali with due precaution and by following Covid-19 protocol. The BMC decision follows the state government's appeal to citizens to avoid bursting firecrackers this Diwali as the resultant pollution could cause breathing problems among Covid-19 patients. A civic official said the BMC studied similar orders issued by other state governments, including Rajasthan, adding that under the Epidemic Diseases Act, they can impose a ban on bursting of firecrackers at public and private premises during a pandemic. The official said state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had asked the BMC to explore the possibility of banning firecrackers during the pandemic to avoid air pollution. A proposal for a 'cracker-free' Diwali was put forth by state public health minister Rajesh Tope. In a recent review meeting with senior Covid-19 task force members on the preparedness for a possible second wave, Tope had said firecrackers could have an adverse effect on lungs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-corporation-bans-sale-and-use-of-firecrackers-ahead-of-diwali-913316.html
09-11-2020||West||Arnab Goswami case: Maharashtra Governor speaks to Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, conveying concerns over the security and health of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network Arnab Goswami. The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow the family of Arnab Goswami to see him and to speak to him. The Governor had earlier expressed his concern to Deshmukh over the manner in which Arnab Goswami was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arnab-goswami-case-maharashtra-governor-speaks-to-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-913324.html
09-11-2020||West||Infiltrators along LoC on decline, from 140 in 2019 to 30 this year: BSF||Infiltration along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir decreased considerably this year with about 25-30 infiltrators as against 140 militants in 2019. “This year only 25 to 30 militants managed to enter into this side compared to 135 to 140 last year as our counter infiltration grid is very strong,” Additional Director General of BSF Surinder Pawar said. Pawar was speaking to reporters in Srinagar on the sidelines of a wreath-laying ceremony of slain BSF constable, who was killed along with three army men and three militants along the LoC in Machil sector on Sunday. He said Machil was obviously a big infiltration bid that was foiled by alert troops. “The BSF had already an input about a possible infiltration bid. Our ambush-cum patrolling party noticed the movement of militants on the intervening night to November 7 and 8,” the ADG BSF said. He said troops are maintaining the highest level of vigil to foil further infiltration bids along the LoC. “In view of the snowfall prediction in mid-November, there may be more attempts. But our troops are alert to foil all bids,” the senior BSF officer said and added that there were 250 to 300 militants present at the launch pads across LoC, who may try to infiltrate before the snowfall. He said the operation at Machil is still on. “The area comprises tough terrain and uneven ground. To rule out the presence of any other militant, sanitization and mopping operation is on in the area,” Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/infiltrators-along-loc-on-decline-from-140-in-2019-to-30-this-year-bsf-913333.html
09-11-2020||West||No bail for Arnab Goswami in 2018 suicide abetment case||In a major setback to Republic Media Network’s Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, the Bombay High Court on Monday turned down his application for an interim relief vis-à-vis a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Goswami (47), a TV anchor-editor, who has been targeting the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on multiple issues like the Palghar mob lynching case and Sushant Singh Rajput case, is now lodged at the Taloja central prison. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari spoke to state’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed to him his concern over Goswami's security and health.  The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow the family of Arnab Goswami to see him and to speak to him, according to a Raj Bhavan communiqué. Ahead of the court hearing, Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has appealed to look into the fact that the MVA government was harassing the journalist. “While deciding on the matter today, it is our humble request to the Bombay High Court to take suo moto cognizance of the way the MVA government in Maharashtra has treated Arnab Goswami during the entire process of arrest to handling under custody, as alleged by him,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-bail-for-arnab-goswami-in-2018-suicide-abetment-case-913337.html
09-11-2020||West||Maharashtra: Days after Khadse walkout, MP kin takes part in BJP stir||NCP leader Eknath Khadse's daughter-in-law and Raver Lok Sabha BJP MP Raksha Khadse on Monday took part in her party's farm protest here. Former Maharashtra minister and senior leader of the state BJP Eknath Khadse and his daughter Rohini had joined the NCP on October 23. Raksha Khadse took part in the BJP's protest outside the collector's office along with senior leader Girish Mahajan against what it claimed were "unjust criteria" for banana crop insurance. Speaking to reporters during the protest, she said her father-in-law had taken a decision (to leave the BJP) at "his personal level" while she continued to be an "MP and BJP worker". "This protest is not about one-oneupmanship, but to ensure banana cultivators get justice," she said, adding that the state government must revise crop insurance parameters to give farmers relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-days-after-khadse-walkout-mp-kin-takes-part-in-bjp-stir-913404.html
09-11-2020||West||Goa: Professor booked for hurting religious feelings||Shilpa Singh, an assistant professor at a Goa law college, on Monday, was booked for hurting religious sentiments through a Facebook post, following a complaint by one Rajiv Jha, a resident of Ponda in South Goa. A First Information Report has also been filed against Jha based on a complaint by Singh, who has in-turn alleged that Jha had criminally intimidated her and outraged her modesty, also via Facebook posts. "The above noted accused person having a Facebook profile in the name of Shilpa Surendra Pratap Singh knowingly uploaded a post through the Facebook account in the public domain with deliberate and malicious intention outraged religious feelings of the complainant, thereby insulted religious belief, thus committed offence under section 295 A IPC," states the FIR against Singh filed at the Panaji town police station. Last month, Jha had said in a complaint that Singh had hurt the religious feelings of Hindus and Muslims with her comment on Facebook related to the practice of wearing mangalsutras and burkhas respectively. Singh had in turn filed a counter-complaint against Jha in which she had accused the latter complaint of intimidation, outraging her modesty, and also accusing him of inciting a lynch mob against her. Singh in a subsequent Facebook post said that her comments were a critique of the phenomenon of patriarchy. "Both the complaints have been filed as FIR. Singh has been booked under section 295 (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code, while Jha has been booked under sections 504 (insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (outraging modesty) of the IPC," Superintendent of Police (North Goa) Utkarsh Prasoon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-professor-booked-for-hurting-religious-feelings-913463.html
09-11-2020||West||Dalit youth beaten up for 'sporting moustache, riding horse', four held||A 25-year-old youth from a scheduled caste was beaten up by a group of six upper-caste men reportedly for sporting a "moustache and owning and riding a horse" in a village in Botad district. The police said that four of the accused will be arrested. Botad police said that Sanjay Vaghela alias Chandrakant, a resident of Bagad village in Ranpur taluka, was attacked by six villagers on November 7 on his way back home from a nearby village. In the FIR, Vaghela has mentioned that he was beaten up with iron pipes by the accused, leaving his both arms and a leg fractured. He is admitted to a Bhavnagar hospital for treatment. Botad district superintendent of police Harshad Mehta told DH that the search is on to find two other accused. Vaghela has alleged in the FIR that one of the main accused Pradip Ghaghal allegedly conspired with others to beat him to force him to leave the village due to an old dispute and his dislike for me to sport a moustache, own and ride a horse in the village, Pradip conspired with other accused and beat me and hurled casteist slur," the FIR mentions Vaghela as saying. According to police, Vaghela and main accused Pradip, who belongs to the upper caste Kathi Darbar community, have filed at least six cases against one another in the last couple of years. Besides, Vaghela was facing a case of attempt to murder a State Reserver Police constable. Due to several cases against him, Vaghela was externed from the district for a year. He returned after completing a year only last month, a senior police officer said. Vaghela's cousin Manoj told DH over phone, "Doctors have operated on my brother's arms and right leg. He is recuperating in Bhavnagar hospital."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dalit-youth-beaten-up-for-sporting-moustache-riding-horse-four-held-913546.html
