10-11-2020||Comment||Between a mirage and a charade||Do we need a new BBMP law to govern Bengaluru? Ever since the state government floated the idea of enacting new legislation for the governance of the capital region, there have been a number of events in the city at which this question has been discussed and debated. This isn’t a new question. In fact, it is one that comes up at the end of every term of the BBMP Council, for a very predictable reason. We absolutely do not need any new legislation. It’s simplistic to say that many things have gone wrong, and we have to set them right through a new law. The truth is, many things have gone wrong because we have not implemented the existing laws correctly, and not because we haven’t found the perfect law yet. Broadly, there are four things we need to keep our eyes on. First, there has to be proper planning of the city and its surrounding region. The existing law law already provides for a Metropolitan Planning Committee to do this. This law is based on the Constitution’s 74th Amendment Act, passed in 1992. 28 years ago. But there is no functioning MPC yet. With such long-standing disregard for existing law, why should we imagine that something new will be magically different? Moreover, no new BBMP Bill can do much that is different from the existing law in regional planning, because anything we propose now will also need to be in line with the Constitution. As for the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA), which is in theory responsible for land use planning and infrastructure development in the city, it is clear that it has done a poor job of both. There’s a very good reason for that. We have a system in which BDA is both the planner and the implementing agency for its own plans. This mix-up of roles has made the agency choose awful plans for the city, which are more likely to lead to wasteful contracts for large projects managed by itself, rather than good outcomes for citizens. Second, people’s participation in the governance of the city has to be the norm, not the exception. The Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act already provides for ward committees of local residents to be formed immediately after each election and gives them a strong role in decision-making at the ward level. But in the past two election cycles, BBMP did not even create these committees for years after the election, and then let them meander without any regularity or strength. Third, cities need more executive powers to decide things themselves, and there have been some suggestions that we need a new law to achieve this. But here, too, the state government is on shaky ground. The existing provisions of law, again going back to the 74th Amendment Act, already say that many powers should be devolved from state governments to local councils. But this has not been done. Adding one more law to the list of what’s being ignored won’t help. Moreover, if a Mayor has executive power over only a few things (such as roads and garbage), it won’t make much of a difference. The different parastatals for power (BESCOM) water supply (BWSSB), transport (BMTC and Metro), as well as the state control of education and health, law and order, and the economy have to be integrated into the executive structure of local governments. That’s how the world’s top cities do it. Until that happens, it won’t matter if we have a one-year Mayor or a five-year one. They will both be weak. Fourth, it’s not right to propose to do things differently in Bengaluru alone. All the people of Karnataka have the right to be properly governed in their respective places. If something we propose is thought to be good for one city, we should ask, why not everywhere else, too? Plus, can we really leave out the peri-urban areas just outside Bengaluru, and still expect a new law to work, regardless? Of course the big city is different, and we may come to different methods for governing it, but the principles for governing all cities and towns should be the same. In fact, there has been a persistent complaint over decades that we have paid excessive attention to Bengaluru, and failed to develop the rest of the state very much. The irony is that even with this uneven focus on one city, we have not seen any of the grand promises of the past come true, because that was never the goal. Which brings us to the obvious question -- what’s the point of proposing a new law now? The open secret about this is that under the pretext of enacting a shiny new law, the elections to the municipal area are being postponed. This is a movie we have seen more than once already in Bengaluru, and in dozens of other cities and towns in the state repeatedly. At any given time, there are at least a dozen towns in the state where we can witness such delays. Even the onset of such delays is very predictable. Towards the end of a council’s term, the government will float a plan for a grand new imagination. The routine exercise of delimiting the wards of the city to prepare for a new election will be delayed administratively first, and later under the pretext of preparing for a new law. These will ensure that the council is dissolved. After that, a long battle in the courts between citizens and governments will slowly lead to a muddled outcome many months later. More legislation in the current situation is a mix of a mirage and a charade. There is only one new thing we need -- the political commitment to implement the laws that already exist. That would be truly different from the past, and also a much more credible step to take. (The writer is an entrepreneur, activist and public thinker)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/between-a-mirage-and-a-charade-913603.html
10-11-2020||First Edit||Haryana job quota for locals wrong||The passage of legislation by the Haryana Assembly which seeks to reserve 75% of the jobs in the private sector for residents of the state is yet another distortion and misuse of the idea of reservation. The quota rule has to be implemented by all types of private enterprises, societies and trusts which employ more than 10 persons for jobs which offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. There is district-level reservation, too, with up to10% of the jobs set apart for those who belong to the district in which the industry is located. This is extension of the idea of quota to a new level. There are penalties in the form of fines and prosecution for failure to implement the law. The bill was brought forward in the Assembly and passed after the state’s Governor S N Arya refused to give assent to an ordinance with the same provisions. The Governor’s view that the proposal would be violative of many basic rights guaranteed by the Constitution, like equality before the law and freedom to practise any profession or trade, is valid. But lack of legal and constitutional sanction has not deterred many states from extending reservations to new sections of population or to the private sector. States like Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh have tried to impose on the private sector reservation for domiciles in some form or another. Gujarat has prescribed as much as 85% quota for domiciles in companies which get government incentives or subsidies. But these have not cleared the judicial hurdle and the fate of the Haryana legislation may not be different. The bill is the result of a poll promise made by the BJP’s junior partner in the state government, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), led by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala. Parties and politicians make populist promises without regard for their legality, correctness, desirability, practicality or consequences. Many of them remain promises, others are badly implemented, and yet others do harm. The private sector would not like to be robbed of the freedom to recruit workers and staff to suit their requirements. When they have made the investment, they would want to keep the right to employ the personnel of their choice. One result of the quota prescription would be the flight of industry to other places. Some industries may try to work around the law in various ways. A single national market with free labour mobility is ideal for the country. Restrictive laws of the Haryana kind are protectionist and are not good for the economy and the national ethos. Would Haryana or any state enact such a law for jobs done by migrant workers?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/haryana-job-quota-for-locals-wrong-913601.html
10-11-2020||In Perspective||Stronger economy key to closer Indo-US ties||Kamala Harris will become the first ever Vice President of America to have Indian ancestry. Harris has maintained her links with her maternal grandparents and other Indian relatives. In her short speech accepting the people’s verdict, she paid a tribute to her mother and spoke of her with deep gratitude. Her ascent to the Vice Presidency is extraordinary for many reasons, not least because she will be the first woman, and a woman of colour, to occupy that office. It’s a matter of great pride for immigrants from India to see a second-generation Indian-American rise to such great heights in American society. Harris already had an impressive track record, having been twice elected Attorney General of the largest state of the country, California. Along with President-elect Biden, she is sure to leave a lasting influence on the next administration and US policies. Does her Indian ancestry mean that Indo-American ties will be closer? Of course not. She is first of all an American citizen, and she will always act in the best interests of her country. She may, in fact, be under pressure to lean the other way, lest she be accused of bestowing undue favours on India. The prospects for closer Indo-American ties will not depend so much on Harris’ ancestry, as on India’s own economic strength and growth. These ties got an unexpected boost with the signing of the India-US civil nuclear agreement, the background work for which dates back to the hectic iplomatic exchanges that followed the Pokhran nuclear tests of 1998. Incidentally, India recently, before the Biden-Harris result was announced, signed the last of the foundational military agreements with the United States. This was the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA). The other three agreements had been signed respectively in 2002, 2016 and 2018. Together, these military agreements increased the “embrace” of the two countries, provided for the sharing of sensitive intelligence and data, including satellite and geo-spatial, geo-magnetic and geodetic data, and also aided in interoperability of forces. Of course, much of the details of these agreements remain classified. But suffice to say, that the latest agreement is a culmination of a process which began two decades ago. India has already increased its military purchases from the US, and to date has bought hardware worth $20 billion from that country in the past 13 years. The biggest boost was, of course, the signing of the nuclear deal. India was “brought in from the cold,” from being a nuclear pariah, and from being denied uranium fuel by the Nuclear Suppliers Group. It was due to the insistence and championing of India’s cause by the US that the NSG made an exception for India, to be supplied nuclear fuel despite not being a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. How much the signing of the nuclear deal has been beneficial to the US is beyond the scope of this article. But the main point to note, is that the US saw an opportunity in engaging with India due to its rising economic clout. India’s economic size reached $1 trillion in 2006, $2 trillion in 2014 and is now closing in on $3 trillion. Bilateral goods trade with the US is worth more than $100 billion dollars presently. The rising and sizeable middle class is attractive to both investors and American consumer companies. On its part, India’s software industry has played a crucial role in the American economy. These exports are about $120 billion and growing. Due to these services exports, India enjoys a trade surplus of nearly $30 billion with the US. This is in sharp contrast to the annual $45 billion trade deficit with China, which is mostly about manufactured goods. It is only India’s economic strength, its growing middle class with increasing purchasing power which will induce America to deepen collaboration. Of course, India is also seen as a counterweight to China, a factor certainly in America’s strategic calculations. For its part, India has started importing crude oil from the US. It has also promised to import $40 billion worth of liquified natural gas from the US in the coming year. The feasibility of higher imports from the US depends on stronger domestic growth in India. Only then can it have the leverage to ask for a higher quota of H-1B visas needed for software exports. The incoming administration of Biden-Harris will be bogged down in battling Covid-19, and reviving the economy. It will continue the somewhat hostile stance with China. As such, since early 2018, the Americans have turned more protectionist, raising tariffs on all kinds of imports, which have affected India’s exports, too. Hence, an increased and deeper relationship with India is contingent more on India’s own domestic economic performance. Only stronger growth, more openness and economic reforms will get the Americans more favourably disposed towards India. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/stronger-economy-key-to-closer-indo-us-ties-913602.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers disappointed as Karnataka govt silent on ‘Karavali Package’||Farmers growing paddy in coastal belts have been left disappointed this year, with government remaining silent on the special ‘Karavali Package’ -- an incentive for paddy growers. In 2019, government had announced a financial incentive of Rs 7,500 per hectare in order to motivate farmers and promote paddy cultivation in coastal belts. An amount of Rs 2.258 crore was disbursed among 5,169 paddy growers in the state under the scheme. Over Rs 1.35 crore was deposited in the accounts of 3,791 farmers in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi districts. DK Agriculture department Joint Director Seetha said that this year separate Karavali Package and Krishi Bhagya yojana was not announced by the government. But incentives and subsidy for farm implements were given under the ‘National Food Security Mission.’ Support was also extended to farmers who take up mechanised cultivation. In DK district, paddy was cultivated on 11,248 hectares of land during the kharif season. In Udupi, paddy was cultivated on 35,756 hectares of land. Farmers in DK and Udupi were demanding Karavali package for paddy, on the lines of Kerala package. In 2011, then joint director of Agriculture in DK sent a proposal to the Commissioner of Agriculture on increasing land under paddy cultivation. In 2016, the joint director of Agriculture had submitted a proposal on implementing Karavali package for paddy farmers. Then Agriculture Price Commission chairman Dr T N Prakash Kammardi had sent a team of officials from DK, Udupi, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts, along with farmer representatives to Kerala, to study the model and submit a report. Based on the report, the package was announced. Manohar Shetty N, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene, organising secretary of DK, said: “The government has neglected paddy growers of the region. The untimely rain has affected farmers who were ready to harvest standing crop. Rice mill owners too had reduced the price per quintal of paddy. The rice mill owners are paying Rs 1,800 per quintal for Kaje Jaya variety of rice. Other varieties of rice including Mo4, Jyothi fetches Rs 1,400 to Rs 1600 per quintal. The paddy farmers from DK also do not get any benefit under the government's minimum support price scheme. The elected representatives too are silent on the Karavali package this year. DK Zilla Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene are mulling over the options of staging a protest against the indifferent attitude of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-disappointed-as-karnataka-govt-silent-on-karavali-package-913653.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Koodlu waterfalls now open for visitors||The entry to Koodlu waterfalls has been opened for public in Udupi district. Entry of visitors was banned due to Covid-19 pandemic and monsoon.  However, the entry fee was increased to Rs 200 from Rs 50 by Forest department. Local resident Ramesh Shetty said that many tourists visit the waterfalls. They have to walk a distance of two kilometre inside the dense forest. There are no facilities, including drinking water, enroute. In such a scenario, it is not right to hike the entry fee. Forest department should reduce entry fee and and provide basic facilities to tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-koodlu-waterfalls-now-open-for-visitors-913656.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru MLA asks officials to check traffic congestion||Following chaos in traffic movement in Mangaluru, MLA Vedavyasa Kamath convened a meeting of the Smart City Mission officials, police, MCC officials and representatives of the Bus Owners’ Association on Monday. He said that development works should be taken up without causing inconvenience to the public. Measures should be initiated for the smooth flow of traffic from PVS Junction to KS Rao Road. Connectivity should be provided from KS Rao Road to Old Service Bus Stand, Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty Road. All vehicles plying on KS Rao Road should be allowed to take a turn towards VT Road and Sharavu Temple Road-GHS Road-Clock Tower, he said. All vehicles from the State Bank area should be allowed to travel on Hampankatta-KS Rao Road-Yenepoya Hospital and move further. In addition, vehicles should also be allowed to travel from KS Rao Road-Old Bus Stand-Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty, the MLA said. The MLA also directed the officials to allow movement of vehicles on Sharada Vidyalaya Road. The work on the road should be taken up at Bunder in the night hours to ensure that traffic is not hit during the day-time, he said. Earlier in the day, traffic on the arterial road was moving at a snail’s pace. A commuter complained that the diversions were done haphazardly without controlling the traffic in the city. A shop owner at Hampankatta cursed the MCC as he was hoping for some business during the festivities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-mla-asks-officials-to-check-traffic-congestion-913689.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress protests against handing over of Mangaluru airport to Adani Group||Members of District Congress Committee staged a protest against privatisation of airports and handing over of Mangalore International Airport (MIA) to Adani Group on Monday. The protesters shouted slogans against the BJP-led Central government. Former minister B Ramanath Rai addressing the protesters said that U S Mallya was instrumental in ensuring that Mangaluru had an airport. It is an injustice to the coastal district that an airport set up by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and parliamentarian U S Mallya was privatised. “Modi government is following anti-people policy,” charged Rai. Former MLA J R Lobo said the name of Mangalore Airport too was renamed after it was handed over to Adani. Modi government had already merged banks that took their birth in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district and erased names of the founders of the banks. He appealed people not to get carried away by the emotional statements issued by BJP leaders. “Think practically, the BJP government has not done anything for the development of the district,” he said. Youth Congress President Mithun Rai said, “BJP has no concern for the district and is supporting capitalists by privatising PSUs. The airport should be named after prominent leaders of Dakshina Kannada district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-protests-against-handing-over-of-mangaluru-airport-to-adani-group-913695.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||North East Teachers Constituency: BJP maintains lead at the end of second round||BJP candidate Shashil G Namoshi has maintained a lead by 1,771 votes at the end of the second round of counting of votes in North East Teachers Constituency.  While Namoshi got 6,042 votes, Congress candidate Sharanappa Mattur got 4,271 votes. JD(S) candidate Thimmayya Purle obtained 2,353 votes.  While Independent candidate Chandrakanth Singe secured 54 votes, Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Party candidate Vatal Nagaraj got 39 votes. A total of 1,241 votes have become invalid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/north-east-teachers-constituency-bjp-maintains-lead-at-the-end-of-second-round-913930.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||I am not going to Delhi fearing Covid-19: Davangere MP||Davangere MP G M Siddeshwara said he did not go to Delhi fearing for his life, after former Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi died of Covid-19 in the capital. "Even my body will not be brought back to Karnataka If I die in Delhi due to Covid-19," he said. He regretted that Angadi died of Covid-19 due to his "negligence". Siddeshwara said that he had tried his best to bring the body of Angadi to Karnataka. The funeral of Angadi was held in Delhi as per Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/i-am-not-going-to-delhi-fearing-covid-19-davangere-mp-914012.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Jagadish Shettar's son, daughter-in-law sustain minor injuries in accident||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar's son and daughter-in-law sustained minor injuries in a head-on-collision between their luxury sport utility vehicle and lorry near Kundawada on NH4 in the city on Tuesday.  According to police, the minister's son Prashanth Shettar and his wife Anchal sustained minor injuries when they were heading towards Hubbali from Davangere in the car. They were shifted to hi-tech hospital in the city. South Traffic police station sub inspetor Kiran Kumar visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jagadish-shettars-son-daughter-in-law-sustain-minor-injuries-in-accident-914019.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||A Sumalatha unhappy over lack of facilities at MIMS||MP A Sumalatha on Tuesday expressed unhappiness over the lack of facilities at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) and assured to bring it to the notice of Medical Education and Health Minister K Sudhakar. Participating in the progress review meeting here, Sumalatha said that she received complaints about shortage of beds in the labour ward and directed MIMS In-charge director Dr M R Harish to take necessary measures. District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee members explained that the quality of treatment is good at MIMS, but there are problems in the labour ward. The canteen near the toilet is also causing inconvenience to the public and it should be shifted soon. It is being run at the place meant for the waiting hall, and its contract period has expired. It should be cleared in the interest of the public, they said. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh directed the officials to take measures to close the canteen, if the contract period is over. He also stressed on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene on the hospital premises. Explaining about shortage of beds, Dr Harish said that they faced problems earlier, but now have 190 beds in the labour ward. A letter has been written to the government about staff shortage and awaiting reply. The canteen owners have brought a stay order from the court. It would be cleared after the legal problem is sorted out, he said. Sumalatha expressed displeasure over the delay in giving Covid test reports, which increases anxiety among the patients and their family. She also questioned about the health centre at Kodiyala, which is facing a closure. Several issues on construction of houses for slum dwellers, works under Amrut scheme, development of tourist spots and others were discussed during the meeting. ZP president S Nagarathna Swamy, CEO Julfikar-Ulla, Assistant Commissioner Sneha Jain and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-sumalatha-unhappy-over-lack-of-facilities-at-mims-914079.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bank Note Paper Mill donates Rs 70 lakh to Mysuru Zoo||Bank Note Paper Mill India, Mysuru, has sponsored Rs 70 lakh for the construction of an enclosure for Orangutan, on the premises of Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) in Mysuru. In the wake of Covid-19, the zoo authorities have decided to take up only necessary development works for the year 2020-21, and the construction of an enclosure for Orangutan is one among them. Mysuru Zoo will be the only place in India to house Orangutan, which is on the verge of extinction. The animal would be brought from Singapore Zoo, under Animal Exchange Programme. When the zoo sought funds for the same, Bank Note Paper Mill India, Mysuru, came forward to donate Rs 70 lakh, under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bank-note-paper-mill-donates-rs-70-lakh-to-mysuru-zoo-914080.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Political parties, leaders ready for Gram Panchayat polls||Political parties and their leaders in the village-level are preparing for the Gram Panchayat (GP) polls, that may be announced soon, as the bypolls to two constituencies – Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar – are over. Although the term of the GPs ended in June, elections are delayed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Even though the GP polls are held without any party symbol, most of the candidates are either members of one or the other party or support some party. They aid party leaders in their own way and in turn, get nurtured by the respective leader. A senior Congress leader said, "Even though our party workers contest GP polls, we have very little to do in the election, not just technically, but practically. The victory of the GP members depend on the candidate himself or herself. Each candidate adopts his or her own strategy, in the election and also arrange for the finances." "As the BJP is in power, there are chances of it meddling with the reservation for the posts of GP president and vice president. Thus, even if our party members have a majority in a GP, the administration will be vested with the BJP supported members. Besides, the elections are held to elect thousands of members and we cannot go and campaign for all the candidates,” he said. On the contrary, the BJP, which is a new entrant to the GP polls in the Mysuru region, seems to aid its candidates in an organised way. It has to be noted that Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar launched a campaign on November 5, in T Narsipur taluk, to connect with grassroots level party workers, especially in the rural areas, as the prelude to the GP polls. Since the victory of the BJP in the bypolls, on Tuesday, there is a celebratory mood among the BJP workers. The leaders intend to instil confidence among their cadres and win the confidence of the voters, using this celebratory mood. A BJP leader said, "Even though the BJP has won a few Assembly segments in the Mysuru region, it is a deemed to be a party of the urban people. In the Mysuru region, the Congress and the JD(S) used to be the major players. Since the formation of the government and the victory in the bypoll in KR Pet in Mandya district, our leaders have got hopes that the BJP can make inroads into the rural belt. Especially, BJP state president B Y Vijayendra has given hopes to our leaders that we can play a major role in the GP polls." "Now, the victory in Sira, Tumakuru district, has further strengthened our organisation. Victories in the GPs will also give us strength to contest the future Assembly and Lok Sabha polls,” he said. A JD(S) leader said, "The rural people still have confidence in the JD(S) and its leaders. Besides, our party workers are dependent neither on the party nor the party leaders, for any support. Still they eulogise our state and national leaders. Our workers are our strength. All parties claim to have won the maximum number of members, once the GP poll results are announced. However, there is no mechanism to ascertain their claims. Especially, in Mysuru region, the JD(S) has a substantial grassroots level presence. Thus, we are prepared for the GP polls,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/political-parties-leaders-ready-for-gram-panchayat-polls-914081.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Deepavali: No entry for devotees from Nov 13 to 16 at MM Hill||Deepavali jatra mahotsava, held from November 13 to 16, would be celebrated in a simple manner at Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The Chamarajanagar district administration has banned the entry of devotees to the temple on all the four days from November 13, according to a press release from Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. Special rituals, Amavasya puja and car festival will be held at the temple, during Deepavali. Around three to five lakh people used to visit the temple every year, to be a part of the jatra. As it becomes difficult to follow Covid norms with thousands of people visiting the pilgrim centre, the district administration has banned the devotees for four days. The entry to the temple was restricted even during Dasara festival. The car festival has been cancelled, and the other rituals and teppotsava will be held in a simple manner, in the presence of priests and a few members of the temple development authority. The MM Hill Temple Development Authority has stopped advance booking for guesthouses and lodges for four days, as there was a possibility of restrictions during Deepavali. The counting of offering boxes of the temple would be held on November 12, at the commercial complex, near the bus stand, according to a release from the Development Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deepavali-no-entry-for-devotees-from-nov-13-to-16-at-mm-hill-914082.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spurt in arrivals, flower prices crash in Mysuru||The sudden crash in the price of flowers, due to a spurt in arrivals has left the traders in Mysuru worried. There is always demand for flowers and the flowers section of Devaraja market, is usually busy, especially during festivals and wedding season. The traders did moderate business, even after they were temporarily shifted to JK Grounds, during Gowri-Ganesha and Vijayadashami festivals, amid the Covid-19 crisis. But, after that, the prices started to crash, with heavy loads of flowers reaching the market. Chrysanthemum, which was sold at Rs 60 during Ayudha puja is now available for Rs 10 per 'maaru', which is surprising even to customers. Syed, who has a stall in the market, said, chrysanthemum is cultivated in parts of Mysuru district and in KR Pet taluk of Mandya district. Usually, October-November is a season for 'sevanthige' and huge loads reach the market. But, this year, the prices have crashed heavily, upsetting both farmers and traders, he said. Jasmine (mallige and marale variety) and crossandra (kanakambara) are supplied from Tamil Nadu, as they grow best in warm climate, he said. Narendra, a member of Devaraja Market Association, said, "This year was the worst of all, especially for flower traders. The prices, which crashed in January continued for the whole year till November. Except a slight increase during Gowri-Ganesha and Vijayadashami, business was overall dull this year." "Sevanthige, which we had sold for around Rs 100, is now sold at Rs 10 per maaru. Now, we hope that Deepavali will bring some relief. However, after Deepavali, there are no major festival this year, and we have to wait till Sankranti next year," he said. Jasmine, which was Rs 200 per metre is now available at Rs 60. Marale, a variety of jasmine, which was Rs 100 is now Rs 40. Crossandra, Kakkada, which were sold at Rs 80 and Rs 100 are now sold at Rs 40 and Rs 20 respectively. As rains have stopped, there is a good yield and a huge supply of flowers, which is the reason for the crash in prices, said sellers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spurt-in-arrivals-flower-prices-crash-in-mysuru-914083.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||High Court raps government over laxity in midday meal scheme||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday said the failure on the part of the state government to implement the midday meal scheme was a violation of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, besides breach of provisions of the National Food Security Act. The court took the government to task for the failure to implement the scheme for six months during the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, made this observation after the state government admitted that midday meals have not been provided from May 31, 2020. The scheme is to provide mid-day meals to children up to Class 8 within the age-group of 6-14 years. The state submitted that the scheme could not be continued since the schools remained closed after the onset of Covid-19. Clifton Rosario, the counsel representing the petitioners, submitted that the state government will have to compensate the children as per the provisions of the National Food Security Act and also under the Mid-Day Meal Rules. The bench observed that such a lapse, on the face of it, amounted to violation of the rights of the children. The court directed the secretary of the department concerned to file a personal affidavit. Considering the default, the bench directed the secretary to give a clear assurance on the implementation and also on the compensation. The bench directed the Secretary to file the affidavit by November 17. “We direct the state government to file an affidavit of the secretary in-charge of the concerned department responsible for the implementation of the scheme. The affidavit will state in what manner and within what period each of every student, entitled to a mid-day meal scheme, will be compensated. It will also state in what manner obligation will be complied with by providing either mid-day meal or foodgrains to each and every student,” the court said. The court also directed the secretary of the department concerned to file an affidavit on providing supplementary nutrition under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). “As anganawadis have not started functioning, the secretary will state in what manner strict implementation of the provision will be made,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/high-court-raps-government-over-laxity-in-midday-meal-scheme-914109.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sea erosion intensifies at Dombe in Udupi district||Sea erosion has intensified near Dombe Jattigeshwara Temple in Paduvari village in the Udupi district. Huge waves that are lashing the shore have already uprooted several coconut and other trees. A 40-year-old tank which was used for storing fish, has been washed away in the fury of waves. Now, the waves have started to lash the buildings belonging to fishermen. Local residents have urged the district administration to come up with a permanent measure to check the sea erosion. Tahsildar Basappa P Poojar and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sea-erosion-intensifies-at-dombe-in-udupi-district-914115.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||27 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Udupi||Twenty-seven fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Udupi on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the district has risen to 22,259. Of the fresh cases, 24 were recommended for home isolation while three had been admitted to hospitals. A total of 1,914 swab samples were collected for testing on Tuesday. A total of 21,740 infected have recovered and also discharged. The district has 333 active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals and home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/27-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-udupi-914116.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||One death, 87 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada (DK) district recorded 87 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the district has now risen to 31,002. One Covid-19 fatality was also reported in the district, thus taking the death tally to 689. According to Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, a total of 69 patients were discharged. As many as 29,425 infected have recovered and also discharged till now. The total number of active cases in the district is 888. The drive against not wearing of mask continued. A fine of amount of Rs 12,99,342 has been collected from 11,930 cases till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-death-87-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-914117.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||All child care centres should be registered: Rajendra K V||Children should be nurtured and imparted education to become good citizens of the country, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. He was speaking at a meeting of the district-level committee of child care centres that come under child protection unit. Rajendra said that all the child care units should be registered as per Juvenile Justice Act. The officials should pay surprise visits to the child care centres and inspect the facilities, he added. “If a child remains absent for a long period from school, then the head of the school should inform the child protection unit.” “This will help to check child marriages, child labour and missing cases,” he added. Rajendra said, “As many as 413 cases are pending before Juvenile Justice Board in the district since 2008. Charge sheets are yet to be filed in 50 cases.” “With the help of district legal services authority and department officials, measures should be taken to dispose of the cases within the time frame,” directed officials. Officials should monitor the children who have lost their parents to HIV/AIDS and other major diseases. Rajendra said that 182 children were admitted to government adoption centre in the district since 2010. Of which, 125 children have been adopted and 12 have died. Eight kids have been shifted to other centres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-child-care-centres-should-be-registered-rajendra-k-v-914119.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Waste collector gets house built from recycled plastic||The Plastics For Change India Foundation, which has been working to develop and improve the quality of life of informal waste collectors across the coastal belt of Karnataka, has constructed a house for a waste collector using recycled plastic, at an estimated cost of Rs 4.50 lakh, at Pacchanady. Speaking to reporters, Shifrah Jacobs, chief impact officer of Plastics For Change India Foundation, said that 1,500 kgs of recycled plastic were used for the construction of the house of Kamala, one of the beneficiary. About 60 panels produced by recycled plastic have been used. Each panel is prepared using 25 kgs of plastic. “This is an innovative and environmentally sustainable project that converts hard-to-recycle plastic waste into building material that can be used to construct low-cost shelter.” “This is Karnataka’s first environmentally friendly ‘recycled plastic house’ in Mangaluru. The durability test of the construction material has been conducted before building the house,” she said. The house was constructed with the help of a construction partner from Hyderabad. The construction cost can be reduced if more houses are constructed at a time, she said. “In the second phase, we are planning to come up with 20 such houses and more than 20 tonnes of plastic will be utilised. This can be used for multiple applications, including construction of toilets,” Shifrah added. The Foundation has been working with communities located in Pacchanady and Kurikatta in Mangaluru. Online educational prog Shifrah said, “To ensure that the children from low income communities have continued education, we have stepped in by providing supplementary tuition classes and by setting up virtual online classes (with smart TV)  for students from classes VI to X in the community.” “A total of 20 children are benefited from this initiative in Pacchanady and Kurikatta.” The initiative is being set-up to ensure that the quality of education for these children aren’t affected, despite their inability to go to schools, she added. “Apart from ensuring that social-distancing protocols were maintained, the classes also provided nutritional supplements for its attendees.” “The Foundation is now establishing virtual classrooms, allowing for teachers from cities like Bangaluru to teach these children through smart TV setups,” Shifrah added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/waste-collector-gets-house-built-from-recycled-plastic-914120.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Green paddy field inside Mangaluru city||Amid the high-rise buildings and concrete jungle, a man has been carrying out paddy cultivation on his 1.25 acres of land at Chilimbi in Mangaluru. Francis Saldanha, a retired government employee, has been carrying out paddy cultivation for the last several years. “In fact, we have been carrying out farming since the days of my father. After him, I am continuing the tradition. I cultivate only one crop during the kharif season.” “In the rest of the year, I cultivate vegetables especially ‘Basale,’ ‘Harive’ and brinjal on the farmland,” Francis Saldanha told DH. Saldanha was rearing a pair of buffaloes for tilling the land a few years ago. As it was difficult to rear the buffaloes in the city, he stopped rearing them and started using a tiller for paddy cultivation. Labourers are hired from Permude area in Bajpe for harvesting the crop and other related works. The harvest of kharif crop has been completed. The labourers are now engaged in thrashing the paddy crop at the house,” he said. He gets 12 quintals of paddy every year. The rice from the paddy is used for family consumption. “In fact, last year we had the rice of the previous year, hence, the paddy was sold to the rice mill at Haleyangadi. This year, after processing it in the mill, the rice will be used for our consumption,” he said proudly. He cultivated Mo4 Bhadra variety of paddy. The rainwater is sufficient for the paddy cultivation during the kharif season. “Further, I have a well in the farmland, and water from the well is used for farming. This year we had bountiful rainfall and the harvest is also good. Before cultivating the field, I burn dry leaves, others and create sudumannu (a mixture of lopping of twigs and leaves or rubbish and dry earth burned together) and also produce manure from cowdung which is also used for the crops. “I have not incurred any loss in agriculture. Even the straw from paddy is also sold. I am continuing the farming tradition of my father. Though there are no farm labourers in the surrounding areas of my house, I hire them from Bajpe area to carry out the tradition,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/green-paddy-field-inside-mangaluru-city-914122.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Helpline, help desk to assist people become ward committee members||Activists, besides uploading samples of completed applications on social media, are also setting up a ‘helpline’ and help desk to guide eligible citizens in submitting applications to become members of ward committees (WCs) of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). With just few days left for the November 17 deadline, activists have stepped up the campaign to get more residents submit applications for the posts of ward committee members. MCC Civic Group set up a dedicated group on WhatsApp to guide applicants on how to submit error-free applications. The group, besides guiding applicants, also has been acting as a go-between and helping the MCC to identify issues creating hassles in the submission of applications. An applicant had complained that none of the MCC staffer had accepted his applications and he was forced to run from pillar to post. When informed, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar resolved the issue by directing all three MCC offices in Suratkal, Kadri and Lalbagh, to receive the applications. In another instance, residents who had submitted applications online were skeptical on whether their applications would be considered. The MCC commissioner had assured that online applications for the post of ward committee members will be considered even if the applicant did not receive an acknowledgement. Nigel Albuquerque of the MCC Civic Group, who is aware of the limited reach of WhatsApp group, has decided to set up a help desk. Application form Nigel and other activists will be guiding residents to complete Ward Committee application forms at Bendoor Church Hall on Wednesday (4 pm). Public announcement Activists like Jerard Towers went live on Facebook explaining the functions of a ward-level committee. His live talk generated 1,000 views in less than 24 hours. Activists M G Hegde and Gopalkrishna Bhat, among others, also participated in televised debates. Another activist Harsha Raj Gatty even uploaded a video about the ward-level committee on YouTube. Activists are also planning on engaging vehicles to make public announcements about the committees in residential areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/helpline-help-desk-to-assist-people-become-ward-committee-members-914123.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Court orders 14-day judicial custody for Vinay Kulkarni||Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, arrested by the CBI in connection with the murder of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar, was brought to the central prison, Hindalga, by CBI officials after he was remanded in 14 days’ judicial custody by a court in Dharwad on Monday. CBI officials submitted the court order copies to prison authorities and handed over Kulkarni to them. The former minister refused to speak to the media but waved his hand at his supporters.  Security was heightened on the prison premises. Over 200 policemen were deployed there. Jail officials said that Kulkarni will be kept in a general cell separately and none will be allowed to meet him, in view of Covid-19. Earlier in the day, as Kulkarni’s three-day CBI custody ended, Vinay was produced before the second additional district court, which also is the CBI special court, through video conference. The CBI did not seek an extension of his custody. The court rejected the application filed by the CBI, seeking permission to get a polygraph examination done on theaccused. Sources said Kulkarni’s family members are consulting lawyers on applying for bail to him, in the next couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/court-orders-14-day-judicial-custody-for-vinay-kulkarni-913595.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Voters in favour of BJP despite criticisms, says Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel||Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday said that the voters have blessed the development works carried out by the party under the leadership of BS Yediyurappa in Karnataka and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the country. Speaking during Vijayotsava outside the BJP office in Mangaluru, he said there is a wave of change in the country. "The BJP has won more than the expected number of seats all over. In spite of the criticisms by the Opposition, the voters are in favour of the BJP, Modi and the NDA," he said. The "Pancha Pandavas"  in Sira and R Ashoka and Arvind Limbavali in R R Nagara have worked hard for the victory of the BJP, he said. The voters have trusted the BJP and both the BJP MLAs will work to the expectations of the voters in both the constituencies, he added. "The voters have rejected the Congress, including ‘Bande’ (D K Shivakumar) and ‘Huli’ (Siddaramaiah)," Kateel said. As the BJP appears to be increasing its lead in R R Nagar and Sira constituencies, the BJP workers observed Vijayotsava and distributed sweets on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/voters-in-favour-of-bjp-despite-criticisms-says-karnataka-bjp-president-nalin-kumar-kateel-913833.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||It’s a bitter bypoll for JD(S), pushed to third place||The by-election results turned bitter for the JD(S) as the regional party ceded more electoral ground. The party was pushed to the third place in both RR Nagar and Sira constituencies and failed to secure even 50% of the votes received by the party in the 2018 Assembly election. Several factors contributed to the poor results of the party in the Vokkaliga strong land. In Sira, the party was banking on sympathy following the death of its incumbent legislator B Sathyanarayana, whose wife Ammajamma was fielded. Sources said that initial reluctance of the party to enter the campaign arena cost dearly, allowing BJP to consolidate votes, including that of the Vokkaliga community, which has traditionally backed the JD(S). Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda pitching camp at Sira for more than a week for campaigning ahead of polls was perhaps too late.  JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy, while accepting the defeat, said that there was no reason to lose hope. During campaigning, he asked voters to give him either milk or venom.  “For political parties, bypolls are not the barometer for what the future holds. I don’t want to analyse how the elections were held,” he said, adding that he would concentrate more on organising and strengthening the party in the coming days.  “I will only interpret the results as a win for the BJP state government for responding to the people in the last 15 months,” he said. In the 2018 polls, the JD(S) secured 41.24% of the vote share with 74,338 votes, which shrunk to 36,783 votes - 20.25% of the total votes polled in theby-election.  Similarly, at RR Nagar, where Vokkaligas are a sizable population, the JD(S) received 60,360 votes in 2018. This has dropped to 10,251 votes. An exodus of local JD(S) leaders to other parties ahead of the polls also hampered its prospects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/it-s-a-bitter-bypoll-for-jds-pushed-to-third-place-914085.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Munirathna rides on popularity, helps lotus bloom in RR Nagar||Winning the bypoll to Rajarajeshwari Assembly constituency, BJP’s Munirathna Naidu has achieved a hat-trick victory in what is seen as a Vokkaliga bastion. Returning with a huge margin of 57,936 votes, Munirathna not only helped the ruling BJP win the seat, but also pipped the powerful ‘DK brothers’ in their own backyard. Munirathna faced allegations of cash for votes and distribution of freebies, but that did not come in the way of his victory.  Determined to teach Munirathna a lesson for quitting the Congress and joining the BJP, the DK brothers campaigned across the RR Nagar constituency and tried to consolidate the majority Vokkaliga votes. However, Munirathna, with his clever moves, ensured that their plans failed.  Top BJP leaders were successful in ironing out the differences among the party leaders and preparing the grassroots-level workers to work in cohesion. Though a section of the BJP leaders who had approached the court against Munirathna refused to reconcile with him, his personal image coupled with the booth-level workers’ hard work ensured that the lotus bloomed in the constituency. The Congress played the emotional card, by fielding H Kusuma, wife of late IAS officer D K Ravi. With RR Nagar being part of his Bangalore Rural Lok Sabha seat, D K Suresh led the campaign with his brother, KPCC chief D K Shivakumar. But the party lacked a strong base at the booth level as several workers had joined BJP along with Munirathna. Kusuma appeared to be no match to Munirathna’s popularity. He maintained lead right from the first round of the counting of votes. The JD(S), which had secured 60,000 votes in 2018, could only get around 10,000 votes this time. After the win, Munirathna said, “Previously I had won with a margin of 17,000 and 26,000 votes. But today, they have elected me with a margin of 57,000 votes. I won’t be able to repay this debt to the voters. But I will do justice to the constituency and work towards its development.” Defection of leaders of other parties to the BJP and distribution of ration kits to the needy during the Covid lockdown helped Munirathna in large measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/munirathna-rides-on-popularity-helps-lotus-bloom-in-rr-nagar-914086.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP wins three seats, is single largest party in Council||Winning three of the four Legislative Council seats, the ruling BJP increased its strength in the upper house to 30 on Tuesday. The result of the Karnataka South East Graduates’ constituency is expected on Wednesday. In Bengaluru Teachers’ constituency, BJP’s Puttanna defeated A P Ranganath of the JD(S) by 2,228 votes and Congress’ Praveen Peter came third. Puttanna, who had switched to BJP from JD(S) earlier this year, polled 7,335 votes against Ranganath’s 5,107, while Peter got 752 votes.   The BJP retained the Karnataka West Graduates’ constituency after the party candidate S V Sankanur beat Congress’ R M Kuberappa by 11,409 votes. Sankanur polled 23,857 votes against Kuberappa’s 12,448. Independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar was a distant third with 6,188 votes.  Sitting MLC of the Karnataka North East Teachers’ constituency Sharanappa Mattur was defeated by BJP’s Shashil G Namoshi by 3,095 votes. While Mattur polled 6,095 votes, Namoshi got 9,190 votes. The JD(S) was third, with 3,757 votes for its candidate Timmayya Purle. Counting of the votes for South East Graduates’ constituency started on Tuesday evening, with results expected by Wednesday noon, authorities said.  Polling for these four constituencies was held on October 28. By winning the three seats, the BJP has become the single largest party in the Council, followed by the Congress and the JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-wins-three-seats-is-single-largest-party-in-council-914089.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Meticulous ground work helped BJP capture new ground||Statistically, the BJP’s chances were lean in Sira, a constituency located in Tumakuru district of the Old Mysuru region that served as a Vokkaliga fortress of the Congress and JD(S).  Seemingly, the numbers stacked up against the BJP: Some 75,000 Vokkaligas and just 5,000 Lingayats. Also, the BJP’s own previous record did not inspire hope. The party’s maximum number of votes here were 24,025 in the 2008 elections.  On Tuesday, however, the BJP breached the seat that it had never won.  Swinging this bypoll rested on the shoulders of Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and C N Ashwath Narayan, party general secretary N Ravi Kumar, party vice-president B Y Vijayendra and Bangalore Central MP P C Mohan.  Largely, Kumar and Vijayendra are being credited with the party’s victory.  “We had neglected the party’s organisation here,” Kumar, who helped the BJP defeat Congress giant Mallikarjun Kharge in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, told DH.  “Starting September 1 and till polling (November 3), we were there. The first thing we did was to form committees for each of the 264 booths by roping in people who could perform and identify where we were strong or weak. That created the base,” he explained.  The BJP’s candidate was radiologist C M Rajesh Gowda, who was up against six-time Congress legislator and former minister T B Jayachandra and Ammajamma of the JD(S). All three candidates belonged to the Kunchitiga subgroup of the Vokkaliga community. “Our past candidates B K Manjunath and S R Gowda would not have won. Our candidate had to be a Kunchitiga Vokkaliga and a good one,” Kumar said.  Vijayendra landed in Sira on October 15 and stayed put in the constituency. He carried with him the experience of making the BJP win in KR Pet, another Vokkaliga-dominated seat.  The BJP team reached out to 22 communities - Kadu Gollas, Kunchitiga Vokkaligas, Kurubas, Bahusar Kshatriyas, Balijas among others - and drummed up support for the party. The leaders also took up the issue of filling up, which connected with the people.  Finally, Gowda won by a margin of over 13,000 votes.  “There was a perception that the BJP is a party of upper castes and that it can’t win in the Old Mysuru region. The (Sira) result has proved this wrong,” Vijayendra said. The Sira win is expected to catapult Vijayendra’s standing in the party and some say this would help him emerge out of his chief minister father B S Yediyurappa’s shadow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/meticulous-ground-work-helped-bjp-capture-new-ground-914092.html
10-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||We accept people’s mandate: Siddaramaiah||"We were expecting to win Sira and put up a good show at RR Nagar... We will accept the people's mandate," Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters in Badami, Siddaramaiah said, "It is the responsibility of the government to ensure free and fair elections. But the ruling BJP, according to my knowledge, has misused the government machinery," he charged. "KPCC president D K Shivakumar need not have to take the responsibility for twin defeats in the bypolls. The Congress party will make a strong comeback in 2023 Assembly elections," Siddaramaiah said. Replying to a query on his repeated claims about the change of guard in the state after Bihar elections, the opposition leader said, "I am firm...As per my knowledge, B S Yediyurappa will himself step down as chief minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/we-accept-people-s-mandate-siddaramaiah-914094.html
10-11-2020||National||Virgin gets it right in a giant loop for humankind||Creating history, Virgin HyperLoop on Monday had the first human passengers travel safely in a hyper-fast HyperLoop pod at the company’s DevLoop test facility in the United States. Pune-based Tanay Manjrekar will be the first Indian to take the test, early Tuesday morning. Virgin’s chief technology officer Josh Giegel and director of Passenger Experience, Sara Luchian reached speeds of up to 107 miles per hour (172 kmph). Manjrekar, Virgin’s Power Electronics Specialist, is next in line. HyperLoop has already struck a chord with Indians, with Virgin striking a deal last month with the Kempegowda International Airport to link the airport with the city. A technical, economic and route feasibility study will explore how a HyperLoop corridor could carry thousands of passengers at 1,080 kmph, hitting the city from KIA in under 10 minutes. The company had also signed an agreement with the Maharashtra government for a Mumbai-Pune HyperLoop project and with Punjab. “I can’t tell you how often I get asked ‘is HyperLoop safe?’’’ said Jay Walder, Virgin’s chief executive officer (CEO). “With passenger testing, we have answered this question, demonstrating that not only can the HyperLoop safely put a person in a pod in a vacuum environment, but that the company has a thoughtful approach to safety which has been validated by a third party.” The occupants made their maiden voyage on the newly-unveiled XP-2 vehicle, designed by BIG – Bjarke Ingels Group and Kilo Design. It was custom-built with occupant safety and comfort in mind. While the production vehicle will be larger and seat up to 28 passengers, this two-seater XP-2 vehicle was built to demonstrate safe travel. The human testing, from the beginning stages to Monday’s demonstration, was overseen by the Independent Safety Assessor (ISA) Certifer, Virgin informed. Maharashtra had approved the Virgin HyperLoop-DP World Consortium as the Original Project Proponent (OPP) for the Mumbai-Pune HyperLoop project. Following the regulatory guidance document issued by the United States Department of Transportation’s Non-Traditional and Emerging Transportation Technology (NETT) Council, Virgin said it was looking to work with Indian authorities to explore a regulatory path for HyperLoop here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virgin-gets-it-right-in-a-giant-loop-for-humankind-913570.html
10-11-2020||National||The Lead: Helping children with congenital heart disease||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Genesis Foundation's Jyoti Sagar speaks about how his organisation is helping children with congenital heart disease, the number of children affected by this and much more.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio. In today's episode, we are joined by Jyoti Sagar from Genesis foundation. The foundation helps give a new lease of life to children belonging to low-income backgrounds with Congenital Heart disease. Welcome to DH Radio, Mr Sagar. Jyoti Sagar: Thank you so much for having me. Ahmed: It's great to have you here. Can you tell us more about the foundation? Jyoti Sagar: What the foundation does is support children from underprivileged families, that in our definition means a family monthly income of Rs 15,000 or less. We support kids with Congenital Heart Defect. That's what the foundation does. Ahmed: What made you start this? What was the motivation to start this foundation? Jyoti: Well, you know in life there are personal experiences that can impact us in different ways. Our experience as a family was way back, 37 years back when we lost our second-born child. we lost the child within 16 hours of being born because the child suffered from congenital heart disease. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-helping-children-with-congenital-heart-disease-913612.html
10-11-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on November 10||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 85 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 85,91,881 as of November 10 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,27,065  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 79,63,457      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-november-10-913614.html
10-11-2020||National||India sees 38,073 new Covid-19 cases, 448 deaths; tally nears 86 lakh||With 38,073 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, India's tally reached 8,591,730. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 7,959,406 pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 127,059 with 448 new fatalities, the data updated at 9 am showed. The case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are xxx active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises xxx per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.  It went past  50 lakh on September 16,  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-38073-new-covid-19-cases-448-deaths-tally-nears-86-lakh-913621.html
10-11-2020||National||Trackers to mask detectors: India bets on Covid-19 tech amid privacy fears||From a tracker that can tell where someone sleeps at night to a device detecting whether they have a mask on or not, India's government is betting on hi-tech solutions to fight Covid-19, despite growing privacy concerns. Officials have called on local firms to develop technology powered by artificial intelligence (AI) to help stem the spread of the novel coronavirus. More than 8.5 million people in India have been infected by the virus, according to the Johns Hopkins University's tracker, making it the worst-affected country after the United States. With nationwide lockdown restrictions lifted, people are starting to go back to work and travel again, prompting public and private players to turn to data-driven tech to track their movements, check temperatures and enforce social distancing. "The world is getting back on its feet and a new sense of normal is coming back. Now is the time to put these solutions in place so people feel safe," said Akshata Kari, co-founder of Pixuate, an AI-based video analytics firm in tech hub Bengaluru. Pixuate was one of six companies selected in May by the government's Technology Development Board (TDB) to develop "a low-cost solution to identify persons with abnormal body temperature in a crowd" and alert authorities. Pixuate's product, which uses thermal cameras, has features such as facial recognition, and the ability to track a person — even if they are wearing a mask — and predict their age, gender and race, the TDB said in a statement. Such data-driven technologies are gaining momentum across the world as countries look for ways to slow the virus' spread, but their merit and effectiveness are debatable, warn privacy rights advocates. Urvashi Aneja, founding director of policy and advocacy collective Tandem Research, which has been reviewing tech tools being used during the pandemic, described some as "alarming". "When you create a society where you have extensive monitoring of citizens all the time, you also create a situation where people start self-sanctioning or self-censoring. And that is fundamentally not good for a democracy," said Aneja. Pixuate is set to install its new product by the end of the year in "some very large businesses and also government entities", Kari said, without naming them. Last week, authorities fitted the device at a popular shopping hub in southern Bengaluru city as part of a clean air project aimed at making the area pedestrian-only on weekends, Kari added. "There are behavioural changes that are happening, and the checks, like temperature, wearing masks, social distance protocols or the way we greet each other ... have changed for good," she said. "In the post-Covid world, this will be the new normal, especially if we want to prevent another contagion." 'Problematic' At least 88 tech tools have been rolled out to support India's public health response to the pandemic, said Aneja, a speaker at the Thomson Reuters Foundation's annual Trust Conference on Wednesday. In April, the federal government launched the contact-tracing mobile app Aarogya Setu, or "Health Bridge", which gathers users' GPS location data via Bluetooth to build a centralised database. While use of the app is generally voluntary, it has been made mandatory for food delivery workers, government and some private sector employees. Also earlier this year, municipal workers in northern Chandigarh city were told they had to wear GPS watches that tracked their efficiency, triggering backlash from employees, campaigners and tech experts over privacy concerns. Authorities say certain measures are needed to keep people safe. "Technology should be used for improving access to and quality of healthcare," said Praveen Gedam, deputy CEO of the National Health Authority, in emailed comments. "Advances in digital health must be accompanied by necessary safeguards and protections of the privacy of individuals, and due process must be followed." In April, government tenders seeking a "personnel tracking GPS solution" and a "Covid-19 patient tracking tool" raised red flags among digital rights groups, who warned they went beyond healthcare and ventured into mass surveillance. Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited (BECIL), under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, said it wanted the first device to be wearable, like a wristwatch, so it can track the locations of medical workers during work hours. The patient tracking tool, BECIL said, should detect "where the suspect has spent most of his or her time and who all he or she has met" as well as where they order food from, go for walks and sleep at night. This prompted the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a New Delhi-based digital rights group, to file a legal notice to BECIL to stop the procurement process. Devdutta Mukhopadhyay, a lawyer with the IFF, said BECIL has not yet responded to the organisation's legal notice and it was unclear whether the government enterprise had acquired the devices. BECIL did not respond to several requests for comment. Mukhopadhyay noted that as long as India has no data protection law or independent data protection authority, there are few safeguards and no recourse if users' data is abused or their digital privacy rights are violated. The personal data protection bill currently under review by a parliamentary panel does not cover surveillance activities. The bill does have provisions to allow the government to bypass protection standards and consent in certain circumstances, such as national security or the investigation of an offence, said Mukhopadhyay. "That's hugely problematic because it's a blanket exemption being granted to the government," she said. Neither the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting nor the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology were available to comment. Sunset clause The minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, has vowed that India will have a strong personal data protection law that will address citizens' concerns over data privacy. "Data must belong to the sovereign nation concerned to protect the privacy of its people," he said in a virtual G20 meeting in July. But with the flurry of tech measures launched in response to the coronavirus, campaigners warn against "function creep" — the use of data for purposes other than those for which it was collected — after the pandemic is over. A "sunset clause" — or expiration date — on tech tools, which would include the deletion of data after the pandemic, could be a solution, said Aneja of Tandem Research. "Otherwise, you will just see these technologies being repurposed into something else and that's dangerous," she said. Mukhopadhyay at the IFF added that companies should give access to and allow independent third parties to publicly audit their technologies to build trust. She also called on the government to introduce digital literacy and awareness lessons in school, to teach children about issues like cybersecurity, data privacy and fake news. "This is something that needs to be taught from a young age, because we need everyone to care about this," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trackers-to-mask-detectors-india-bets-on-covid-19-tech-amid-privacy-fears-913655.html
10-11-2020||National||Kamala Harris against Hindu nationalism: Subramanian Swamy||BJP Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister Subramanian Swamy cautioned the Centre against 'fawning' over the Biden-Harris administration, warning that Kamala Harris stands against the idea of 'Hindu nationalism, which decoded means BJP". Indian Government should stop fawning on the new Biden Harris Govt by running to invite them to India as reported by media.On India affairs Biden will go by Kamala Harris and she is ideologically against “Hindu nationalism” which decoded means BJP. Modi must practice Atmanirbhar. Joe Biden won the US presidential election, according to multiple media projections. Under his administration. Kamala Harris will be the vice president, making her the first woman of colour to hold the office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-against-hindu-nationalism-subramanian-swamy-913660.html
10-11-2020||National||Counting of votes for Baroda bypoll begins||The counting of votes for the bypoll to the Baroda assembly seat in Haryana began on Tuesday. The counting began at 8 am, officials said. There will be 20 rounds of counting. Three-tier security has been provided at the counting centre in Mohana, Sonipat, they said. The polling on November 3 for the Baroda assembly seat had recorded an overall turnout of 68.57 per cent, sealing the fate of 14 candidates. The Baroda assembly seat fell vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda, who had won it thrice consecutively in the 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls. The Baroda bypoll was seen as a direct contest between the ruling BJP and the Congress. The BJP fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt who had lost the 2019 assembly poll by about 4,800 votes to Hooda. The Congress this time nominated former Sonipat Zila Parishad member Indu Raj Narwal and the INLD's candidate is Joginder Malik. Seven independents and four candidates belonging to other parties, including former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini who heads the Loktantra Suraksha Party, are in the fray from the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/counting-of-votes-for-baroda-bypoll-begins-913673.html
10-11-2020||National||Celebrating note ban akin to cutting cakes on victims' graves: Shiv Sena||In a caustic attack on the BJP, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said "celebrating" the fourth anniversary of demonetisation because of which many people "committed suicide" and businesses destroyed, is akin to cutting birthday cakes on their graves. In an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena termed the 2016 decision as a "black chapter" in India's history. It claimed the note ban and the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) hit the country's interests hard. "To celebrate the (demonetisation) decision because of which many people embraced deaths...jobs were lost...committed suicides and trades and industries destroyed, is akin to cuttinga birthday cake sitting on the graves of all such people," the editorial said. Speaking on the fourth anniversary of demonetisation of currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 on November 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the move helped reduce black money and gave a boost to transparency. The Sena also said that the BJP raised issues like the construction of Ram temple and death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in the Bihar Assembly polls, but they failed to click with the people. "But the atmosphere in Bihar changed after (RJD leader) Tejashwi Yadav promised 10 lakh jobs. His rallies saw huge turn ups (of the people). These included unemployed youth mostly. What does this indicate?" the Shiv Sena asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebrating-note-ban-akin-to-cutting-cakes-on-victims-graves-shiv-sena-913745.html
10-11-2020||National||Less than 40,000 Covid-19 cases reported in a day for second time in November||The number of new coronavirus infections reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 for the second time this month, as India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 85.91 lakh while the total number of recoveries neared 80 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The Covid-19 caseload increased to 85,91,730 with 38,073 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,27,059 with 448 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 79,59,406 pushing the national recovery rate to 92.64 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases remained below six lakh for the twelfth consecutive day. There are 5,05,265 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprise 5.88 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.  It went past 50 lakh on September 16,  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of   11,96,15,857 samples have been tested up to November 9 with 10,43,665 samples being tested on Monday.  The 448 new fatalities include 85 from Maharashtra, 71 from Delhi, 56 from West Bengal, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 22 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab. Total 1,27,059 deaths reported so far in the country include 45,325 from Maharashtra followed by 11,410 from Karnataka, 11,362 from Tamil Nadu, 7,350 from West Bengal, 7,231 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,060 from Delhi, 6,802 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,338 from Punjab and 3,765 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-40000-covid-19-cases-reported-in-a-day-for-second-time-in-november-913756.html
10-11-2020||National||Jilted lover chops off woman's nose over dispute||A jilted lover allegedly chopped the nose off a 40-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh's Jalaun district, police said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday morning over a dispute, Orai police station incharge Sudhakar Mishra said. The woman was rushed to a hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable. The woman was married, but living alone for the past five years due to a dispute and the man was forcing her to marry him, police said. A search is on for the suspect, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jilted-lover-chops-off-womans-nose-over-dispute-913767.html
10-11-2020||National||Key takeaways from bypolls to 11 states||Counting of votes for assembly and constituency by-elections is on in 58 seats across 11 states, including Bihar. Counting for the election, held on November 3, began at 8 am and progressed strictly in accordance with the Election Commission’s guidelines. Here are 10 key takeaways: 1. In Madhya Pradesh, the BJP has so far won 12 seats on Tuesday out of the 28 assembly constituencies where bypolls were held in Madhya Pradesh, giving it enough numbers to achieve a majority in the House and provide stability to its government in the state, where it came to power in March. On the other hand, the Congress, which lost power eight months ago following a revolt by a section of its MLAs, has bagged three seats so far. The BJP is leading in seven seats, while the Congress in ahead in five. 2. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP retained six seats and the SP hung on to its Malhani constituency in the bypolls for seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, the 6:1 outcome indicating Tuesday that the ruling party continued its hold over the populous state. 3. In Karnataka, the ruling BJP on Tuesday swept the bypolls to two assembly seats in Karnataka by wresting them from opposition Congress and JD(S). The outcome has given a boost to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's stock amid talks about his replacement in some quarters. It is seen as a setback for opposition leaders, especially Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar as it was the first election in the state under his stewardship. With these victories, the strength of BJP will rise to 118 in the 225-member assembly that would still have two vacancies caused by, including by the recent death of a member. Congress has 67 members, JDS 33, BSP one, nominated one and two independents besides the Speaker. In the Rajarajeshwari Nagar assembly segment, N Munirathna scored a hat-trick, winning by an impressive margin of more than 58,000 votes. In Sira, it was a history of sorts for the BJP as it recorded its first-ever victory there with its candidate Dr C M Rajesh Gowda securing the seat by a margin of over 13,400 votes.  4. In Manipur, BJP candidates won two seats while an Independent candidate bagged one in the by-election to four Manipur Assembly constituencies, the results of which were announced on Tuesday, officials said. BJP candidates Oinam Lukhoi Singh and Paonam Brojen Singh won the Wangoi seat and Wangjing Tentha seats respectively, they said. 5. In Nagaland, the BJP on Tuesday was set to sweep the assembly by-elections held last week with leads and wins in more than 40 of 59 seats across 11 states, including Madhya Pradesh where it was ahead in 19 of 28 constituencies, according to Election Commission trends. 6. In Chhattisgarh, Congress contestant is leading by a margin of 3,664 votes in Marwahi Assembly constituency As per the early trends, Dr KK Dhruw of the Congress is leading by a margin of 3,664 votes against his nearest rival Dr Gambheer Singh of the BJP, he said. The ruling Congress and main opposition BJP are locked in a direct fight in this seat where a bypoll was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) sitting MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi died on May 29. 7.  In Odisha, the ruling BJD candidates have established early leads over their nearest BJP rivals in both Balasore and Tirtol assembly constituencies, where counting of votes polled in the by-elections, held last week, is in progress on Tuesday. The deaths of Balasore's BJP MLA Madan Mohan Dutta and Tirtol's BJD legislator Bishnu Charan Das necessitated the by-elections which were held on November 3. 8. BJP candidates were leading in bypolls to Dumka and Bermo assembly seats in Jharkhand, early trends showed. BJP candidate Lois Marandi was leading over his nearest rival Basant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) by over 7,938 votes in the Dumka seat. 9. In Telangana, BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao was leading over his nearest TRS rival Solipeta Sujatha by 2,485 votes after seven rounds.  The counting of votes began at 8 AM and is expected to be done in 23 rounds. The bypoll held on November 3 has been necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year. The main contest is among the ruling TRS, BJP and Congress. 10. In Haryana, Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal is leading over his nearest rival and BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt by a margin 1,021 votes from the Baroda Assembly seat in Haryana, as per initial trends. There will be 20 rounds of counting. The polling on November 3 for the Baroda assembly seat had recorded an overall turnout of 68.57 per cent, sealing the fate of 14 candidates. 11. The ruling BJP in Gujarat is leading in all the eight seats, while Congress was trailing behind. The bypolls were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls in June this year. Five of them then joined the ruling BJP, which fielded them from the same seats they had won in the 2017 elections. A total of 81 candidates contested the bypolls to eight seats on November 3, for which a voter turnout of 60.75 per cent was recorded. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-bypolls-to-11-states-913768.html
10-11-2020||National||Bypolls results: BJP ahead in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh||The BJP was leading in 17 seats and the Congress in nine in Madhya Pradesh as votes were counted for assembly by-elections in 58 seats across 11 states, according to the Election Commission website on Tuesday. India’s ruling party was also ahead in seven seats and the Congress in one in Gujarat, where by-elections were held in eight seats, and five in Uttar Pradesh, where polls were held in seven constituencies. The Samajwadi Party was ahead in one and an Independent candidate in another in the country’s most populous state. Counting for the polling held on November 3 began at 8 am and progressed strictly in accordance with the Election Commission’s guidelines, officials said. The number of people who can be present in the counting halls was restricted and extensive measures taken to ensure social distancing, they said. It’s a high-stakes electoral battle, particularly in Madhya Pradesh where the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is locked in a fierce contest for survival with the Congress. Elections were held for 28 seats. The BJP which has 107 MLAs in the assembly, with an effective strength of 229, needs at least eight more MLAs for a simple majority. Votes were also counted for by-elections in Manipur (five seats), Haryana (one), Chhattisgarh (one), Jharkhand (two), Karnataka (two), Nagaland (two), Odisha (two) and Telangana (one). According to trends on the Election Commission site, the BJP had won one seat in Manipur and was leading in two while the Congress was leading in one and an Independent in one. In Jharkhand, the BJP was ahead in one and the Congress in the other. The party was ahead in both the seats in Karnataka. In Odisha, the state’s ruling Biju Janata Dal was ahead in both the seats for which elections were held. In Nagaland, Independents were leading in both seats. In the lone seat in Chhattisgarh, the Congress was leading. The party was also ahead in Haryana while the BJP was ahead in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bypolls-results-bjp-ahead-in-madhya-pradesh-gujarat-uttar-pradesh-913776.html
10-11-2020||National||India's daily new Covid-19 infections remain below 50,000 mark||For the third day in a row, daily new coronavirus infections in the country settled below the 50,000-mark, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The ministry said the figures assume significance in the context of some countries reporting as high as one lakh cases per day since the last 3-4 days. Seventy-two per cent of new infections reported in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs with Delhi continuing to  report the highest daily new cases at 5,983, which is less than its previous day tally of 7,745 new cases, the ministry said. There has been a sustained decrease in the number of active cases in the country over the past few weeks, which has shrunk to 5,05,265 and presently comprise 5.88 per cent of the total caseload.  For the 38th day as on date, recoveries have exceeded the daily new cases with 42,033 patients recovering in a span of 24 hours as against 38,073 infections being reported during the same period, the ministry underlined. India has registered less than 40,000 daily new cases after six days. The total recoveries have surged to 79,59,406 pushing the national recovery rate to 92.64 per cent. "The gap between recovered cases and active cases has widened to 74,54,141," the ministry said. Seventy-eight per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs . Delhi has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 7,014 newly recovered cases. A total of 5,983 people recovered in Kerala followed by 4,396 in West Bengal.  Seventy-two per cent  of the new cases are from 10 States and UTs --Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra, Haryana,  Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.  "Delhi continues to report the highest daily new cases; 5,983, which is less than its previous day tally of 7,745 new cases. Delhi is followed by West Bengal with 3,907 new cases,"  the ministry said. Kerala's daily case has declined to 3,593 while Maharashtra's new cases have declined to 3,277 cases although they occupy the third and fourth spot in reporting daily new cases. A total of 448 case fatalities have been reported in a span  of 24 hours. Fatalities have continued to decrease with less than 500 fatalities reported for the second day. Ten States and UTs account for nearly 78 per cent of the fatalities.  Although Maharashtra saw the most casualties (85), its contribution to daily deaths has decreased to 18.97 per cent, the ministry said. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 71 and 56 daily deaths, respectively India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 85,91,730 with 38,073 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to  1,27,059 with 448 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-new-covid-19-infections-remain-below-50000-mark-913794.html
10-11-2020||National||Two militants killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Kutpora area of south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Tuesday. The encounter erupted after Army’s 34-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Kutpora, Shopian on Tuesday morning following ‘specific’ information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said during the search operation, militants fired at the forces triggering a gun battle in which two ultras were killed. “The hiding militants were repeatedly asked to surrender, however, they turned it down and fired upon the forces,” the official added. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. As a ‘precautionary measure’, internet services were snapped in Shopian district. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed over 200 militants, including 30 foreigners, in 88 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019, while the number was 257 in 2018, which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants, 33 were Pakistanis and majority of them belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad.  In 2019, local militants accounted for 79 per cent deaths in encounters, while the number has grown to 88 per cent this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-913801.html
10-11-2020||National||Traders face huge losses after firecracker ban||Traders and shopkeepers in Delhi said their Diwali has gone up in smoke after the ban on all kinds of firecrackers and that they will face huge losses as crackers worth lakhs of rupees have already been stocked by them. The traders and shopkeepers in Jama Masjid and Sadar Bazar areas, two of the biggest firecracker markets in the national capital, said the stock was meant for a brisk sale on Diwali, Chhath, Gurupurab and the coming wedding season. "Police have stopped us from opening the shops we had stocked with hundreds of kilograms of firecrackers. This is a seasonal item and will be worthless if not sold in next 1-2 months," said a firecracker trader in Jama Masjid area. The traders said temporary licences were issued by authorities for up to 650 kg of firecrackers but normally they purchase 400-500 kg in view of safety and demand in the market. The permanent firecracker licensees can stock up to 1,000 kg or more, they said. According to a Delhi Police officer, a total of 260 applications for licences were received. Out of them, 138 were issued licences on meeting all the requirements as prescribed by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. "I have no idea what to do with the stock of my firecrackers, maybe I will distribute them among people. There is a ban on sale of firecrackers but not on its distribution," Hardeep Chabra, the general secretary of Sadar Bazar firecrackers traders association, said. Chabra said firecracker traders have been staging a dharna in Sadar Bazar against the ban. A meeting with Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to seek a solution to this problem has also been planned, he said. The traders and shopkeepers said they will approach the Lt governor to seek his help in giving respite from the move that came "late" as crackers worth crores of rupees were already stocked by them ahead of festivals like Diwali, Chhath and Gurupurab. "If the government had planned to ban the crackers, it should have announced its decision earlier so that we didn't have to go through the loss of lakhs of rupees," said a shopkeeper who got his licence for selling firecrackers near Jama Masjid area. The ban on all types, including green firecrackers that do not cause pollution is beyond comprehension, Chabra said. "We are holding a meeting to find a way to save ourselves from the complete financial rout faced by us due to the ban. A delegation is likely to meet the Lt Governor for his help on Friday," he said. In the wake of the rising pollution and coronavirus cases in Delhi due to the festive season, the Delhi government has decided to put a complete ban on the sale, purchase, and use of firecrackers in the city from November 7 to November 30, the government had said in a statement. The Supreme Court allowed the green crackers but the Delhi government has chosen to ban it now which will cause huge losses to traders who are already reeling under lockdown and pandemic-induced slow down, said Vishal, a firecracker trader from Jama Masjid area. "The government has banned firecrackers but nobody has any solution to Parali burning which is the prime reason for the spike in pollution," he said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has also imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. Former Union minister Vijay Goel and Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary have demanded the AAP government to compensate the firecracker traders for losses caused due to the ban. Goel, who sat on a dharna demanding compensation to the traders, has said that he will meet the NGT chairman and raise the issue before him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traders-face-huge-losses-after-firecracker-ban-913813.html
10-11-2020||National||Bypolls: BJP leads in more than 40 of 59 assembly seats, ahead in 21 seats in Madhya Pradesh||It was advantage BJP on Tuesday with the party leading in more than 40 seats as votes were counted for assembly by-elections in 59 constituencies across 11 states, including Madhya Pradesh where it was ahead in 21 seats, according to the Election Commission website. The country’s ruling party was also ahead in all the eight seats in Gujarat for which by-elections were held and six in Uttar Pradesh, where seven assembly constituencies went to the polls in the first pan-India electoral exercise since the pandemic. Counting for the voting held on November 3 began at 8 am and progressed in accordance with the Election Commission’s guidelines restricting the number of people in counting halls, officials said. Extensive measures were taken to ensure social distancing. Votes were also counted for by-elections in Manipur (five seats), Haryana (one), Chhattisgarh (one), Jharkhand (two), Karnataka (two), Nagaland (two), Odisha (two) and Telangana (one). Madhya Pradesh It’s a high-stakes electoral battle, particularly in Madhya Pradesh where the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is locked in a fierce contest with the Congress to save its government. The BJP was ahead in 21 seats, the Congress in six and the BSP in one, according to Election Commission trends. Elections were held for 28 seats, the first time that so many by-elections were held together. The BJP which has 107 MLAs in the assembly, with an effective strength of 229, needs at least eight more MLAs for a simple majority. It is a crucial test for Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress with his loyalist MLAs to join the BJP, toppling the Congress-led Kamal Nath government. Elsewhere, the leadsfor the BJP varied from a little over 300 (Dabra) to more than17,000 (Badnawar). Gujarat The BJP held sway over the party-ruled state with leads in all eight seats and the Congress trailing. A total of 60.75 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls held in Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad). Uttar Pradesh Of the seven seats, the ruling BJP was ahead in six and the Samajwadi Party in one. Eighty-eight candidates contested in the Naugaon Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani seats. Barring Malhani, which was with the SP, the other seats were in the ruling BJP's kitty. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Monday that the BJP was involved in "rigging”. Manipur According to Election Commission trends, the BJP had won two seats and was leading in two with an Independent aheadin one. The by-elections were necessitated by Congress MLAs in four seats resigning from the Assembly and quitting the party to join the BJP. Karnataka The BJP had the edge in both the seats for which elections were held. Though the results will have no bearing on the stability of the B S Yediyurappa government, it would be seen in many quarters as a reflection on its performance, especially during the pandemic. Of the two seats that went to the polls, one was with the JD(S) and the other with the Congress. The elections were necessitated by the death of Sira JD(S) MLA B Satyanarayana in August and the resignation of RR Nagar Congress MLA Munirathna from the assembly last year. Jharkhand The BJP was ahead in one seat and the Congress in the other. BJP’s Lois Marandi was leading in Dumka over Basant Soren, Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s brother. In Bermo, Congress nominee Anup Singh was ahead of BJP's Yogeshwar Mahato. Odisha The state’s ruling Biju Janata Dal was ahead in both the Balasore and Tirtol seats for which by-elections were held. While state BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan had claimed his party will win both as voters were "fed up with the ruling party”, BJD leader DP Mishra said people voted as they are keen to see speedy development in their areas. Chhattisgarh The state’s ruling Congress was ahead in the by-election to the Marwahi seat that was necessitated due to the death of Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi. Nagaland Independent candidates were leading in the two assembly seats - Southern Angami-I in Kohima and Pungro-Kiphire in Kiphire district. The elections were necessitated following the deaths of the sitting legislators Vikho-o Yhoshu and T Torechu. Telangana The BJP was leading in the Dubbak Assembly constituency, which witnessed a three-cornered contest between the ruling TRS and opposition BJP and Congress. The bypolls were called due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year. His widow Solipeta Sujatha was the ruling party's choice. Haryana Congress’ Indu Raj Narwal was ahead in the Baroda seat that had fallen vacant following the death of Krishan Hooda, who had won it in 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls. Narwal was leading over his nearest rival and BJP nominee, Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bypolls-bjp-leads-in-more-than-40-of-59-assembly-seats-ahead-in-21-seats-in-madhya-pradesh-913815.html
10-11-2020||National||Adversaries may take advantage if we do not have strong armed forces: Bipin Rawat||The Indian armed forces are operating in a very complex, and uncertain environment and they must continue to enhance capabilities for peace in the region as India's adversaries may take advantage if its military power is not strong, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Tuesday. He also said that India wants to share its military capabilities with friendly countries in the neighbourhood and the extended neighbourhood as well as to those who need its support. The Chief of Defence Staff was speaking at the inaugural session of the fifth annual conclave of the Bharatshakti.in, a portal on defence and military issues. "We are today operating in a very complex, uncertain and a very volatile environment. There are small and big battles raging nearly in every region of the world. Therefore, we all need strong armed forces if we have to defend ourselves, defend our nation, defend the integrity of our nation and the safety and security of our people," Gen Rawat said. "But, then are we saying that armed forces must prepare for war? No. The armed forces must develop capabilities to bring about peace in the region. If we do not have strong armed forces, the adversary will take advantage of us," he said. Gen Rawat's comments came in the midst of an over six-month border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh that has significantly strained their ties. Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. However, no concrete breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff. In a message, which was read out at the conclave, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cited various reform initiatives rolled out by the government in the defence sector to produce modern equipment and harness new technology as well as to infuse better synergy among the armed forces. "We are marching ahead with the nation's collective resolve to build a modern and self-reliant India. Our resoluteness gets reflected in an unprecedented spirit of self-confidence in the defence sector today," Modi said. The prime minister said a self-reliant India is a "win-win resolve" for all the stakeholders, as this vision is for world peace and a resilient global economy. "From private and public sectors to foreign partners, all would get strength from India's vibrant strategic ecosystem," he said. In his address, Gen Rawat also spoke about challenges being faced by the armed forces operating in difficult challenging environments including in jungles, deserts and terrains ranging from 6000 to 6500 metres in altitude. "Our navy operates in Indo-Pacific, an area which witnesses the largest concentration of white shipping. They have to develop technologies not only to operate on the surface but below the surface of the ocean as well in an environment which is becoming increasingly complex," the Chief of Defence Staff said. He said the Indian armed forces need capabilities that no other armed forces in the world will perhaps require due to varied challenges and environment. Therefore, Gen Rawat said the kind of technology India is developing and the weapons systems that can find their way into the Indian inventory will be second to none. "We are not hesitant in inviting foreign collaborators who can support our industry, hand-hold them and move on...We also want to share the capabilities with the other armed forces around the globe, particularly in the neighbourhood and extended neighbourhood," Gen Rawat said. "We are willing to support those who need our support, especially those nations which are also going through troubled times and looking at good weapons systems," he said in presence of defence officials of several foreign countries. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the threat by India's adversaries is 'deep and long term'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adversaries-may-take-advantage-if-we-do-not-have-strong-armed-forces-bipin-rawat-913820.html
10-11-2020||National||Maharashtra government announces Rs 1,000 crore package for cash-strapped MSRTC||The Maharashtra government has announced Rs 1,000 crore financial package for the cash- strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) for the next six months, minister Anil Parab said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference here, the state transport minister said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar made this announcement after a meeting with him and holding a discussion with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Parab, who is the chairman of MSRTC, said this financial package will help the transport body get to backtrack and will meet expenses such as salaries of employees and fuel costs for the next six months. "The number of passengers (travelling by ST buses) is increasing by the day, and with the cooperation of staffers, the MSRTC's finances will be brought back on track. The problems will be resolved with the state's financial assistance," Parab said. The transport body had suffered revenue losses of around Rs 3,000 crore during the Covid-19 lockdown period, Parab said, adding that this, in turn, resulted in pending salaries. As announced a day before, the MSRTC has disbursed the pending salary of one month and festival advance to employees on Monday and will pay pending salaries of remaining two months before Diwali. "The state government has agreed to pay state transport employees pending salaries till October 30, before Diwali," Parab said. MSRTC staff unions have claimed that two employees committed suicides at Jalgoan and Ratnagiri districts in the last two days, allegedly due to non-payment of salaries. The minister, however, refuted media reports that the MSRTC had acted only after these suicides, and appealed to employees not to take any extreme steps. The MSRTC is one of the biggest road transport undertakings of the county with a fleet of nearly 18,000 buses and around one lakh employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-announces-rs-1000-crore-package-for-cash-strapped-msrtc-913821.html
10-11-2020||National||SCO members should respect each other's sovereignty, territorial integrity: PM Modi's message to China, Pak||In a stern message to China and Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said all member nations of the SCO should respect each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The remarks by Modi at a virtual summit of the eight-member Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) came in the backdrop of the Sino-India border row in eastern Ladakh, as also Islamabad's attempt to internationalise Kashmir issue and indulge in cross-border terrorism against India. The Prime Minister delivered the message in the presence of Chinese President Xi Jinping, and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who were among the heads of governments attending the summit, chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Referring to India's participation in strengthening connectivity among nations, Modi said: "India believes that to enhance connectivity it is important that we move forward while respecting one another's sovereignty and territorial integrity." In his address, the Prime Minister also hit out at those making repeated attempts to "unnecessarily" bring bilateral issues to the SCO in violation of the grouping's foundational principles, in an oblique reference to Pakistan. "India has always been resolute in working in sync with principles laid out in the SCO charter. But it is unfortunate that there have been repeated efforts to unnecessarily bring bilateral issues in the SCO agenda which is in violation of the SCO spirit," Modi said. Referring to COVID-19, Modi said India will use its capacity in production and distribution of vaccines to help the entire humanity in fighting the pandemic. In this difficult time of unprecedented epidemic, India's pharma industry sent essential medicines to over 150 countries, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sco-members-should-respect-each-others-sovereignty-territorial-integrity-pm-modis-message-to-china-pak-913830.html
10-11-2020||National||ITAT disposes of 7,251 cases during Covid-19 pandemic via virtual hearings||ITAT President Justice P P Bhatt on Tuesday said the tax tribunal has disposed of 7,251 cases during the Covid-19 pandemic period through the virtual hearings across the country. The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has set up virtual benches across the country which are extensively for case hearings used during the Covid-19 period, he said. "During this (Covid-19 pandemic) period, ITAT disposed of 7,251 cases as against the 3,378 new cases filed during the pandemic period. Of course, we have disposed of old cases," he told reporters here. The total pendency of ITAT as on November 1 is 83,546, he said. The tribunal has sanctioned strength of 126 members but currently, there is a vacancy of 46 members, it added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on inaugurate an office-cum-residential complex of ITAT at Cuttack. The complex will have a total built up area of 1,938 sq mtrs. "With the e-court facility provided in the new building with good connectivity facility, the Cuttack bench will be able to hear and dispose of even appeals pending with other benches in the Kolkata zone, which are presently non-functional such as Ranchi, Patna and Guwahati," Bhatt said. He said a new e-filing portal is ready which shall facilitate e-filing of appeals, documents and other applications by the litigants. "Physical notice boards are being replaced by digital screen displaying constitution of benches, cause list and other information. ITAT has set up virtual benches across the country," Bhatt added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itat-disposes-of-7251-cases-during-covid-19-pandemic-via-virtual-hearings-913842.html
10-11-2020||National||2 held for preparing fake Aadhaar, voter ID cards||Two men were arrested for allegedly preparing fake Aadhaar and voter ID cards for a gang of cheats by using forged documents, police said on Tuesday. Umesh Chander (29) and Ravi Sachdeva (36) were arrested from Mangolpuri and Burari respectively after several raids on Saturday, they said. According to police, the arrest was made by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police in connection with a case registered by it on a complaint by a private bank, which alleged that the gang of cheats had procured several credit as well as debit cards from it using forged documents. On November 4, eight members of the gang were arrested in the case by the EOW and hundreds of credit and debit cards, PAN cards, Aadhaar cards, cash and jewellery were also recovered from their possession. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) Dr OP Mishra said during interrogation, the gang members revealed that Chander and  Sachdeva prepared PAN cards, Aadhaar cards and voter IDs on the basis of forged documents, for them to obtain credit and debit cards from various banks. Later, Chander and Sacheva were also arrested, he said. The officer said Chander used to work as an operator in a firm authorised for processing data for the preparation of Aadhaar cards. He was well aware of the entire process of preparing Aadhaar cards. Subsequently, he opened his own office in Mangolpuri and worked as an agent for firms that were authorised by Aadhaar authorities for preparing the cards. "The gang of cheats had approached Chander for preparing different Aadhar cards by using photographs of the same person. Since biometrics such as fingerprints and Iris are necessary for preparing each Aadhaar card, Chander used biometrics, ridges of feet of the same person for preparing two different Aadhaar cards. He also used fingerprints and Iris of minors and others who did not have their biometric with Aadhaar authority," the senior officer said. Chander and his accomplice Sachdeva later used these Aadhaar cards for preparing PAN cards and voter ID cards. They charged Rs 5,000-10,000 for each of these fake PAN cards or Voter ID cards and Rs 25,000 for each Aadhaar card, Mishra said. Police have seized a printer machine, two laptops, one Cogent IRIS Scanner Model and some papers from the office of the accused||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-held-for-preparing-fake-aadhaar-voter-id-cards-913847.html
10-11-2020||National||Manipur bypolls: BJP wins 1 seat, Independent supported by BJP wins 1||BJP candidate Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the by-election to the Wangoi seat, while Y Antas Khan, an independent candidate supported by the saffron party bagged the Lilong seat in Manipur, officials said Tuesday. BJP candidates Paonam Brojen Singh and Ngamthang Haokip were leading from Wangjing Tentha and Saitu seats respectively, they said. Oinam Lukhoi Singh won the Wangoi seat by defeating his nearest rival Khuraijam Loken Singh of the National People's Party by 257 votes, as per the ECI website. In the Lilong seat, Y Antas Khan won by defeating his nearest rival Mohd Abdul Nasir by 3,078 votes. Paonam Brojen Singh was leading over his nearest rival Moirangthem Hemanta Singh of the Congress by over 1,560 seats in the Wangjin Tentha seat. In Saitu constituency, Ngamthang Haokip was ahead of his Congress rival Lamtinthang Haokip by 4,297 votes. The by-polls held on November 7 were necessitated after Congress MLAs of these four seats resigned from the assembly and joined the ruling BJP. The BJP contested in three seats and supported anIndependent candidate in Lilong, while the Congress fielded its nominees in all the four constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-bypolls-bjp-wins-1-seat-independent-supported-by-bjp-wins-1-913857.html
10-11-2020||National||#MeToo: Priya Ramani made 'defamatory' statement out of vengeance, M J Akbar tells court||Former union minister M J Akbar Tuesday told a Delhi court that journalist Priya Ramani did not make “defamatory” statements for the public good but out of vengeance. Akbar made the statement before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Vishal Pahuja through his lawyer during the final arguments in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against Ramani. In the wake of #MeToo movement, Ramani in 2018 accused Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for Akbar, told the court that, “Ramani didn't make these statements (termed by Akbar as defamatory) for the public good, she made them outof vengeance. She didn't even apologise for a factually incorrect statement.” “Ramani didn't produce any landline records, parking receipts, no CCTV footage, nothing. She didn't produce any evidence to prove her story,” the counsel said. The counsel claimed that Ramani wrote a fictitious piece in the magazine -- Vogue -- in context of #MeToo  movement with a mala fide intention as she “intended to tarnish the reputation of Akbar.” “Wreckless statements against Akbar were put in a public place without any care or caution... The per se effect of Ramani's statements was defamatory, damaging the reputation of Akbar,” the counsel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-priya-ramani-made-defamatory-statement-out-of-vengeance-m-j-akbar-tells-court-913859.html
10-11-2020||National||Odisha bypolls: BJD continues to lead in both assembly seats||BJD candidates continued to lead in both the assembly seats, where counting of votes polled in the November 3 by-elections is underway on Tuesday, election officials said. BJD's Bijay Shankar Das was leading over BJP candidate Rajkishore Behera by 14,561 votes in Tirtol seat in Jagatsinghpur district, they said. Das polled 32,075 votes after 10 rounds of counting, while Behera has bagged 17,514 votes. Congress nominee Himanshu Bhushan Mallick has got 6,835 votes.   In Balasore, BJD candidate Swarup Kumar Das was leadingover his nearest BJP rival Manas Kumar Dutta by 5,302 votes. Das bagged 37,487 votes after 11 rounds of counting, while Dutta followed with 32,185 votes. Congress candidate Mamata Kundu was trailing in third place with 2,286 votes. The deaths of Balasore's BJP MLA Madan Mohan Dutta and Tirtol's BJD legislator Bishnu Charan Das necessitated the by-elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-bypolls-bjd-continues-to-lead-in-both-assembly-seats-913879.html
10-11-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan Shringla holds bilateral meetings with Maldivian leadership||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday held a series of meetings with the Maldivian leadership and the Opposition and discussed ways to further strengthen India's relations with the island nation, and reviewed progress of key infrastructure projects under the $1.3 billion bilateral package. Shringla, who is on a two-day visit to Maldives, held a joint meeting with Minister for National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure Mohamed Aslam, Minister of Economic Development Fayyaz Ismail and Minister of Finance Ibrahim Ameer. On Monday, Shringla also called on President of Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and Speaker of the People's Majlis Mohamed Nasheed. "FS@harshvshringla held a joint-meeting with Minister for National Planning, Housing & Infra Dvpt @AslamAslamtey Minister of Economic Dvpt@faya_i& Minister of Finance @iameeru; they assessed progress in 8 infrastructure projects part of the $1.3 billion bilateral package," the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted. India is carrying out a wide-range of infrastructure projects in Maldives, including Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) and other projects such as port, roads and reclamation, expansion of airports, building of a new Cricket Stadium and cancer hospital and development of fisheries. Shringla also met Maldivian Home Minister and leader of the Adaalath Party Imran Abdulla and sought the party's cooperation in further strengthening the bilateral relations. The religious conservative Adaalath party is part of the Maldivian Democratic Party-led ruling coalition. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla @HarshShringla met Home Minister & leader of the Adaalath Party @ShimranAb; FS sought continuing cooperation of the Adaalath Party in ensuring the success of #IndiaMaldives relations," it said in another tweet. In keeping with the democratic traditions India and the Maldives share, Shringla also met the leadership of the Opposition Progressive-Congress Coalition. "He briefed them on India-supported projects in the Maldives, being undertaken as per Maldivian priorities," it tweeted. "The opposition coalition recognised India's historical assistance and expressed strong support for further deepening #IndiaMaldives relations," it said. The Foreign Secretary also called on former president Maumoon Abdul Gayoom and acknowledged his valuable contribution in laying a solid foundation of the India-Maldives partnership and sought his continued support for bilateral ties. In a tweet, Gayoom said, "Indian FS @harshvshringla called on me today. We had a wide-ranging discussion on our excellent bilateral relations. Once again I reiterated my thanks to successive Indian governments for their outstanding support to Maldives for over many decades." On Monday, India and the Maldives signed two Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs), including one for a $100 million grant to fund the Greater Male Connectivity Project, that are emblematic of the strong development partnership which is multi-faceted and designed to meet the specific requirements of the government and people of Maldives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-shringla-holds-bilateral-meetings-with-maldivian-leadership-913884.html
10-11-2020||National||Assembly Bypolls: BJP surges ahead in 40 out of 59 seats||Assembly bypolls in 11 states brought cheers to the BJP on Tuesday as it bagged 40 out of the 59 seats riding on Congress turncoats who dominated the saffron party's list of winners. In a Lok Sabha bypoll in Bihar, JD(U) comfortably won defeating the Congress in Valmiki Nagar seat. Congress, which was holding 42 of the 59 Assembly seats that went to bypolls, was reduced to 12, mainly due to losses in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Manipur where its MLAs had switched sides to the BJP. Thirty-one or three-fourth of the seats the BJP won in this edition of bypolls were held by the Congress. For the BJP, it was huge jump from seven to 40 seats, which also included comfortable leads in three seats in Madhya Pradesh. Besides the BJP and Congress, BJD and independents won two each seats while Samajwadi Party, NDPP and JMM won one each. The sweeping victories in Gujarat (eight seats) and Karnataka (two seats) brought much needed relief for BJP Chief Ministers Vijay Rupani and B S Yediyurappa, as they were under pressure over performance and party central leadership’s perceived lack of trust in them. Shivraj Singh Chouhan government also earned the much needed seats to ensure majority in the Assembly. For BJP, Telangana was also a welcome news with the party wresting the Dubbak seat from the ruling TRS. Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav tweeted, "great showing by BJP in Telangana. Dubbak won by Raghunandan Rao of BJP despite most undemocratic behaviour by ruling TRS. BJP emerges as the lone alternative to TRS family raj." In the Opposition camp, Jharkhand gave some jitters to Chief Minister and JMM chief Hemant Soren initially as his brother Basant trailed in the beginning trailing in the family borough Dumka, which the former had vacated. When the final vote was counted, it was all smiles for the Chief Minister as his brother trounced BJP’s Loius Marandi and ally Congress retained the second seat which went to bypolls. For Congress, Haryana and Chhattisgarh too provided some relief as the party candidates managed to win one each seat. In Haryana, Congress' Indu Raj defeated Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt, whom the BJP fielded for the second time in one year in elections in the state. Dutt, a wrestler, lost both. Ruling BJD also retained two seats in Odisha while in Nagaland, NDPP won one seat while an independent emerged victorious in the second seat. It was a do-or-die battle for both the BJP and Congress in Madhya Pradesh where the former had managed to wrest power by engineering a split and wooing a faction led by Jyotiraditya Scindia. Of the 28 seats, which went to polls, BJP was winning 19 seats while Congress was winning the rest. The emphatic BJP surge ensured the safety of the Chouhan government, which needed seven seats for majority, while cementing Jyotiraditya Scindia's political capital in the state where he was locked in a tussle for supremacy with Kamal Nath in Congress before he jumped the ship. However, the defeat of Scindia loyalists and ministers Adal Singh Kansana and Girra Dandotia took some sheen away. Winning all the eight seats in Gujarat came as a relief for Rupani, who was facing criticism over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic amid speculation about a leadership change in the state. All the eight seats belonged to Congress, whose MLAs resigned and joined the ruling BJP, and the saffron party fielded five of them. Manipur was another state where BJP managed to win four out of the five seats, which belonged to the Congress. It also has the support of the independent who won the bypolls. "A huge day for Manipur BJP! We won 4 out of 5 seats - BJP contested only in four seats...Once again the people of Manipur show their trust in principles and ideology of BJP and leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Chief Minister Biren Singh tweeted. The twin wins in Karnataka emboldened Yediyurappa, who is facing trouble from within the BJP while the saffron party also retained all the six seats it held while the Samajwadi Party managed to hold on to one seat where the bypolls were held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-bypolls-bjp-surges-ahead-in-40-out-of-59-seats-913902.html
10-11-2020||National||Kashmir Bar defers polls after asked to clarify its stand on ties with India||A day after Srinagar administration barred Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association (JKHCBA) from holding its internal elections, the lawyer organisation Tuesday decided to defer the polls. The JKHCBA had requested the Srinagar administration to grant them permission to hold its internal election, which was first delayed due to the detention of its president Mian Abdul Qayoom, following the abrogation of Article 370 last August, and then by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Choudhary on Monday asked the JKHCBA to clarify whether it considers Kashmir a “dispute” or an integral part of India before the permission for elections can be granted. “We have decided to defer the elections. New date is yet to be fixed,” Election Commissioner of JKHCBA, Advocate Mudasir told reporters. “New date will be announced after deliberations,” he said. The Bar elections were scheduled to be held on Tuesday. The JKHCBA constitution refers to Kashmir as a 'dispute'. This is the first time in three decades that the Bar elections has been asked to explain its position vis-a-vis Kashmir.   Senior advocate Altaf Khan, who is among those contesting for the president’s post, described the administration’s notice as “just an excuse for not holding the elections for such an important institution”. “We have been holding elections for the two decades and this body is responsible for upkeep and welfare of advocates,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-bar-defers-polls-after-asked-to-clarify-its-stand-on-ties-with-india-913913.html
10-11-2020||National||Finance Minister asks banks to ensure all accounts are linked with Aadhaar by next March||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked banks to ensure that all accounts are linked with Aadhaar numbers of respective customers by March 31, 2021. She said the financial inclusion story is not over and banks still have inclusion to carry forward. There are many accounts which are not linked with Aadhaar. "… by March 31, 2021, every account should have a PAN where needed and where applicable, and Aadhaar in every one of your accounts," Sitharaman said while addressing the 73rd annual general meeting of the Indian Banks' Association (IBA). She said banks should discourage non-digital payments and should bank on promotion of digital payments techniques and also adopt many of the UPI driven payments. "UPI should be a common parlance word in all our banks," the finance minister said, adding that banks should promote RuPay cards. "Whoever needs the card, RuPay will be the only card you will promote," she said. Sitharaman also said that the country is thirsting for large banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-minister-asks-banks-to-ensure-all-accounts-are-linked-with-aadhaar-by-next-march-913917.html
10-11-2020||National||Gujarat: Congress turncoat wins Abdasa bypoll on BJP ticket||BJP's Pradhyumansinh Jadeja on Tuesday defeated his nearest Congress rival Shantilal Senghani by a margin of 36,778 votes from Abdasa Assembly seat in Kutch district of Gujarat, the Election Commission said. Counting of votes in the rest seven seats, where bypolls were held on November 3, is underway. The ruling BJP is leading in all the seven seats. While Jadeja secured 71,848 votes, Senghani was polled 35,070 votes. Independent candidate Hanif Padyar garnered 26,463 votes. Jadeja had won Abdasa seat in 2017 on the Congress ticket. He was one of the five turncoat MLAs of the Congress who had joined the BJP after resigning from their parent party earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-congress-turncoat-wins-abdasa-bypoll-on-bjp-ticket-913923.html
10-11-2020||National||Aurangabad division gets Rs 1,300 crore as rain relief for farmers||An amount of Rs 1,336.89 crore has been received by Aurangabad division in Maharashtra to disburse as compensation among farmers hit by crop damage due to heavy rains recently, state government officials said on Tuesday. Distribution of the aid money among farmers who had suffered over 33 per cent loss, including damage to houses, death of cattle, destruction of crops and washing away of land, has begun, with money being deposited directly into bank accounts, they added. "While Rs 880 crore has been earmarked under State Disaster Response Force rules, Rs 414.98 crore is additional aid. The money kept for loss of life and complete damage to homes is Rs 3.5 crore, while it is Rs 1.92 crore for loss of cattle, Rs 2.86 for loss of huts, byre etc and Rs 25.58 crore for loss of farmland," an official explained. The district-wise aid in the division is Rs 143.07 crore for Aurangabad, Rs 271.60 crore for Jalna, Rs 90.51 crore for Parbhani, Rs 115.27 crore for Hingoli, Rs 284.52 crore for Nanded, Rs 154 crore for Beed, Rs 129.50 crore for Latur and Rs 148.38 crore for Osmanabad, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aurangabad-division-gets-rs-1300-crore-as-rain-relief-for-farmers-913935.html
10-11-2020||National||Rs 946 cr bank fraud case: CBI carries out searches against Ezeego promoters in Mumbai||The CBI has carried out searches at eight locations in Mumbai in connection with an alleged bank fraud case of Rs 946 crore in Yes Bank against Ezeego One Travel and Tours, officials said on Tuesday. The agency recently carried out the searches at the premises of the booked promoters and directors of the company, they added. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked company promoters Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar and Urrshila Kerkar, and directors Neelu Singh, Arup Sen, Manisha Amrapurkar, Pesi Patel and Karthik Venkatrman for alleged diversion of loan funds, the officials said. Set up in 2006, the company was engaged in offering travel services in India such as ticket booking, holiday and hotel packages and transport facilities. It availed credit facilities worth Rs 650 crore from Yes Bank in 2017, which was enhanced to Rs 1,015 crore the next year. The bank had earlier filed a complaint with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police. "However, the same was withdrawn as the bank has decided to file a complaint with the CBI, because a complaint in the matter of fraud by Cox & Kings Limited was being filed with the CBI by the SBI," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-946-cr-bank-fraud-case-cbi-carries-out-searches-against-ezeego-promoters-in-mumbai-913954.html
10-11-2020||National||Teach For India gets Rs 22 crore grant from Michael and Susan Dell Foundation||Teach For India (TFI) on Tuesday said it has received a Rs 22 crore grant from the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation (MSDF), which will help at least 15,000 students gain access to learning through technology. TFI and MSDF have announced a three-year commitment, under which TFI will procure and distribute 3,000 tablets among students of grades 6 to 10 across Mumbai, Delhi and Pune, helping at least 15,000 students gain access to learning through technology, a statement said. With blended learning, a mix of individualised online learning and traditional face-to-face learning, the programme will help students build 21st-century skills which are crucial, it added. Teach For India said it has received a grant of Rs 22 crore. "TFI's immediate aim is to distribute the 3,000 gadgets to students who currently have no access to any digital infrastructure required for virtual learning. When schools reopen, these gadgets will be reallocated in a 'device library' format where each gadget can be shared by at least 5 students, expanding the impact to 15,000 students," the statement said. Data collected from the 32,000 students that TFI serves highlighted that 46 per cent of the students do not have a reliable device to learn on, 20 per cent of the students have migrated while 35 per cent of them required financial and food relief during the lockdown. TFI noted that the lockdown made access to digital essential during the pandemic, TFI Fellows made learning accessible for students with innovative teaching techniques and methodologies. "The funding from MSDF will also be used to support close to 80 fellows across Mumbai, Delhi and Pune over the next three years so that their students receive the excellent education they deserve," the statement said. TFI CEO and founder Shaheen Mistri said the grant comes at a crucial time where many children are experiencing a loss in learning. "Their (MSDF) commitment to put devices into the hands of our children not only demonstrates their agility in responding to a crisis but also exemplifies how committed they are to India achieving true equity," Mistri added. MSDF Director India Programs Prachi Windlass said over the last few months, the organisation has worked closely with its partners to ensure children do not experience a disruption in learning. "One key learning we've had is that lack of access to a device can be the biggest hindrance to e-learning. TFI's model of device sharing among neighbourhood children or helping children to borrow one from the library is the perfect model to continue the momentum of e-learning," she added. Since the initial stages of lockdown, 32,000 Teach For Indiastudents have been utilising multiple forms of blended learning as a pilot. With operations in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru, TFI has over 900 fellows impacting more than 32,000 children across the country. Post fellowship, they join a growing movement of over 3,400 alumni working at all levels of the education sector. With over $200 million in investments over the past 14 years, MSDF has impacted the lives of over 12 million children and families in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teach-for-india-gets-rs-22-crore-grant-from-michael-and-susan-dell-foundation-913970.html
10-11-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh adds 1,886 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||Andhra Pradesh added 1,886 new coronavirus cases, saw 2,151 recoveries and 12 more deaths, the state government said on Tuesday. Consequently, the total confirmed cases of the pandemic touched 8,46,245 in the state so far. The total recoveries increased to 8,18,473 while the overall toll stood at 6,814, the latest bulletin for the 24 hours ending 9 am on Tuesday said. The state now has 20,958 active cases. After 87.92 lakh samples were tested for the Covid-19 infection, the overall positivity rate stood at 9.62 per cent as against the national average of 7.18 per cent. Chittoor district reported 291 fresh cases, West Godavari 282, Guntur 275, Krishna 269 and East Godavari 227. Prakasam district added 111 more cases while the remaining seven districts in the state reported less than 100 new cases each, with Srikakulam and Kurnool reporting the lowest of 33 each. On Tuesday, Vizianagaram district crossed the 40,000 total cases mark, remaining at the bottom of the Covid-19 table. It, however, has only 342 active cases now. Chittoor and Krishna districts saw three fresh coronavirus fatalities each in the last 24 hours while six districts reported one more death each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-adds-1886-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-913977.html
10-11-2020||National||Air quality: Delhi witnessing unusual condition, no quick recovery likely||Delhi is witnessing an "unusual" condition and no quick recovery is predicted from the "severe" air pollution, a central government forecasting agency said on Tuesday. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said three major factors are responsible for this situation -- secondary particle formation, extremely calm local surface winds and stubble burning-related intrusion. "Delhi's overall AQI is in the higher end of the 'severe' category, which is an unusual condition," it said. "Due to a high moisture content, humidity has touched a new high and the air holding capacity has increased under such cool conditions, triggering rapid secondary fine particulate formation -- a scientific process when gas-to-particle conversion happens and in-situ chemical production takes place on available surfaces and multiplies PM2.5," the SAFAR added. The extremely calm local surface winds continued to arrest all old and new accumulated pollutants, it said. "Significant stubble burning-related intrusion took place until Tuesday morning due to a favourable, transport-level wind direction and speed," the SAFAR said. However, the transport-level wind direction has changed now, which is likely to reduce stubble intrusion. "But due to the first two factors, no quick recovery is predicted unless the moisture content declines with radiative heating," the SAFAR said. It said the air quality index (AQI) of the national capital is likely to improve to the lower end of the "severe" category to the higher end of the "very poor" category on Wednesday owing to a change in the transport-level wind direction and marginally better ventilation conditions. The SAFAR said the farm fire count in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and neighbouring areas stood at 2,247 on Monday. "The number has reduced marginally but is still significantly high," it said. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday. An apocalyptic smog enveloped Delhi in grey on Tuesday, blotting out the sun from the sky and smudging landmarks from view as the air quality hit "emergency" levels. The city recorded an overall AQI of 476 at 4 pm, which falls in the "severe" category. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (474), Ghaziabad (476), Noida (490), Greater Noida (467) and Gurugram (469) also recorded "severe" air quality. This is the sixth "severe" air day on the trot in Delhi. The city witnessed seven "severe" air days in November last year. The levels of PM2.5 -- which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases -- were 644 µg/m3 at 12 noon -- around 11 times higher than the safe limit of 60 µg/m3. The PM10 levels rose to 777 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 8 am, the highest since June 14, 2018, when it peaked to 847 µg/m3, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. If the PM2.5 and PM10 levels are more than 300 µg/m3 and 500 µg/m3 respectively for over 48 hours, emergency measures such as a ban on construction activities and entry of trucks, and a car-rationing scheme can be implemented under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) for Delhi-NCR, notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-quality-delhi-witnessing-unusual-condition-no-quick-recovery-likely-913978.html
10-11-2020||National||Stalin hails Celine Gounder's appointment to Joe Biden's Covid-19 task force||DMK President M K Stalin on Tuesday hailed the appointment of Celine Gounder in the Covid-19 Advisory Board of US President-elect Joe Biden, saying she was a "woman of Tamil origin." The leader of the opposition in the state Assembly greeted Gounder on her appointment. "Glad to hear about the appointment of Celine Gounder to President-Elect Joe Biden's National Pandemic Taskforce to combat Covid-19. Happy to hear about the appointment of a woman of Tamil origin to this crucial task force," he said in a Facebook post.  "Congratulations & best wishes," he added.  Gounder is one of the members of the Covid-19 task force that will guide Biden on dealing with the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 2,36,000 lives in the US. Indian-American physician Dr Vivek Murthy is one of the three co-chairs of the task-force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stalin-hails-celine-gounders-appointment-to-joe-bidens-covid-19-task-force-913980.html
10-11-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bihar Assembly election inches towards tight finish; Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, the counting of Bihar Assembly election 2020 is underway; Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court; Major fire in Bengaluru and Dawood Ibrahim’s property auctioned. Here are the top news of November 10, 2020: Around half a dozen properties, belonging to fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra, was auctioned by the state government for nearly Rs 23 lakh. Designated as a “mosted wanted accused” by India and “global terrorist” by the United States, Dawood, who is in his mid-sixties, is currently holed up in Pakistan. In India, among other cases, he is wanted for the March 12, 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. The auction was conducted by Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA). Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami moved the Supreme Court Tuesday seeking interim bail in the 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. The Bombay High Court had refused to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others on Monday and asked them to move to the local court for the relief. The appeal against the high court order has been filed in the top court through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey. A major fire broke out at Bapuji Nagar near New Guddadahalli off Mysore Road on Tuesday noon. Panic rose after thick smoke engulfed the area. Sanjeev M Patil DCP (west) said that the factory situated at 1st Main, Bapujinagar near Mahadev School at New Guddadahalli caught fire, where four workers were stuck. All of them were rescued. Senior officials from the Fire and emergency services said that they received a call at 11.18 am on Tuesday regarding the fire. Initially, three firefighters were sent and later two more and after observing the situation, total 15 firefighters were sent to the spot to douse off the fire. Coming to the elections today in Bihar: The counting is still underway. The delay being the increase in the EVMs due to the pandemic. At 7:00 PM IST, the figures are: BJP has won 6 and leading in 67 seats and its partner the JDU winning 2 and leading in 38. On the the side, the RJD winning 6 and leading in 70 and the Congress winning 2 and leading in 18 seats. The surprise this election was Assadudin-Owaisi-led AIMIM leading in 4 and winning 1 and the CPIML(L) leading in 12 seats. Elsewhere in other bypolls to state Assemblies, it seems that the Shivraj Raj Singh Chouhan government will stay afloat with the party winning 9 seats and leading in 10 and the Congress which needed all the seats to come back to power having won 1 and leading in 8 seats. In Karnataka, the BJP swept both the seats of RR Nagar and Sira with a combined vote percentage of 51%. Elsewhere too the BJP dominated the polls except in Chhattigarh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Nagaland and Odisha.  Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bihar-assembly-election-inches-towards-tight-finish-arnab-goswami-moves-supreme-court-913985.html
10-11-2020||National||Trying to resolve issue holding up Vijay Mallya's extradition to India: UK||The UK on Tuesday said Vijay Mallya cannot be extradited to India till the resolution of a confidential legal matter and that it is trying to resolve the issue as quickly as possible. In May, the fugitive businessman lost his appeals in the British Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money laundering and fraud charges. "There is a further legal issue that needs resolving before we would be in a position to extradite Mallya. It is a legal case. So it is difficult for me to comment substantially on it," acting high commissioner of the UK Jan Thompson said. She was replying to a question on the issue at an online media briefing. "The extradition cannot take place until that particular legal issue is resolved. It is a confidential issue. I cannot say anymore on it. Nor can I estimate how long it will take to be resolved. We are trying to resolve the issue as quickly as we can,” Thompson said. India has been pressing the UK to extradite Mallya after he lost his appeals in the British Supreme Court. The UK top court's decision marked a major setback to the 64-year-old businessman as it came weeks after he lost his High Court appeal in April against an extradition order to India. In June, India urged the UK not to consider any request for asylum by Mallya as there appeared to be no ground for his persecution in the country Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The High Court verdict in April upheld the 2018 ruling by Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot at the end of a year-long extradition trial in December 2018 that the former Kingfisher Airlines boss had a "case to answer" in the Indian courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trying-to-resolve-issue-holding-up-vijay-mallyas-extradition-to-india-uk-913992.html
10-11-2020||National||Republic TV's Arnab Goswami moves SC for bail in abetment to suicide case||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami has approached the Supreme Court seeking interim bail in the 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee would take up his petition against the Bombay HC's order of November 9 refusing to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others. This would be a special sitting on Wednesday, as the Supreme Court is on a week-long Diwali break. The HC asked them to move to the local court for the relief.  The appeal against the high court order has been filed in the top court through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey.  Besides the Maharashtra government, Goswami who is in Taloja jail, has made the Centre, the SHO of Alibaug police station, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Akshyata Anvay Naik as parties to his appeal. The state government, through advocate Sachin Patil, has also filed a caveat in the top court to ensure that no order is passed on Goswami's plea without it being heard in the case.  Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.  The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction".  "The petitioners have the efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days," it said on Monday.  Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them.  The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10.  Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-tvs-arnab-goswami-moves-sc-for-bail-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-913998.html
10-11-2020||National||Government making pensioners 'atmanirbhar' by promoting digital life certificates: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said the government is trying to make pensioners "atmanirbhar" by promoting the digital life certificate which can also be given from the comfort of one's home. Due to the difficulties faced by the pensioners earlier in submitting the life certificate because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has relaxed the existing timeline for submission from November 1 to December 31 this year, he said. "Under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Department of Pensions and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) is trying to make the pensioners 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) by promoting the digital life certificate for pensioners which can be given from the comfort of one's home also," Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said. Addressing an interactive session of Brahma Kumari Sister Shivani on "Power of Thoughts and Meditation in Covid-19 pandemic" organised by the DoPPW here, he said pensioners, as senior citizens being the most vulnerable group in the wake of the pandemic, need a helping hand and compassionate ears in addition to medical care. Such programmes will help them tackle their mental stress levels thus protecting them from physical illness as well, he said. Singh said that senior citizens always have a lot to offer to the society and their valuable experiences can bring changes to the society, according to a Personnel Ministry statement. The key to happiness is being grateful for all that we have and to be self-content which is enshrined in all ancient scriptures and now it has also been acknowledged by science that mental and emotional well-being leads to better physical health and immunity against diseases, he said. Endorsing the thoughts on building positivity in life given by Sister Shivani in her address, the minister said that lifestyle modifications are a must in this period as one should liberate oneself from nagging thoughts. Earlier, while addressing the programme, Sister Shivani called for keeping oneself energised with positive thoughts in this period, the statement said. "Through their sanskars (values), they can take care of not only their own emotional well-being but also contribute to emotional strength of everyone else in their homes and in the society as they are the givers of unconditional emotional support, stability, hope and love to all younger members of their family and society at large," she added. This programme was aimed at sensitising senior pensioners on mental well-being during the pandemic, the statement said. "The DoPPW has been taking extra efforts for organising programmes for addressing pensioners' health issues, including providing counselling for COVID 19, yoga sessions for enhancing immunity and overall health, through video-conferencing connecting a large number of pensioners across India with the help of pensioners associations," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-making-pensioners-atmanirbhar-by-promoting-digital-life-certificates-jitendra-singh-914001.html
10-11-2020||National||Owners of Kamala Mills Compound discharged in 2017 fire case||A court here on Tuesday discharged two owners of Kamala Mills Compound, who were booked in connection with the fire at a pub in the premises in 2017, which led to the death of 14 people. The court, however, rejected the discharge pleas of owners of the pub and restaurant, BMC officials and other accused, who will face charges under relevant sections of the IPC and Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Act. A blaze had erupted at 1Above restaurant and Mojo's Bistro pub located in Kamala Mills Compound on December 29, 2017, in which 14 persons were killed and several others were injured. The police had booked 14 people in the case, including owners and employees of the establishments, BMC officials, owners of the compound. The court discharged owners of the compound Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari, the special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty said. The duo had claimed that they cannot be booked for the fire, as they had no connection to it. Apart from them, two managers of 1Above, hotelier Vishal Kariya, owners of 1Above Kripesh Mansukh Sanghavi, Jigar Mansukh Sanghavi, owner of Mojo's Bistro pub Yug Ravindrapal Singh Tuli and fire officer Rajendra Baban Patil had also filed discharge pleas. The accused had challenged that charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and others were not applicable in the case, as they had no intention of causing death. However, the prosecution had argued that the accused had failed to abide by the law, and there were several irregularities in their fire safety system, which led to the loss of lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owners-of-kamala-mills-compound-discharged-in-2017-fire-case-914004.html
10-11-2020||National||Working on refinery for aviation fuel from bamboo, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways and MSME Nitin Gadkari has said that he was working on an idea to set up a refinery for the production of aviation fuel from bamboo grown in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district. "I am planning to set up a bio-refinery for the production of aviation fuel. The bamboo for this will be sourced from Gadchiroli district. I have begun work on this and in two to three years, I will show you flights running on this biofuel," he said while addressing an event via video conference. He also called for more intensive use of bamboo resources and asked the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DONER) to formulate a comprehensive ''Bamboo Policy''. He also suggested making available more incentives to bamboo production, processing, and handling and said this will go a long way in developing the bamboo-based industry. Emphasising on the production of high-yielding bamboo varieties, he said, for industrial use, bamboo yield should be 200 tonnes per acre against about 40 tonnes per acre in the case of some varieties. The greater yield and wider bamboo usage will open up more employment generation especially in the north-eastern region. He said that bamboo sticks may be reduced to bales so that moisture is removed thereby making transportation easier and cheaper and increasing its calorific value. He suggested IITs may be roped in to undertake a pilot project in this regard. Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Jitendra Singh, Ministry of DoNER and North Eastern Council is taking all measures for tapping bamboo resources and technical know-how at the all-India level. He informed that the ministry had already decided to develop three Bamboo Clusters in Jammu, Katra and Samba areas for the making of bamboo basketry, 'agarbatti' and bamboo charcoal as well as setting up of Bamboo Technology Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-on-refinery-for-aviation-fuel-from-bamboo-says-nitin-gadkari-914005.html
10-11-2020||National||Less than satisfactory adherence to Covid norms outside urban centres during Bihar poll campaign: Health Ministry||The health ministry on Tuesday said during the Bihar poll campaign, a central government team found adherence to Covid norms like wearing masks and hand hygiene "less than satisfactory" outside the urban centres. Responding to a question at a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the findings of the team were shared with the state and Bihar took the requisite corrective action. "During the election campaigning period, we had deputed a central team to Bihar, which found certain good practices and also, certain areas of concern. Particularly, the team found that outside the urban centres, the wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distance and hand hygiene were less than satisfactory. "We have shared the findings with the state government as we do with respect to other states and we are happy to report that once we submitted the findings for the states, the requisite corrective action was initiated by Bihar," he said. Bhushan said central teams were sent not only to Bihar but also to other states, where bypolls were being conducted. "We had sent a central team because we were concerned not only in Bihar, but also in other states, where bypolls were being conducted and where there were reports that social distancing was not being followed, masks were not being worn. The reports were shared with the states and where a time-bound follow-up action was required. The cause of satisfaction is when we drew their attention, the states took steps to rectify it," he said. Responding to a query on whether the violation of the Covid norms would lead to a spurt in cases, the official said, "These things are long term, so what has happened in Bihar last week or 10 days ago would take time to manifest itself whether in terms of new numbers or any other development, so this is something that requires a close watch and within the ministry, we do keep a close watch on a 24-hour basis." He said 1,15,21,841 Covid-19 tests have so far been conducted in Bihar, of which 12,93,900 or roughly 12 per cent were RT-PCR and the remaining RAT. "You can always argue that a large number of tests are RAT but Bihar has also been advised by us that whenever they conduct RAT, those who are symptomatic negative must mandatorily be subjected to RT-PCR. This is the advice that we give to all states and Union territories because we would not want any undetected person to move around in the society and spread infection," Bhushan said. Polling for the Bihar election was held in three phases for a total of 243 seats -- the first phase for 71 seats on October 28, the second for 94 seats on November 3 and the third for the remaining 78 on November 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-satisfactory-adherence-to-covid-norms-outside-urban-centres-during-bihar-poll-campaign-health-ministry-914015.html
10-11-2020||National||India, UK ministers review trade deal progress in virtual meeting||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State Hardeep Singh Puri have held a virtual dialogue with their UK counterparts to review the progress towards a post-Brexit Enhanced Trade Partnership with Britain, which could lead to a free trade agreement in the future. UK Secretary of State for International Trade Liz Truss was joined by her Minister for International Trade Ranil Jayawardena for the talks on Monday. During the talks, both sides agreed to accelerate the "deepening" of trade ties, which involved a discussion on a range of UK products, including Scotch Whisky, and steps taken so far to unlock market access barriers to open up further opportunities for businesses on both sides. “The November Ministerial demonstrated the strength of the long-standing UK-India relationship, with both parties agreeing to continue to drive forward progress through the Enhanced Trade Partnership, which could lead to a free trade agreement in the future,” a Department for International Trade (DIT) spokesperson said. The meeting had been agreed as a follow up to the India-UK Joint Economic and Trade Committee (JETCO) in July, when the ministers had agreed to prioritise five key areas of life sciences, information communications technology (ICT), food and drink, chemicals, and services to address non-tariff barriers to trade towards first an enhanced and eventually a free trade agreement. According to officials, both delegations committed to continue working together closely on areas of mutual interest and benefit and to accelerate the already deepening India-UK trade and investment partnership. “We are looking at early harvest deals, which would bring benefits to both our countries, followed by a more detailed, either preferential trade agreement or a free trade agreement," the Foreign Secretary had confirmed during his visit to London. "Obviously, a limited deal means we work on those areas on which both sides can immediately agree to. We need more time to conclude a more comprehensive trade agreement but our ministers are in touch and will work on trying to close such a deal,” he said. The latest round of talks come as Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced a major addition to the UK government’s ability to attract foreign investment, in the form of a newly established Office for Investment this week. The new office will support the landing of high-value investment opportunities into the UK which align with key government priorities, such as reaching net zero, investment in infrastructure and advancing research and development. The DIT said the new office will also ensure the UK is well-positioned to maximise the benefits that flow from free trade agreements with international partners, including India. “Now is the time to be bold and ambitious in how we trade with partners around the world. Our more strategic approach to inward investment will help level up the UK, creating more jobs and prosperity across the country,” said International Trade Secretary Liz Truss. “The office will build our reputation as a world leader in industries of the future such as tech, services, advanced manufacturing and clean growth,” she said. Staffed by “highly experienced” individuals with both private sector and cross-government experience, the office will be based at the DIT, with Minister for Investment Gerry Grimstone leading its work in close partnership with No. 10 Downing Street, under the sponsorship of UK PM Johnson and Chancellor Rishi Sunak. “If we are to build back better from this pandemic, we need to refocus and re-double our efforts to attract foreign investment, which will increase productivity, economic growth across the country, boost our exports and better our research and development environment,” said Lord Grimstone. “We must sharpen our priorities and transform our investment offer accordingly to meet the demands of a changing global economic outlook – whether that be in greener or increased digitally-led opportunities. The office for Investment will make it easier for international investors by bringing the very best of the UK directly to them,” he said. The DIT said that most strategic investments are often the most complex and require a joined-up approach across government and the private sector. “The Office for Investment will look to resolve potential barriers to landing these ‘top tier’ investments, including regulatory constraints and planning issues,” the DIT said. “Driving inward investment into all corners of the UK through a ‘single front door’ and boosting economic recovery across the country, this major operational transformation is designed to ensure the UK is the most attractive destination in the world to invest,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-ministers-review-trade-deal-progress-in-virtual-meeting-914031.html
10-11-2020||National||Centre sounds Covid-19 alarm in Bihar, poll-bound states; situation under close watch||India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 79 lakh-mark, the highest in the world, but what has baffled many is the low infection level in Bihar, which witnessed hectic campaigning for assembly elections till last week. On Tuesday, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre had reached out to Bihar and other states, where bypolls were held, to underscore the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, particularly in rural areas. “We had also deputed central teams to Bihar and other states going to bypolls and sought time-bound follow-up action,” Bhushan told reporters. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka had witnessed feverish election campaigns with little regard for social distancing norms or wearing of masks. “We had shared the reports of the central teams with the states and we had drawn attention to certain points, where time-bound follow-up action was required by the state,” the Health Secretary said. “The cause for satisfaction for us is that when we drew the attention of the states, they did act on it to rectify the defects,” he said. However, according to Bhushan, full impact of the measures taken would take time to manifest itself. “What has happened in Bihar in the last 10 days or so would take time to manifest itself, either in terms of new numbers or in terms of any other development. This is something that requires close watch,” Bhushan said. He also noted that Bihar had tested 1.15 crore samples for Covid-19, of which a large part comprised rapid antigen tests. India has been conducting 11 lakh tests on a daily average and had tested nearly 12 crore samples till date – the second highest in the world. According to Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava, Delhi-NCR was witnessing a third spike since the pandemic broke out in March with the national capital reporting more than 6,000 cases daily. Bhargava said a concoction of several factors such as air pollution, cold weather, ongoing festival and marriage season, inter-district movement with disregard of social distancing norms have led to a sharp rise in infections in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sounds-covid-19-alarm-in-bihar-poll-bound-states-situation-under-close-watch-914051.html
10-11-2020||National||Indian Army gifts 20 fully-trained military horses, 10 mine-detection dogs to Bangladesh||The Indian Army on Tuesday gifted 20 fully-trained military horses and 10 mine-detection dogs to Bangladesh as part of the country’s efforts to further strengthen bilateral ties. The equines and canines were trained by the Remount and Veterinary Corps of the Indian Army, according to a statement. The Bangladesh Army personnel were trained by the Indian Army for handling these specialist dogs and horses. The Indian Army delegation was led by Major General Narinder Singh Khroud, Chief of Staff of Brahmastra Corps whereas the Bangladesh Army delegation was led by Major General Mohammad Humayun Kabir, who is Commanding the Jessore based Division. The presentation ceremony was held at Petrapole-Benapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) on the India-Bangladesh border. Brigadier JS Cheema from the Indian High Commission in Dhaka was also present at the event. “The performance of military dogs in the Indian Army has been commendable. We are always ready to extend our assistance to a friendly country like Bangladesh in issues concerning security. When it comes to security, the dogs have proven their mettle. The dogs which have been handed over, are extremely effective in mine detection and contraband items,” a senior Army officer said. India’s partnership with the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh stands out as a role model in the region for good neighbourly relations. With this gesture, the bond which two countries share is expected to grow even stronger, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-gifts-20-fully-trained-military-horses-10-mine-detection-dogs-to-bangladesh-914064.html
10-11-2020||National||Pakistan court says India's cooperation key in implementing ICJ's verdict in Kulbhushan Jadhav case||A Pakistani court has said that India’s cooperation was necessary to implement the International Court of Justice’s verdict in death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav’s case, stating that the Indian High Commission here could approach it if it has reservations. The Islamabad High Court’s (IHC) three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah, Justice Aamer Farooq and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb on Monday heard a petition filed by the law ministry seeking the appointment of a lawyer for Jadhav to file a review plea against his death sentence by a Pakistani military court in 2017, Geo News reported. During the hearing, Attorney General Khalid Jawed Khan said that the federal government has taken all measures to ensure the implementation of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) decision, the report said. Asked about the steps taken to eliminate India’s reservations, Khan alleged that New Delhi was deliberately avoiding the court proceedings, it said. Justice Minallah said that India’s cooperation was necessary to implement the ICJ verdict and stated that the Indian High Commission could approach the court if it had reservations. The bench then adjourned hearing till December 1. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. In 2017, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence handed to him by a military court. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. A Pakistani court was informed on October 6 that India failed to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav in the case of the review of his death sentence by a military court in this country. Earlier, Pakistan had again rejected India's demand that an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel should be appointed for Jadhav to ensure a free and fair trial in the case. On October 8, India said that Pakistan has failed to address the core issues in Jadhav's case and pressed for an "unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered" consular access to him as ordered by the ICJ. "The core issues need to be addressed if we have to have effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the international court of justice. Pakistan must show its intention to deliver on the core issues," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-court-says-indias-cooperation-key-in-implementing-icjs-verdict-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-914077.html
10-11-2020||National||Digvijaya Singh tightens grip on Congress after Madhya Pradesh bypolls||BJP's strong performance in Madhya Pradesh bypolls has led to tightening of senior leader Digvijaya Singh's grip on the Congress in the state. The bypolls had turned out to be a direct contest between former chief minister Kamal Nath and turncoat Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had quit the Congress to join the BJP in March. Scindia's rebellion, along with 25 MLAs loyal to him, had brought down the Kamal Nath government in the state. Though Congress managed to defeat nine turncoats who had joined the BJP, it was not enough to bring down Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who required victory in only nine seats to ensure a simple majority in the 230-member assembly. The BJP was set to win 19 of the 28 seats where bypolls were held. Political observers peg the defeat of the Congress as a loss of face for Kamal Nath, who found it difficult to pursue state politics. “We accept the mandate of the people. We made every effort to convey our views to the people... We will introspect on the results,” Kamal Nath said. Congress candidate Ramchandra Dangi defeated Narayansinh Panwar of the BJP in Biaora assembly segment, which is part of Digvijaya Singh's Raghogarh Lok Sabha seat. With Kamal Nath on backfoot after the poll loss, and other key leaders Suresh Pachouri and Ajay Singh relegated to the sidelines, the field is open for Digvijaya Singh, a two-term chief minister, to assert himself in the state Congress. Digvijaya Singh was elected to the Rajya Sabha earlier this year and was appointed as permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digvijaya-singh-tightens-grip-on-congress-after-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-914088.html
10-11-2020||National||Disease burden may increase drastically if Covid-19, air pollution get combined: AIIMS director||There is an urgent need to look for sustainable solutions and be more aggressive towards controlling air pollution, more so with the Covid-19pandemic being around, as it can lead to a huge burden of diseases if both get combined, the AIIMS director said on Tuesday. There is definitely an ongoing wave, especially in many parts of India, and air pollution is making it worse, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said at ASSOCHAM webinar on 'Covid-19-Coming of the Second Wave: Myth or Reality', according to a statement by the industry body. "So, we need to act on multiple fronts to get hold as far as this pandemic is concerned," he said.  He said that Delhi is facing a double whammy of air pollution and Covid-19 as a virus can survive for a long time in pollution, which can cause more severe diseases. "There is no doubt that we are having a second wave but possibly multiple waves in different parts of the country as the number of cases increase. "In our hospital we had created a facility with almost 1,500 beds for Covid patients, we had during June-July almost 900 patients admitted at a given point in time, it came down to about 200, but now again it is rising, and we have more than 500 Covid patients," Guleria was quoted as saying in the statement. The All India Institute Of Medical Sciences director also said that since the 'unlock' has happened, the load on the hospital has increased significantly as now it is facing a huge burden as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing which is causing a huge strain on healthcare facilities. He outlined three major reasons for the rise in Covid-19cases - Covid fatigue and lack of Covid appropriate behaviour as people are not following social distancing or wearing masks; respiratory viruses peak during winter months and Delhi's poor air quality leading to rise in air pollution. Guleria said there is data suggesting that mortality during air pollution continues to be high, the statement said. "Every year in our hospital, we have done a study where we have followed all our admissions in an emergency for two years and what we found was that whenever the air quality index worsened there was an increase in admissions both in children and adults for respiratory diseases in the next 5-6 days. "This is being shown for the last 2-3 years, now with air pollution and Covid-19 this is going to become a huge burden," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Gulera also said that during this time of year there is an increase in allergic disorders like sneezing, running nose and a large number of cases of flu, therefore it becomes challenging in differentiating between upper respiratory manifestations.  "So, I think all individuals who have an influenza-like illness like fever, sore throat, headache, body ache, cough should at least get themselves tested for Covid-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disease-burden-may-increase-drastically-if-covid-19-air-pollution-get-combined-aiims-director-914107.html
10-11-2020||National||Mediation needed to resolve gender discrimination and sexual exploitation in sports: Justice Sikri||There have been several cases of gender discrimination and sexual exploitation in sports, which needed to be resolved immediately and mediation was needed for it, former Supreme Court Judge A K Sikri said on Tuesday. The judge, who said that online disputes resolution (ODR) has been seen as the next step in Indian legal system in litigation, arbitration and mediation during the pandemic-induced lockdown and restrictions, was also of the view that commercialisation of sports has given rise to various kinds of disputes and mediation was one such process which facilitated level playing field. Justice Sikri, who is acting as a judge of Singapore International Commercial Court, spoke on the “Scope of mediation in sports disputes” at an international webinar organised by mediators of the Supreme Court of India, Commonwealth Lawyers Association, Sports Dispute Resolution Centre and the Youth Bar Association of India. He said neither the courts, that is litigation, nor arbitration that can deal with it effectively and mediation was needed for that. While speaking about cases of gender discrimination and sexual exploitation in sports, Justice Sikri said “There are many such cases where the coach has tried to indulge in such practices and several complaints have come up against them. What is more important is that these issues need to be resolved immediately. They cannot wait even for a few days sometimes. “That is why many sports committees have ad hoc judges or arbitrators in the events. We need on the spot resolution. It is neither the courts, that is litigation, neither arbitration that can deal with it effectively. We need mediation for that,” the judge said. He said that time has come, as far as India was concerned, to have specialised mediation, including sports mediation, and the country should now gear up and start thinking as to how we can do mediation. “Covid-19 situation in the country has given us a chance to look into mediation. Of course it is a pandemic which has created panic all over the world, many have died, livelihoods and lifestyle have been affected. In the whole process we have realised that technology can play an important role. “And now ODR (Online Disputes Resolution) is seen as the next step even in Indian legal system, whether litigation or arbitration or mediation. And according to me, some of the cases which are proper for online mediation, apart from consumer disputes, are sports disputes,” the judge said. He further said what was felt now and being highlighted was that it was not necessary to go to courts and there should be self regulation and mediation plays an important role in the process. He said there cannot be a society without conflicts but what was needed was an early and peaceful mediation of those conflicts. “Mediation is one such process which goes into the reason why disputes have arisen. It not only looks into the past, it looks into the future also so that relationship between the parties is maintained. “Discussions are always better than arguments because arguments are to find out who is right and a discussion is to find out what is right. It is only the mediation which brings about this. It heals the past, lives in the present and dreams the future,” the judge added. Justice Sikri said that mediation has come a long way in the last 15 years and it was here to stay as the legal system is enlarging its scope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mediation-needed-to-resolve-gender-discrimination-and-sexual-exploitation-in-sports-justice-sikri-914114.html
10-11-2020||National||People of Madhya Pradesh reposed faith in Shivraj Singh Chouhan, it's victory of collective leadership: BJP leaders||With the BJP headed for winning two-thirds of seats in Madhya Pradesh assembly bypolls, BJP leaders on Tuesday said people of the state have reposed faith in the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan and dubbed his predecessor Kamal Nath as an accidental chief minister. As per the Election Commission's latest data, the BJP has won 13 seats and was leading in six, out of the total 28 assembly seats that went for bypolls. The BJP came to power in March after the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government following a revolt by a section of Congress MLAs led by Jyotiraditya Scindia their entry into BJP. "This result shows people of the state have reposed faithin BJP and the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan and were unhappy with Congress," senior BJP leader and Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told PTI. Tomar said the mandate was never against the BJP in the state, as the party had got more votes and only a few seats less than Congress in the last assembly election. "It's a victory of the party's collective leadership," he said. Echoing similar sentiments, the BJP's in-charge for the state Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said the integration between the newcomers, the organisation and the party cadre has happened in an effective manner and the result justifies that. "My basic presumption and basic assessment was that mandate of the Madhya Pradesh assembly elections were never for Congress. Because of some arithmetical deficit, we missed the threshold to get the power. Congress formed government in Madhya Pradesh by chance and Kamal Nath was an accidental chief minister and that mistake has been rectified," Sahasrabuddhe told PTI. Congress had formed the government in 2018 after the party won 114 seats in the assembly elections and was backed by four independents, two BSP MLAs, and one SP MLA. The BJP had got 109 seats in the 230-member house. Later Scindia along with 22 other Congress MLAs joined BJP, which led to fall of the Kamal Nath government and the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government was formed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-of-madhya-pradesh-reposed-faith-in-shivraj-singh-chouhan-its-victory-of-collective-leadership-bjp-leaders-914121.html
10-11-2020||National||Modi hits out at China, Pakistan over CPEC; stresses respect for territorial sovereignty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday tacitly hit out at Beijing and Islamabad over the controversial China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) that is set to pass through areas that New Delhi claimed were part of India's territory that its western neighbour had illegally occupied. Modi, who addressed the virtual summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), stressed the need to respect the sovereignty of nations while pursuing connectivity initiatives in the region. Chinese President Xi Jinping and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan attended the summit, which was held through video-links. “It is necessary to respect each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity to further deepen cooperation (among the SCO nations) for regional connectivity,” said the Prime Minister, addressing the summit of the eight-nation bloc. Beijing has pledged to invest over $70 billion in the CPEC, which is proposed to link China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region and the port city of Gwadar in southern Pakistan. It is one of the flagship projects of the Belt and Road Initiative, the ambitious cross-continental connectivity project launched by the Chinese President a few years ago. New Delhi has opposed the CPEC because it is set to pass through areas of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), which India claims is part of its territory and areas that the country has accused Pakistan of illegally occupying. Modi noted that India traditionally supported connectivity and development projects in the SCO region. He referred to India’s role in developing and running the Chabahar Port in Iran for sea-land connectivity to Afghanistan and Central Asia as well as in the International North South Transport Corridor projects. The SCO summit was the first event attended by Modi and Xi after the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in late April and early May. New Delhi has accused the Chinese PLA of trying to change the status quo along the LAC, disregarding the sovereignty of India. "We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultation in order to cement the political foundation for SCO development,” said Xi in his speech at the summit, which was chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Modi also tacitly criticised Pakistan of trying to use the SCO platform to raise bilateral issues with India, violating the charter of the bloc and its guiding philosophy known as the 'Shanghai Spirit'. He did not name Pakistan but put forward India’s view that such efforts were contrary to the SCO spirit of consensus and cooperation. Khan addressed the SCO summit after Modi and indirectly raised the issue of J&K. He called for “faithfully implementing the United Nations Security Council resolutions for peaceful solutions to outstanding disputes”. He also not-so-subtly criticised the Modi Government’s Aug. 5, 2019, decision to strip J&K of its special status and reorganise the state into two Union Territories. He said that “unilateral and illegal measures to change the status of disputed territories” adversely affected the “regional environment”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-hits-out-at-china-pakistan-over-cpec-stresses-respect-for-territorial-sovereignty-914125.html
10-11-2020||National||People reposed faith in PM Modi's leadership: J P Nadda on bypoll results||BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday attributed the party's victory in assembly bypolls in various states to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and congratulated respective chief ministers and heads of the party's state units. In a series of tweets, Nadda said people across the country have reposed faith in Prime Minister Modi's leadership and the welfare work done by the Centre and state governments. Nadda also congratulated chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karanataka and Manipur and presidents of the BJP's respective state units. He also congratulated the party's Telagana state unit president Sanjay Bandi for the BJP's victory in the single assembly poll held in the TRS-ruled state. The BJP won all eight assembly bypolls in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, four out of five in Manipur, six out of seven. And in Madhya Pradesh as per the latest Election Commission data it was leading in 16 and won 3 out of the total 28 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-reposed-faith-in-pm-modis-leadership-j-p-nadda-on-bypoll-results-914127.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||‘Only Congress has courage, conviction and reach to defeat BJP’||Over a year ago, Sasikanth Senthil, a 2009 batch, Karnataka cadre IAS officer, quit the civil services, saying that the “building blocks of democracy were being compromised” by the Narendra Modi government. On Monday, he joined the Congress in Tamil Nadu. He tells DH’s ETB Sivapriyan why.   Q. Why is it that bureaucrats like you, who have quit in protest against the government, are joining politics? Is politics the only instrument that can bring about the change you envisage? A. I will not say politics is the only instrument that we possess to usher in a change in society. Ultimately, it is the people who matter in a democracy and governments should always be engaging with people by consulting them on every issue. I strongly believe people are the masters. But right now, for us to dethrone the people who have captured power, of course through elections, politics is the only way. The country is now being ruled by a party that espouses a very wrong ideology that is against the basic tenets of the Constitution. What we need is a pluralistic ideology that believes in diversity. Those who are administering the country today neither believe in pluralism nor in diversity. Q. Why have you chosen to join Congress, a party seen as being in decline? You could have joined a regional party and made a name for yourself. A. Joining Congress is a good indicator of what my intentions are. The Congress’ ideology served as the basis for the Constitution and the party has never deviated from its ideology despite transforming into a political outfit from being a movement that fought for India’s independence. The current leadership of Congress is completely people-oriented and they know the pulse of the people. Congress and its leadership have the right ideology and the necessary courage to fight the injustice that is being meted out to the people. And to reclaim the country is not just the responsibility of one political party, but of the people. So, I feel Congress is the only party that has the ideology, courage and reach to fight the BJP. There may be other parties which have good ideology, but none have the reach of Congress. Q. Congress is not a major force in Tamil Nadu, the state in which you’ve said you want to work. A. The answer is that the BJP is trying to make inroads into Tamil Nadu. My home state is the last and final frontier for the BJP. Tamil Nadu does not know the hate that the BJP preaches all the time. The hate-mongering tactics of the BJP will not work here because Tamil Nadu has always stood for pluralism. And, I think this is the time to go to the people and tell them that they should remain rooted to their ideology that professes social justice and respect for fellow human beings. Tamil Nadu is a state that has always stood against divisive forces and I, as a politician, will ask people to reject the forces that scoff at their ideology of peace and brotherhood. Q. You are the second civil servant, after K Annamalai, to resign and take a plunge into Tamil Nadu politics in recent years. But you are now at different ends of the political spectrum. Why? A. Kannan Gopinathan and I resigned in protest against the policies of the Centre, and one more officer from Maharashtra also put in his papers. Annamalai, too, resigned from IPS, but the reasons were different. Only he knows the reason for his resignation. But it is a welcome move that people with good intentions are coming into politics. Only thing is, the ideologies that we chose are different. I can say with conviction that there are a lot of bureaucrats who understand that there is something wrong with what is happening in the country. But they remain silent due to constraints. Q. Is Sasikanth Senthil Congress’ answer to BJP’s Annamalai? A. Certainly not. The Congress did not invite me, I approached the party because I believe it is the only party that can challenge the politics of hate andwin over people. I believe it is the only party, even if we travel slowly, that will serve as an answer to BJP’s divisive politics. I approached Congress because they are already in the fight against these forces. Q. How hopeful are you of Congress’ revival in Tamil Nadu? A. It is possible. There are a lot of people who are not members of Congress but their ideology is in sync with it. We will reach out to those people and tell them the importance of Congress in fighting the divisive forces. And a person like me can help Congress grow in the state by meeting people at their homes. Reaching out to people and gaining their confidence is not rocket science. People love politicians who talk to them, live among them, and find solutions to the problems that plague them. I want to be that kind of politician, who has his ears to the ground always. Q. What is your opinion on Rahul Gandhi? A. First of all, he is a great human being. He completely understands the threat that the country faces, and he has the courage to take on those at the helm directly. He was a kind of an activist during his time as General Secretary in-charge of Youth Congress, voicing his support for people’s issues. Above all, he has the conviction and courage that are needed to reclaim the country and fight for people’s rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-congress-has-courage-conviction-and-reach-to-defeat-bjp-913606.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||Nagaland bypolls: NDDP leading in Southern Angami I, Independent ahead in Pungro Kiphire||The ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) nominee Medo Yhokha was leading in the by-election to the Southern Angami I seat while Independent candidate T Yangseo Sangtam was ahead in the Pungro Kiphire constituency in Nagaland, as per trends. Yhokha was leading by 624 votes over his nearest Independent rival Seyievilie Peter Zashumo in the Southern Angami I seat, as per ECI website.   In the Pungro Kiphire constituency, T Yangseo Sangtam was ahead of his nearest Independent rival S Kiusumew Yimchunger by 1,527 votes, ECI data said. The by-elections were held in Southern Angami-I and Pungro-Khipre seats on November 3 after the death of sitting legislators Vikho-o Yhoshu and T Torechu respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nagaland-bypolls-nddp-leading-in-southern-angami-i-independent-ahead-in-pungro-kiphire-913860.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||Bypolls 2020: BJP leads on 6 seats, SP on 1 in Uttar Pradesh||The ruling BJP appeared set to retain six seats while the Samajwadi Party may get re-elected from the one it held earlier as counting of votes in the bypolls for seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly constituencies continued on Tuesday. BJP's Usha Sirohi was leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria, Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur and Sangeeta Chauhan in Naugawan Sadat, according to the latest trends. In Malhani, SP's Lucky Yadav was ahead of independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 5,705 votes. The seat was earlier with SP's Lucky Yadav's father Parasnath Yadav. A tough contest was on for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was a minister in Yogi Adityanath's BJP government. His wife Sangeeta Chauhan, who is the BJP candidate, was ahead of the SP's Javed Abbas by 5,310 votes there. In Bulandshahr, BJP's Usha Sirohi was leading by 13,210 votes over Bahujan Samaj Party's Mohammed Yunus. In Tundla, BJP's Prempal Singh Dhanghar was ahead of SP's Mahraj Singh Dhangar by 10,858 votes. BJP's Shrikant Katiyar was leading by 20,125 votes over Arti Bajpai of the Congress in Bangarmau. In Ghatampur, BJP's Upendra Nath Paswan was leading by 16,537 votes over the BSP's Kuldeep Shankhwar. In Deoria, BJP's Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi had a lead of 14,356 over SP's Brahma Shankar Tripathi. The bypolls for the seven UP seats recorded a voter turnout of 53 per cent on November 3, when 88 candidates were in the fray. Barring Malhani, which was with the SP, the other six seats were earlier held by the BJP. The Naugawan Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan who died of COVID-19. The Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur Nagar district was held by another minister, Kamal Rani Varun, who too died of the disease. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau seat in Unnao was vacated by BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar after his conviction in a rape case. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated by the deaths of BJP MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi and Janmejay Singh, and SP's Parasnath Yadav. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad's Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat had the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat had the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates were in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugawan Sadat and Deoria and 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. If the trends hold, the 403-member assembly will again have 310 MLAs from the BJP and 49 from the SP. It also has 18 members from the BSP, nine from Apna Dal (Sonelal), seven from Congress, four from Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and five MLAs who are independents or belong to smaller parties. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Election Commission to also hold bypolls in Suar after annulling the election thereof Abdullah Azam Khan, son of SP MP Mohammad Azam Khan, ruling that he was underage. But the Supreme Court recently stayed its directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bypolls-2020-bjp-leads-on-6-seats-sp-on-1-in-uttar-pradesh-913901.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||Jats, Muslims renew quota demand amid Gurjar agitation in Rajasthan||Groups from the Jat and Muslim communities in Rajasthan have renewed their demand for reservations, amid ongoing agitations in the state by Gurjars for quota in government jobs and educational institutions. The protest by members of the Gurjar community, who have blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Pilupura and the Hindaun-Bayana road, entered its tenth day on Tuesday after talks between its leaders and the Rajasthan government remained inconclusive on Monday. Leaders from the Jat community in Bharatpur and Dholpur districts have decided to hold 'mahapanchayats' at different places to discuss the course of action to get reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. The first of these meetings will be held in Bharatpur district's Pathena village on November 18. "We will hold 'mahapanchayats' at different locations starting November 18 and take a decision. If the government wants to hear us through agitations, then we will do a 'chakka jam' after a decision taken in the 'mahapanchayats'," Jat Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti convener Nem Singh Faujdar said. The state government should recommend to the Centre to give Jats of these two districts reservation in the Central OBC list, he said, adding that Jats of other districts of the state have already got quota. The Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur districts were excluded from the Central OBC (other backward classes) list after a March 2015 Supreme Court order, and then from the state OBC list following a Rajasthan High Court ruling in August that year. In 2017, the Vasundhara Raje-led government had extended reservation to Jats of these two districts under the state OBC list, but they are yet to be included in the central list. The Muslim Minority Development Committee (MMDC), which has written to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on the reservation issue, has demanded 10 per cent quota for backward Muslim castes. "Muslim OBCs fare worse than other OBCs in education and social backwardness. Separate reservation for Muslim OBCs in education and services should be given in the state on the lines of Karnataka," MMDC secretary general Yunus Ali Khan said. The Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Bayana's Pilupura and Hindaun-Bayana road has been blocked by members of the Gurjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti over reservation for the community. The organisation is demanding that the Rajasthan government should get the Gurjar reservation included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, fill the backlog of vacancies and give the benefit of five per cent reservation to the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in the pending recruitment process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jats-muslims-renew-quota-demand-amid-gurjar-agitation-in-rajasthan-913926.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: India second in world in testing; positivity rate down at 7.18%, says govt||India has conducted the second-highest number of tests for detection of Covid-19 in the world at 11.96 crore with rapid antigen tests comprising 49 per cent and RT-PCR 46 per cent of the total tests done till Tuesday morning, the Union Health Ministry said. Five per cent tests were carried out using CBNAAT and TrueNat till this morning, it said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference that despite such high number of tests conducted in India, the positivity rate is reducing and it has come down to 7.18 per cent. The positivity rate of 24 hours in the last week was 4.2 per cent, he said.  "More than 11.96 crore Covid-19 tests conducted in India till now, which is the second-highest in the world. On an average, 11,18,072 tests were conducted daily last week," Bhushan said. "If we take into account last two weeks' figures, we are testing more than any other country in the world," he said. Asked whether Delhi has reached community transmission stage and if cases would increase during festivals, Bhushan said at the time of festivals or marriage when people gather and do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, there are chances of the infection spreading. "Discussion on community transmission is quite often informed by less than adequate information and facts. It should rather be based on science and facts," he said. In India, 46 per cent of the tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 till Tuesday morning were RT-PCR tests, 49 per cent were rapid antigen tests and five per cent tests were carried out using CBNAAT and TrueNat, Bhushan said while responding to another question.     He said that India recorded an average of three new Covid-19 deaths per million population in the last seven days, while the global average stood at seven new deaths per million population. "In India, 235 new cases per million population were reported in the last seven days, whereas the global average of new cases per million population stands at 482," he said. "India's Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 79 lakh, which is the highest in world; on an average, 51,476 people recovered daily in the last week," he said. Bhushan also said that 62 per cent of new Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours were reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Punjab. 54 per cent of new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala and Maharashtra, the secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-india-second-in-world-in-testing-positivity-rate-down-at-718-says-govt-913971.html
10-11-2020||National Politics||Bypoll results prove that Kamal Nath, Digvijaya 'biggest traitors' of Madhya Pradesh: Scindia||Powering the BJP to a big win in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls, Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said that the results show that the people of the state consider Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh to be "the biggest traitors". Out of the 28 assembly seats in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls, the BJP has won 16 seats and was leading on at least three more seats at 10.25 pm, as per the latest results, after a high-decibel campaign that saw a no-hold-barred battle between Scindia and his former colleagues from the Congress. Scindia thanked the people of Madhya Pradesh for reposing their trust in the BJP in Madhya Pradesh and asserted that the credit for it first goes to the "sterling" leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president J P Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah. Asked what he would like to say to Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh after this emphatic win, Scindia told PTI, "I have nothing to say to them because the people of Madhya Pradesh have told them quite a lot by this verdict." "It is very clear that if there are any traitors in Madhya Pradesh, the people of Madhya Pradesh deem, Mr Digvijaya Singh and Mr Kamal Nath, the duo, as the biggest traitors of Madhya Pradesh and that is quite apparent in the verdict that has come out in this election. The people have spoken," the former union minister said. On former chief minister Digvijaya Singh's claim that the electronic voting machines (EVMs) can be hacked and tampered with, he said what can one do with people who do not have faith in democracy. "If you don't accept people's verdict, people will continue to cast you aside and that is the lesson people like Mr Digvijaya Singh and the Congress need to learn," he said. Scindia also hailed the state leadership of the BJP, including Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state unit chief V D Sharma, and said everyone worked as one single unit to make this result possible. Credit for the result must also go "fully and completely" to every single worker on the ground who worked as if it was his or her own election, he said. "I find it my privilege and my honour to work in an organisation that works unitedly with a single-minded purpose as the Bhartiya Janata Party does and so therefore credit (must go) to the organisation and the leadership and a great thanks to the confidence reposed in us by the people of Madhya Pradesh," he said. By-elections were necessitated after 22 rebel Congress MLAs, loyal to Scindia, resigned from the party in March this year leading to fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. Later, three more MLAs resigned and joined BJP, while further three seats fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bypoll-results-prove-that-kamal-nath-digvijaya-biggest-traitors-of-madhya-pradesh-scindia-914101.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi records over 70 deaths for the third straight day; 5,023 fresh cases||Delhi recorded over 70 fatalities due to Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the death toll to 7,060, while 5,023 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to over 4.4 lakh, a health department bulletin said. Seventy-one deaths were recorded in the city, it said. The 5,023 fresh cases came out of the 39,115 tests conducted the previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 4,43,552, according to the bulletin. The national capital's positivity rate stood at 12.84 per cent. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 77 deaths and its highest single-day spike of 7,745 cases. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were recorded. The number of active cases in Delhi stood at 39,795 on Monday, the bulletin stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-records-over-70-deaths-for-the-third-straight-day-5023-fresh-cases-913559.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Counting of votes for Uttar Pradesh Assembly bypolls begins||The counting of the votes polled in seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly seats, where bypolls were held last week, was taken up on Tuesday morning. An average of over 53 per cent voters had exercised their franchise on November 3 to decide the electoral fortunes of 88 candidates in the Naugaon Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani Assembly constituencies. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were in the BJP's kitty. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, S P Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad's Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in "rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/counting-of-votes-for-uttar-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-begins-913677.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Counting begins for Madhya Pradesh Assembly bypolls||Counting of votes got underway Tuesday morning for bypolls held for 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, and the results will be an indicator of the effect of the Jyotiraditya Scindia factor in the changed political scenario in the state. The counting began from 8 am in 19 districts where the by-elections were held on November 3, an election official said. The ruling BJP needs to win at least eight of these 28 seats to attain a simple majority in the 230-member Assembly, whose effective strength is 229. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House. The bypoll results are also crucial for former chief minister Kamal Nath, who lost power in the state seven months ago when a section of Congress MLAs revolted against him after Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP. A candidate, his poll agent and counting agent can remain present in the counting hall, as per the EC's instructions. "Results can be displayed from the control unit on a big screen as per the EC's directives," the official said. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 70.27 per cent voter turnout was recorded during the bypolls which were contested by 355 candidates, including 12 ministers. The average voting percentage in the 2018 Assembly polls in these 28 seats, most of them in the Gwalior-Chambal region, was 72.93 per cent, the official said. For the first time in Madhya Pradesh, bypolls were held in as many as 28 Assembly seats in one go. Bypolls to 25 of these seats were necessitated as the sitting Congress MLAs quit and joined the BJP and contested the bypolls as BJP candidates. In the remaining three Assembly segments, bypolls were held due to deaths of the sitting legislators. One more Congress MLA resigned recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/counting-begins-for-madhya-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-913680.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand reports 246 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,04,688 on Tuesday as 246 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said. Eight fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 905, he said. Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 52, followed by East Singhbhum (48) and Palamu (27), the official said. Three fresh fatalities were reported in East Singhbhum, two in Hazaribag and one each in Dhanbad, Bokaro and Ranchi, he said. The state now has 4,251 active coronavirus cases, while 99,532 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said. Jharkhand has tested 24,388 samples for Covid-19 on Monday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-reports-246-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-913682.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Bypolls 2020: Counting of votes for Chhattisgarh's Marwahi bypoll begins||Counting of votes got under way Tuesday morning in Chhattisgarh's Marwahi Assembly seat, once a bastion of former chief minister Ajit Jogi, whose death necessitated the November 3 bypoll. The counting of votes began at 8 am at the Government Gurukul Vidyalaya, Gaurela, where security has been stepped up, a district poll official said. Jogi, sitting Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) MLA died in May this year. The ruling Congress and main opposition BJP in the state are locked in a direct fight in Marwahi, which is a part of the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district. Ahead of the November 3 bypoll, the nomination papers of JCC(J) leader Amit Jogi, the son of Ajit Jogi, and his wife Richa were rejected by the returning officer, who said their caste certificates were invalid. Eight candidates contested the bypoll, but the main fight is between Congress's Dr K K Dhruw and BJP candidate Dr Gambheer Singh. The seat, reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidates, recorded 77.89 per cent turnout in the bypoll. On Tuesday, postal ballots were taken up for counting first followed by votes cast in the EVMs, the official said. After the completion of counting of votes polled in the electronic voting machines, matching of VVPAT slips with EVMs at any five polling booths will be carried out, he said. The voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) provides a feedback on paper to the electorate about whom they have voted. In the 2018 Assembly poll in Marwahi, Ajit Jogi got 74,041 votes. He defeated BJP's Archana Porte by a margin of 46,462 votes, while the Congress nominee was placed third. In the 90-member state Assembly, the Congress has 69 seats, BJP-14, JCC(J)-four and BSP-two seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bypolls-2020-counting-of-votes-for-chhattisgarhs-marwahi-bypoll-begins-913702.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi-NCR's air quality on brink of 'emergency'||Delhi woke up to a grey morning as an apocalyptic smog blotted out the sun from the sky and smudged landmarks from view with air quality inching closer to “emergency” levels on Tuesday. Air quality monitoring stations at Mandir Marg, Punjabi Bagh, Pusa, Rohini, Patparganj, Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Najafgarh, Sri Aurobindo Marg and Okhla Phase 2 maxed out – as air quality indexes hit the 500 mark, Central Pollution Control Board data showed. The smog reduced the visibility to merely 300 meters in the morning affecting traffic, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Delhi recorded an AQI of 487 at 9 am, which falls in the “severe” category. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (474), Ghaziabad (476), Noida (490), Greater Noida (467), and Gurugram (469) also recorded “severe” air quality. This is the sixth “severe” air day on the trot in Delhi. The city witnessed seven “severe” air days in November last year. The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – in Delhi-NCR were 605 µg/m3 at 8 am – around ten times the safe limit of 60 µg/m3.  PM10 levels stood at 777 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 8 am, the highest since November June 14, 2018, when it surged to 847 µg/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. If PM2.5 and PM10 levels are more than 300 µg/m3 and 500 µg/m3 for over 48 hours, emergency measures such ban on construction activities, entry of trucks and car rationing scheme can be implemented under the Graded Response Action Plan for Delhi-NCR notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2017. Government agencies and experts said calm wind speeds were exacerbating the effect of stubble burning and a “quick recovery” is not possible unless the number of farm fires reduces drastically. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said a major improvement in Delhi-NCR's air quality was highly unlikely in the coming days. “The air quality is likely to be recorded in the upper end of the ''very poor'' category on Diwali if we discount firecrackers emissions. If people burst crackers, pollution levels can increase to 'severe'' to 'severe plus' category (emergency),” he said. The National Green Tribunal on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said, “Low dispersion condition continues in Delhi along with high fire-related intrusion. This has led to the accumulation of pollutants near the surface.” “No quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place,” it said. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 38 percent on Monday. According to the IMD, Delhi recorded calm winds and a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. There was moderate fog in the morning which led to smog. It reduced visibility to 300 meters at the Safdarjung and Palam weather stations, an IMD official said. The newly-constituted Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Monday stressed the need to enforce existing laws, directions and SOPs to minimise air pollution on an emergency basis. It is expected to review the situation on Tuesday. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said action will be taken against those not complying with the ban on firecrackers under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act which included a jail term of up to six years.PTI GVS  DV DV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-ncrs-air-quality-on-brink-of-emergency-913705.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BJP leads in 6 seats, Congress in 2 in early trends||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh is leading in six of the 28 Assembly constituencies for which byelections were held while the Congress is ahead in two seats, as per the early trends of counting on Tuesday. BJP's Tulsiram Silawat is leading from Sanver, while Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon is ahead in Badnawar, Brajendra Singh Yadav from Mungaoli, Narayan Singh Pawar from Biora, Hardeep Singh Dung from Suwasara, and Jajpal Singh Jajji from Ashok Nagar against their rivals from the Congress. Congress' Vipin Wankhede and Rajendra Singh Baghel are ahead against their challengers from the BJP in Agar and Hatpipalya constituencies, respectively. The counting began at 8 am in 19 districts where the by-elections were held on November 3, an election official said. The BJP needs to win at least eight of these 28 seats to attain a simple majority in the 230-member Assembly, whose effective strength is 229. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs, while the Congress has 87 legislators in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-leads-in-6-seats-congress-in-2-in-early-trends-913713.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BJP ahead in 14 seats, Congress in 5, BSP leading in 1||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh is leading in 14 of the 28 Assembly constituencies for which byelections were held while the Congress is ahead in fiveseats, as per the early trends of counting on Tuesday. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is leading in one seat. BJP candidates are leading in 14 seats by a margin ranging from 96 to 5,668 votes, while the Congress contestants are ahead in Hatpipalya, Sumaoli, Ambah, Dimni, and Biora constituencies. BSP's Ram Prakash Rajoriya is leading by 2,178 votes from Morena, as per the Election Commission data. Tulsiram Silawat of the BJP is leading by a margin of 5,668 votes from Sanver against his Congress rival. BJP candidates are ahead in Badnawar, Mungaoli, Suwasara, Ashok Nagar, Bamori, Anuppur, Bada Malhara, Nepanagar, Surkhi, Gohad, Sanchi, Agar, and Mandhata. A total of 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, contested the byelections held on November 3. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 70.27 per cent voter turnout was recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-ahead-in-14-seats-congress-in-5-bsp-leading-in-1-913719.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian, two militants killed||Two unidentified militants were on Tuesday killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Kutpora area of south Kashmir's Shopian district following specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the security forces, who retaliated.  In the exchange of fire, two militants were killed, the official said. He said their identification and group affiliation is being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-two-militants-killed-913727.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Bypolls: Congress candidate leading in Marwahi seat||The Congress contestant is leading by a margin of 3,664 votes in Marwahi Assembly constituency in Chhattisgarh, where counting of votes is underway. The seat, reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST) candidates, falls in the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district. "The counting of votes in the bypoll held on November 3 in Marwahi seat began at 8 am at the Government Gurukul Vidyalaya, Gaurela," a poll official said. As per the early trends, Dr KK Dhruw of the Congress is leading by a margin of 3,664 votes against his nearest rival Dr Gambheer Singh of the BJP, he said. The ruling Congress and main opposition BJP are locked in a direct fight in this seat where a bypoll was necessitated after Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) sitting MLA and former chief minister Ajit Jogi died on May 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-bypolls-congress-candidate-leading-in-marwahi-seat-913730.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand bypolls: BJP leading in both Dumka, Bermo||BJP candidates were leading in bypolls to Dumka and Bermo assembly seats in Jharkhand, as per early trends. BJP candidate Lois Marandi was leading over his nearest rival Basant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) by over 7,938 votes in the Dumka seat, as per the ECI website. In the Bermo Assembly constituency, BJP candidate Yogeshwar Mahto "Batul" was leading over his nearest rival Kumar Jaimangal (Anup Singh) of the Indian National Congress by a 455 votes. By-election to the Dumka seat was necessitated as Chief Minister Heman Soren vacated the seat and retained the Barhait constituency. By-election to the Berma seat was necessitated due to the death of sitting MLA Rajendra Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-bypolls-bjp-leading-in-both-dumka-bermo-913732.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||UP bypolls: Early trends show BJP leading in four seats, trailing in two||The BJP was leading in four seats and trailing in two others as counting of votes polled in seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly seats, where bypolls were held last week, progressed on Tuesday.         Of the seven seats, the BJP — which held six — is leading in four, while Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Independent candidates in one each by margins varying from 1,000 to 2,000 votes. BJP's Usha Sirohi is leading in Bulandshahr, while Prem Pal Dhangar is leading from Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar from Bangarmau and Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria.       SP's Javed Abbas is leading from Naugawan Sadat and BSP's Kuldeep Shankhwar from Ghatampur.         Independent Dhananjay Singh is leading from Malhani seat.           BJP was trailing in seats held by UP ministers Chetan Chauhan and Kamla Rani Varun, Navgawan Sadat and Ghatampur respectively, while the SP was trailing in Malhani.         An average of over 53 per cent voters had exercised their franchise on November 3 to decide the electoral fortunes of 88 candidates in the Naugaon Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani Assembly constituencies. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were in the BJP's kitty. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, S P Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad's Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in "rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bypolls-early-trends-show-bjp-leading-in-four-seats-trailing-in-two-913736.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||AAP to move HC on reserving 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to interfere with the Delhi High Court's stay order on the Arvind Kejriwal government's decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients in view of the increasing number of patients. Following a special sitting during Diwali break, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and B R Gavavi asked the Delhi government's counsel Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain to approach the Delhi High Court for expediting the hearing in the matter. The top court asked the High Court to take up the matter on November 12. Jain said there is an urgent requirement of hearing the matter since the situation in Delhi regarding the necessity of providing ICU beds to Covid-19 patients is increasing day by day. He said the High Court posted the matter for consideration on November 27. The Delhi government challenged the validity of the High Court's stay order of October 9 on the direction for reserving beds while acting on a petition filed by the Association of Healthcare Providers (India) and others. Jain also said the Diwali festivities and mingling of persons during this period may see a huge spike in Covid cases. The Delhi government said that it plans to keep beds reserved for two weeks more and thereafter, depending on the situation, will withdraw the order. Jain said that in the last few days, cases have crossed the 7,000 mark. To this, the bench replied: "It was 10,000 earlier. It is a fluctuating number. You have not stated any material on record to show no beds are available for Covid-19 patients." Jain submitted that a lot of people come from outside and avail treatment in private hospitals and use ICU beds. He said that the expert committee suggested Delhi needs 6,000 ICU beds and they had only 3,500 beds. He added that with the notification, the government can add more beds. "Out of 133 hospitals, only 33 hospitals have been reserved," Jain said. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the Association Of Healthcare Providers, submitted that the matter is listed before the single bench of the High Court later this month and he has no objection if the matter is taken up on an early date by a division bench of the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-move-hc-on-reserving-80-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-913740.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Punjab revokes 'general consent' to CBI||The Congress-led government in Punjab has revoked its general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation for probing cases in the state, joining several other non-BJP ruled states that have carried out similar moves. West Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are among the states that have already withdrawn their "general consent" to the CBI. According to the notification issued by the Punjab government on November 8, its prior consent will be required by the CBI, which comes under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, to investigate any case in the state. “In exercise of the power conferred by section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (Central Act No 25 of 1946), the Government of Punjab hereby withdraws the general consent accorded to the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, anytime herein before,” as per notification issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, department of Home Affairs and Justice. “In view of revocation of all previous general consents issued earlier, prior consent of the Government of Punjab shall be required, hereinafter, on a case-to-case basis for investigation of any offence or class of offences under section 3 of the aforesaid Act, by the Delhi Special Police Establishment,” it further said. The Punjab government had earlier withdrawn consent from the CBI for investigating the 2015 sacrilege incidents thereafter the state assembly passed a resolution in this regard in 2018. Later, it handed over the probe into the incidents of desecration of religious texts to the special investigation team of the Punjab police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-revokes-general-consent-to-cbi-913743.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh bypolls: Early trends show BJP leading in 5 seats, SP and independent in one each||The BJP was leading in five seats while the SP and an independent candidate were leading in one each as counting of votes polled in seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly seats progressed on Tuesday.          Bypolls to seven seats in the state were held last week. While BJP's Usha Sirohi is leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar is leading from Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar from Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi from Deoria and Upendra Nath Paswan from Ghatampur. SP and independent candidates are leading in Naugawan Sadat and Malhani seats SP's Javed Abbas is leading from Naugawan Sadat, held by Chetan Chauhan, who was also a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. Abbas is leading by a margin of 4028 over Sangeeta Chauhan of the BJP. In Malhani, independent Dhananjay Singh is leading over nearest candidate SP's Lucky Yadav by a margin of about 1236 votes. The seat was earlier with SP's Parasnath Yadav. In Bulandshahr, BJP's Usha Sirohi is leading by a margin of 3725 votes from BSP's Mohd Yunus while in Tundla, BJP Prempal Singh Dhanghar is leading by a margin of 2890 votes from Mahraj Singh Dhangar of SP. In Bangarmau, BJP's Shrikant Katiyar is leading by a margin of 7230 votes over SP's Suresh Kumar Pal. In Ghatampur, BJP's Upendra Nath Paswan is leading by a margin of 807 votes over Kuldeep Shankhwar of BSP while in Deoria, BJP's Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi is leading by a margin of 2403 votes over SP's Brahma Shankar Tripathi        An average of over 53 per cent voters had exercised their franchise on November 3 to decide the electoral fortunes of 88 candidates in Naugaon Sadat, Tundla, Bangarmau, Bulandshahr, Deoria, Ghatampur and Malhani Assembly constituencies. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were in the BJP's kitty. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA, S P Singh Baghel, was elected to the Lok Sabha, while the Bangarmau seat in Unnao fell vacant after the conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case. The BJP had dumped Sengar soon after his involvement in the case was alleged. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated due to the deaths of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP) respectively. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad's Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat has the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat has the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates are in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria, 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the BJP of indulging in "rigging, fraud and whatever it could through the administration to win the elections".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-early-trends-show-bjp-leading-in-5-seats-sp-and-independent-in-one-each-913774.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BJP leads in 20 seats, Congress ahead in seven||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh is leading in 20 of the 28 Assembly constituencies for which byelections were held while the Congress is ahead in seven seats, as per the trends of counting on Tuesday. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is leading in Morena constituency. However, three ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government including Aidal Singh Kansana (Sumaoli), Girraj Dandotia (Dimani) and OPS Bhadoria (Mehgaon) are trailing behind their Congress rivals. Bhadoria is trailing by only 175 votes. Elsewhere, BJP candidates are leading in 20 seats by margins ranging from 181 votes (Agar) to 22,456 votes (Sanchi), while Congress contestants are ahead in Sumaoli, Dimni, Ambah, Mehgaon, Gohad, Karera and Biora constituencies. Tulsiram Silawat of the BJP is leading by a margin of 9,554 votes from Sanver against his Congress rival. BJP candidates are ahead in Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra, Bhander, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mugaoli, Surkhi, Bada Malhera, Anuppur, Sanchi, Agar, Hatpiplya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Saver, Suwasara and Jaura seats. A total of 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, had contested the byelections held on November 3 for which a voter turnout of 70.27 per cent was recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-leads-in-20-seats-congress-ahead-in-seven-913779.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||8MW solar energy capacity of NTPC's Auraiya project begins commercial operation||NTPC on Tuesday said 8 MW solar energy generation capacity at its Auraiya project in Uttar Pradesh has been made commercially operational. The remaining 12 MW solar capacity under implementation is expected to be operational by March 2021. "Consequent upon successful commissioning, 8 MW part capacity of 20 MW Auraiya Solar PV Project at Auraiya, UP, has been declared on Commercial Operation w.e.f. 00:00 Hrs. of 10.11.2020," NTPC said in a BSE filing. The present installed capacity of NTPC Group comprises 46 NTPC stations--24 coal- based, 7 combined cycle gas/liquid fuel, 1 hydro, 14 renewables. Besides, it has 25 JV & subsidiaries stations-- 9 coal, 4 Gas/liquid fuel, 8 hydro, 4 renewables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8mw-solar-energy-capacity-of-ntpcs-auraiya-project-begins-commercial-operation-913812.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh bypolls: BJP leads on 6 seats, Samajwadi Party on 1||The ruling BJP appeared set to retain six seats while the Samajwadi Party may get re-elected from the one it held earlier as counting of votes in the bypolls for seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly constituencies continued on Tuesday. BJP's Usha Sirohi was leading in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria, Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur and Sangeeta Chauhan in Naugawan Sadat, according to the latest trends. In Malhani, SP’s Lucky Yadav was ahead of independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 3,029 votes. The seat was earlier with SP's Parasnath Yadav. A tough contest was on for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was minister in Yogi Adityanath’s BJP government. SP’s Javed Abbas was trailing there by 1,862 votes to his BJP rival Sangeeta Chauhan. In Bulandshahr, BJP's Usha Sirohi was leading by 9,841 votes over Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mohammed Yunus. In Tundla, BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhanghar was ahead of SP’s Mahraj Singh Dhangar by 4,945 votes. BJP's Shrikant Katiyar was leading by 12,978 votes over Arti Bajpai of the Congress in Bangarmau. In Ghatampur, BJP's Upendra Nath Paswan was leading by 3,618 votes over the BSP’s Kuldeep Shankhwar. In Deoria, BJP's Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi had a lead of 5,443 over SP's Brahma Shankar Tripathi. The bypolls for the seven UP seats recorded a voter turnout of 53 per cent on November 3, when 88 candidates were in the fray. Barring Malhani, which was with the Samajwadi Party, the other seats were earlier held by the BJP. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau seat in Unnao was vacated by BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar after his conviction in a rape case. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani seats were necessitated by the deaths of BJP MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi and Janmejay Singh, and SP’s Parasnath Yadav. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad's Azad Samaj Party has fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat had the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat had the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates were in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugaon Sadat and Deoria and 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-leads-on-6-seats-samajwadi-party-on-1-913823.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court for bail in abetment to suicide case||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami moved the Supreme Court Tuesday seeking interim bail in the 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. The Bombay High Court had refused to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others on Monday and asked them to move to the local court for the relief. The appeal against the high court order has been filed in the top court through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey. Besides the Maharashtra government, Goswami who is in Taloja jail, has made the Centre, the SHO of Alibaug police station, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Akshyata Anvay Naik as parties to his appeal. The state government, through advocate Sachin Patil, has also filed a caveat in the top court to ensure that no order is passed on Goswami's plea without it being heard in the case. Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. Meanwhile, the hearing on Goswami's bail plea is also scheduled to be heard in the trial court during the day. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". "The petitioners have the efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days," it said on Monday. Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda had last week filed petitions in the high court challenging their "illegal arrest" in the case and seeking interim bail. Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought that a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai. The three accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody. On Sunday, Pradeep Bhandari, a consulting editor with Republic news channel, wrote to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde urging him to take cognizance of shifting of Goswami to Taloja Jail to keep him allegedly with "hardened" and "underworld" criminals and provide "some sort of safety" to him. He said Goswami has said that "his life is in danger and he has been beaten up in the morning" and urged the CJI to take cognizance of this matter and provide some sort of safety to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arnab-goswami-moves-supreme-court-for-bail-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-913843.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Around 24,000 calls made for ambulance services since fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi||With the national capital witnessing a fresh surge in cases of Covid-19, nearly 24,000 calls have been made by people to access Delhi government-run ambulance services during emergency situations in the last two weeks in the city, according to official data. Besides, the centralised Control Room set up by the Delhi government has received over 5,000 calls to seek coronavirus-related information. On October 26, the city recorded 54 deaths pushing the toll to 6,312. The next day, 4,853 fresh cases and 44 fatalities were reported. From October 28 onwards, the surge has been huge and over 5,000 daily cases were recorded per day from October 28-November 1. Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November (November 6 and November 8), over 6,000 daily cases four times, and more than 70 fatalities have been reported every day for the last three days, the highest in over four months. In this two-week period, the number of calls made by people for accessing ambulance services of Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) through government helplines like 102, and the number of calls made to the Covid-19 Control Room have also jumped. On November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date. The number of ambulance calls made on that day stood at 1857 and 337 calls were made to the control room. According to a senior health official manning the Control Room based in Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) Delhi headquarters in Karkardooma in east Delhi, about "400 calls on an average are received per day by the Control Room". As per the official data, 5,109 calls have been received at the Control Room in the last two weeks. From October 26 to November 9, around 23,680 calls have been made by people to seek ambulance services, as per the data. In this period, a staggering number of new cases -- over 86,000 -- have been reported. The staff at the Control Room said a team of 15 people work in rotational six-hour shifts round-the-clock to address queries related to Covid-19. "We tell them about precautions to be taken, measures to follow during home isolation and guide them to 102 helpline to call ambulances, as they can tell a driver the exact address. If routed through us, it becomes very tedious, so only in rare cases, we dispatch calls to CATS ambulance," a member of the staff at the Control Room told PTI. "We are here 24x7 to provide all logistical support," the staff member said. As the national capital reels under the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic here, the number of patients under home isolation in Delhi mounted to over 25,000 on Monday, a rise of 54 per cent in the last two weeks, while the containment zones count has expanded by over 32 per cent in the same period. Delhi recorded more than 70 fatalities from Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the death toll to 7060, while 5023 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.4 lakh, according to a bulletin by the health department. Seventy-one deaths were recorded in the city, it said. The 5,023 fresh cases were detected following the 39,115 tests conducted on Sunday. The total number of cases climbed to 4,43,552, Monday's bulletin said. The national capital's positivity rate stood at 12.84 per cent while the recovery rate was over 89 per cent. The death rate based on the last 10 days' average is 0.95 per cent while the cumulative case fatality rate is 1.59 per cent, the bulletin said. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 77 deaths and its highest single-day spike of 7,745 cases. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were recorded. The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day, taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/around-24000-calls-made-for-ambulance-services-since-fresh-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-913866.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Information on fee hike approvals to private schools on DoE site soon, AAP govt tells Delhi HC||The AAP government informed the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that all previous orders granting sanction to fee hike proposals of private schools would be uploaded soon on the Directorate of Education (DoE) website and updated from time to time. The Delhi government also submitted that it will upload on the DoE website the fee statements and related annexures filed by the recognised unaided private schools as also the related inspection reports and orders after they are finalised. The government, however, said that file notings, documents and other orders passed by DoE in connection with the final sanction order cannot be provided as the same is prohibited under the Right to Information Act. The submissions were made in an affidavit filed by the DoE in response to a PIL seeking directions to it to upload on its website any approvals granted to private unaided schools to hike their fees. The plea by an NGO, Justice for All, has contended that as parents have no idea whether fee hike has been approved by the DoE, certain schools have allegedly taken advantage of the situation to charge increased fees from them. The plea, filed through advocate Khagesh B Jha, has said that proposals for hike by private unaided schools, which exist on concessional government land, are sent online to the DoE and therefore, once it passes an order the same should be uploaded on its site for informing the parents. "In the absence of availability of information parents do not know whether the fee hike proposal is accepted or not accepted and few schools started playing fraud with parents and started collecting increased fees without prior sanction or after rejection of prior sanction proposal," the petition has alleged. It has contended that there is no information in the public domain to show what was the last approved fee of any specific school and what was the tuition fee bifurcation for a particular academic year "and as a result schools are exploiting parents". "The parents have no source to verify what the school is demanding is directed in the government notification," the petition has claimed. It has sought directions to DoE to ensure uploading of orders passed by it regarding acceptance and rejection of proposals for prior sanction before any increase in tuition fee of recognized unaided private schools situated on land allotted by land owing agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/information-on-fee-hike-approvals-to-private-schools-on-doe-site-soon-aap-govt-tells-delhi-hc-913867.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||UP bypolls: BJP, SP retain seats; BSP, Cong draw blank||The BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Tuesday retained their seats in the bypolls that were necessitated in seven assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh. While BJP managed to hold on to its six seats, the SP also retained its lone seat where the bypolls were held. According to official sources here, the BJP candidates won from Tundla, Bulandshahr, Naugawan, Bangarmau, Ghatampur and Deoria Sadar seats while the SP nominee won the Malhani assembly seat. The Congress and the BSP, which were looking to spring a surprise, drew a blank in the bypolls.  Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath hailed the bypolls results and said that the credit for the wins went to the party workers who worked very hard. SP leaders, however, alleged that the BJP had 'misused' government machinery and spent huge amounts of money to win the bypolls. ''We had to face the huge resources of the BJP....even then our performance is satisfactory,'' said a senior SP leader here on Tuesday. The results came as a huge relief for Adityanath, who had come under fierce attacks from the Opposition, Dalit outfits, and human rights activists over his alleged failure to ensure the safety of the women in the state. Even the BJP leaders had admitted that it was going to be a ''big challenge'' for them to retain the six seats that the party had won in the 2017 assembly polls. The bypolls results poured cold waters on the hopes of the Congress, which had been making all-out attempts to emerge as the main Opposition party in the state and had also undertaken organisational reshuffle to strengthen the party at the grass-root level in the state. The results could further aggravate the problems for BSP supremo Mayawati, who had been facing a revolt from several party legislators and leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bypolls-bjp-sp-retain-seats-bsp-cong-draw-blank-913893.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government calls for celebrating Diwali by using digital technology||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the police and district administrations to celebrate Diwali in places like Lucknow, Varanasi and others where the air quality index is poor by using laser or digital technology. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the government said as per the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the air quality index (AQI) of Muzaffarnagar is “poor”, while that of Agra, Varanasi, Meerut and Hapur is “very poor”. The AQI of Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad, Noida and Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr is in the “serious” category, it said. "Complying with the orders of the NGT, orders have been issued to celebrate Diwali in these districts using new technology like laser or digital technology," the statement said. The state government said the districts where the AQI is moderate or better, only green crackers should be sold. Laser or digital technology should also be encouraged in these districts. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said instructions have been issued to the police and administrative officials to follow the NGT orders. The NGT had on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from the midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) fell under the ''poor'' and above categories. "The cities/towns where air quality is 'moderate' or below, only green crackers be sold, and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals like Diwali, Chhath, New Year/Christmas Eve etc., as may be specified by the state concerned. "At other places, ban/restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the bench said. The NGT also directed all states and Union territories to initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of the potential of aggravation of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-calls-for-celebrating-diwali-by-using-digital-technology-913900.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha reviews security arrangements for DDC polls||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday reviewed the security arrangements for the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) election and asked police and other security agencies to facilitate the people for maximum participation in the democratic exercise. The maiden DDC polls along with by-elections for panchayats and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) are being held in eight-phases in the Union Territory, beginning on November 28. Chairing a meeting during his first visit to the Armed Police headquarters here, Sinha stressed upon the officers to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful polls. He emphasized on providing sufficient security to the participating candidates besides ensuring maximum participation of the people in the DDC polls and by-elections to vacant panchayat and municipal seats. "People must be facilitated during these elections so that they would feel secured to cast their ballot on the polling day," Sinha said. He said the liaison between the different security agencies should be cohesive and strong for effective actions on the ground. On the occasion, Senior Superintendents of Police informed the Lt Governor that all the arrangements have been made to ensure the smooth conduct of polling in their respective districts with deployment of forces and other security arrangements already in place. While appreciating the role of J&K Police, Sinha said it is "one of the finest professional forces of the country besides it has a splendid history of valour and sacrifice." "I am confident that J&K Police is capable of dealing with emerging situations while maintaining a close watch on all inimical elements to ensure peace in the region," he said. Earlier, the Lt Governor received 'guard of honour' on his arrival at the Armed police headquarters, an official spokesman said. He said advisor to Lt Governor, R R Bhatnagar, Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam, Secretary Home, Shaleen Kabra, Director General of Police, Dilbag Singh attended the meeting, while Inspector General of Police, Kashmir and other senior police officers from the Kashmir division attended the meeting via video conference. At the outset, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar and SSPs of Kashmir division briefed the Lt Governor regarding security arrangements and other preparatory measures for the upcoming elections in their respective districts, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-reviews-security-arrangements-for-ddc-polls-913919.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Rajashtan mayoral polls: Congress wins in 4 corporations, BJP wins 2||The ruling Congress on Tuesday won the mayoral polls in four corporations of Rajasthan, while the BJP won the seat in two corporations. Elected ward councilors on Tuesday voted to elect the mayors of six municipal corporations of three cities, including Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. The BJP and Congress workers came face to face during the polls in Kota. The police had to use mild force to control the situation. "I strongly condemn the police lathicharge on Congress workers and journalists in Kota. I hope that the top police officers will take strict action against those responsible in this case,” Congress state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted. According to the State Election Commission, Saumya Gurjar of BJP defeated Divya Singh of Congress in Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation, while Munesh Gurjar of Congress won in Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation defeating Kusum Yadav of BJP. Similarly, Kunti Parihar of Congress was elected mayor of Jodhpur North Municipal Corporation defeating Sangeeta Solanki of BJP. In Jodhpur South corporation, BJP's Vanita Seth became the mayor after defeating Pooja Pareek of Congress. Manju Mehra of Congress won the mayoral election in Kota North Municipal Corporation defeating Santosh Bairwa of BJP. In Kota South Municipal Corporation, Rajiv Agarwal of Congress won by defeated BJP's Vivek Rajvanshi. Elections were recently held for a total of 560 wards in the newly formed cities Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jaipur North, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. The Congress got a clear majority in Jodhpur North and Kota North municipal corporations, while the BJP got the lead in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South municipal corporations. The polls to elect deputy mayors of these municipal corporations will be held on November 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajashtan-mayoral-polls-congress-wins-in-4-corporations-bjp-wins-2-913920.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||AQI improves but still 'severe' in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The air quality improved slightly but remained 'severe' in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Tuesday, according to a government agency. The concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Tuesday was 455 in Noida, 448 in Faridabad, 444 in Ghaziabad, 436 in Greater Noida and 427 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB's Sameer app. On Monday it was 482 in both Gurgaon as well as Ghaziabad followed by 478 in Greater Noida, 477 in Noida and 456 in Faridabad. PM 2.5 and PM 10 were the prominent pollutants in these satellite cities of Delhi, according to the app. The CPCB states that an AQI in the 'severe' category "affects" healthy people and "seriously impacts" those with existing diseases. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aqi-improves-but-still-severe-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-gurgaon-913928.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court dismisses interim bail plea of Shahrukh Pathan who pointed gun at head constable||A Delhi court has dismissed an interim bail plea of Shahrukh Pathan, whose picture showing him pointing a gun at an unarmed Delhi Police head constable during the communal riots, went viral on social media. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said going by Pathan's conduct and the manner in which he had absconded after the incident and was arrested later on, suggested he was a flight risk. "In the instant case, when the clashes happened on February 24, 2020 at near Jafrabad metro station, Delhi, and heavy stone pelting and firing occurred, as per prosecution, the applicant/accused Shahrukh Pathan was caught brandishing a pistol with the temerity of firing and pointing it at police personnel Head Constable Deepak Dahiya, who was deputed on that day for law and order arrangements. “The accused is alleged to have participated in the riots and has been duly identified… Thus, the gravity in the present case is sufficient to deny any benefit of interim bail to the accused,” the court said in its order passed on November 9. Further, the court said "going by the conduct of the accused and the manner in which he absconded and was arrested later on, suggests that he is a flight risk." Pathan had sought interim bail for taking care of his mother who has been asked to undergo surgical operation after sustaining injuries on her back and spinal cord. He had also sought interim relief saying his presence was required to attend to his father who needed to undergo surgery on his right knee. The court said the reply filed by the police suggested there was no emergency for the surgery of the right knee of his father. It further said Pathan's father and the relatives can take care of his mother at this time. It noted that Pathan's father was earlier convicted in a case related to possession of narcotics. During the hearing, advocate Sunil Mehta, appearing for the accused, argued that he was initially trying to pacify the people protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act and when attacked with heavy stones, he rushed to seek shelter. The counsel said that after getting no place to hide, Pathanallegedly shot fire in self defence by an armed weapon which was given by some unknown person from the public. Special Public Prosecutor Devender Kumar Bhatia, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea saying Pathan had allegedly fired at Dahiya with an intention to kill him aiming at his head. The public prosecutor further argued that the accused had also voluntarily disclosed about his involvement in the case and his conduct of allegedly firing on a  police official in uniform in full public view established his brazen and a desperate criminal bent of mind. Bhatia also claimed that he had tried to mislead the police during investigation of the case. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-interim-bail-plea-of-shahrukh-pathan-who-pointed-gun-at-head-constable-913931.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypoll: BJP Ministers Brijendra Singh Yadav, Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon win||Minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government and BJP candidate Brijendra Singh Yadav won bypoll from Mungaoli assembly seat in Madhya Pradesh by defeating Kanhairam Lodhi of the Congress by 21,469 votes on Tuesday. Yadav got 83,153 votes while Lodhi bagged 61,684, an election official said. The BSP's Virendra Sharma polled 2,474 while NOTA received 1,330 votes, the official added.   BJP minister and Jyotiraditya Scindia's loyalist, Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon won from Badnawar by defeating Congress candidate Kamal Singh Patel by 32,133 votes. Dattigaon had quit the Congress along with other Scindia supporters in March this year and joined the BJP. The BJP candidate got 99,137 votes against Patel's 67,004. BSP's Om Prakash Malviya got 2,295 while NOTA attracted 2,785 votes, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypoll-bjp-ministers-brijendra-singh-yadav-rajvardhan-singh-dattigaon-win-913932.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Over 3,000 properties to be de-sealed in three BJP-ruled corporations before Diwali, says Delhi BJP President||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Tuesday launched a de-sealing exercise at Rishabh Vihar under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), and assured that over 3,000 properties will be de-sealed before Diwali in the three BJP-ruled corporations. Gupta said the Supreme Court-mandated monitoring committee was supposed to identify encroachments of government land but it started sealing properties in residential areas, causing problems to people. "It's a great day for people of East Delhi as 559 properties are being de-sealed under the Shahdara zone," he said while handing over de-sealing papers to the concerned property owners of DDA market in Rishabh Vihar. "We had resolved for de-sealing of properties before Delhi, which is being fulfilled now. The exercise will speed up in the coming days," the Delhi BJP president said. The three BJP-ruled municipal corporations had started the process for de-sealing over 3,000 properties last month. Gupta had earlier said that 1,357 properties under the North Delhi, 700 under the South Delhi and around 1,000 under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation would be de-sealed under the ambit of a Supreme Court ruling providing relief from the sealing drive undertaken by the monitoring committee in the recent years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-3000-properties-to-be-de-sealed-in-three-bjp-ruled-corporations-before-diwali-says-delhi-bjp-president-913944.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir records 492 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally at 99,844||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 492 fresh Covid-19 cases, while seven fatalities took place in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 99,844 and the death toll to 1,549, officials said. Out of the fresh cases, 206 were from Jammu division and 286 from the Kashmir Valley, they said. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 131 Covid-19 cases, followed by 93 in Jammu. There are 5,415 active cases, while 92,880 patients have recovered so far, they said. Meanwhile, the Union Territory reported seven Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours - one from Jammu division and six from the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-records-492-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-at-99844-913957.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Film producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife gets bail in drug case||A city court on Tuesday granted bail to Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged drug possession. The accused was arrested on Sunday after ganja (marijuana) was allegedly found at her residence in suburban Juhu during a search by the NCB and sent to 14-day judicial custody by a court on Monday. She was granted bail by additional chief judicial magistrate A H Kashiskar on a personal bond of Rs 15,000. Arguing for bail, her lawyer Ayaz Khan submitted before the court that it is a case of seizure of a small quantity of drug. The woman was not a drug peddler, but a consumer and the maximum punishment which she could get for the offence on conviction is one year, Khan said. He told the court the accused is separated from her husband and has to look after her children. She had been arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. An official of the NCB had on Sunday said 10 grams of ganja were seized during the search. The apex drug law enforcement agency had claimed that the contraband was prima facie procured from one Wahid Abdul Kadir Sheikh alias Sultan, who was arrested earlier. Meanwhile,the NCB recorded the statement of Firoz Nadiadwala in connection with the drug seizure case on Monday. The NCB has so far arrested five persons, including Nadiadwala's wife, during its latest crackdown on drug peddlers and their clients. A total of 727.1 gram ganja, 74.1 gram charas, 95.1 gram MD and Rs 3,58,610 in cash have been seized till now from the accused, an official had added. The NCB started its probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/film-producer-firoz-nadiadwalas-wife-gets-bail-in-drug-case-913965.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi manufacturing units won't have to pay conversion charges if switched to hi-tech sector||The manufacturing units in Delhi's industrial areas will not have to pay conversion charges if they decided to switch over to hi-tech and services sector, Delhi's Industries Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. He also said that if an entrepreneur wants to change his industry, he will not be charged a conversion fee as the Delhi government has decided to waive it. "We are not removing the old industries, we are just making them shift to the hi-tech services. Second, we have increased the floor area ratio (FAR) of certain industrial plots irrespective of their sizes. The new FAR has been approved as per industrial standards," Jain said in a meeting with representatives of industrial associations in Delhi. As per a recent notification issued by the central government, only hi-tech and service industries will be allowed to operate in new industrial areas in Delhi. The old manufacturing industries also have the option to switch to the hi-tech and service sector. "As per the amendments to the Master Plan 2021, hi-tech industries will be set up in the new industrial areas, something that we were trying for the past four years," Jain said. The old industrial areas will have the option to shift to new sectors, including computer hardware and software industries, offices of lawyers, media and chartered accountants, IT enabled services, internet and e-mail providers, and call centres. Sanjay Vig, general secretary of the Industrial Area Mangolpuri, lauded the policy as a revolutionary step for the industries in Delhi. This will reverse the traditional trend for the industries in Delhi. It will cut down industrial and labour costs, generate employment and prove to be a positive development for the industries in Delhi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-manufacturing-units-wont-have-to-pay-conversion-charges-if-switched-to-hi-tech-sector-913976.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand sees 328 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||Uttarakhand recorded 328 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, taking the case count to 66,005, while five more fatalities pushed the state's death toll to 1,080, a health department bulletin said. Dehradun district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 130, followed by 29 in Haridwar, 27 in Udham Singh Nagar, 25 in Pithoragarh, 23 in Nainital, 19 in Tehri, 18 in Uttarkashi and 17 in Pauri, it said. Champawat reported 12 new cases, Bageshwar 11, Almora nine, Chamoli seven and Rudraprayag one. Five more patients succumbed to the disease in the state, taking the death toll to 1,080, the bulletin stated. A total of 60,429 patients have recuperated so far, 541 migrated out of the state and 3,955 are under treatment, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-sees-328-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-913981.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand assembly bypolls: Jharkhand assembly by-polls: JMM, Congress retain seats with reduced margin||The JMM-led ruling coalition of Jharkhand retained Dumka and Bermo assembly seats in by- elections defeating the BJP, albeit with drastically reduced margins from that of the 2019 state polls. JMM candidate Basant Soren, who is the younger brother of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, defeated his nearest BJP rival Lois Marandi, a former minister, by 6,842 votes, in Dumka seat, the Election Commission said while declaring the by-poll results on Tuesday. The winning margin of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha reduced almost by half compared to what it was in last year's assembly election. In Bermo constituency, Kumar Jayamangal alias Anup Singh of the Congress defeated Yogeshwar Mahto "Batul", his nearest BJP rival, by a margin of 14,225 votes. Here also, the winning margin reduced by several thousands of votes. In Dumka and Bermo seats, 12 and 16 candidates were in the fray respectively. Barring the nominees of the JMM, Congress and the BJP, all other contestants lost their deposits in the two constituencies. In the assembly elections held late last year, Hemant Soren won from two seats - Dumka and Barhait. He resigned from Dumka and retained Barhait, necessitating the by-poll. He had then defeated Marandi by 13,188 votes and this time, his brother managed to win with a margin of 6,842 votes. Basant Soren polled 80,559 votes while Marandi secured 73,717 votes. The by-poll in Bermo followed the death of sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Singh and the party fielded his son Anup Singh in the seat. The BJP renominated Yogeshwar Mahto who had won from the constituency in 2014 assembly polls but lost in 2019. The Congress had won the seat with a margin of 25,172 votes last year and it reduced to 14,225 votes this time. The Congress nominee got 94,022 votes while Mahto bagged 79,797 votes. During counting, the Congress nominee was leading from the very beginning in Bermo. However, in Dumka, the chief minister's brother was trailing till the 11th round, but started winning from the 12th and finally emerged victorious. State Joint Chief Electoral Officer Hiralal Mandal said that Covid-19 safety protocols were strictly followed during counting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-assembly-bypolls-jharkhand-assembly-by-polls-jmm-congress-retain-seats-with-reduced-margin-913988.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Suspension of trains: Shiromani Akali Dal asks Punjab government, Centre to hold talks||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday expressed concern at the economic loss caused to farmers and the industry due to the suspension of freight trains and asked the Centre and the state government to hold talks to resolve the issue. The party’s core committee that met on Tuesday said the state is paying a heavy price due to the ongoing “fixed match” between the BJP-led Centre and the Congress government in Punjab. The train services in Punjab are suspended since September 24, when farmers started their “rail roko” agitation against the central laws. While farmers have lifted their dharnas from rail tracks for the resumption of freight trains, the Centre wants movement of passenger trains as well with complete security. Commenting on it, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said while farmers are not getting the supply of much-needed fertilisers for the sowing of the wheat crop, the trade and industry is losing crores of rupees on a daily basis. “Even as the state's economy is bleeding, there is a danger of social unrest spoiling the peace of Punjab," Badal added according to a party release. Asking the Centre and the state government to hold talks over the issue, the party's core committee also accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of playing a “double game” and hatching a “conspiracy” to pit farmers against the industry in the state. "It appears the chief minister is deliberately not taking any initiative to resolve the current imbroglio because he feels that the more the issue lingers on, the more attention will be diverted from the failures of his government,” Badal said during the committee meeting. The SAD president said the chief minister preferred to go to Delhi to hold a one-hour “sham dharna” but did not meet the railway minister or the prime minister to ensure that freight trains resume in Punjab. “Even now he is not engaging in any dialogue with the Centre and has left Punjabis to their fate. Such an attitude can have dangerous fallout for the industrial sector in Punjab which is witnessing huge losses due to non-availability of raw materials as well as pile up of finished goods,” Badal said. We want that all issues of trade and industry, including refunds of the GST, are resolved at the earliest to ensure that there is no flight of capital from the state, Badal said. The SAD chief also accused the chief minister of "accepting" the central farm laws by not declaring the entire state a "mandi". This pointed to the fact that the Congress government in Punjab is working as per dictates of the Centre, he said. "This is why the state government did not pass a Bill making the entire state a mandi which would have made the central agriculture marketing acts redundant in Punjab," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspension-of-trains-shiromani-akali-dal-asks-punjab-government-centre-to-hold-talks-913990.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||UP: Samajwadi Party bags Malhani assembly seat by 4,632 votes||The Samajwadi Party on Tuesday retained the Malhani assembly seat with its nominee Lucky Yadav defeating Independent candidate Dhananjaya Singh by a margin of 4,632 votes. The bypolls to the seat were necessitated due to the death of sitting party MLA Parasnath Yadav.  The bypolls to seven assembly seats in the state were held on November 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-samajwadi-party-bags-malhani-assembly-seat-by-4632-votes-913991.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Covid test centres to mandatorily measure oxygen saturation level: Satyendar Jain||Seeking to reduce coronavirus-related deaths in the national capital, the Delhi government has ordered Covid-19 test centres to mandatorily check the oxygen saturation level of people, and persons found having it below 94 per cent are to undergo a compulsory medical examination. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet on Tuesday shared a copy of the order dated November 9. "Prompt and appropriate treatment is the key to save lives and combat Covid-19 complications and deaths. All RAT and RTPCR centers are hereby directed to ensure Oxygen saturation. Patients with less than 94% oxygen saturation to mandatorily undergo a medical examination," he tweeted. The order to mandatorily check oxygen concentration level comes amid spiralling cases of Covid-19 in the national capital. Delhi recorded more than 70 coronavirus-related fatalities for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the death toll to 7,060, while 5,023 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.4 lakh, according to a bulletin by the health department. Over 7,000 daily fresh cases have been recorded on two days in November (November 6 and November 8), over 6,000 daily cases four times. On November 8, the daily infection tally was 7745, the highest single-day spike here till date and 77 deaths. On Saturday, 79 fatalities were recorded, the highest in over four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-test-centres-to-mandatorily-measure-oxygen-saturation-level-satyendar-jain-913996.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh bypolls: BJP's Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi wins Deoria assembly seat||The ruling BJP retained the Deoria assembly seat after its candidate Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi defeated Samajwadi Party's Brahma Shankar Tripathi by a margin of over 20,000 votes. Deoria is among the seven assembly constituencies in the state for which bypolls were held on November 3. Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi won the seat by 20,089 votes, the election commission here said.   The seat fell vacant following the death of sitting MLA Janmejay Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-bjps-satyaprakash-mani-tripathi-wins-deoria-assembly-seat-914006.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||MP bypolls: BJP wins 12 seats so far, gets majority in House||The BJP has so far won 12 seats on Tuesday out of the 28 assembly constituencies where bypolls were held in Madhya Pradesh, giving it enough numbers to achieve majority in the House and provide stability to its goverhment in the state, where it came to power in March. On the other hand, the Congress, which lost power eight months ago following a revolt by a sections of its MLAs, has bagged three seats so far. The BJP is leading in seven seats, while the Congress in ahead in five. Voting for by-elections on 28 constituencies was held on November 3 and counting of ballots was taken up on Tuesday. In the 230-member House, the BJP tally has increased to 119 (well above simple majority mark of 116) with the addition of these 12 seats, providing stability to the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Before the bypolls, the BJP's tally in the House stood at 107. The seats that the BJP has won so far are: Bhander, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mungaoli, Surkhi, Anuppur, Sanchi, Hatpipalya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar and Suwasara, a poll official said. The Congress has won Morena, Biora and Agar assembly segments, he said. Prominent BJP minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary won the bypolls from Sanchi with a margin of 63,809 votes - the highest so far. The lowest victory margin recorded so far is 161 in Bhander where BJP candidate Raksha Saronia defeated Dalit leader Phool Singh Bariaya of the Congress. Besides Choudhary, other ministers who won are Govind Singh Rajput (from Surkhi seat), Mahendra Singh Sisodia (Bamori), Bisahulal Singh (Anuppur), Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon (Badnawar), Hardeep Singh Dung (Suwasara) and Brajendra Singh Yadav (Mungaoli). The BSP candidate lost the bypoll in Morena after leading in initial states. So far, the BJPs vote share is 49.53 per cent while that of the Congress is 40.30 per cent, the official added. Reacting to the results so far, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the outcome proves voters supported the decision taken by Congress MLAs to pull down the previous Kamal Nath dispensation. "It has been proved today that public has supported the decision taken by our MLA colleagues under the leadership of Scindia (BJPs Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia) to pull down the (Nath) government," Chouhan told party workers in his address as bypoll results poured in. Alleging rampant corruption under the previous Congress government, Chouhan said the outcome is a defeat of "ego and arrogance". He said the BJP has secured 11 per cent more votes than the Congress and termed it as an "incredible" achievement. "We won seats with huge margins and lost with thin margins. We humbly accept the victory," he said. On the other hand, MP Congress president Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said the party made efforts to reach out to people. "We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to voters. I also thank all voters who participated in the by-elections. "I hope that the BJP government will take care of the interest of farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain the respect and safety of women," Nath said in a tweet. In March, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly loyalists of Scindia, had resigned from the party and the Madhya Pradesh Assembly. This led to the collapse of the Nath government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Chouhan government. By-elections were held on 28 constituencies - 25 of which fell vacant due to resignations by sitting Congress MLAs who joined the BJP earlier this year. The remaining threeseats were unrepresented due to death of sitting MLAs. So far, 26 Congress MLAs have resigned and joined the BJP. One of them quit the Congress and the assembly membership after the bypoll schedule was announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bypolls-bjp-wins-12-seats-so-far-gets-majority-in-house-914007.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: BJP wins Unnao's Bangermau assembly seat by 31,398 votes||The ruling BJP retained the Unnao’s Bangermau assembly seat after its candidate Shrikant Katiyar defeated Congress' Arti Bajpai by 31,398votes. Bangermau is among the seven assembly constituencies in the state for which bypolls were held on November 3. The seat fell vacant following the conviction of sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in a rape case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-wins-unnaos-bangermau-assembly-seat-by-31398-votes-914011.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal in HC against summons on defamation complaint by BJP's Karan Tanwar||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has moved the Delhi High Court challenging the summons issued to him in a defamation complaint filed against him by BJP leader Karan Singh Tanwar. Kejriwal has challenged the October 3, 2020 order of a Sessions court which dismissed his plea against a Magisterial court's July 2019 order summoning him and three others -- AAP MLAs Amanatullah Khan and Surender Singh and party convenor Dilip Pandey -- on Tanwar's complaint. The BJP leader claimed that the four Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders had levelled allegations against him in the media that he was involved in the conspiracy to murder M M Khan, an estate officer with the NDMC who was shot dead in 2016. Kejriwal, in his plea filed through advocates Mohd Irsad and Badar Mahmood, has contended that the complaint was filed "out of malice and has a direct nexus with the political rivalry between him and Tanwar and their respective parties. The petition claims that the AAP leader was summoned without any justification. It said the Chief Minister never maligned the image of the BJP leader and only wrote to the Lt Governor to ensure a free and fair investigation in the M M Khan murder case. Kejriwal has also contended that he was not even part of the press conferences held by the other co-accused in relation to the murder case and it indicated that he was being dragged into defamation complaint "to satisfy the political vendetta" of Tanwar. He has also sought quashing of the defamation complaint and the summoning order issued by the magisterial court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-in-hc-against-summons-on-defamation-complaint-by-bjps-karan-tanwar-914022.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Punjab government allows opening of bars in hotels||The Punjab government on Tuesday allowed opening of bars in hotels, shopping complexes and multiplexes falling outside coronavirus containment zones, according to an official spokesperson. He said the management of such commercial establishments must ensure meticulous compliance of the standard operating procedures issued by the Health Department from time to time. Earlier on June 8, the state government had allowed the opening of hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services in areas outside containment zones with a stipulation that liquor could be served in restaurants and rooms of hotels as per the licence of the Excise Department. However, the bars were kept closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-government-allows-opening-of-bars-in-hotels-914023.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Vishva Hindu Parishad to raise funds for Ram temple||The Vishva Hindu Parishad will raise money from across the country for the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya. According to a release, the organisation will mobilise financial support through a door-to-door campaign in four lakh villages across the country. VHP working president Alok Kumar held a discussion with Sarkaryavah Suresh Bhayyaji Joshi of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh to decide the outline of the campaign on Tuesday. According to the statement, 11 crore families living in four lakh villages across the country will be contacted. Support Rs 10 per person and Rs 100 per family will be taken. VHP regional minister Suresh Upadhyay and organisation secretary Gopalakrishna were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vishva-hindu-parishad-to-raise-funds-for-ram-temple-914027.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Bypolls 2020: BJP's Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Kasdekar win in Madhya Pradesh||Jyotiraditya Scindia's loyalist and state minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia of the BJP won byelection from Bamori in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday by 53,153 votes, officials said. Sisodia defeated Congress' Kanhaiya Lal Agrawal, a former BJP leader and minister. Sisodia got 1,01,124 votes against his Congress rival's 47,971 votes. Sisodia had quit the Congress in March this year to join the BJP. The BSP's Ramesh Dawar got 5,391 votes while NOTA cornered 2,058 votes. The BJP's Sumitra Devi Kasdekar won from Nepanagar by a margin of 26,340 votes. She defeated the Congress' Ramkishan Patel. Kasdekar got 98,881 votes against Patel's 72,541. BSP's Bhalsingh got 3,051 while NOTA cornered 2,736 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bypolls-2020-bjps-mahendra-singh-sisodia-kasdekar-win-in-madhya-pradesh-914037.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Army pays tributes to soldiers martyred in operation to foil infiltration bid in Jammu and Kashmir||The Army on Tuesday paid floral tributes to three soldiers, including a Captain, who were killed as troops foiled an infiltration attempt by militants along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir. A BSF jawan and three militants were also killed in the firefight on Sunday. Tributes were paid to Captain Ashutosh Kumar, Havildar C H Parveen Kumar and Sepoy Ryada Maheshwar of 'The Madras Regiment' who laid down their lives in the operation in Keran sector in north Kashmir's Kupwara district, an Army spokesperson said. "In a solemn ceremony at Badami Bagh Cantonment, Lt Gen BS Raju, Chinar Corps Commander, and all ranks paid homage to the gallant soldiers on behalf of the proud and grateful nation," he said. Captain Kumar (24) was commissioned into the Army in June 2018. He was an alumnus of Sanik School, Bhubaneshwar and the prestigious National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla. He hailed from Parmanpur village in Bihar's Madhepura district and is survived by his parents, the spokesperson said. Havildar CH Kumar (36) hailed from Reddivari Palle village in Andhra Pradesh's Chittor District and had joined the Army in 2003. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter, he said. Sepoy Maheshwar (25) joined the Army in 2014 and belonged to Komanpalle village in Telangana's Nizamabad district. He is survived by his wife, he added. The spokesperson said the Chinar Corps, headquarters of the Srinagar-based 15 Corps of the Army, also acknowledges the sacrifice of Constable Sudip Sarkar of Border Security Force (BSF), who laid down his life in the same operation. "The mortal remains of the bravehearts were taken for last rites to their native places, where they would be laid to rest with full military honours," he said. "In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with these bereaved families and remains committed to their dignity and well-being," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-pays-tributes-to-soldiers-martyred-in-operation-to-foil-infiltration-bid-in-jammu-and-kashmir-914048.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Congress MLAs' move to pull down Nath govt vindicated: Chouhan||After securing the numbers in assembly bypolls for a stable government, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said the outcome proves voters supported the decision taken by Congress MLAs to pull down the previous Kamal Nath dispensation. The BJP, which came to power in March after collapse of the Nath government following revolt by a section of Congress MLAs, has so far won 11 out the 28 Assembly seats where bypolls were held on November 3. The ruling party is leading on eight other seats. On the other hand, the Congress has secured victory on one seat and was leading in eight constituencies. In the 230-member house, the BJP tally has increased to 118 (breaching simple majority mark of 116) with the addition of these 11 seats, providing stability to the Chouhan government. It has been proved today that public has supported the decision taken by our MLA colleagues under the leadership of Scindia (BJPs Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia) to pull down the (Nath) government, Chouhan told party workers in his address as bypoll results poured in. He said "those who came with us put their political career at stake". Alleging rampant corruption under the previous Congress government, Chouhan said the outcome is a defeat of ego and arrogance. Chouhan said the BJP has secured 11 per cent more votes than the Congress and termed it as an incredible achievement. We won seats with huge margins and lost with thin margins. We humbly accept the victory, he said and announced a roadmap for implementing the Aatmnirbhar Madhya Pradesh campaign. Chouhan accused the opposition Congress of making false allegations and using indecent words against BJP leaders. On the other hand, MP Congress president Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said the party made efforts to reach out to people. We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to voters. I also thank all voters who participated in the by-elections. "I hope that the BJP government will take care of the interest of farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain the respect and safety of women, Nath said in a tweet. In March, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly loyalists of Scindia, had resigned from the party and the Madhya Pradesh Assembly. This led to the collapse of the Nath government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Chouhan government. The bypolls to the 28 Madhya Pradesh assembly seats were held on November 3 and counting of ballots were take up on Tuesday. So far, 26 Congress MLAs have resigned and joined the BJP. After this, Congress tally was reduced to 87. On the other hand, the BJP tally stood at 107 before the bypolls. Among others, the state assembly has two BSP, one SP and four Independent members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlas-move-to-pull-down-nath-govt-vindicated-chouhan-914052.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Centre invites Punjab farmers bodies for talks on November 13||The Centre has invited Punjab farmer bodies protesting against its farm laws for talks on November 13 in Delhi. An invite from the Secretary, Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, has been sent to farmers' organisations for talks with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers' organisations have received an invitation. A farmer leader said they have called a meeting of representatives of unions on November 12 to discuss the strategy. Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma has welcomed the decision of the Centre. Last month, representatives of several farmers' organisations from Punjab had walked out of a meeting called by the Union Agriculture Ministry over the new farm laws and had accused the government of adopting “double standards” with no minister present to hear them out. Farmers in Punjab have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. They have been demanding that these new laws be repealed. Farmers had resorted to a “rail roko” agitation and staged sit-ins outside some shopping malls, toll plazas and outside residences of BJP leaders. The train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24, when farmers started their “rail roko” agitation against the central laws. While farmers have lifted their dharnas from rail tracks for the resumption of freight trains, the Centre wants movement of passenger trains as well with complete security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-invites-punjab-farmers-bodies-for-talks-on-november-13-914053.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Amid BJP's domination, Jyotiraditya Scindia emerges hero of Madhya Pradesh bypolls||Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia may creditably claim a berth in the Narendra Modi cabinet as most of his 19 loyal MLAs, who quit the Congress in March this year to topple the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, have won their respective assembly seats on the BJP ticket in the bypolls whose results came on Tuesday. A ministerial post for himself in the Centre was one of the conditions of the deal that Scindia struck with the BJP for ensuring the Congress government’s fall. The other conditions were: BJP tickets for all the rebel MLAs and ministerial berths in the Shivraj Singh government for a dozen of them. The BJP obliged the erstwhile Congress leader on both counts. The gambit has handsomely paid-off for the ruling party as the bypolls' results show. Of the 28 seats for which bypolls were held on November 3, the BJP has won 19 while the Congress had to be content with just eight seats. With the result, the BJP’s tally has increased to 126 and Congress’s has shrunk to 96 in the 230-strong state Assembly. Of the remaining eight seats, four have independents, two are held by the BSP, and one by the Samajwadi Party. One seat is vacant due to the defection of a Congress MLA two weeks ago. Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was sworn in as the Chief Minister for a fourth time on March 22, has not only secured his government but also his post by securing a landslide victory for BJP in the bypolls.  He was the BJP’s biggest mascot and as such led the charge against a rather demoralized Congress which largely depended on election management of its state president Kamal Nath. The Congress premised its electoral campaign on an impassioned appeal to the voters to teach a lesson to the “traitors” who, the party averred, stabbed in the back of the democratically elected government in collusion with the BJP. The appeal has obviously not impressed the voters. They have resoundingly rejected the Congress and instead put their trust in Chouhan’s promises for faster development of the state.  The BJP’s, particularly the Chief Minister’s refrain all through  the election campaign was that the Kamal Nath –led Congress government  had reduced the state into a den of corruption and therefore, it is imperative for the BJP to rid the people of the misgovernance and put the state back on the path of development. Chouhan also worked very hard to convince the rather sullen BJP cadres to bury the ill-will against the Congress defectors. His persuasive skills have borne fruits as the results unmistakably reveal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-bjps-domination-jyotiraditya-scindia-emerges-hero-of-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-914055.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi now witnessing 3rd spike in Covid-19 cases: ICMR||A third spike in Covid-19 cases has come now in Delhi which is showing more cases than before, with factors like pollution, cold weather and festivals playing a major role in the rise of the infections, the ICMR said on Tuesday. Over the last few days, Delhi has reported a record daily spike in coronavirus cases. The national capital reported its biggest single-day jump of 7,745 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 4,38,529. Responding to a question at a press briefing on the increasing number of cases in Delhi, Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava said factors such as pollution, cold weather, festivals, wedding season, apart from travels in Delhi-NCR are leading to gatherings, which is resulting in spike in Covid-19 cases.  "A third spike has come now in Delhi after the first two spikes in June and September, which is showing more cases than before," he added. When asked whether Delhi has reached the stage of community transmission and if cases would increase during the festivals, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at the time of festivals or marriages when people gather and do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, there are chances of the spread of the infection. "Discussion on community transmission is quite often informed by less than adequate information and facts. It should rather be based on science and facts," he said. A high-level expert committee led by NITI Aayog member V K Paul had recently pointed out that hospitals in Delhi should prepare for 15,000 daily cases owing to a spike in respiratory illnesses with winter setting in along with Covid-19 cases. Bhushan, however, said the figure of 15,000 is an estimate and not a definitive figure. He said in meetings with the Delhi government, the Centre has asked the Delhi government to not only conduct more tests but also conduct targeted testing. "We drew the attention of the administration that testing should not only be done in large numbers but also must be targeted, which means those places where there is a potential for the spread of the infection like markets, workplaces, factories or places where religious gatherings are held testing must be done and the Delhi government has started such testing," he said. "Last week, there have been more than 7,000 cases per day but in the last 24 hours over 5,000 cases were reported so there is some decline but we have to see if this trend stays for long," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-now-witnessing-3rd-spike-in-covid-19-cases-icmr-914057.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Over 67,000 seats filled in undergraduate courses in Delhi University||More than 67,000 seats have been filled in various undergraduate courses in Delhi University, officials said on Tuesday. "A total of 67,781 students have taken admissions so far under five cut off lists. Out of these, 24,261 admissions have been done under the fifth cut off list which was announced on Saturday," a senior varsity official said. There are total 70,000 seats in various undergraduate courses at DU this year. As per the fifth cut-off list announced on Saturday, majority arts and science courses were closed for different categories while there was a dip in cut off for certain commerce courses. This year, the admission process is completely being held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. The cut-off for English at Lady Shri Ram College (LSRC) stood at 98 per cent, for political science at 98.75 per cent, for psychology at 99 per cent and for sociology at 97.75 in the fifth list. At Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), the cut-off for the BCom programme stood at 98.12 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-67000-seats-filled-in-undergraduate-courses-in-delhi-university-914068.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh bypolls: BJP retains 6 seats, SP bags one||The BJP retained six seats and the SP hung on to its Malhani constituency in the bypolls for seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, the 6:1 outcome indicating Tuesday that the ruling party continued its hold over the populous state. BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan won in Naugawan Sadat, Usha Sirohi in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria and Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur, according to the Election Commission. Samajwadi Party’s Lucky Yadav won Malhani, the seat which was represented by his father Parasnath Yadav, whose death necessitated the by-election. He defeated independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 4,632 votes. A tough see-saw battle was fought for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was a minister in Yogi Adityanath's BJP government. SP's Javed Abbas, who was trailing in the morning pushed his BJP rival, Chetan Chauhan’s wife Sangeeta Chauhan, to the second spot by 3,314 votes for a while. The BJP candidate at one point had a slim 175-vote lead, but later cruised ahead to win by 15,077 votes. BJP candidate Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi won Deoria, defeating SP’s Brahma Shankar Tripathi by 20,089 votes. Unnao’s Bangermau seat also went to the ruling party with Shrikant Katiyar defeating Congress candidate Arti Bajpai by 31,398 votes. In Bulandshahr, BJP’s Usha Sirohi defeated Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mohammad Yunus by 21,072 votes. Her party colleague Upendra Nath Paswan won against Congress candidate Kripa Shankar by 23,820 votes in Ghatampur. BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhangar defeated SP’s Mahraj Singh Dhangar by 17,683 votes in Tundla. The bypolls for the seven UP seats recorded a voter turnout of 53 per cent on November 3, with 88 candidates in the fray. The Naugawan Sadat seat fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan, who succumbed to COVID-19. The Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur Nagar district was held by another minister, Kamal Rani Varun, who too died of the same cause. The Tundla seat fell vacant after its MLA S P Singh Baghel was elected to the Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau seat in Unnao was vacated by BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar after his conviction in a rape case. The bypolls to the Bulandshahr and Deoria seats were necessitated by the deaths of BJP MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi and Janmejay Singh. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad's Azad Samaj Party had fielded Mohammad Yameen from Bulandshahr to test its electoral popularity. The Bulandshahr seat had the highest number of 18 candidates while Ghatampur seat had the lowest of six. Sixteen candidates were in the fray in Malhani, 14 each in Naugawan Sadat and Deoria and 10 each in Bangarmau and Tundla. With the BJP and the SP retaining their seats, the 403-member assembly will now again have 310 MLAs from the BJP and 49 from the SP. The House also has 18 members from the BSP, nine from Apna Dal (Sonelal), seven from Congress, four from Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and five MLAs who are independents or belong to smaller parties. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Election Commission to also hold bypolls in Suar after annulling the election of Abdullah Azam Khan, son of SP MP Mohammad Azam Khan, ruling that he was underage. But the Supreme Court recently stayed its directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-retains-6-seats-sp-bags-one-914084.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||HIMS, e-Health card facilities to be implemented in Delhi by Aug 2021: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday held a review meeting on the Health Information Management System (HMIS) and e-Health card facilities for city residents and said these are likely to be implemented by August next year. HIMS will be implemented to provide effective healthcare services to the residents of Delhi, in the most efficient manner, through technologically empowered healthcare processes, the city government said in a statement. "It is our duty to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the people of Delhi. This management system should be able to provide all healthcare facilities to the people. Other than that, by 2021, every resident of Delhi visiting a hospital should be issued a card to avail of the benefits of government healthcare services. Post the issuing, we have to ensure that this card is integrated with the HIMS," Kejriwal said. The chief minister said that with the implementation of the e-Health card, the healthcare facilities will be extended to all city residents seeking treatment in Delhi government hospitals.  The health officials gave a presentation to the chief minister for the implementation of HIMS and issuing of the e-health cards.  Under HIMS, a web portal and a mobile app will be launched to store a database of the health information of the residents of Delhi, the chief minister was quoted as saying in the statement. The HMIS will be implemented by August 2021 in all Delhi government hospitals, he said. There will also be a centralised health helpline, for extension of uninterrupted healthcare facilities to the residents of Delhi. The Delhi government will set up a call centre to provide patients with tele-counselling, address information requests, address queries and complaints, and follow-ups, the statement said. The e-health will be a QR code-based card to identify and track demographic and basic clinical details of a patient. Through the card, residents of Delhi will be mapped for all eligible schemes and programmes, and the card will also be integrated with the HMIS for smooth information exchange.  Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said, "To ensure an effective reach of healthcare facilities to the people, we will also link call centre facilities to the app launched under the HIMS. This will resolve the issues of people effectively." "This system will also ensure the availability of a doctor for the people 24x7," he said. The HMIS seeks to target the healthcare delivery process. All the patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management, and back-end services and processes will be brought under the system, the statement said. As far as the deployment model is concerned, the entire system will be on the cloud and digitised. This will enable the citizens to avail information on one platform, which will help them in emergency cases, it added. "With this, Delhi will become the only state to have a cloud-based health management system. This facility will also be extended to private hospitals in the future," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hims-e-health-card-facilities-to-be-implemented-in-delhi-by-aug-2021-kejriwal-914087.html
10-11-2020||North and Central||17-year-old beaten to death by group in Delhi||A 17-year-old boy was beaten to death on Tuesday allegedly by a group of people after a quarrel broke out between them in outer Delhi's Alipur, police said. According to police, the victim, a class 12 student, earlier had a fight with the accused group over his father’s bus service. The victim was punched and beaten by the group of five people on Tuesday following which he was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, a senior police officer said. The accused group, including juveniles, have been apprehended in connection with the incident, the officer said. A case of murder has been registered and further interrogation of the accused is underway, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-beaten-to-death-by-group-in-delhi-914131.html
10-11-2020||Opinion||The people versus Donald Trump||The night is darkest before the dawn. To see that child-man charlatan in the White House spouting lies yet again, asserting without a trace of evidence that “If you count the legal vote I easily win,” claiming that “I won Pennsylvania by a lot,” and Michigan and Georgia too, was to be reminded of the American nightmare of these past four years that the American people seem to have brought to an end. It was a nightmare in which truth died, decency was trampled, science was flouted, division was fanned and the American idea was desecrated, as President Donald Trump wheedled his way into the minds of every American with an insidious cascade of self-obsessed posturing and manipulative untruth. In a democracy, a beautiful idea for which so much blood has been shed over the centuries, every vote is counted and each vote counts. That is what happened in 2016, when Trump won Michigan by 0.2 percentage points, Pennsylvania by 0.7 and Wisconsin by 0.8. What goes around comes around. The difference in 2020 is that the child-man cannot accept his treat being snatched away. A bully born on third base cannot play by the rules of the game and accept the sanctity of the electoral process and the law. As I write, it appears that Joe Biden will be the 46th president of the United States. There may be recounts. There will be legal challenges. But Trump’s attempted coup against democracy, for it is no less than that, will be resisted. The United States is far bigger than this little man. It seems almost churlish to pick apart Trump’s arguments, which in fact reflect no more than the hysteria of a narcissist for whom the phrase “You’re fired!” is unbearable. He cannot seem to distinguish between voting after the election, which would be illegal, and the process of receiving and counting votes cast in a timely manner. Or rather, he can make that distinction, but only when it comes to Arizona, where he hopes the ballots still being counted will reverse Biden’s lead.  Trump has another mental problem. He cannot, it seems, distinguish between a snapshot of a moment — when, for example, he was ahead of Biden by several hundred thousand votes in Georgia and Pennsylvania on election night — and the eventual result after all votes are counted. He keeps bleating that he “won” and that some vast conspiracy by the media and a corrupt Democratic Party machine has mysteriously “whittled down” his triumph until it takes on the hideous hew of defeat. Another name for “whittling” is counting the votes. Such desperation — the antics of the sandbox transposed to the Oval Office — is excruciating to watch, not least because it is so predictable. Throughout his life, when in a tight corner, having stiffed his contractors or ushered his businesses to the brink of bankruptcy, Trump has responded with lawsuits, lies and threats. His method was simple: attack, attack, attack. It often worked. But until now, he has not faced the will of the American people in the opposing corner. An attempted coup against democracy, I said. For months now, Trump has been peddling the notion that, as he put it in July, “mail-in ballots will lead to massive electoral fraud and a rigged 2020 election.” He has returned to the theme relentlessly, without any evidence that mail ballots lead to fraud. This was the groundwork for a power grab. Now it is Biden’s moment, on the eve of his 78th birthday. The moment of a man with a deep respect for America’s institutions, its alliances and the rule of law. The moment of a man who reached out to all Americans during the campaign. The moment of a man who became the Democratic nominee as people turned to safe hands to confront the coronavirus and now, it seems, will be asked to heal a wounded nation. The moment of a man who came to a gift for empathy through the devastating loss of his first wife and two of his four children. The moment of an American who understands that you cannot sculpt from rotten wood, and so every democracy requires the foundation of truth. Trump’s last-ditch incitement of his vast tribe — composed of tens of millions of Americans — will cast a shadow across an eventual Biden presidency. The battles of today will not quickly abate. But the restoration of sanity to the highest office in the land is the prerequisite for the rebuilding that must now begin. As Martin Luther King Jr. put it, “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.” I think now particularly of Georgia, where a Biden victory would be the first by a Democratic candidate in almost three decades. With its large African American population, and its sharp division between fast-growing Metro Atlanta and a conservative hinterland, Georgia was a bellwether of a changing America reeling from a pandemic and racial tension. “Let Freedom Ring From Georgia” was the headline on a column I wrote from there in June, predicting a Trump defeat. Democracy is messy but stubborn. It is the system that best enshrines the human desire to be free. This massive American vote has been many things — bitter and ugly among them — but above all, it has been a beautiful testament to the power of each single ballot in the world’s oldest democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-people-versus-donald-trump-913699.html
10-11-2020||Panorama||Green hope during pandemic||The global target towards reducing carbon footprint, in accordance to the 2015 Paris climate agreement, is thought to be under pressure due to the economic slowdown associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. Infosys, India’s second-largest software company, has declared itself ‘carbon neutral.’ This comes as a ray of hope amidst these unsure times. Companies across the nation need to reduce their energy consumption and transition towards renewable energy.  As the first step towards a greener future for India, more multi-million dollar companies and business conglomerates must reduce their carbon emissions to create a sustainable future. Carbon emissions are the main cause of global warming and climate change. The 2015 Paris Climate Agreement set up a timeline of 2050 for nations to urge their companies to achieve carbon neutrality by limiting their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Infosys, India’s second-largest software company, has declared itself ‘carbon neutral’ way ahead of the Paris Agreement timeline.  Energy production and use account for two-thirds of the world's GHG emissions. With 80% of its energy supply coming from carbon-heavy coal, India is the fourth-largest GHG emitter across the globe. India is also pursuing a low-carbon growth trajectory. It has envisioned 15% of its electricity production coming from renewable energy sources by this year, as prescribed under the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC). India’s electricity requirement is projected to increase to 1900 Billion units (BU) by the year 2022. These energy constraints, coupled with a slowing economy due to the pandemic, are endangering the nation’s renewable targets.  Reports suggest that around 600 of the world’s largest businesses have set science-based GHG emission reduction targets. DTE Energy, a Michigan-based utility, proposes to reduce their GHG emissions by 45% by 2030. Microsoft has pledged to reduce its operational emissions by 75% by 2030. It has been operating as carbon-neutral since 2012. Oil and gas companies known for their higher carbon footprints are also taking steps to limit their emissions.  ‘Duke Energy’ has set up goals to generate electricity with zero emissions by 2050.  Net-zero carbon emission is the only option to halt temperature rise beyond 1.5 degree C. GHC emissions also comes with enhanced air pollution risks According to WHO, air pollution results in 7 million premature deaths worldwide each year of which 6 lakh are children.  Infosys is the first Indian company to achieve net-zero carbon emission target as declared recently. The company started implementing policies to combat climate change in 2008. It has been possible because of the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) vision of the company that integrates core areas of climate change, technology for good, diversity and inclusion. The company terms this as their ESG vision 2030. The declaration by Infosys details that the company has reduced its total energy consumption by 55% and is transitioning towards renewable energy. By 2020, 44% of the company’s energy demands was supplied by renewable sources.  Infosys intends to reduce its carbon footprint by developing a portfolio of community-based carbon offset projects. These projects will focus on socio-economic development of rural communities, contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and benefit over one lakh rural families. Many other Indian companies are also going for carbon-neutral models. Hyderabad-based Banka BioLoo, Dalmia Cement Ltd and Mahindra group are three more Indian companies that have committed to carbon neutrality.  Infosys’ declaration of going ‘carbon neutral’ is a bright alternative amidst the bleak energy scenario of the nation. Many other Indian companies can target emission reductions. This achievement towards a sustainable future amidst the economic turmoil of the Covid-19 pandemic shows that green goals can be achieved today. (The writers are, respectively, Assistant Professor and Dean of the Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, Sonipat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/green-hope-during-pandemic-913607.html
10-11-2020||Right in the Middle||To socialise or to not socialise?||I was sitting in my room reading a book when I heard my phone ring. I had received a message from a cousin who lived in the USA. He was very stressed and wanted to share his concerns with me. After we talked for a while, he felt a lot better. That’s when I realised the importance of socialisation in the time of isolation. Socialisation and isolation may seem like they are polar opposites, but they go hand in hand. Just like Yin and Yang, these co-exist. Briefly put, the meaning of Yin and Yang is that the universe is governed by a cosmic duality, sets of two opposing and complementing principles. If you are an introvert then this might be an opportunity to enjoy your time at home. Franz Kafka had said “Isolation is a way to get to know ourselves better”. Find solace within yourself. For extroverts, social distancing is a huge challenge. The American author Warren Farrell had remarked “Socialisation gives us tools to fill our evolutionary roles. It is our building block.” Therapists have traditionally advocated for in-person social experiences as an antidote to anxiety and depression, prizing real connections over virtual ones. That’s now changing. Social distancing is the buzzword. Many countries have imposed strict lockdowns and billions of people are cooped up in their homes feeling deserted. Sometimes such loneliness causes severe bouts of depression and feelings of hopelessness. Even in isolation do not feel that you are alone. You can reconnect with old friends through social media or you can spend quality time with your family. Fighting monotony is essential for better mental health. Though it’s not an element of social connectedness, a change in routine, like a walk on the terrace provides a reprieve from looking at the same walls and furniture. The goal of varying your environment can even be achieved in the home, to a degree. You can put on formals when working from home or change the background while video-conferencing. Little things like this can be genuinely fun and spirit-lifting. In times like these, the mental health of the population plays a big role in limiting the spread of the disease. Call a friend, ask how they are doing, it may not seem like much to you but it may make a huge impact on the other person. Stay safe and practice physical distancing but remain socially connected using technology and utilise this time to do the things that you enjoy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-socialise-or-to-not-socialise-913605.html
10-11-2020||Second Edit||Act on report to stop custodial violence||A report on standard operating procedure that police must adopt in dealing with detainees merits the serious attention of police forces at all levels. The report, which has been brought out by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a think-tank that functions under the Ministry of Home Affairs, has recommended a slew of measures to prevent custodial violence. Calling on police to not subject anyone in their custody to beatings or cruel treatment, the ‘Draft SOP for Safeguarding Persons to be Arrested/Detained by the Police Authorities against Custodial Violence’ recommends detention of a person only in “exceptional circumstances”. A notice of appearance before the police should be sent to a person against whom a reasonable complaint exists and it is only when one refuses to appear that the arrest should be made, the report says. It forbids prolonged detention. Males below the age of 15 or above 65 and all women should be interrogated at their residence, it says. A person of the arrestee’s choice should be informed of his detention and in the case of a woman detainee, another woman should be permitted to stay with her throughout the process. In late June, a father and son were killed after being subjected to horrific violence by police in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district. The incident brought to the fore the pervasiveness of the problem of custodial violence; an estimated 1,731 people reportedly died in custody in 2019. Over 60% of such deaths are of people from marginalised communities. Although custodial violence is illegal, police are rarely held culpable and most get away without punishment. Indeed, rarely does brutal treatment of detainees even come out in the open, and there is little public reaction against it. To many, beating and torture of detainees is justified to prevent crime. Many people believe that violence is necessary to elicit information or confessions or to teach ‘hardened criminals’ a lesson. Little do they realise that such violence is often perpetrated against innocent, powerless people. Custodial violence under any circumstances is untenable. It is inhuman and illegal and should not exist in a civilised society, especially in a democracy. There are humane ways to interrogate detainees, even ‘hardened criminals.’ Moreover, police are there to enforce the law. Violation of the law, even if it is to protect it, is impermissible. The BPRD report has made recommendations that will go a long way towards the protection of human rights and more civilised policing and society. The Ministry of Home Affairs must act on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/act-on-report-to-stop-custodial-violence-913599.html
10-11-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh leads in harnessing agri infra fund||Andhra Pradesh has taken the lead in developing infrastructure for the farm sector under the Centre’s Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, while Karnataka has evinced interest in building warehouses. Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) from Andhra Pradesh have sent in more than 9,000 applications for loans to the Centre to build assaying centres, procurement centre villages, warehouses, drying yards and primary processing centres. “Of the total 9,435 applications received from PACS of seven states, 9,208 have been from Andhra Pradesh alone,” a senior agriculture ministry official said. PACS from Karnataka have submitted 211 applications for loans for building warehouses and sorting and grading units among others.  Besides the three farm sector laws, the Centre had announced the creation of Rs one lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to attract investment in post-harvest infrastructure, which is considered a weak link in the farm supply chain in the country.  Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) had sanctioned Rs 1,566 crore to 3,055 PACS under the AIF.  The AIF scheme will be implemented over 10 years to provide medium to long-term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and financial support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-leads-in-harnessing-agri-infra-fund-913597.html
10-11-2020||South||Telangana Assembly bypolls: BJP leading in Dubbak after first round||BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao was leading over his nearest TRS rival Solipeta Sujatha by 341 votes after the completion of the first round in the bypoll to Dubbak Assembly constituency in Telangana on Tuesday. Raghunandan Rao got 3,208 votes, while Sujatha secured 2,867 votes in the first round. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy obtained 648 votes. The counting of votes began at 8 am and it is expected to be completed in 23 rounds. The bypoll held on November 3 has been necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year due to health issues and the TRS has fielded his widow Sujatha as its candidate. Though 20 others are also in the fray, the main contest is among the ruling TRS, BJP and Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-assembly-bypolls-bjp-leading-in-dubbak-after-first-round-913707.html
10-11-2020||South||Covid-19: 1,267 new cases, 4 deaths in Telangana||Telangana has registered 1,267 fresh coronavirus cases taking the total infection count to 2.52 lakh while four more deaths pushed the toll to 1,385. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 201, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 109, and Rangareddy 104, a government bulletin said on Tuesday, providing details as of 8 pm on November 9. As many as 18,581 are under treatment and 42,490 samples were tested on Monday. Cumulatively, 46.84 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 1, 25,866, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.54 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 92.09 per cent, while it was 92.6 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-1267-new-cases-4-deaths-in-telangana-913731.html
10-11-2020||South||Kerala top cop directs to address grievances of transgender community without delay||In the wake of complaints regarding atrocities against transgenders galore, Kerala police chief has instructed his department that there should not be any reluctance or delay in addressing the grievances of the persons belonging to the third gender. In his message to district police chiefs, Behera directed action against police personnel if there was any unacceptable behaviour or lapse from their side while dealing with complaints against third genders. The Director-General of Police's instruction comes at a time when there were several complaints that the law enforcers were not handling the plaints of the third gender community seriously and thus denied them justice. Many transgender activists have complained of the lukewarm response of police officers when they approach the stations with a complaint. "If a transgender person complains of injustice or aggression, it should be probed thoroughly and legal action should be taken immediately. Do not treat them badly for any reason," the DGP said. Noting that it was imperative to protect the rights of TG people as a marginalised group, the police chief also said it was the objective of the state government to bring them to the mainstream society and enable them for social, economic and cultural upliftment and hence these instructions must be strictly followed.  Kerala was the first state to unveil a transgender policy in the country, envisaging ending the societal stigma towards the sexual minority group and ensuring non-discriminatory treatment. Despite several TG-friendly initiatives, the state had also witnessed several cases of harassment and violence against the members of the marginalised group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-top-cop-directs-to-address-grievances-of-transgender-community-without-delay-913739.html
10-11-2020||South||Telangana CM announces Rs 50 lakh financial aid to kin of slain soldier||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Tuesday announced Rs 50 lakh financial assistance to the family of an army jawan from Nizamabad district, who was killed in an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir. Expressing shock over R Mahesh's death, Rao said he would be remembered in history as the one who sacrificed his life for the country and the state government would stand by and support the family. In an official release, Rao said one member of the family would be offered a government job, based on the qualification, besides a house site to the kin. Besides, Mahesh, three security force personnel, including an Army officer, and three militants were killed during a failed infiltration bid by the ultras along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machil sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-announces-rs-50-lakh-financial-aid-to-kin-of-slain-soldier-913769.html
10-11-2020||South||Two more die of coronavirus infection in Puducherry, toll reaches 604||Puducherry posted two more deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday while the case tally touched 36,000 with 102 new additions. Both the deceased were women and hailed from Puducherry and Karaikal regions. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said in a release that the new cases were identified during last 24 hours after examination of 3,721 samples. He said that 113 patients were discharged. The test positivity rate was 2.7 per cent in Union Territory. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.68 per cent and 95.35 per cent respectively. Of the 3.44 lakh samples tested so far, 3.02 lakh were found to be negative and result of test of remaining samples was awaited, he said. Of the total 102 new cases identified today, Puducherry region accounted for 57 fresh cases followed by Karaikal 10, Yanam 2 and Mahe 33. The Director said of the 36,000 Covid-19 cases, 1,071 were active, 34,325 patients recovered and discharged. The toll rose to 604 with two more fatalities. The two women who died of infection were in the age group of 67 and 75 years and had Covid-19 pneumonia, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-die-of-coronavirus-infection-in-puducherry-toll-reaches-604-913793.html
10-11-2020||South||Four Tamil Nadu fishermen held by Sri Lankan Navy||Four Tamil Nadu fishermen were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday when they were allegedly fishing in the sea off Kodiakarai coast, a fishermen association here said. The fishermen belonging to Tarangambadi in this district were apprehended for allegedly entering the Lankan territorial waters. The fishermen ventured into the sea on November 7 and were fishing about 20 knots southeast of Kodiakarai this morning when the Lankan naval personnel came to the spot and arrested them, representatives of the association claimed. The fishermen have been taken to Kangesanthurai in the island nation, they said and added that they have lodged complaints with the officials of the fisheries department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-tamil-nadu-fishermen-held-by-sri-lankan-navy-913798.html
10-11-2020||South||Telangana: Close contest in Dubbak bypoll; BJP gains slender lead after 20 rounds of counting||The ruling TRS and opposition BJP were locked in a neck and neck contest in the Dubbak Assembly bypoll and the saffron party gained a slender lead of 240 votes after the completion of 20 rounds of counting of votes on Tuesday. The BJP was ahead of the TRS in initial rounds, but the ruling party bounced back and secured a lead subsequently. The TRS was ahead by 251 votes after 19 rounds, but the BJP again managed to gain upper hand after the 20th round with 240 votes. The counting of votes is expected to be completed in 23 rounds. The bypoll, held on November 3, has been necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year due to health issues and the TRS has fielded his widow Sujatha as its candidate. Though 20 others are also in the fray, the main contest is among the ruling TRS, BJP and Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-close-contest-in-dubbak-bypoll-bjp-gains-slender-lead-after-20-rounds-of-counting-913840.html
10-11-2020||South||6 men booked under POCSO Act for sexually abusing 5 minor girls||Six men have been booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly sexually abusing five minor girls in their farm, police said here on Tuesday The children were sold to a man last month by their parents and kept as bonded labourers in their farm, where they were sexually abused, Senior Superintendent of Police Pritikhsha Godara told reporters.  Acting on information, the Child Welfare Committee of Puducherry first rescued two of them last month and the others some time later, she said. All the children were first taken to the child care centre 'Udhavum Karangal' here and were later admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Child Hospital for medical examination and treatment. Godara quoted the children as having told police that six men sexually abused them and forced them to work as bonded labourers. She said the men were sent to the government hospital after their arrest for Covid-19 tests. One of them tested negative, following which his confession statement was recorded and he was arrested on Monday. The man also identified the places in the farm where the sexual assaults took place, Godara said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-men-booked-under-pocso-act-for-sexually-abusing-5-minor-girls-913863.html
10-11-2020||South||New 'RT Lamp-based test kits' rolled out for Covid-19, cleared for use by labs||With ICMR listing the faster and accurate RT Lamp technology for confirmatory testing of Covid-19 in labs across India, a Kochi-based company Tuesday said it will make available over 10 lakh tests of reagents and supportive equipment in the coming months to augment the nation's continuing fight against coronavirus. Kochi-based Agappe Diagnostics Ltd (ADL), claimed to be the first company to roll out this technology in India, said in a release it will work closely with the Centre and state governments in their efforts to increase the rate of testing to tackle the spread of the pandemic. "RT Lamp-based test kits can provide accurate test results in the shortest possible turnaround time and at competitive rates. This will relieve the public health sector from the heavy burden of test result backlogs," company Managing Director Thomas John said. "It will also address the system overload caused by slower results from other confirmatory testing processes for Covid," he said while launching commercial production of the RT Lamp-based equipment and reagent through virtual conference here. He noted that in recent days, test rates across the states have been fluctuating and the number of Covid cases have crossed one crore as on Monday, indicating that conducting more and more tests was the only alternative before the country. "The listing of RT Lamp technology for Covid testing makes it possible for laboratories located in rural India to adopt this test protocol with the minimum investment in infrastructure and logistics," John said. He said the RT Lamp-based Tests will help reduce backlogs in testing patients for Covid-19 because the process can identify positive samples in 10 minutes. The equipment can be easily handled by lab personnel as it is simple and compact in nature, John said. The first unit of RT Lamp equipment, under the brand name Mispa Lume, was handed to Dr Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer and promoter, Metropolis Kerala, by D M Vasudevan, well-known medical academician and Director and head of the R&D of Agappe. The company officials said Agappe Diagnostics is the first company in India to get ICMR validation for its Covid test kits based on RT Lamp technology with a specificity of 100 per cent and sensitivity of 98.7 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-rt-lamp-based-test-kits-rolled-out-for-covid-19-cleared-for-use-by-labs-913956.html
10-11-2020||South||Kerala's Believers Church under scanner for huge foreign fund flow||The Kerala-based Believers Church, which is now facing Income Tax raids, has been under the scanner for quite some time owing to the huge foreign fund flow. It has been one of the top foreign funds receiving NGOs in Kerala for many years and is also allegedly involved in massive real estate trade using the funds received on account of charity. While Income Tax sources said that Pathanamthitta district- headquartered Believers Church and its associate NGOs received Rs. 6,000 crore foreign funds over the last five to ten years, as per data available from FCRA wing of Ministry of Home Affairsl Believers Church received Rs. 906 crore during the 2016-17 fiscal alone. Ayana Charitable Trust, which is believed to be associated with the Believers Church, was the top recipient with Rs. 1,091 crores during the fiscal. The Income Tax officials conducted searches at around 60 premises associated with the  Believers Church over the last few days. Apart from the headquarters, a medical college and several other institutions of the church, offices, and residences of many prominent real estate dealers and some business persons, who are suspected to be benamis, were also raided. Around Rs. 3.5 crore has been reportedly recovered from a car parked in the garage of the headquarter. There were allegations that a senior official of the church tried to damage his mobile phone, while another staff tried to damage a pen drive while the IT search was going on. Sources said that Believers Church founder and metropolitan bishop Dr. K P Yohannan, who is reportedly not in India, would be issued notice by the IT officials soon. Believers Church public relations official Fr. Sijo Panthapally said that the allegations doing the rounds are baseless. The IT officials said that the ongoing verification may take at least two months. The church would fully cooperate with it and take required corrective measures. The Church allegedly has a high influence among political leaders in Kerala. No inquiry took place so far despite the allegations it faced. The Cheruvally estate close to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple where the Kerala government proposed the Sabarimala airport project was involved in an ownership dispute with the Believers Church. There were allegations that the move was aimed at appreciating the real estate value of the large extent of land possessed by the church in the locality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-believers-church-under-scanner-for-huge-foreign-fund-flow-914020.html
10-11-2020||South||What BJP wresting Telangana's Dubbaka from TRS means||In a nail-biting finish of the bypoll vote counting, the BJP has wrested the Dubbaka Assembly seat from the ruling TRS with a majority of 1,079 votes. The victory is significant since the saffron party was confined to the third position, after the TRS and the Congress, in the previous two Assembly polls here. BJP's Raghunandan Rao received 63,352 votes against TRS's Solipeta Sujatha's 62,273. Cheruku Srinivas Reddy of Congress got 22,196 votes, out of a total of 1.64 lakh votes polled in the rural constituency, about 100km north of Hyderabad. The BJP's Telangana Assembly tally would now become two, with Raghunandan joining Raja Singh, a firebrand leader representing Goshamahal in Hyderabad. The party's MLAs were reduced to one in 2018 from five in 2014. However, analysts say the conquest of a constituency seen as a TRS bastion would majorly aid the BJP trying to consolidate its presence in Telangana. With the Congress party seen as becoming infirm, the BJP has set the target of becoming the principal political challenger to K Chandrashekar Rao by the 2023 Assembly polls. The victory coming ahead of the Hyderabad civic polls in January has the BJP charged now. The BJP says that Rao has become arrogant with power in his second term and accuses him of running a “dictatorial and corrupt regime". And party leaders are claiming that the defeat of TRS as an indication that people want change. “The verdict has satisfied the entire state. Thank you Dubbaka, this is the seed for the future,” said DK Aruna, BJP's National Vice President, who earlier served as a Congress minister in united Andhra Pradesh. Tuesday's defeat is seen as a major setback for Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao's party, after the BJP's unexpected triumph in four Lok Sabha seats in Telangana in 2019. The Dubbaka result could also shake up the TRS, which has been winning the civic and bypolls effortlessly till now. The TRS seized the Congress party-held Huzurnagar Assembly with a huge majority in October last year. The party also showed total dominance in the civic body polls in January. “The Dubbaka outcome has, in a way, alerted us. We would analyse the reasons for the defeat and plan our future strategy to retain the public faith in us,” said TRS working president and KCR's son KT Rama Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/what-bjp-wresting-telanganas-dubbaka-from-trs-means-914021.html
10-11-2020||South||Kerala dubbing artiste gets anticipatory bail in vlogger assault case||Noted dubbing artist and two other women activists were granted anticipatory bail by the Kerala High Court in a case pertaining to assaulting and abusing a vlogger in Thiruvananthapuram. Provoked by certain posts made by vlogger Vijay P Nair that allegedly insulted womanhood, Bhagyalakshmy, activists Diya Sana and Sreelakhmsi Arackal assaulted and abused him in Thruvananthapuram on September 26 and posted a video of the same on social media. Though the act of the women were justified by many, they received strictures from a local court in Thiruvananthapuram for taking law into their hands. The HC granted anticipatory bail on stringent conditions. The police could record their arrest and release on conditional bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-dubbing-artiste-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-vlogger-assault-case-914032.html
10-11-2020||South||Kerala MLA quizzed by ED for accepting bribe||A MLA in Kerala was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday in connection with allegations of accepting bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from a government aided school management. The ED initiated the probe against K M Sahji, who is a MLA of Indian Union Muslim League, which is a coalition partner of the Congress in Kerala. The ED earlier made an assessment of Shaji's assets including a luxury house in Kozhikode that allegedly flouted the approved plan. The state vigilance is also conducting a probe against Shaji. Shaji, who is the MLA of Azhikode in Kannur district, allegedly accepted bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from an aided school management to upgrade it from high school to higher secondary school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mla-quizzed-by-ed-for-accepting-bribe-914040.html
10-11-2020||South||Telangana: Jolt for TRS as BJP wins Dubbak Assembly bypoll in Telangana||In a boost to the BJP in Telangana, the party on Tuesday won the bypoll held to the Dubbak Assembly constituency, a stronghold of the ruling Telangana Rashra Samithi, defeating the TRS candidate by a margin of 1,079 votes. "BJP candidate won by 1,079 votes," Siddipet district Collector Bharati Hollikeri told PTI over phone. In a close contest, BJP's M Raghunandan Rao got 63,352 votes, while the TRS nominee secured 62,273 votes. Cheruku Srinivas Reddy of the Congress finished third with 22,196 votes. The counting of votes reminded one of a T-20 cricket match as the lead position kept changing between the BJP and TRS, but the saffron party candidate had the last laugh. The bypoll, held on November 3, was necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August due to health issues and the TRS has fielded his widow Sujatha as its candidate. Reddy had won the bypoll by a margin of over 62,000 votes. Buoyed by the victory, state BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, who thanked the electorate in Dubbak for the win, said the TRS leaders should remember that BJP's series of victories would continue till the saffron flag reached the top of Golconda fort (coming to power in the state). He claimed that the Dubbak verdict is against Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his "arrogant, corrupt and dictatorial" rule. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the BJP's win is being welcomed by Telangana people. Taking exception to the TRS government's "misuse" of power, he alleged that some officials adopted a "partisan attitude" against the BJP. Such an attitude has not been seen anywhere, he claimed. Reddy, who referred to alleged incidents of money being seized from the relatives of BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao in the run up to polling, also claimed that BJP leaders were troubled "at every step" during the campaign with authorities stopping them for checks, while leaving TRS vehicles without being checked. People would teach a lesson to such behaviour and the electorate in Dubbak did teach a lesson, he said. Reacting to the TRS defeat, the partys working president KT Rama Rao said they will review the result as to why the party lost the election. Rama Rao, son of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, thanked over 62,000 people who voted for the party and also the party cadre for their efforts during the poll. "The result was not as we expected...we will not be depressed by defeats or overjoy with success," he told reporters. Rama Rao said the TRS never lost any election, be it for Assembly, Panchayat or GHMC after the formation of Telangana in 2014 and that the Dubbak loss would make it more alert in future. The Dubbak win would give a headstart to the BJP in the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. TRS' loss is inconsequential as far as the government is concerned as the party enjoys a massive majority of 100 seats in the 119-member Legislative Assembly. BJP's strength in the Assembly wouldgo up to two following the Dubbak victory. The loss is a setback to the Congress as it hoped to strengthen itself in the state by winning the bypoll and conducted a spirited campaign by deploying a number of senior leaders for campaigning in Dubbak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-jolt-for-trs-as-bjp-wins-dubbak-assembly-bypoll-in-telangana-914047.html
10-11-2020||South||Kerala: Senior BJP leader accuses govt of plot to implicate him in cheating case||Senior BJP leader in Kerala and former Mizoram governor Kummanam Rajasekharan alleged that the Left Front government had tried to implicate him in a cheating case to divert attention from the arrest of the Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar by the Enforcement Directorate. Rajasekharan alleged that the government planned to arrest him on the day Sivasankar was held. A cheating case was registered against Rajasekharan, along with eight others, in Kerala's Pathanamthitta on Oct. 22 based on a complaint of a local person that the accused had accepted lakhs of rupees and cheated many people by offering partnerships in a paper and cotton-based banner manufacturing unit in Palakkad district in Kerala. Rajasekharan was arraigned as the fifth accused in the case registered by the Aranmula police. His close confidant and personal staffer Praveen was the first accused in the case. The complainant C R Harikrishnan later withdrew the complaint following an out-of-court settlement. Rajasekharan said that the case against him was a political ploy to counter the Enforcement Directorate's arrest of Sivasankar. He said that the police did not make any enquiries or take his statement before arraigning him in the case. Rajasekharan reiterated that he had no involvement in the alleged cheating incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-senior-bjp-leader-accuses-govt-of-plot-to-implicate-him-in-cheating-case-914063.html
10-11-2020||State||Karnataka reports 1,963 new Covid-19 cases,19 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,963 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths on Monday as tests decreased to 84,965 from 1,17,345 on the previous day, owing to the weekend.  As many as 2,686 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 8,04,485. The active cases in the state are now 32,936 and the death toll 11,410. The total case tally in the state is now 8,48,850. A total of 876 people are in the ICU, including 470 in Bengaluru Urban. The day's positivity rate was 2.31% and the case fatality rate was 0.96%.  Out of the tests done on Sunday, 15,457 were rapid antigen tests. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 978 cases. All other districts reported cases in single and double digits. Five of Sunday's reported deaths were from Bengaluru Urban, taking the death toll in the state capital to 3,962 and active case count to 18,395.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-1963-new-covid-19-cases19-deaths-913594.html
10-11-2020||State||Covid-19 negative report, parents’ permission must to attend college||Students of undergraduate and postgraduate seeking to attend physical classes need to submit a report to prove they have tested negative for Covid 19. Classes are scheduled to begin on November 17. The department of collegiate education released the standard operating procedure (SOP) for degree colleges and universities in the state for reopening, on Monday. The students and staff have to undergo RT-PCR test three days before attending the classes. They will be allowed only if they show a negative report. Colleges and universities have been told to continue to shut down the library and canteens. Students are instructed to bring food and drinking water from home. The SOP issued by the department provides two choices, offline and online. Those who wish to attend offline classes must submit a permission letter from parents besides the Covid negative report. Wearing a mask is a must for students. It is mask, face shield or visor for faculty and other staff members. In case of online classes, institutions should provide contact classes to clear doubts. Faculties must provide the syllabus for a month in advance via telegram, WhatsApp, PowerPoint presentations, audio and video content, e-books, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-negative-report-parents-permission-must-to-attend-college-913596.html
10-11-2020||State||No entry for devotees from November 13 to 16 at MM Hill||Deepavali jatra mahotsava, held from November 13 to 16, would be celebrated in a simple manner at the Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The Chamarajanagar district administration has banned the entry of devotees to the temple on all four days from November 13, according to a press release from Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. Special rituals, Amavasya puja and car festival will be held at the temple during Deepavali. Around three to five lakh people used to visit the temple every year to participate in the jatra. As it becomes difficult to follow Covid norms with thousands of people visiting the pilgrim centre, the district administration has banned the devotees for four days. The entry to the temple was restricted even during the Dasara festival. The car festival has been cancelled, and the other rituals and teppotsava will be held in a simple manner, in the presence of priests and a few members of the temple development authority. The MM Hill Temple Development Authority has stopped advance booking for guesthouses and lodges for four days, as there was a possibility of restrictions during Deepavali. Counting The counting of offering boxes of the temple would be held on November 12, at the commercial complex, near the bus stand, according to a release from the Development Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-entry-for-devotees-from-november-13-to-16-at-mm-hill-914078.html
10-11-2020||State||Webinar on ward committee on November 12||Bengaluru-based Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy in association with Mangaluru Civic Groups and active citizens will organise its 5th City Politics webinar, ‘Decoding Ward Committees’, on Wednesday at 11 am. The last date for citizens to apply to become ward committee (WC) members is November 17. The event aims at creating awareness on the role played by the WC members in development of the city. Janaagraha Civic Participation Head Srinivas Alavilli will speak on ‘Opportunities and Challenges, The Saga of Two Decades of Bengaluru’s Ward Committees’. CIVIC Executive Trustee Kathyayini Chamaraj will speak on ‘Lifetime Experience as an Active Ward Committee Member of Bengaluru. Ajoy D’Silva, co-founder of MCC Civic Group, will speak on ‘How, What, Why of MCC’s Need for a Ward committee’ and Narendra Kumar, president of Nagarika Shakti, will speak about ‘A Crusade to Bring Ward Committees in 11 Municipal Corporations of Karnataka’. The second part of the webinar will be a panel discussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/webinar-on-ward-committee-on-november-12-914118.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 45% of Karnataka was infected by August, says a new study||A whopping 44.5% of Karnataka’s population was infected with Covid-19 by the end of August, said a team of Indian and American researchers who completed a randomised Covid-19 testing study. This estimate stands in sharp contrast to the state’s official sero-survey which determined that 27.3% of the population was exposed to the virus. The diverging studies appear to suggest that this is because the state’s sero-survey did not conduct enough random tests. The survey, titled “Karnataka Seroprevalence Study” (KSS), began on June 15 and ended on August 29. It saw researchers from Duke University in North Carolina, the University of Chicago, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) and Mapmygenome, supported by the State Covid Task Force, reach out to 1,907 random households across 20 districts of Karnataka. The homes were identified from an existing and representative sample of 9,717 households, drawn from the Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS), a longitudinal household panel data set assembled by the Mumbai-based Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). The survey has now estimated that a shocking 3.15 crore residents had been infected by the virus by the end of August 2020, which is higher than the figure of 1.93 crore persons currently infected or recovered from Covid according to the government survey.  Another key finding is that rural areas have been hit equally badly as urban areas because of returning migrants and because there were fewer lockdowns there due to ongoing agricultural activities. Commissioner of Health Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the disparity in findings could be due to KSS’ small sample size. “A small sample size can skew estimates. Plus the KSS’ use of households sourced from an economic survey can create a distorted picture. The state’s sero-survey results, meantime, have tallied largely with nationwide sero-survey results,” he said. One of the authors of the KSS study, Associate Professor Manoj Mohanan of the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke, told DH that one reason for the disparity is the different strategies used. “We aimed to get at the population-representative sample while the state’s study focused on target-risk groups. This is likely to cause some variation, especially because consent rates are likely to differ,” he said. That the studies used different antibody tests is also a factor, he added. “We relied on the Elisa test for the RBD spike protein that was developed by THSTI while the other study relied on the Covid Kavach Elisa,” he said. Scientists of the DBT India Consortium for Covid-19 Research had published a paper in August showing that the ICMR-designed Covid Kavach Elisa test has a specificity of 99.5% and a sensitivity of 75.7%. In contrast, THSTI’s Elisa test was shown to have a specificity of 100% and a sensitivity of 84.7%. “Sensitivity” is the ability to identify those with antibodies to Sars-Cov-2 (true positive rate), and “specificity” is the ability to identify those without antibodies to Sars-CoV-2 (true negative rate).  Professor Mohanan also pointed out that the RT-PCR positive rates in the state’s sero-survey (12.7%) are “slightly higher than the high-end of our estimates for current infection”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-45-of-karnataka-was-infected-by-august-says-a-new-study-913566.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Flood losses: Govt seeks Rs 2,100 cr under NDRF||Having exhausted the State Disaster Response Fund amount allocated for the current fiscal, Karnataka is seeking an aid of Rs 2,100 crore under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) as a relief for flood victims. In a memorandum submitted to the Centre on the October floods recently, the state government has estimated losses worth Rs 9,833 crore for which it is eligible to get Rs 1,078 crore as per norms. The compensation for floods in August and September has been calculated to be Rs 1,306 crore. The memorandum also shows that crop loss was reported in 20.59 lakh hectares of land since August, of which crops in 10.47 lakh hectares were damaged in the October floods. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the memorandum was submitted to the Centre recently. “Both instalments of SDRF allocated to Karnataka have been released already. The additional losses, calculated under the Central government norms, will have to be released under NDRF,” he said. A Central team will arrive shortly to assess losses in the fresh spell of floods, he said, adding that the memorandum was submitted last week. Last year, too, Karnataka had to resort to NDRF funds for relief and received around Rs 1,800 crore under the Fund after being hit with one of the worst floods in a century. Of the Rs 791 crore released by Centre - 75% share of the Rs 1,054 crore allocation for the state - Karnataka has already released Rs 737.8 crore, of which only Rs 276.08 crore went towards flood relief. A lion’s share of SDRF, Rs 436.62 crore, was expended for Covid-19 relief activities, forcing the state to dig into its depleted coffers to disburse the compensation. Crop loss Data shows that the crop loss, suffered during the year, was twice that of 2019 when agriculture, horticulture and plantation crops in 9.69 lakh hectare were damaged. Most of the losses suffered during the year were in districts such as Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Hassan and Bagalkot. Though Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had sought special relief package from Centre, sources in Revenue Department told DH that any such package was highly unlikely. “We are hoping that at least NDRF funds are released soon,” an official source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flood-losses-govt-seeks-rs-2100-cr-under-ndrf-913593.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Counting of votes underway for two assembly and four council seats in Karnataka||Counting of votes is underway for the bypolls held to two assembly segments and elections held for four legislative council seats in the state, poll officials said on Tuesday. Votes polled in the November 3 bypolls to Sira in Tumakuru district and Rajarajeshwari Nagar (R R Nagar) in the city were taken up for counting at 8 am and the results are expected to be out by afternoon. In the polls held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Sira and R R Nagar recorded voter turnout of 82.31 per cent and 45.24 per cent respectively. Elaborate security arrangements have been made for the counting. Also prohibitory and liquor ban orders are in place from 6 am to 12 midnight in the constituencies. The bypoll has been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana in August, while R R Nagar seat here fell vacant due to disqualification of the then Congress MLA N Munirathna last year under the anti-defection law. BJP that had never won the Sira seat fielded radiologist Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa, who had recently joined the party, while the Congress and JD(S), considered traditional rivals in the region, nominated former Minister T B Jayachandra and Ammajamma (wife of late MLA Sathyanarayana) respectively. Congress candidate for Sira Jayachandra (71) on Monday night said he along with his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been hospitalised. In R R Nagar, the Congress has fielded a fresh face -- Kusuma H, wife of late IAS officer D K Ravi. She was pitted against V Krishnamurthy of JD(S) and N Munirathna of the BJP. Munirathna, after his disqualification last year, had joined the BJP. The party gave his ticket after he was cleared by the courts of the charges of election malpractices, despite stiff resistance from within. Stakes are high for the ruling BJP and opposition Congress and JD(S). Though the results will have no bearing on the stability of the B S Yediyurappa government, yet it would be seen in many quarters as a reflection on its performance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. While the Congress and JD(S) are keen to strike after facing a rout in December 2019 bypolls, the BJP would be aiming to keep its winning streak intact. Some exit polls have indicated that BJP will sweep RR Nagar and Sira bypolls, but the opposition parties have rejected the predictions. Expressing confidence about winning both seats, Yediyurappa has also indicated that the much-awaited expansion of his cabinet will take place at the earliest and he will talk to party high command in this regard, soon after the assembly bypoll results. Stakes are high for 77-year old Yediyurappa amid intense speculation that BJP high command is mulling leadership change considering his age. It is also equally significant for state Congress President D K Shivakumar and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy to assert their command over the Vokkaliga vote bank. The community has considerable presence in both seats. Within Congress too, winning both seats will be important for Shivakumar in consolidating his position, as this is the first election under his presidency. Counting of votes will also be taken up on Tuesday in the Legislative Council biennial elections to two teachers constituencies - Bangalore Teachers and North East Teachers, and two graduates constituencies - Karnataka West Graduates and Karnataka South East Graduates, for which voting took place on October 28. BJP will have to win at least two of the four constituencies to emerge as the single largest party in the Council, the position currently held by Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/counting-of-votes-underway-for-two-assembly-and-four-council-seats-in-karnataka-913704.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypolls: Congress headed for huge upset as BJP’s lead increases||The BJP appears to be increasing its lead in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira, according to vote count trends, which could end up as a huge setback for the DK Shivakumar-led Congress that wanted to prove a point to the saffron unit.  The BJP’s lead in Sira, after ten rounds of counting, is 5,975 with the party’s candidate CM Rajesh Gowda having polled 30,883 votes. Former Congress minister TB Jayachandra is trailing with 24,908 votes. JD(S) candidate Ammajamma has 16,911. Poll managers expected Sira to be a photo-finish because of the three-way contest.  The Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira bypolls were a litmus test for Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar. This was his first electoral challenge after being appointed as the party’s state chief.  In Rajarajeshwarinagar, it was a prestige issue for Shivakumar and his brother, Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh. The party’s candidate Kusuma was Shivakumar’s pick. The party was counting on the consolidation of Vokkaliga votes. Going by the trend, this does not seem to have materialised.  If the BJP manages to win Sira, it will be a huge morale booster for the saffron party that had a negligible presence in this Vokkaliga-dominated constituency. The BJP had not polled more than 24,000 votes. BJP general secretary N Ravikumar and vice-president BY Vijayendra camped in Sira to manage the party’s campaign. The BJP’s victory in Sira will signal its intent to expand in the Old Mysuru region.  For the Congress, a loss in Sira will be a big dampener; its candidate Jayachandra is a 6-time MLA who will lose twice in a row. It could also reflect on Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s leadership as Jayachandra was his favourite.  A win in both seats will further cement Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s authority during murmurs of a change in leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-congress-headed-for-huge-upset-as-bjp-s-lead-increases-913722.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar concedes defeat, takes responsibility for Congress' loss in Karnataka bypolls||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said he took responsibility for the party’s defeat in Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira bypolls, but asked his cadre not to be disheartened. “As a president, I take responsibility,” he told reporters. “We accept the people’s verdict with respect. The Congress isn’t in a position to question it, because we believe in democracy,” he said, adding that the party would discuss the results and take “corrective action” in the coming days. The BJP won big in Rajarajeshwari Nagar by a margin of over 58,000 votes whereas in Sira, the saffron party got through by over 12,00 votes. “I didn’t expect such a huge margin in Rajarajeshwari Nagar,” Shivakumar said. “I expected a close fight in the range of 10,000-15,000 votes. But, our candidate was good and she put up a good fight.” He also expressed surprise over the BJP polling “new votes” in Sira. “We will look at how we can improve there." Soon after polling on November 3, Shivakumar had said the bypolls generally favour the party that is in power. “Earlier, we won Bellary (Lok Sabha), Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls, and lost them later. So, party workers need not be disheartened,” he said. “I lost my first election in 1985. Since then, I’ve been winning. So, I believe that failure is the foundation of success,” he said, adding that the Congress would continue to fight against the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-concedes-defeat-takes-responsibility-for-congress-loss-in-karnataka-bypolls-913849.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Various combinations worked for BJP in Sira: N Ravikumar||Statistically, the BJP stood no chance in Sira, a constituency located in the Old Mysuru region of Tumakuru, a fortress of the Congress and JD(S). The party, which had not polled more than 24,000 votes in Sira, won Tuesday against Congress’ veteran TB Jayachandra and Ammajamma of the JD(S). BJP general secretary N Ravikumar, one of the key poll strategists, tells Bharath Joshi how Sira was won. Here are excerpts from the interview: Q: It seemed like an impossible seat to win. What was the approach?  A: There are multiple angles. We had neglected the party’s organisation. Starting September 1 and till polling, we were there. The first thing we did was to form committees in each of the 264 booths by roping in people who could perform and identified where we were strong or weak. That created the base. Secondly, we reached out to 22 communities - Kadu Gollas, Kunchitiga Vokkaligas, Kurubas, Bahusar Kshatriyas, Balijas among others - and drummed up support for the BJP. Through these meetings, we reached out to 10,000 people. We also took up the Madalur lake issue, which connected with people. The Gollarahattis and Dalit Colonies do not even have roads. We promised development and told people that they should vote for someone from the ruling party, and vote us out next time if we do not perform.  Q: The Congress wanted to field your candidate Rajesh Gowda. What were your thoughts on that? A: Maybe they had a report that he would win. Jayachandra is ageing anyway and Gowda is the only young face. But, Gowda joined our party and he got the ticket. Our past candidates BK Manjunath and SR Gowda would not have won. Our candidate had to be a Kunchitiga Vokkaliga and a good one. We zeroed in on Rajesh; his father was also a legislator. So, we were able to put up a fight.  Q: All three candidates were Kunchitiga Vokkaligas, which seems to have split the votes, isn't it? A: There were 55,000-60,000 Kunchitiga and Hallikara Vokkaliga votes. We got a little less, but we got them all the same. The Congress had its traditional vote bank. They should have won easily with these two, but we managed to break that. There were 35,000 SC (Left) votes - the community our deputy chief minister Govind Karjol belongs to - and 30,000 votes of the Kadu Gollas for whom the government created a development board. These combinations worked for us.  Q: Do you think the JD(S) expected a sympathy wave for its candidate? A: There was no sympathy simply because the party has not done any good work for the people. Otherwise, they should have polled a good number of votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/various-combinations-worked-for-bjp-in-sira-n-ravikumar-913851.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to run 1,000 extra buses this festive season||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Tuesday said it has made elaborate arrangements to run 1,000 extra buses during the Deepavali festival season. It has also decided to operate special buses from various intra and interstate locations to Bengaluru on November 16. The special buses will be exclusively operated from Bengaluru Kempegowda Bus Station to various destinations including Dharmasthala, Kukke Subrahmanya, Shivamogga, Hassan, Mangaluru, Kundapura, Sringeri and Tirupati, the corporation said in a statement here.   There will be special buses from Mysuru Road Bus Station exclusively operated towards Mysuru, Hunsur, Piriyapatna, Virajpet, Kushalnagar and Madikeri. All premier special buses will be operated from Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation Bus Station at Shantinagar to Tirupati, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam and other places in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala. Also, advance reservation of tickets for the special and scheduled buses of KSRTC can be booked through 706 counters within Karnataka and in other states, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-run-1000-extra-buses-this-festive-season-913890.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP wins Sira assembly seat in Karnataka for first time||The ruling BJP in Karnataka created history of sorts by bagging the Sira assembly segment in Tumakuru district for the first time with party candidate C M Rajesh Gowda emerging the winner in the recent byelection. Gowda defeated his closest Congress rival T B Jayachandra, a six-time MLA and former minister, by a margin of over 12,000 votes, officials said. JD(S) that had won the seat in the 2018 assembly elections has been relegated to third place. The bypoll, held on November 3, has been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana in August. Apparently eyeing sympathy votes, the JD(S) had fielded Ammajamma B, wife of Sathyanarayana. BJP's Rajesh Gowda is a radiologist and the son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa and had recently joined the ruling party. His win is significant as this is the first ever success for the BJP in Sira, which falls in old Mysuru region, where the party had been weak traditionally. With its negligible presence in the constituency where Congress and JD(S) had been the traditional rivals, the BJP had not polled more than 24,000 votes in the past. After winning K R Pet and Chikkaballapura assembly seats in December 2019 bypolls, the BJP has been focussing on making further inroads in the old Mysuru region. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra, who played a key role in winning K R Pet in 2019, along with other leaders had camped in Sira to ensure the party's victory. This win will add another feather to his cap, with him being seen as Yediyurappa's political heir, sources said. BJP was a distant third in the 2018 assembly polls by securing only 16,959 votes in Sira. Sathyanarayana had then defeated Jayachandra of the Congress. Jayachandra was the candidate this time too and AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala had reportedly expressed his reservations to the state unit leaders about the choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-wins-sira-assembly-seat-in-karnataka-for-first-time-913894.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After Karnataka bypoll victory, BS Yediyurappa to push for Cabinet rejig||Heaving a sigh of relief with the BJP winning the Karnataka bypolls Tuesday, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s immediate agenda is to rejig his Cabinet, with him hinting at the possibility of some incumbent ministers being shown the door. “Tomorrow or the day after, I’ll contact Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda and try to meet them to discuss the expansion of the Cabinet, which I want to do in the next 2-3 days,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  To a question, Yediyurappa said whether or not his Cabinet will be expanded or reshuffled will be decided after his visit to Delhi to meet the top brass. “Some (ministers) may have to be dropped, some may have to be added. I’m thinking in a big way. I’ll get the approval from the central leaders to expand the Cabinet,” he said.  There are seven berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet. Yediyurappa will have to accommodate MLCs MTB Nagaraj, H Vishwanath and R Shankar - rebels who helped the BJP come to power. Munirathna, who won the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll, is a ministerial candidate. Plus, Yediyurappa will have to keep space for Pratap Gouda Patil who needs to win the Maski bypoll that is yet to be announced. The CM has also publicly assured a berth for 8-time MLA Umesh Katti, who is sulking. There are several others who are vying to become ministers.  The bypoll results that saw the BJP win - both Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar constituencies - are a “clear indication” that the government has responded to the needs of the people of the state. “Whatever assurances we have made to the voters of two constituencies will be fulfilled 100% in the next two-and-a-half years," he said. On bypolls to Maski, Basavakalyan assembly and the Belgaum Lok Sabha constituencies that are yet to be announced, Yediyurappa said that the BJP would announce candidates soon after assessing the ground situation and public opinion. “We must and we will win all three. We will start preparations right away,” he said.  Yediyurappa ruled out the possibility of his son and party vice-president BY Vijayendra getting the ticket to contest from Basavakalyan. “He will not contest any bypoll. If the central leaders decide, then he will contest the next general election.”  The CM also congratulated party workers for ensuring a victory in the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-karnataka-bypoll-victory-bs-yediyurappa-to-push-for-cabinet-rejig-913941.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP wins three of four Legislative Council seats in Karnataka||Winning three of the four Legislative Council seats in Karnataka, the ruling BJP increased its strength in the upper house to 30 on Tuesday. The result of the Karnataka South East Graduates' constituency is expected Wednesday. In Bengaluru Teachers' constituency, BJP's Puttanna defeated AP Ranganath of the JD(S) by 2,228 votes and Congress' Praveen Peter came third. Puttanna, who had joined BJP from JD(S) earlier this year, polled 7,335 votes to Ranganath's 5,107, while Peter got 752 votes. The BJP retained the Karnataka West Graduates' constituency after the party candidate SV Sankanur beat Congress' RM Kuberappa by 11,409 votes. Sankanur polled 23,857 votes to 12,448 of Kuberappa. Independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar was a distant third with 6,188 votes. Sitting MLC of the Karnataka North East Teachers' constituency Sharanappa Mattur was defeated by BJP' Shashil G Namoshi by 3,095 votes. While Mattur polled 6,095 votes, Namoshi got 9,190 votes. The JD(S) was third with 3,757 votes for its candidate Timmayya Purle. Counting the votes of South East Graduates' constituency started Tuesday evening with results expected by Wednesday noon, authorities said.  Polling for these four constituencies was held October 28. By winning three seats, the BJP has become the single largest party in the Council, followed by Congress, which has 29 seats that includes the chairman. The JD(S) has 14 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-wins-three-of-four-legislative-council-seats-in-karnataka-914039.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP wrests back NE teachers' segment from Congress||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday wrested back Karnataka North East Teachers' constituency from the Congress.  BJP candidate Shashil G Namoshi won by a margin of 3,130 votes against Congress candidate and sitting MLC Sharanappa Mattur. While Namoshi secured 10,212 votes, Sharanappa secured 7,082 votes and JD(S) candidate Thimmayya Purle got 3,848 votes. Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Party candidate Vatal Nagaraj managed to get 59 votes and independent candidate Chandrakanth Singe polled 91 votes. The election to the council seat was held on October 28. The counting, which was supposed to be held on November 2, was postponed to November 10. The counting of votes was held at the Mathematics Department of Gulbarga University. This poll was a prestige issue for the BJP as it has 18 MLAs in Kalyana Karnataka and five MPs.  BJP lead In the first round, the BJP took a lead by 956 votes. Namoshi secured 3,148 votes. While Mattur got 2,192, Purle obtained 983 votes. Nagaraj got 15 votes. Independent candidate Singe managed to get 26 votes. A total of 636 votes were declared invalid in the first round. In the second round, the BJP maintained a lead by 1,771 votes. While Namoshi secured 6,042 votes, Mattur got 4,271 votes. Purle took 2,353 votes. While Nagaraj secured 39 votes, Dr Chandrakanth Singe secured 54 votes. Of the total of 14,000 votes counted till the second round, a total of 12,759 votes were declared valid and 1,241 votes as invalid.   The BJP candidate maintained a lead by 3,205 votes at the end of counting of the first preference votes. While Namoshi secured 9,418 votes, Mattur got 6,213 votes. JD(S) candidate Purle obtained 3,812 votes. While Nagaraj got 59 votes, Singe managed to get 91. Of the 21,437 votes polled in the election, a total of 19,593 votes were declared valid and 1,844 votes as invalid. Based on the valid votes, Election Officer N V Prasad fixed 9,797 votes as winning quota. Elimination Vatal Nagaraj, who obtained the lowest (59) votes in the counting of first preference votes, was eliminated from the contest. Of 59 votes, a total of 30 votes were exhausted as they have only first preferential votes. In the remaining 29 votes, The BJP got 13, Congress-six, JD(S)-eight and independent candidate secured two votes. The election official announced that independent candidate Chandrakanth Singe has also been eliminated as he has secured the second-lowest (91) votes. As he has got 29 first preferential votes only, the BJP got 20, Congress-16 and JD(S) secured 28 second-preferential votes. Based on the fixation of winning quota, JD(S) candidate Purle, who obtained the lowest 3,848 votes in the first preference was also eliminated from the contest by the election officer. Counting began Though the strong room was opened at 8:00 am in the morning, the counting began at around 12:30 pm only after mixing of ballot papers was completed. There were three rounds for the counting of first preferential votes as a total of 21,437 votes were polled. A total of 1,000 votes were distributed in the seven tables erected for the counting. All precautions were taken at the counting centre in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Security was also beefed up around the counting centre to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-wrests-back-ne-teachers-segment-from-congress-914072.html
10-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nitte researchers identify novel mutation in SARS COV-2 genome||Researchers from Nitte (Deemed to be University) have reported the identification of a novel mutation in the genome of SARS CoV-2 -- the virus that causes Covid-19. The findings, to be published in the forthcoming paper in the prestigious Elsevier Journal Virus Research by Nitte researchers, will have important bearings on the virus detection and disease severity. According to the researchers, this mutation affects E-gene encoding the envelope protein, which is very important for the structural organization of the virus. Due to the importance of this protein for the structure of the virus, the E-gene is the target for detection of virus in clinical samples by the commonly used RT-PCR in clinical samples. Normally, RT-PCR for Covid-19 diagnosis involves two steps, screening test involving detection of E-gene, and if this is positive, confirmatory test involving detection of RdRp gene encoding enzyme, involved in viral replication or N gene encoding a nucleocapsid protein. Dr Anusha Rohit from a tertiary care hospital in Madras Medical Mission, alerted Nitte researchers about observation in some laboratories that occasional samples may be negative for E-gene but positive for RdRp gene or N gene, depending on the confirmatory test system used in these laboratories. Since most laboratories do screening and confirmatory tests one after the other, samples negative for E-gene will not be processed for confirmatory test and reported negative. Researchers from Nitte University Center for Science Education and Research (NUCSER), Dr B Krishna Kumar, Prithvisagar and Praveen Rai, under the mentorship of Dr (Mrs) Indrani Karunasagar and Dr Iddya Karunasagar, scanned the nucleaotide sequence of E-gene of over 2,000 viral genome sequences from India, available at the database of Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID). Partial deletion in one of the ends of this gene, which is termed the ‘carboxy terminal’ was found in 34 viral genomes. These were spread across different states in India – Karnataka, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. The deletions in all states, except Odisha, were such that the RT-PCR detection of the virus would not be affected. But in 8 genomes from Odisha, the deletion was large enough to render RT-PCR reaction negative. Though this is a very small proportion (8 out of 2,086) in the sample studied, this will work out to 32,500 genomes with large deletions in 8.4 million cases detected in India, which would be very significant. The deletion in C-terminal region of E-gene in viruses from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, New Delhi and Odisha, would effect the virus assembly, and it is likely that these viruses would have lower virulence. Data on disease severity of individuals, from whom these genomes were obtained, was not available, except in six individuals, who had asymptomatic infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nitte-researchers-identify-novel-mutation-in-sars-cov-2-genome-914124.html
10-11-2020||West||Counting of votes begins for Gujarat Assembly bypolls||Counting of votes got under way Tuesday morning for bypolls held for eight Assembly seats in Gujarat, and the results will indicate the popularity of former Congress MLAs who contested as BJP candidates. The counting began at 8 am in eight centres set up in these constituencies, an election official said. The bypolls were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls in June this year. Five of them then joined the ruling BJP, which fielded them from the same seats they had won in the 2017 elections. A 60.75 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls held on November 3 in Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad) Assembly seats. As many as 81 candidates contested the bypolls across the eight seats. The Election Commission's guidelines on Covid-19 are in place so that counting agents do not assemble in large numbers at the counting centres, the official said. Altogether 320 persons have been deployed on counting duty amid tight security, he said. Counting staff and others allowed inside the counting centres have been provided face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/counting-of-votes-begins-for-gujarat-assembly-bypolls-913701.html
10-11-2020||West||Gujarat bypolls: Congress stunned as BJP makes clean sweep, wins all eight seats||In a major defeat, the opposition Congress on Tuesday lost all eight seats for which the bypolls were held, necessitated after many MLAs from the party had resigned and later defected to the ruling BJP. The BJP had fielded five Congress turncoats, who along with three other BJP leaders, won the bypolls comfortably. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani termed the result as "trailer" of the Assembly election to be held in 2022. "Today's victory has strengthened the party with 111 seats in the Assembly," Rupani said. He also hailed party candidate Vijay Patel who won by a record margin of over 60,000 votes. Congress turncoat Brijesh Merja won by 4,649 votes, the lowest margin. State Congress President Amit Chavda while conceding the defeat said, "There was anger amongst the voters on issues such as mismanagement of coronavirus pandemic, farm crisis, tickets to traitors (Congress turncoats), fall of democratic values among others. Yet, we didn't win. It seems that I think BJP won because the party used Sam, Dam, Dand, Bhed (win by all means). But we will look into all the factors behind the result." In the run-up to Rajya Sabha polls earlier this year, eight Congress legislators had resigned which helped the BJP win three of four seats despite not having the required number. Most of these leaders have joined BJP since then. After the bypolls were announced, the BJP chose five of them that included Pradyumansinh Jadeja, J V Kakadiya, Akshay Patel, Jitu Chaudhry and Brijesh Merja for Abdasa, Dhari, Karjan, Kaprada and Morbi assembly seats respectively. They all won the bypolls despite Congress campaigning against them as "gaddar" or traitors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bypolls-congress-stunned-as-bjp-makes-clean-sweep-wins-all-eight-seats-913721.html
10-11-2020||West||Senior Republic TV executive Ghanshyam Singh held in fake TRP scam||Republic TV's distribution head Ghanshyam Singh was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam. He was produced before a magistrate who remanded him in police custody till November 13. Singh, who is also Assistant Vice President of the Republic Media Network, was picked up from his residence around 7.40 am, a police official said. He had been questioned by the police earlier. His arrest took the number of people held by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch in the case to 12. Seeking his custody, the police told the magistrate's court that it had recovered Rs 2 lakh from Ashish Chaudhry, who is partner of Crystal Broadcast and a co-accused. Chaudhry stated that it was part of the money given to him by Singh for TRP manipulation for Republic TV, the remand application of the police claimed. Abhishek Kolavade, another arrested accused, revealed that he used to get Rs 15 lakh a month from Ghanshyam Singh through hawala route between January 2020 to July 2020, it said. This money would be distributed to some households -- where `barometer' is installed -- as a bribe for tuning into particular channels, it said.. The CIU wanted to probe these claims, the remand application said. The fake TRP scam came to light last month when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa had been tasked with installing barometers, which record viewership data (which channel has been watched and for how long) at sample households. TRP is important as advertising revenue of channels depends on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/senior-republic-tv-executive-ghanshyam-singh-held-in-fake-trp-scam-913738.html
10-11-2020||West||Trends in Gujarat bypolls show BJP has support of all sections: CM Vijay Rupani||With the trends of counting of votes on Tuesday showing the BJP leading in all eight assembly constituencies in Gujarat, the party workers broke into celebration and burst firecrackers at its headquarter here. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters the BJP's showing in these byelections was just a "trailer" of the outcome to be expected in upcoming elections to local bodies and in 2022 assembly polls. The BJP is ahead in all the eight seats while the Congress is trailing behind as counting of votes polled for the Assembly bypolls progressed. The CM and state BJP president CR Paatil arrived at the party headquarter "Kamalam", where they were greeted by upbeat BJP workers who thumped drums and waved the party flags. Women activists broke into a garba gig while holding small cutouts of lotus, the poll symbol of the BJP, in their hands. Rupani said voters have rejected the "negative campaign and activities" of the Congress in Gujarat, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, where counting for bypolls is underway. "Today BJP has emerged victorious across the country, whether it is Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh or Gujarat. This outcome is the result of the work done by Narendra Modi government and the support of people for the BJP," the CM said. Hailing voters for exercising the franchise for the bypolls held on November 3 amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, Rupani said the constituencies were spread in different regions of Gujarat and consisted of areas dominated by Muslims, Adivasis, Kolis and Patidars among others. "In all these areas, the BJP has received a huge lead. The BJP bagged more votes than the Congress everywhere. As I had said earlier, this election will prove to be the last nail in the Congress' coffin," Rupani said. He said Gujarat will continue to remain a BJP bastion where the Congress has recorded its worst-ever electoral performance. Paatil said the BJP and its workers were confident of winning all the eight seats. "The voters reposed their faith in the BJP and ensured a grand victory for the party. I thank all of them," he said. He said people supported the BJP for the welfare and developmental works done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trends-in-gujarat-bypolls-show-bjp-has-support-of-all-sections-cm-vijay-rupani-913814.html
10-11-2020||West||Baroda Bypolls: BJP's Yogeshwar Dutt defeated by Congress nominee ||The opposition Congress on Tuesday retained the Baroda assembly seat after its candidate Indu Raj Narwal defeated BJP nominee and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt by a margin of 10,566 votes. This is the second time that Dutt has lost from the constituency. In the 2019 assembly poll, he had lost by about 4,800 votes to Congress candidate Krishan Hooda. The Baroda bypoll was necessitated following the death of Hooda in April. He had won the constituency thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019. According to officials, Narwal polled 60,636 votes while Dutt got 50,070 votes. Indian National Lok Dal nominee Joginder Singh Malik polled 5,003 votes while Loktantra Suarkasha Party candidate Raj Kumar Saini got 5,601 votes. As many as 468 voters opted for NOTA (none of the above) option in the bypoll, according to the Election Commission data. The Congress secured a vote share of 49.28 per cent in the bypoll held on November 3 followed by the ruling BJP at 40.70 per cent and INLD at 4.07 per cent, the data showed. As counting of votes began at 8 am, Narwal took the lead over his nearest rival Dutt and out of 20 rounds of counting, he remained ahead in 15, thus maintaining a solid overall lead. Dutt accepted the verdict of the people and thanked them for their support. He also congratulated Narwal for the win. “I accept the verdict of Baroda constituency,” he said in a tweet.  Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said, with their decision, the people of Baroda have given a “befitting reply” to “anti-farmers and anti-labour forces”. “The victory of Indu Raj Narwal is a win for farmers and labourers. I assure residents of Baroda that the Congress will live up to their expectations,” tweeted Selja. “We have been saying from day one that it will be a one-sided contest in favour of the Congress and you are seeing it now,” said Selja. People trust the Congress party and they do not believe whatever the BJP says, she told reporters. “They (BJP) talked about development but nothing was done there (Baroda). What development did the BJP government carry out in the last six years,” she asked. Haryana BJP chief O P Dhankar reacting to Dutt's loss said, “Traditionally, it (Baroda) has been a Congress seat and Congress candidates have been winning from here.” However, the number of BJP votes has increased, he said, adding that he was saddened by Dutt' defeat. Asked whether the defeat was due to the anger of the farmers over the central farm laws, Dhankar said, "Had there been an impact, then our number of votes would have decreased. Everybody knows it was the Congress party's lie. These laws are in favour of farmers." The Baroda bypoll was a direct contest between the BJP and Congress. The poll outcome of Baroda bypoll has come as a big setback for the BJP-JJP alliance government in the state which has been facing the ire of farmers over the three central farm laws. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and other senior leaders had aggressively canvassed for Dutt.           To counter opposition party's criticism of the farm laws, Khattar had even announced that he would quit politics if the minimum support price (MSP) system was dismantled while accusing the Congress of "misleading" farmers over this issue. The BJP was looking to wrest this seat from the Congress as the saffron party has never won from here. The bypoll was also a battle of prestige for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda as this Jat-dominated constituency lies adjacent to his own Garhi-Sampla Kiloi seat in Rohtak and is considered his stronghold.           The victory for the Congress nominee will help Hooda emerge as an undisputed leader in the state unit of the party.                      Two-time chief minister Hooda along with his son Deepender Hooda had campaigned for Narwal and had launched a blistering attack on the Khattar-led dispensation over several issues including farm laws.           The INLD, for which the bypoll was equally important, remained at the fourth spot.           Baroda was a reserved seat till 2005 and a pocket borough of the INLD before the Congress won it for three consecutive terms starting in 2009. The BJP had won 40 of the 90 assembly seats in 2019 and later formed the government with JJP's support, which had won 10 seats.           The poll outcome will have no bearing on the number of 90-member Haryana Assembly.           The BJP's tally will remain at 40 while the Congress party number will remain unchanged at 31 as the seat was held by Hooda. The INLD has one seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/baroda-bypolls-bjps-yogeshwar-dutt-defeated-by-congress-nominee-913835.html
10-11-2020||West||Dawood Ibrahim’s ancestral properties auctioned||Around half a dozen properties, belonging to fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra, was auctioned by the state government for nearly Rs 23 lakh. Designated as a “mosted wanted accused” by India and “global terrorist” by the United States, Dawood, who is in his mid-sixties, is currently holed up in Pakistan. In India, among other cases, he is wanted for the March 12, 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. The auction was conducted by Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA). While bids of four properties were won by Bhupendra Bhardwaj, two were clinched by Ajay Srivastava, both Delhi-based lawyers. The bidding process was overseen by SAFEMA’s Mumbai-based Additional Commissioner RN D’Souza. “There were tenders, e-auction and virtual public auctions,” he said. A majority of the properties are small constructions - some in bad shape - on plots of land, situated in Mumbake and Lote villages in Khed tehsil of Ratnagiri, from where his family hailed. Dawood’s father Ibrahim Kaskar was a constable in Mumbai Police. These properties are registered in the name of Dawood's late mother Amina Bi and his late sister Haseena Parkar. Besides, two flats in Mumbai belonging to late smuggler Iqbal Memon alias Iqbal Mirchi, a former key aide of Dawood, are also being auctioned simultaneously. The properties were seized by SAFEMA and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS). While Dawood and his family mostly lived in Mumbai, they occasionally used to go to the bungalow. However, after the 1993 blasts, none of them have visited there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dawood-ibrahim-s-ancestral-properties-auctioned-913871.html
10-11-2020||West||Maharashtra Legislature's winter session to be held in Mumbai||The winter session of the Maharashtra Legislature would be held in Mumbai instead of Nagpur in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the possibility of a second wave of the viral infection. In Maharashtra, customarily the winter session is held in Nagpur, which is often referred to as the second capital or winter capital. Holding the session in the Vidarbha region’s hub of Nagpur is a mammoth exercise as several officers and staff from various state government departments, Mantralaya - the state secretariat and Vidhan Bhavan Complex need to shift to Nagpur temporarily. Besides, massive security arrangements are also needed to be made. The decision to hold the session in Mumbai was taken at the business advisory council (BAC) meetings of Assembly and Council in Mumbai. The winter session in Mumbai would commence on December 7. The tenure of the session would be decided on December 1 after a review. It may be recalled; the monsoon session was curtailed to two days and was held in Mumbai in September amid strict Covid-19 protocols and compulsory tests of those visiting the Vidhan Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-legislatures-winter-session-to-be-held-in-mumbai-913945.html
10-11-2020||West||Staring at bypoll rout in Gujarat, Congress hits out at BJP||As the BJP appears set to sweep bypolls held on eight assembly seats in Gujarat, the state Congress on Tuesday hit out at the ruling party, saying the outcome is a victory of its policy of using "wrong means like manipulation, money and blackmail" to retain power. The BJP has already won three seats and established a dominant lead over the Congress in the remaining five assembly constituencies. Voting for the bypolls was held on November 3 counting of ballots was taken up on Tuesday. State Congress President Amit Chavda said the party accepted the people's verdict, though it was contrary to its expectation that voters will teach a lesson to the BJP for indulging in "horse-trading and using money power". In the past, the BJP has repeatedly rejected Congress allegations of horse-trading and using money power to achieve political ends. "Voters are supreme in a democracy. We accept their verdict. But it was contrary to our expectation that people will teach a lesson to the BJP for indulging in horse-trading using money and muscle power... "Primary reason for our defeat is the BJP's policy ofsham, dam, dand, bhed(manipulation, use of money, harassment, blackmail), its misuse of power and administration, money, its hunger for power without care for any democratic values," said Chavda at a press conference. Elections to the eight seats were necessitated after sitting Congress MLAs resigned from the assembly and the party. Five of these legislators later joined the BJP and contested as its candidates in the bypolls. Chavda said party members and leaders worked with team spirit to ensure victory on all the eight seats, and the candidates chosen by the party are loyal and committed to its ideology. "Despite this, we have faced a defeat. We will sit together and try to find out the reasons behind why people voted the way they did, and will act upon them," he said. He thanked party workers and asked them not to get disappointed by the outcome. "I thank party workers that despite all odds, they worked hard for party candidates and for Congress ideology. "I request Congress workers not to be disappointed by the defeat, because victory and defeat are parts of an election. "Our ideology is not to hanker for power but to fight for the rights of people," the Congress leader said. He asked party workers to continue their fight against the "tyranny" of the BJP like the Congress fought against the British and drove them out of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/staring-at-bypoll-rout-in-gujarat-congress-hits-out-at-bjp-913959.html
10-11-2020||West||Goa Congress stages protest against double tracking at SWR HQ in Hubballi||The main Opposition party in Goa, the Congress, took its battle against the double-tracking of the South Western Railway to Karnataka on Tuesday by staging a protest against the project outside the Railway headquarters at Hubballi. Led by state Congress president Girish Chodankar, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat and other Congress party workers and environmentalists staged slogans outside the South Western Railway (SWR) headquarters in Hubbali and also submitted a memorandum to the additional general manager, demanding scrapping of the project. "The entire state of Goa is boiling against the double-tracking project, whose sole objective is to reduce the state into a coal corridor. This project will destroy our environment," Kamat told reporters in Hubballi. The SWR's double-tracking project, from Karnataka's Castle Rock railway station to Tinaighat station, is one of the three central government projects proposed in the state, which the Opposition and civil society activists have claimed is a part of a "grand plan" to use Goa as a coal corridor to transport coal imported into the Mormugao Port Trust (in Goa) to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary district. Over 50,000 trees in and around Mollem have been slotted for felling for three central government projects. The projects were cleared by the National Wildlife Board for Wildlife in April this year. Kamat also said that if the rail track doubling was not scrapped, there would be consequences for the SWR. "We had to come to Hubballi and meet the Railways authorities voice the concerns of Goans to them. The protests and our opposition to these projects will continue, till they are scrapped," state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. Defending the three controversial projects, Goa's Environment Minister Nilesh Cabral, however, said that the three projects had nothing to do with coal transportation and has given an assurance that the existing quantum of coal imports into Goa will not increase from the present 10-12 million tons, even after completion of the projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-stages-protest-against-double-tracking-at-swr-hq-in-hubballi-913993.html
10-11-2020||West||Goa ex-CM Kamat demands scrapping of SWR project in Goa||Leader of the Opposition in Goa Assembly and former Chief Minister Digambar Kamat charged that the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the Goa BJP government are pushing for a second railway track at Mollem village to benefit their corporate friends. Speaking to media persons before submitting a memorandum to South Western Railway Additional General Manager P K Mishra at the Railway Soudha on Gadag Road in Hubballi on Tuesday, he said, thousands of Goans are opposing the project by sitting on railway tracks overnight. However, the Goa government has gone mute over the matter, he charged. He said, there is no need for an additional railway track on this route as only four major passenger trains use it. He charged that an additional railway line is being laid to ensure more goods train, especially those carrying coals from the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to the steel factories in the Ballari district. The additional railway line will not only result in the destruction of large-scale forest area but also in the displacement of several families. The land acquisition for the project has set fear among the people of Goa, he said. 'Already well-connected' Kamat said Goa is already well-connected by railway line through Konkan Railways, and there are no additional trains that are proposed by the SWR on this route, and so the SWR should scrap this project. He said the Congress party is opposed to all the three linear projects (widening of national highway 4 and drawing of the power transmission line) that are being proposed in the eco-sensitive Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, and Mollem National Park. The rail track doubling project from Castle Rock railway station in Karnataka to the Tinai ghat station in Goa is one of the three projects being opposed by Goans as it would lead to the axing of nearly 68,814 trees. Speaking on the occasion, Goa Congress State President Girish Chodankar said, the BJP is destroying ‘beautiful Goa’ to benefit two corporate (Adani and JSW) families. “Coal has been discarded by several countries as fuel. However, India is encouraging its transportation and consumption. This will lead to large- scale pollution,” he said and added the party is knocking at the doors of SWR as it is not heeding the calls of thousands of protesters. SWR’s response Meanwhile, in a press release issued by it, the SWR said, P K Mishra explained to the delegation led by Kamat that the project is being taken up basically to improve connectivity to the Goa from the southern states. “He categorically stated that the thrust now is on switching over to clean, non-conventional sources of energy, and the decline in modal share of coal as a source of energy is clearly evident from the volumes being transported over the last two years. In Goa, the cap on the amount of coal that can be handled at Mormugao Port Trust already exists, hence the question of transporting more coal after doubling doesn't arise,” the release said. However, the release did not say anything about the virgin trees being chopped in the Western Ghats to lay this new railway line.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-ex-cm-kamat-demands-scrapping-of-swr-project-in-goa-914000.html
10-11-2020||West||Alibaug court reserves order on cops' plea for Arnab's custody||A sessions court in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Tuesday reserved its decision on the police's plea challenging a magistrate's order denying them custody of Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others in an abetment of suicide case. Additional Sessions Judge at Alibaug, R G Malashetti said the court would pass the order on the revision application filed by local police on November 12. It would also hear bail appllications of Goswami and co-accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda on the same day, the court said. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in the case related to the 2018 suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and Naik's mother. He and the other two accused were produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate who refused police's request for custody, and sent them in judicial remand till November 18 instead. The police have challenged the order, saying they need the accused' custody for interrogation. The high-profile TV journalist is lodged at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda, appearing for Goswami, opposed the revision application on Tuesday. There was only a contractual dispute between Goswami's company and Naik as the work done by Naik was not satisfactory, the lawyer said, adding that 90 per cent of the payment had been made. It is alleged that Naik took his own life due to the non-payment of dues by the firms of the three accused. "This matter is of contractual dispute which should be decided in a civil court, not in a criminal court," Ponda said. Goswami had given a statement to the police in 2018 and the police then closed the case, he said. "In the closure report, the police said there was no nexus between the three accused," Ponda added. Goswami is a news anchor and this was not the way to silence him for the things he may have said against the Maharashtra government and police, the lawyer contended. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat argued that interrogation of the three accused was required in view of some fresh material including the suicide note. "The accused have been charged with driving a person to suicide. There is a specific mention in the suicide note that these three accused are the cause behind him ending his life," Gharat said. The prosecutor also said that police custody of the accused was necessary considering the support one of them (Goswami) was getting "from a certain political party". Gharat also pointed out the order passed by the Bombay High Court on Monday, refusing to grant interim bail to the accused. The HC had said that the further probe that is being carried out in the case cannot be termed as illegal, he added. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for accused Nitish Sarda, said his client had already given to the police all relevant documents and appeared before them whenever asked, so his custodial interrogation is not required. "He never went absconding," Aggarwal said. Advocate Neha Raut, appearing for Feroze Shaikh, argued that the request made by the complainant (Anvay Naik's wife Akshata) to reopen the case was unfair. The police have already been allowed to question the accused persons in jail three hours daily, she pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/alibaug-court-reserves-order-on-cops-plea-for-arnabs-custody-914018.html
