11-11-2020||First Edit||Delhi must keep Joe Biden on its side||Although successive US Presidents have sought to build strong ties with India and that goal enjoys bipartisan support in Washington, President-elect Joe Biden’s administration is expected to cast special attention on India-US relations, some of it to the liking of the Modi government, some of it not to its liking. Biden comes to the presidency with long-term foreign policy experience and credentials as a former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as Barack Obama’s Vice President. With Biden at the helm, India should expect to gain on two issues: visas for Indian high-tech workers and ties with Iran. Biden is expected to roll back Donald Trump’s restrictive H-1B visa policy, a move that will be cheered not just by the Indian IT outsourcing industry but also by Silicon Valley, which Vice President-elect Kamala Harris represented. Biden has also indicated that he would return the US to the nuclear deal with Iran and lift sanctions on Tehran. That would be a relief for New Delhi. Although Indian projects in Iran were largely exempted from US sanctions, India had to stop oil imports from Iran. It had to approach investment in Iran with trepidation. That could change with Biden at the helm. The Modi government could, however, face some challenges in dealing with the US under Biden. Even if Biden sets aside Modi’s excessive embrace of Donald Trump that bordered on an endorsement for the latter in his re-election bid, the Modi government will still have to reckon with a clash of values with Biden and Harris. These could be over its record on treatment of minorities and human rights in general, and on specific issues such as the Citizenship Amendment Act and Kashmir. Biden is not only interested in these issues, unlike Trump, but also knows what buttons to push as his administration engages with Delhi on a host of issues, from strategic ties to trade talks. But the most important issue in India-US relations will remain China. There is an expectation that Biden would seek to restore normalcy with China, after the trade war and rising strategic tensions under Trump which was seen to be pushing the US closer to India. It is unlikely that Biden will be able to change the nature of the relationship with China much, now that the latter has made it clear it is in the race for global supremacy. This is especially so, given the acutely divided polity in the US. Indeed, this is to India’s advantage as about the only global issue onwhich Democrats and Republicans agree is on ties with India. It will be up to New Delhi to ensure that it stays this way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/delhi-must-keep-joe-biden-on-its-side-914162.html
11-11-2020||In Perspective||It’s raining electronic debris||The central government began to amend the guidelines to facilitate BPOs, and ITeS, making it easier for the companies to work-from-home. After the global coronavirus outbreak, everything went digital, and the digital ecosystem relies heavily on electronic equipment. The work from home culture, amidst Covid-19, triggered an influx of gadgets, combined with burgeoning devices that support online classes and digital transformation in everyday-life, increasing India’s e-waste.   Globally, electronic waste is increasing rapidly due to innovation and the subsequent upgrade of electronic devices. Electronics and digital consumers are adopting the innovation and automation of new technology at the speed of light, while public knowledge and awareness of the hazards of e-waste, conversely, is moving in an inchmeal fashion. India has a low recycling rate to total e-waste generation, a historical anomaly not corrected since the evolution of smartphones and IT-boom. As per the UN’s Global E-waste Monitor 2020, India is ranked third among the world’s largest e-waste generators. Notwithstanding, e-waste recycling in India is still an inchoate sector, as the compatible infrastructure for e-waste treatment is limited in proportion to the e-waste generation. Informal recycling survived under the ambit of the flexible legislative framework. India is producing as much as three million tonnes of electronic waste per annum, out of which barely eight lakh tonnes is recycled in an environment-friendly way. Only 17% of the 53 million tonnes of e-waste generated globally is recycled thereby, squandering nearly US $62 billion of worth since electronic waste contains precious metals like gold, silver, copper, among other things. Covid-19 has not only had burdened corporates, MSMEs, and small traders with procuring additional hardware to facilitate their employees to work from home but has also resulted in discarding and abandoning numerous desktops, printers at workplaces as they are not anticipated to be a necessity anymore. Furthermore, parents are left with no option but to purchase electronic devices for students to attend online classes. If these factors are taken into consideration, the generation of e-waste is likely to increase multifold, affecting the existing capacity of recycling and adversely impacting our environment. Most modern gadgets, including smartphones, tablets and laptops, are highly portable but come with a shorter lifespan of two years. The more the usage, the greater the wear-and-tear, which leads to a ballooning e-waste related pollution. Digital dependency and the consumption of information, coupled with prolonged use of electronic gadgets, shorter lifespans of equipment, forces consumers to discard worn-out electronic devices rapidly. Studies reveal that a quarter of consumers toss electronic gadgets within their periods of useful lives. India is the only country in Southern Asia with an electronic waste regulation since 2011. One such policy is the EPR (Extended Producer Responsibility) – first pioneered in Sweden by Thomas Lindhqvist – which was introduced in India by the E-waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011. EPR makes all the producers of the electronic appliances responsible for waste management of their respective products. In 2016, the central government came up with ‘The e-waste Management Rules 2016’, a new set of legislation for the management of electronic waste. The amended law is analogously more effective and provides additional incentives to the producers and as well as consumers to help recycle e-waste.  During the pandemic and WFH regime, the collection and disposal of worn-out batteries, cartridges, and other electronic equipment at IT and corporate offices, under the e-waste management rules- 2016, could be a thing of the past. On the other hand, individual users and employees operating from home are not obligated to keep e-waste separate from household waste. That said, there are some looming risks. Despite legislation in place, there is still a gap in knowledge and awareness of communities on the issues of e-waste handling and management. It is essential to understand the knowledge and awareness levels of consumers of electronic products who ultimately become the generators of e-waste. However, it is not hard for logic to prevail over ignorance. We must amend the ‘E-waste Management Rules 2016’ to widen the scope and bring every retailer, buyer, end-user, repairing shop and mechanic into its purview. The onus of segregation and safe disposal of e-waste also lies with the end-user. Hence, every end-user must be mandated to pledge by signing a declaration at the time of purchase of electronic goods. Parallelly, every electronics repair shop must be equipped with an e-waste bin to collect and segregate e-waste and transport it to authorised dismantlers and recyclers. The easiest way to dispose of abandoned electrical equipment is to return it to any electronic store or repair shop. Introducing carbon credits to every stakeholder, especially to the consumers, will do wonders. The user manual that comes with every gadget must contain literature detailing the process of disposal, collection, storage, transportation, segregation, refurbishment, dismantling, and recycling of e-waste.  (The writer is the founder, Environoholics, and Intern at Green Vortex)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/it-s-raining-electronic-debris-914159.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||RTPS: Fire breaks out at 4th unit||Fire broke out in the fourth unit of Raichur Thermal Power Station on Tuesday night. Converters worth lakhs of rupees gutted in the accident. The incident occurred due to high voltage while starting the fourth unit in the wake of the increased demand for thermal power.  Some materials near the transformer also caught fire.  KPCL fire fighters had a tough time extinguishing the fire. All units of the RTPS remained shut down for several months in the wake of less demand for power.  The first unit was started on Monday, said RTPS officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rtps-fire-breaks-out-at-4th-unit-914139.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka records 2,362 fresh Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 2,362 new Covid-19 infections and 20 deaths taking the active case tally to 31,063 and death toll to 11,439.  As many as 4,215 discharges on Tuesday took the total number of recoveries in the state to 8,08,700. As on November 10, the Covid tally in the state reached 8,51,212. A total of 869 patients, including 465 in Bengaluru Urban, are undergoing treatment in the ICUs across the state. The positivity rate for the day was 2.15% while the case fatality rate 0.84%. As many as 1,09,508 Covid tests, including 30,914 rapid antigen tests, were carried out in the state on Tuesday. On Tuesday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,176 cases. There are 17,306 active carriers of the virus in the state capital. In the rest of Karnataka, Tumakuru (136), Mysuru (135) and Hassan (110) reported fresh infections in three-figure while the remaining districts recorded cases in single and double digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-records-2362-fresh-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-914173.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sea erosion intensifies at Dombe in Udupi||Sea erosion has intensified near Dombe Jattigeshwara Temple in Paduvari village in Udupi district. Huge waves lashing the shore have already uprooted several coconut and other trees. A 40-year-old tank which was used for storing fish, has been washed away in the fury of waves. Now, the waves have begun lashing at the buildings belonging to fishermen. Local residents have urged district administration to come up with a permanent measure to check sea erosion. Tahsildar Basappa P Poojar and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sea-erosion-intensifies-at-dombe-in-udupi-914205.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chitradurga gets regional Covid-19 vaccine storage centre||Chitradurga, a major junction in Central Karnataka, has got the regional vaccine storage centre from where vaccines for various ailments would be transported to Davangere, Ballari, and Shivamogga districts which are well connected by road from the Fort City. Sources in the District Health Department stated that the vaccine storage centre has been established in the District General Hospital in the city. Adequate vaccines for various diseases including Covid-19, when it arrives in India, would be stored here. The Karnataka government chose Chitradurga for the establishment of the regional vaccine centre as it is in the centre for three districts - Davangere, Ballari, and Shivamogga. The regional vaccine centre has a capacity to store 25 to 30 lakh dosages of vaccine for various health-related issues. The Centre will transport vaccine to general hospitals of the three districts based on the indent given by respective district health officers. Storing different vaccines Speaking to DH, District Health Officer C L Palaksha said, the regional vaccine centre has a stock of different vaccines including Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG- for Tuberculosis), MR (measles, mumps, and rubella), pentavalent (multiple diseases) polio, and Japanese encephalitis (JE vaccine). "We will also store Covid-19 vaccine provided it is discovered and distributed in India. But, this centre is not exclusively for Covid-19 vaccine. Different vaccines will be brought here from Bengaluru for storage, and they would be distributed to these three districts depending on the requirement," he noted. 'Data being collected' Palaksha said, following the directions from the government, the data of Covid-19 frontline workers including doctors, nurses, accredited social health workers, civic workers, and police have been sent to the government. They will be administered Covid-19 vaccine initially when it is available in India. So, the arrangements have been made to preserve it in the regional vaccine storage centre. The district has 403 private medical establishments, and 103 general hospitals including primary health centres, and community health centres, he added. He said, a room in the District General Hospital had been renovated to store the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chitradurga-gets-regional-covid-19-vaccine-storage-centre-914406.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sudhakar assures cancer treatment centre in Mysuru||Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday assured of initiating measures to establish a cancer treatment centre in Mysuru. The minister, who visited Mysuru Medical College, to review the academic progress and administrative matters, said that measures will be taken to set up a cancer treatment centre at a Super specialty hospital, under Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model. Besides, Rs 52 crore will be released for the renovation of K R Hospital building, he assured. The minister said, "Skill labs will be established in Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI) on the lines of Bengaluru Medical College. A high-level committee will be constituted to supervise all four constituent hospitals of MMC&RI." The minister directed the officials attached to MMC&RI to ensure quality and transparency in the institution and also directed to approach the government for guidance if the hospital faces any legal issues. The minister charged the officials concerned for their failure to provide information about international research articles and peer reviewed papers published by the institute. He also expressed displeasure for the failure to utilise the funds allocated from last three years for managing the buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sudhakar-assures-cancer-treatment-centre-in-mysuru-914440.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Few more days to give suggestions to improvise govt schemes||Similar to quality check of technology, equipment, products and services, MLA and former minister S A Ramadass has invited feedback, seeking suggestions, to improvise 197 schemes and programmes, launched by the Central government, since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, six years back, for the welfare of the people. Ramadass said that ‘Namo Divas Namaskara – Festival of Developments’ was launched on September 17, at Ramalingeshwara Park of Vidyaranyapuram in Mysuru city, to mark the celebration of the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Writer S L Bhyrappa had launched a mobile application and a website, on which there is a questionnaire for the participants and the provision to give suggestions on the government schemes. It is available in all Indian Languages and English and will be open up to November 15. The person who gives the best suggestion will be awarded a prize money of Rs 50,000. The winner will also get an opportunity to meet the prime minister. A total of Rs 2.75 lakh will be given away as prizes to the winners,” he said. Ramdass said, “Up to Tuesday evening, the link for participating in the contest has reached 70 lakh people, across India, and we have received suggestions from 2,100 persons. Earlier, the Centre had invited suggestions from people, similarly, for ‘good governance’. It had received 1,300 suggestions. This is not just a contest, to win cash prizes. But, it is an opportunity for the people, especially the beneficiaries themselves, to give feedback to improvise the schemes, to make them citizen-friendly." "Even though experts are involved in formulating policies and implementation of the schemes, the beneficiaries are the best people to consult, as they know the practical problems at the grassroots level,” said Ramadass, who is also responsible for the hope for establishment of Jan Aushadhi Kendras across the country. It has to be recalled that as Medical Education Minister, he was responsible for the establishment of Atalji Janata Bazaar Generic Drug Store, on the premises of Mysuru Medical College and Research Centre in Mysuru, on August 14, 2012, to sell generic drugs. Those interested can long on to http://shorturl.at/ae267||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/few-more-days-to-give-suggestions-to-improvise-govt-schemes-914441.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||New policy to encourage doctors to serve in rural areas: K Sudhakar||Minister for Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said that the government is planning for a new policy that encourages young doctors to serve in rural areas. Delivering 11th convocation address of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSS AHER), here, he said, “The government is planning for a policy that allows incentives along with salary and also reduce the service period required for promotions to the doctors working in rural areas.” “Doctors working in Bengaluru have to wait six years to get promotions, while three years’ service is enough for doctors working in villages,” he explained. Majority of the doctors are reluctant to serve in rural areas and around 70% of them are willing to work in urban areas. It is compulsory for the medical students, who have completed a master degree, to serve in rural areas. As many as 2,500 students will be completing courses this academic year, and a few have challenged the order in court. The minister requested them to withdraw the petition and serve in rural areas. There is dearth of doctors at the government medical institutions, he said and added that new medical colleges will be established at Chikkaballapur, Haveri, Yadagir and Chikkamagaluru. A total of 1,436 students were conferred degrees during the convocation held at  JSSAHER, at Suttur Mutt, near Chamundi foothill. A total of 1,436 students were conferred with degrees at Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral in the faculties of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, management studies, life sciences and biomedical sciences. As many as 52 candidates shared 72 medals and awards. While 46 students awarded with PhD degrees, five received with medical super speciality degrees on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-policy-to-encourage-doctors-to-serve-in-rural-areas-k-sudhakar-914442.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Manipal Academy of Higher Education to introduce new prog under NEP||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has unveiled its roadmap ahead on aligning the courses and curriculum to the National Education policy 2020 guidelines. Speaking to reporters virtually, MAHE pro-chancellor Dr H S Ballal elaborated on the planning to set up new campuses within the country and abroad.  Dr Ballal said MAHE has recently signed a memorandum of understanding with the Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India, for being formally declared as Institution of Eminence. Therefore, MAHE plans to add new institutions, new departments and new programmes in the future. Under the new NEP-2020, MAHE plans to introduce new programmes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the future. MAHE will also look at the opening of new campuses which will help in employment generation. Research, Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Collaborations will be the renewed focus area of MAHE, he added. Vice-Chancellor Lt Gen Dr Venkatesh said the convocation will be held on November 20, 21 and 22 on virtual mode this year.  Around 3,500 graduates have already registered for the convocation. The chief guest are - First day, Dr C Rajkumar, Vice-Chancellor, OP Jindal Global University; second day- Suresh Narayanan, Chairman and Managing Director, Nestle India Ltd and on the third day- Dr Katsufrakis, President and CEO, National Board of Medical Examiners, Philadelphia, USA. This time, MAHE is going for traditional Indian attire  for the convocation ceremony, he added. Lt Gen Dr Venkatesh said, “Considering the changing dynamics of education, especially in the covid-19 era, it is a great moment for MAHE to take a giant leap towards aligning courses as per the NEP guidelines and moving towards a more skill-based learning. “ “The introduction of NEP policy is a welcome move and therefore, MAHE likes to align curriculum in accordance with the guidelines provided as this will pave the path for more holistic, innovative and positive changes in the higher education system while the world is grappling with the Global pandemic it is time, we make our education system more resilient, agile and foster a culture of innovation. The NEP is truly well structured, progressive and emphasises on flexible undergraduate education that also takes into account technical and vocational disciplines,” he added. Registrar, Dr Narayana Sabhahit said, “Considering the impact of Covid 19 on the education system, the plans for continuing seamless education to students amidst the pandemic were shared. As per the Government and UGC guidelines, MAHE is planning to invite the students to campuses in a phased manner with the consent of parents. We will follow all government protocols of maintaining high standards of safety for students on campus with social distancing and regular sanitisation”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/manipal-academy-of-higher-education-to-introduce-new-prog-under-nep-914460.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Citizen participation through ward committees help in development'||Mangaluru will benefit from citizen participation through the institutional mechanism called Ward Committees, Kathyayini Chamaraj, executive trustee of Bengaluru-based CIVIC, said.  "Ward committees will help people’s participation in the governance," she said while delivering a talk at a webinar on ‘Decoding Ward Committees’, organised by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a Bengaluru-based non-profit NGO, in association with Mangaluru Civic Groups (MCG) and active citizens. She said 120 area sabhas have been notified in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits for the first time in Karnataka. Though the number is not feasible for the population of Mangaluru city, something positive has taken place after a long struggle. “We need to explain to the high court that the number of area sabhas in MCC limits is not viable,” she stressed. The resistance from elected representatives towards involving people in the decision-making process had delayed the formation of ward committees in Karnataka. She said as per the direction of the high court, the ward committees should make an action plan for solid waste management. The ward committees should monitor the condition of roads and footpaths in their wards. She said that ward committees in a few areas in Bengaluru had become grievances redressal forums, which should not happen in Mangaluru. The committee members cannot be removed all of a sudden, she added. Srinivas Alavilli, head, Civic Participation, Janaagraha, urged MCG to ensure that more people apply for the ward committee membership. He said more citizens are now coming forward to participate in the ward committee meetings in Bengaluru. "The ward committee meetings should be productive," he added. Ajoy D'Silva, the co-founder of MCG, said the process of ward committees was initiated after a long struggle. Awareness is being created on the ward committees to help people apply for the committee, he said.  In the panel discussion, G K Bhat, member of Mangaluru City Traffic Advisory Committee, said attempts are being made to make followers of corporators as ward committee members. The corporators are not creating awareness on ward committees and are also not urging people to apply for the ward committees, he stated. “Hence, I have been creating awareness that a person, without any political affiliation, is eligible to become a member of a ward committee. The lethargic attitude of the officials was seen when I went to submit my application,” he recollected. Senior Advocate Asha Nayak said that the ward committees are mandated under the 74th Constitutional Amendment of the Constitution. Dr Rita Noronha, director of Centre for Development Studies and Education, Civic and RTI activist Gerald Towers were also present in the panel discussion moderated by Harsha Raj Gatty, editor, Solmelu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/citizen-participation-through-ward-committees-help-in-development-914465.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||19 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Udupi||19 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, thus taking the total number of cases to 22,278. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 stands at 187. Of the fresh cases, 14 were recommended home isolation while 5 have been hospitalised. As many as 1,704 swab samples were collected for testing on Monday, while a total of 2,02,853 samples have been collected till date. As many as 21,771 cases have recovered and discharged till date. The total number of active cases stands at 321. Out of the total cases, 7 are asymptomatic while 12 are symptomatic. Out of total number of cases, 8 are from Udupi, 3 from Kundapur, 7 from Karkala taluks and one from other district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-udupi-914466.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kamila, Mogra, Ballakka villagers send CD on poor condition of road to PM Modi||Residents of Kamila, Mogra, Ballakka villages in Guthigaru Gram Panchayat jurisdiction in Dakshina Kannada district have sent a CD on the pathetic condition of road and the need to construct a bridge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The villagers were forced to send the CD after all attempts to get the officials to redress their problem were exhausted. The Civic Action Committee of the village is seen in the CD explaining the deplorable condition of Guthigaru-Kamila-Balpa road. P S Gangadhar Bhat Pucchapady of the Committee said that a stream flows in Kamila and Mogra. However, no bridge was constructed in order to help people cross the Mogra stream. The residents have been demanding a bridge for many decades now but to no avail. Children find it difficult to attend the schools during heavy rain. Nearly 250 houses belonging to SC and ST families in Eranagudde-Mogra are confined to their homes during monsoon and during strong currents in overflowing stream. The video also emphasises that Guthigaru-Kamila-Balpa road is also a district highway that connects the village. However, the road has not been asphalted for many years now, thus making it unmotorable. Soon KSRTC buses will also stop its services due to the pathetic condition of the road. The committee declares in the video that it was not keen on bringing the issue to PM’s notice. But they were deprived of the basic facilities even after many years of independence. “To address our grievance and find solution to the problems we are sending a CD to you. We have chosen India Post to send the CD to PM, so that Centre will also think of strengthening postal system in rural areas,” villagers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kamila-mogra-ballakka-villagers-send-cd-on-poor-condition-of-road-to-pm-modi-914468.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Stalls selling crackers should be set up in open places'||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that Deepavali should be observed as per the guidelines issued by state government. “The sale of green crackers is permitted to those who have obtained permits from authorities concerned,” he added.   The DC said that stalls selling crackers should be set up in grounds and in open places. There should be a distance of 6 meters between the stalls. The copy of the permit should be prominently displayed in the outlets. The stalls selling crackers should be sanitised daily, he added. Rajendra said measures should be taken to check the temperature of the customers visiting the stalls using thermal scanning and six ft social distance should be maintained. The customers should compulsorily wear masks and the stall staff should ensure that there is no crowding, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stalls-selling-crackers-should-be-set-up-in-open-places-914470.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Proposal to set up authority for fisheries development||The fishermen leaders and stakeholders decided to submit a proposal to government for creating comprehensive coastal and fisheries development authority at a meeting held at Fisheries College on Wednesday. The meeting was chaired by Fisheries College Dean Dr A Senthil Vel. The authority will comprise Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner, NMPT chairman, CRZ department secretary, fisheries department secretary, director, Fisheries College dean, Forest department director and nominated fishermen leaders as members. The proposal on setting up of an authority, along with the problems faced by fishermen, will be submitted to government within a week, Dr Senthil Vel said. Fishermen raised the issue of the need to take up dredging, development of wharf, control of pollution and solving the row over major ports and fishermen. They also demanded facilities for fishermen on the model of farmers, facilities for stocking of the fish and markets. The fishermen leaders and stake holders hoped that the chief minister would announce the setting up of Fisheries University in Mangaluru during World Fisheries Day observed on November 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/proposal-to-set-up-authority-for-fisheries-development-914472.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Yadgir may have copper-mediated immunity, says study||Does Yadgir population have copper-mediated intrinsic immunity against Covid-19? A peer-reviewed medical hypothesis suggests so. The hypothesis was published in the Medical Hypotheses Journal on November 9 by researchers at College of Dentistry, Jazan University, Saudi Arabia; Queen Alexandra Hospital, UK, and Covid Consultative Group at Bengaluru’s HCG Centre for Academic Research. The research findings say that the Yadgir population may have mainly acquired immunity against Covid-19 through the consumption of copper-contaminated groundwater. The researchers observe in their hypothesis that ‘according to the state Covid-19 War Room report, the recovery rate of the infected patients in Yadgir is 87.8%’. However, the neighbouring Kalaburagi, a well-developed district compared to Yadgir, has shown a recovery rate of 64%. Out of 1,553 positive cases in Yadgir district, as many as 1,363 patients (87.8%) have recovered’. “Though numerous variables could conceivably be attributed to this population-specific immunity towards Covid-19, a key factor worth deliberation is the copper-mediated immunity of the Yadgir population mainly acquired through the consumption of contaminated groundwater,” the write-up in the journal observes. “Recently, it was hypothesized that copper supplementation can help combat Covid-19 and dietary or therapeutic copper supplementation might enhance host immunity and other micro-nutrient metabolism preventing viral infection severity,” the researchers wrote in their hypothesis. However, officials from Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, Yadgir Division, told DH, though as per the GoI’s Jal Jeevan Mission’s mandate, drinking water samples of all 125 villages in the district are checked for 13 basic parameters everyday, checking of copper content is not done, as they do not have the equipment required todo so. Dr Gururaj Arakeri, one of the co-authors of the hypothesis, from HCG Centre for Academic Research said, “I have done quite an extensive study of many patients in Yadgir suffering from oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF is a chronic debilitating disease of the oral cavity characterised by inflammation, marked rigidity and an eventual inability to open the mouth). The mean concentration of copper in the home drinking water of patients with OSMF was significantly higher than in the control group of the study.” The United States Environmental Protection Agency has set a goal for copper at a maximum allowable level of 1.3 mg per liter of drinking water, to protect against short-term gastrointestinal tract problems.  Venkateshwar Rao, senior analyst with Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, Yadgir Division, told DH, “We do not have the equipment to test copper content. But everyday, in 125 villages, 30 samples per panchayat are tested for 13 basic parameters.” Dr Indumati Kamshetty, District Health Officer, Yadgir, said, “The health department also tests water samples but only for microbes. We need to look into copper contamination ofgroundwater.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-yadgir-may-have-copper-mediated-immunity-says-study-914490.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP upsets Congress math, usurps JD(S) ground||In a huge upset for the D K Shivakumar-led Congress, the BJP won the Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly byelections on Tuesday, unsettling calculations made by the grand old party that wanted to send a message to the B S Yediyurappa administration.  The results also showed a big loss of electoral ground for the H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S), which was unable to retain the votes it had polled in the previous 2018 Assembly elections in Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar.  These bypolls were widely seen as a litmus test for Shivakumar as he was leading the Congress into an election for the first time after taking over as the party’s state president. While conceding defeat, Shivakumar himself expressed surprise over the results.  The victory is expected to cement Yediyurappa’s authority and silence rumours of his removal from the top post. He will now have to tackle the pressure of expanding or reshuffling his Cabinet.  In Sira, BJP’s debutant C M Rajesh Gowda defeated Congress veteran T B Jayachandra, a six-time MLA, and Ammajamma of the JD(S), giving the saffron party its first victory here in four decades. Gowda won by a margin of 13,414 votes, which neither the Congress nor JD(S) expected given the BJP’s negligible presence here. The saffron party had to build a base from scratch.  The BJP won bigger in Rajarajeshwari Nagar.  Its candidate Munirathna, who was disqualified after switching loyalties from the Congress last year, won by a margin of 58,113 against Congress’ debutant Kusuma Hanumantharayappa and JD(S) local clansman Krishnamurthy V.  Munirathna’s hat-trick is attributed to his own cadre of people who worked for him and his do-gooder activities during the Covid-19 lockdown and campaigning. Both Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar have sizable Vokkaliga voters, which should have worked against the BJP.  Shivakumar had tasked his brother Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh in Rajarajeshwari Nagar - they are both Vokkaligas - and the party was counting on consolidation of the one-lakh-odd Vokkaliga votes that did not happen as expected, it seems.  In Sira, Jayachandra was Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s man. While Vokkaliga votes got split as candidates of all three parties belonged to this community, Sira had a large number of OBC voters that Siddaramaiah, a Kuruba, could not muster, it is said.  Plus, former prime minister Gowda’s campaign blitz towards the fag end was not enough to retain the seat his party had won two years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-upsets-congress-math-usurps-jds-ground-914154.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah should stop dreaming of becoming Karnataka CM: Kateel||State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah should stop daydreaming of becoming chief minister once again. "The voters in Badami will also reject you (Siddaramaiah) in future," he said. Speaking to mediapersons in Mangaluru on Wednesday, he said Siddaramaiah should first think of his political future. Congress Bande is broken into pieces and Huli is sent to cage, he said while referring D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. The by- election and council results in Karnataka have proved that there is a BJP wave in the state. The BJP had fought unitedly in the by election by keeping forth the development works carried out by Modi-led government in the centre and B S Yediyurappa -led government in the state. The Congress had levelled a series of corruption charges on the BJP-led government during the election campaign. However, the voters have proved that the BJP is non corrupt by electing them to power. The people’s mandate has silenced the Congress. He reiterated that B S Yediyurappa will continue as the Chief Minister for next two and a half years. People have trusted the Yediyurappa-led government for tackling Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-should-stop-dreaming-of-becoming-karnataka-cm-kateel-914268.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa's son pumped a lot of money into Sira bypoll, says Congress||The Congress put up a tough fight in Sira and tasted defeat by a slim margin even with the BJP pumping in a lot of money into the bypoll, former AICC general secretary and MLC B K Hariprasad said on Wednesday. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son caused a heavy flow of money in Sira by-elections, but the Congress posed a fight and tasted defeat with a low margin of votes even in such a situation," said Hariprasad. In RR Nagar, people voted for the candidate and not for the party, he said. "Munirathna got credit for the work done during the Covid-19 situation, and welfare measures initiated by the Congress," Hariprasad added. 'AIMIM snatched Mahagathbandhan votes' The Congress had extended full support to Tejashwi Yadav who led the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar Assembly elections, but the AIMIM snatched many votes of the Mahagathbandhan, Hariprasad noted. 'CBI probe into Yogeshgouda Goudar murder case political vendetta' Terming the CBI probe against former minister Vinay Kulkarni in the Yogeshgouda Goudar murder case 'political vendetta' by BJP leaders, Hariprasad stated that Yediyurappa lacked faith in courts in the state. Therefore, the case was handed over to the CBI when the case was in the final stage of hearing at the sessions court, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappas-son-pumped-a-lot-of-money-into-sira-bypoll-says-congress-914293.html
11-11-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah should stop daydreaming of becoming CM: Nalin Kumar Kateel||State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah should stop daydreaming of becoming chief minister for the next 10 years. “The voters in Badami will also reject you (Siddaramaiah),” he cautioned. Kateel was addressing a press conference in the city on Wednesday. “Congress ‘bande’ is broken into pieces and ‘Huli’ is sent to a cage,” he declared. The by-election and council results in Karnataka have proved that there is a BJP wave in the state. BJP had fought unitedly in the by-election by keeping forth the development works carried out by the Modi-led government in the Centre and B S Yediyurappa-led government in the state. The Congress had leveled a series of corruption charges on the BJP-led government during the election campaign. But voters have proved that the BJP is not corrupt. “The people’s mandate has silenced the Congress,” he declared. He said that Yediyurappa will continue as chief minister for the next two-and-a-half years. The results of the by-election and council elections have proved that voters will not be carried away by the fake drama of Congress. He said that Sira was a bastion of JD(S) and BJP won the seat for the first time. R R Nagara was Congress’ bastion which was also won by the BJP. The collective leadership of BJP has helped in the victory. To a query on the selection of the candidate for Rajya Sabha, he said that it will be revealed soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-should-stop-daydreaming-of-becoming-cm-nalin-kumar-kateel-914459.html
11-11-2020||Main Article||Reversing China’s ascendancy||Historically, the failure to leverage military gains has been the bane of India’s diplomatic and foreign policy exertions -- the return of prisoners of war in 1971-72 being a prime example. In the Ladakh situation, India must not confuse between military and strategic advantage. The former is about the advantage over military forces, and the latter is about using the advantage to advance goals of its foreign policy. In the present situation, the primary goal of foreign policy has to be about disabusing China of the notion that India can be coerced through the use of military force. While the objectives for China’s attempts at coercion will remain speculative, strategic logic indicates that the primary reason lies in the framework of the ongoing struggle for supremacy between China and America. China has, in all probability, weaponised the Sino-Indian border situation in the process of establishing itself as the Asian hegemon. Psychological ascendency is the objective. Sino-Indian relations, like all political relations, are ultimately shaped by political power, which in international relations is an outcome of a psychological relationship between those who employ it and those over whom it is employed. Post-Doklam, India acquiesced in China’s military occupation of the plateau, less the face-off site, and passed it off as a matter of no real concern and of little military value. With a pliant media, then it was able to sell a narrative of Doklam as a victory. But in the arena of Sino-Indian psychological relations, where it mattered most, China understood that India can be pressured and its strategic behaviour manipulated as long as it did not cause domestic political embarrassment.   It is possible that China’s calculations for Ladakh were based on its experience in Doklam. India, they reckoned, would underplay and seek reconciliation. Modi seemed to have attempted to follow the Chinese script, when he told the all-party meeting on June 19, “no one has intruded into our territory.” However, the earlier loss of lives in Galwan on June 15 had already changed the national mood and such a mirage could not be sustained and the domestic political discourse turned hostile to the government.  What followed was the upping of the ante against China that was primarily aimed at the domestic polity. Banning of Chinese apps and other economic and security-related measures to portray animosity against China quickly followed. A much-needed change in the stance towards strengthening the US-India-Japan-Australia Quad also followed.  Militarily, the pre-emptive occupation of a segment of the Kailash range on the night of August 29-30 and a higher perch at Finger 4 on the north bank of the Pangong Tso indicated a bold and proactive shift in politico-military stance. India’s tactical bargaining power improved, and the talks aimed at de-escalation and disengagement continue. In all probability, both the forces will have to brave the severe high-altitude winter.  Militarily, the border situation may become stalemated and physically frozen. Politically, this can be a psychological advantage for India, if it conveys through deeds and actions that China’s military power will be contested. So far, India has done that and therefore the Chinese would be seeking a face-saving de-escalation and disengagement. However, India should now dig in its heels and not view the issue as purely a matter of military dynamics. Instead, the bottom line should be that de-escalation must be preceded by China adhering to its agreements and signifying its willingness to fulfilling its commitment on finalisation of the LAC alignment  Prolonged deployment of additional Indian forces has military and financial implications. It is also going to be difficult for the Chinese as their sources of logistic sustainment are at much greater distances, though they have the required financial and infrastructure capacity. The hardiness of Indian troops would to some extent mitigate the hardships of weather and high altitude. Chinese troops are relatively less  experienced, and their first high altitude winter could test their resilience.  India should not be in any hurry to merely solve the issue militarily and seek only the restoration of the status quo ante, which would provide short-term relief. But it should keep the field open for another Chinese military move next summer and the attempt to vindicate its action as one that is defensive and meant to counter China’s aggressive designs. The fallacy underlying the masking of China’s political intentions and its attempt to pass off the matter as a problem created by both the militaries must be brought out. In the Wuhan Joint Statement, China seemed to have succeeded in getting India to agree to blaming the militaries and thereby accepting to provide guidance to the military. There should be no doubt about the hand of Xi Jinping, as the one-point source of power in China in the creation of the present crisis. India’s military has, through speedy mobilisation and proactive deployment, stopped China in its tracks for the time being. The military situation is better kept frozen and only then can India politically take advantage to convey its political resolve to China and change the contours of the psychological ascendancy achieved by the Chinese, post-Doklam. India can no longer afford to base its strategic path on short-term domestic political gains. The process of the global geopolitical churn cannot be met by strategic myopia. Pursuing the long-term national interest is imperative. The Ladakh military situation must be politically leveraged to advance the goals of policy. Making China realise the limitations of its military instrument is a good starting point. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/reversing-china-s-ascendancy-914163.html
11-11-2020||National||PM Modi hails BJP's assembly bypoll victories across states||Hailing the BJP's strong performance in assembly bypolls in various states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday praised the party's leadership there and expressed his thanks to people.  Powered by the "progressive agenda" of the government under Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan and the hardwork of its workers, the BJP has emerged as the "unparalleled choice" of people in Madhya Pradesh, Modi said, adding that the people's affection for the party is "invaluable". The BJP has won 16 seats and was leading in three others in the bypolls to 28 seats in the state.  In a tweet about the party's win in two bypolls in Karnataka, Modi said, "The @BJP4Karnataka's victories in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira are extremely special. It reaffirms the people's unwavering faith in the reform agenda of the Centre and State Government under @BSYBJP Ji. I thank the people for their support and laud the efforts of our Karyakartas." Lauding the party's win in all eight assembly seat bypolls in Gujarat, he said the bond between the people of state and the BJP is "unbreakable". This affection is again seen in the eight by-polls where the BJP made a clean sweep, he said, appreciating voters for support and the work of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani-led government.  "In Uttar Pradesh, the pro-people policies of the Centre and UP Government under @myogiadityanath Ji have endeared our party to the citizens. They have given unequivocal support to the BJP, for which I express gratitude. I also appreciate the good work of the @BJP4UP Unit," he tweeted.  It won six of the seven seats where bypolls were held in the state.  The Prime Minister also described the party's win in the solitary assembly bypoll in Dubbak in Telangana as historic.  "This is a historic win and gives us strength to serve the state with greater vigour. Our Karyakartas worked very hard and I laud their noteworthy efforts in furthering BJP's development agenda," he said.  About Manipur, he tweeted, "I thank the people of Manipur for once again reposing faith in the development agenda of BJP! Congratulations to @BJP4Manipur for the phenomenal wins in the by-polls. These victories will strengthen the State Government under @NBirenSingh Ji and help fulfil people's aspirations." The BJP won four of the five assembly seat bypolls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-bjps-assembly-bypoll-victories-across-states-914138.html
11-11-2020||National||Meet Tanay Manjrekar, the first Indian to ride a HyperLoop||It is official. Pune-based Tanay Manjrekar is the first Indian to ride a HyperLoop, a technology that could revolutionise high-speed travel in the future. On Tuesday, as he stepped out of a pod at Virgin’s test facility in Las Vegas, United States, Manjrekar knew he had made history. In 15 seconds flat, the test pod had accelerated to 170 kmph, covering 400 metres in a jiffy. “The HyperLoop pod accelerated to 0.9Gs in 6.4 seconds before decelerating and stopping. The ride was very smooth. It was the most memorable 15 seconds of my life,” Manjrekar later told DH. The DevLoop test facility in Las Vegas is 500m long, but Virgin HyperLoop has proposed to build a larger certification facility in West Virginia. The corridor length is expected to be over six miles.  Trained for several months on the project, Manjrekar knew the ride was the real thing. “A lot of hard work and dedicated teamwork had gone into it. I was very excited to take the ride,” he recalled. The ride was part of a certification process, a demonstration that HyperLoop would be safe and steady.  On Tuesday morning, Manjrekar, a Power Electronics Specialist, and fellow passenger Anney Hyunh, a manager at Virgin’s IT division, stepped into the test pod beaming. They wore regular casual clothes but were secured to their seats with belts. “Being a passenger, you don’t need to look like an astronaut.” The smooth acceleration meant passenger comfort was a priority. “A passenger should not even feel the acceleration,” he said. The test pod was a two-seater, but eventually the commercial version would be much bigger with a capacity to seat 28 passengers.  How soon will a commercial HyperLoop pod be ready, and where? It could take over a decade, but Manjrekar is optimistic that it might just be in India.  “It could be anywhere in India. I could just fly down to Mumbai and take a HyperLoop ride to Pune. I really want this to be in India,” he said. Next on Virgin’s horizon is certification, and officials say this could be achieved by 2025 once the West Virginia facility is ready. Besides the Mumbai-Pune corridor and a contract signed for a feasibility study for an airport to city corridor in Bengaluru, Virgin is also looking at projects in West Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-tanay-manjrekar-the-first-indian-to-ride-a-hyperloop-914143.html
11-11-2020||National||DH Deciphers | What does the SCO summit mean for the post-Covid-19 world order?||The annual summit of the Heads of State Council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) was held on Tuesday, the first meeting of a big inter-governmental organisation after the US presidential election results were announced. The summit assumed significant in view of the changing geopolitics in Asia, the US-China-Russia relations and a global pandemic. But what exactly is the SCO and what does it do? What is the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation? The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is an inter-governmental economic and security bloc floated by China and Russia in Shanghai (that’s why the name) in June 2001 as a counterweight to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) led by the United States. Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan — all former Soviet republics — are the other founding members of the SCO. India and Pakistan became observers in the SCO in 2005 and its full members in 2017. Iran, Afghanistan, Mongolia and Belarus are observer states while Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Nepal, Cambodia and Sri Lanka are dialogue partners.     In 2002, the SCO adopted its charter, which set the main goals of the organisation as strengthening mutual trust and neighbourliness among the member states; promoting effective cooperation in politics, trade, the economy, research, technology and culture, as well as in education, energy, transport, tourism, environmental protection, and other areas; making joint efforts to maintain and ensure peace, security and stability in the region; and moving towards the establishment of a democratic, fair and rational new international political and economic order. Why is this year’s SCO summit significant? The SCO summit on Tuesday was the first after the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world. The summit assumed special significance amid global churning over the post-Covid-19 world order. The summit was originally planned to be held in Saint Petersburg, Russia. But in view of the pandemic, it was held virtually with Russian President Vladimir Putin chairing it. The leaders noted that the summit was being held on the 75th anniversary of the “victory of peace-loving states and peoples over Nazism, fascism and militarism and the creation of the United Nations Organisation in 1945”. It was also the first inter-governmental summit after the US presidential election that just denied a second term to Donald Trump, who had been targeting UN and other multilateral institutions over the past four years. The SCO member states reaffirmed their invariable support for strengthening the coordinating role of the UN and its Security Council as the key factor in maintaining mankind's peaceful, stable and progressive development. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping participated in the summit, their first meeting since the stand-off between Indian and Chinese armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh started in late April and early May. Ahead of the summit, the SCO defence ministers and foreign ministers had met in Moscow in September. The conclaves had provided Indian and Chinese defence and foreign ministers to hold bilateral meetings and discuss ways to resolve the stand-off. What did the SCO summit achieve? The SCO leaders approved the Moscow Declaration — the main outcome document of the summit. Besides, the leaders also endorsed SCO statements on issues like the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of World War II, digital economy, Covid-19 pandemic, countering the spread of terrorism, including on the Internet and countering the drug threat. The report of the activities of the SCO secretariat and the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structures (RATS) was also adopted. What is India’s approach to cooperation within the SCO? Modi highlighted the imperative of a reformed multilateralism to meet the expectations of a world suffering from the social and financial after-effects of the pandemic. He also said that India, which would start its two-year term as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council on January 1, 2021, would focus on the theme of ‘reformed multilateralism’ to bring about desirable changes in global governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-what-does-the-sco-summit-mean-for-the-post-covid-19-world-order-914176.html
11-11-2020||National||The Lead: Supporting education during the pandemic||We all know the disparities and hardships the pandemic brought to children's education across the world and those most affected are the ones coming from poor backgrounds. Teach For India with support from the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, has announced a three-year commitment to ensure that learning does not stop, and also the funding from the foundation will be used to support close to 80 Fellows across Mumbai, Delhi and Pune over the period. In today's episode, Prachi Windlass, Director, India Programs, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation speaks to Ahmed Shariff from DH.  Hi, Prachi. Welcome to DH Radio. Prachi Windlass: Hi, Ahmed. Ahmed: It's nice to have you on our show. Prachi, my first question to you is can you tell us more about the foundation and its collaboration to provide better education? Prachi: We are the family foundation of Michael and Susan Dell. We have been operating in India since 2006. The mission of the foundation is to improve the lives of children and families living in urban poverty and we do this through improving learning outcomes for children in education, improving access to financial services to the poor and improving their jobs and livelihood opportunities. Amongst these three portfolios, our focus is on to get superior outcomes for our beneficiaries. Specifically, in education, our focus is to improve grade-level competency. We define that and measure through seeing how well kids are doing before the start of the intervention... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-supporting-education-during-the-pandemic-914179.html
11-11-2020||National||Indians love Cadbury chocolate; rivals would love to woo them away||In India, few foreign confections have been more eagerly embraced than chocolate — and no brand defines this affinity more than Cadbury. “Cadbury is in our blood,” said L. Nitin Chordia, who runs a small chocolate company, Kocoatrait, in Chennai with his wife, Poonam. “It is a completely Indian product to us.” First imported to the country by the British during colonization, chocolate — most of it milk chocolate — is now a daily habit for 1 in 5 Indians, according to a 2019 report by Mintel, a market research company. And one brand, Cadbury, accounts for two-thirds of all sales, according to 2019 data from Nielsen. Cadbury does particularly brisk business around Diwali, the festival of lights celebrated across South Asia (Saturday this year), when it has become popular to give chocolate instead of just mithai, traditional Indian sweets. This brand loyalty endures even among members of the Indian diaspora, like Rajani Konkipudi, 47, who grew up in Visakhapatnam, in Andhra Pradesh, and now lives in the Detroit area. Her father used to bring back Cadbury fruit and nut bars — rich, silky smooth and studded with raisins and almonds — from work trips to Birmingham, England, where the company was founded. In 2005, she visited Cadbury’s factory in Birmingham to make, as she called it, the “holy pilgrimage.” A decade later, she is one of several smaller competitors seeking to challenge the dominance of Cadbury, and of milk chocolate in general, among Indians. Konkipudi’s business, Dwaar Chocolate, in East Township, Michigan, sells small-batch chocolate that is a far cry from her corporate rival’s. Her cacao beans come from family-run farms in Ecuador and India, and wind up in cardamom- and pistachio-speckled bars meant to mimic the taste of pistachio kulfi, or truffles inspired by paan, a crunchy, sharply flavored after-dinner snack in which she replaces betel nuts with cocoa nibs. Her customer base is diverse, but she is focused on the Indian diaspora, hoping to inspire a greater appreciation for bitter, dark chocolate and an interest in supporting independent businesses like hers that oversee every step of the chocolatemaking process, and produce their bars in small batches, using ethical practices. In India and abroad, more Indians are getting into the chocolate business, hoping to capitalize on the treat’s popularity. Their biggest challenge isn’t financing or distribution but the enduring nostalgia throughout India and the diaspora for Cadbury. After India won independence in 1947, Cadbury permanently set up shop in the country. Other European chocolate brands — Ferrero Rocher, Lindt, Godiva — would win fans in subsequent decades. But their products were seen as luxurious imports. “Chocolate was considered a rich-man’s gift, a status symbol,” Konkipudi said. Cadbury found success by doing the opposite: framing the brand as part of Indian culture and marketing its chocolates as an alternative to mithai. Today, Cadbury bars are ubiquitous, priced as low as 5 rupees (less than 10 cents) and available in 2.5 million stores. Like mithai, a broad category of milk- and nut-based confections that are exchanged during any festivity — weddings, graduations and especially holidays like Diwali — Cadbury’s prime offerings are very sweet and heavy on dairy, and often include nuts and fruits. The company formalized this connection in 2003, introducing the slogan “Kuch meetha ho jaaye” (“Let’s have something sweet”) in Hindi. A year later, sales had grown tenfold. “Overnight, people understood that chocolate could be something that was for a celebration; that really unlocked the way we told stories,” said Anil Viswanathan, senior director of chocolate marketing for Mondelez India. (Mondelez International is Cadbury’s parent company; in the United States, the Hershey Co. has a licensing agreement to manufacture Cadbury’s chocolate, using a different recipe than that used overseas.) Growing up in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, Alak Vasa, who owns Elements Truffles in Union City, New Jersey, used to make frequent trips to the store with her grandfather to buy Cadbury chocolate. She founded Elements in 2015 with her husband, Kushal Choksi, seeking to emphasize the health benefits of dark chocolate and make sweets free of refined sugar. But when Vasa, 43, hosted an early tasting for friends and family in Ahmedabad, many said her dark chocolates were too bitter. Some were also surprised that a bar cost $7 — even though that price accounted for high-quality beans and fair compensation for farmworkers in Ecuador, where her beans are grown. Vasa discovered that the most successful way to woo this audience was to incorporate flavors familiar to Indians like rose and cardamom — essentially countering people’s fond memories of Cadbury with other tastes they loved. Madhu Chocolate, started by Elliott Curelop and Harshit Gupta in 2018 in Austin, Texas, has adopted a similar strategy; its most popular offering is a masala chai dark-chocolate bar whose mild sweetness is tempered with heady ginger and clove. “When we talk about masala chai, people are like, ‘This is how my mom makes chai,’ ” Gupta said. Curelop added, “You are going up against people’s emotions at the end.” The wide consumption of dried fruits and nuts in India — and the cult popularity of Cadbury’s fruit and nut bar — informs Zeinorin Stephen’s offerings at Hill Wild, a company she founded in 2017 with her husband, Leiyolan Vashum, in Ukhrul, Manipur. She channels those flavors by incorporating locally harvested sesame and perilla seeds, plum and wild apple in her bars. With Diwali approaching, some of these companies are hoping to build on the momentum generated by Cadbury for giving chocolate during cultural festivities, but with a new generation of South Asians. Last year, the Madhu partners — Curelop, 35, and Gupta, 34 — put out a Diwali box almost as an afterthought. It sold out so quickly that this year, they are producing 25 times as many boxes, featuring chocolates mixed with India-grown coconut and black pepper, and packaging adorned with a folksy, jewel-toned illustration of a peacock, India’s national bird. Young South Asian Americans, who make up half of Madhu’s customers, are a big market for these boxes. They don’t have as deep an attachment to Cadbury as their elders, Gupta said. If the flavors can draw people in, Curelop added, “the onus is on us to educate people” about the ethics of chocolatemaking, and to explain that “everything costs a lot more because the people down the line are getting what they should be making.” Surbhi Sahni, 45, who owns Tagmo Treats, in Yonkers, New York, draws a young, savvy crowd for her chocolate-coated besan ladoos and kaju katli. About 40% to 50% of annual sales occur during Diwali. She believes that Cadbury chocolates will lose relevance among younger Indians. “I don’t see us going to buy Cadbury for giving gifts for Diwali,” she said. “I see us buying locally and supporting smaller companies.” In India, Hill Wild and Kocoatrait have been joined by a growing number of independent chocolate businesses, including Soklet and Mason & Co., that offer dark chocolate and heavily tout their sustainable-farming methods. Recognizing this rise in environmental consciousness — particularly among Generation Z, Viswanathan said — Cadbury refocused its marketing starting in 2018 to emphasize its relationship with cocoa farmers and its efforts to raise their income and train them in sustainable cocoa cultivation. Chordia, of Kocoatrait, said Cadbury’s flavors are too ingrained in the Indian consciousness for any company to change those preferences completely. Even Cadbury has struggled to get customers to branch out. In 2008, it introduced a dark-chocolate bar, Bournville, whose sales, Viswanathan said, paled in comparison to its sweeter milk-chocolate counterparts. Chordia recalled an ill-fated attempt to give his older cousins in Mumbai a box of Kocoatrait’s dark chocolates last Diwali. “They were wondering why there is not enough sweetness in the chocolate,” he said. “If it is not sweet, you would never get any appreciation of the gift.” He added: “Products that are sugary and creamy, that is what will always be the majority in India. You cannot undo the work of the last century.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-love-cadbury-chocolate-rivals-would-love-to-woo-them-away-914182.html
11-11-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on November 11||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 86 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  86,66,866 as of November 11 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  127,953  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 80,13,783      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-november-11-914184.html
11-11-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 86 lakh with 44,281 new cases, 512 deaths||With 44,281 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, India's tally reached 8,636,011. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged past 80-lakh mark pushing the national recovery rate to 92.69 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 127,571 with 512 new fatalities, the data updated at 9 am showed. The case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 dropped below 5 lakh after remaining below 6 lakh for 13 consecutive days. There are 494,657 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.  It went past  50 lakh on September 16,  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-86-lakh-with-44281-new-cases-512-deaths-914186.html
11-11-2020||National||Online news portals, content creators now under govt regulation||The government has brought online content -- news on digital platforms as well as audio-visual programmes on OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime -- under the regulation of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The move will allow the ministry to frame policies on its functioning. So far, there is no law for governing digital content and the government cannot regulate it. The Cabinet Secretariat issued a gazette notification on Tuesday late night bringing "films and audio-visual programmes made available by online content providers" and news and current affairs content on online platforms" under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules.  “These rules may be called the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Three Hundred and Fifty Seventh Amendment Rules, 2020. They shall come into force at once. “In the Government of India (Allocation of Business, 1961, in THE SECOND SCHEDULE, under the heading 'MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SOOCHANA AUR PRASARAN MANTRALAYA)' after entry 22, the following sub-heading and entries shall be inserted, namely:- VA. DIGITAL/ONLINE MEDIA. 22A. Films and Audio-Visual programmes made available by online content providers. 22B. News and current affairs content on online platforms,” it said. The move comes amid demands from a section seeking regulation of online content. While the print media is monitored by the Press Council of India, there is no regulatory body by the government or the industry to regulate online content. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) monitors news channels while the Advertising Standards Council of India looks after advertisements and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) looks into films. The amendment now will give the Ministry power to formulate policies related to news, audio, visual contents and films available on online platforms. Last year, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had said that there should be some kind of regulation on over-the-top (OTT) platforms like there is for the print, electronic media and films though he insisted that the Narendra Modi government would not impinge on media freedom. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had also written to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asking ways to transfer the latter's power to it for regulating online content on OTT platforms without amending the Information and Technology Act 2000. Recently, the Supreme Court had sought the Centre's response on regulating OTT platforms by an autonomous body. It was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on the issue. According to the plea, OTT and digital media platforms have given a way out for film-makers to release their content without getting clearance certificates from the Censor Board. While hearing a case against Sudarshan TV in September, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that if it wishes to undertake an exercise to regulate media, it should first do so on “digital media”, as it has a wider reach than electronic or print media. In its affidavit, the Centre had said that the publication or telecast in print or electronic media is a one-time act but the digital media has faster reach from a wider range of viewership or readership and has the potential to become viral because of platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook. Considering the “serious impact and the potential”, it said it was desirable that if the apex court decides to undertake the exercise (to regulate electronic media), it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-news-portals-content-creators-now-under-govt-regulation-914223.html
11-11-2020||National||Delhi air quality slips back into 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality slipped back into the “very poor” category on Wednesday after remaining in the “severe” zone for six days on the trot, with a change in the wind direction reducing the contribution of stubble burning in city's pollution. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 388 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 476 on Tuesday. Delhi witnessed six “severe” air days on the trot till Tuesday. It had recorded seven “severe” air days in November last year.         The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (345), Ghaziabad (390), Noida (339), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (309), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded "very poor" air quality.         The levels of PM2.5 – which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases – were 233 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am, below the emergency threshold of 300 µg/m3. The safe limit is 60 µg/m3. On Tuesday, PM2.5 levels had soared to 528 µg/m3 in the afternoon.         PM10 level stood at 384 µg/m3 at 9 pm. It had peaked to 685 µg/m3 on Tuesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India and 500 µg/m3 is the emergency threshold.         According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered in the “severe plus” or “emergency” category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels persist above 300 µg/m3 and 500 µg/m3 for more than 48 hours.         GRAP recommends measures such as a ban on construction activities, entry of trucks and car rationing scheme in such a scenario. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Tuesday tasked the CPCB with operationalising and monitoring GRAP measures till a mechanism is set up by the newly-constituted panel.         At a meeting, the commission also decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in the NCR region, there is a need to invoke the GRAP, which has been already notified by the central government. GRAP, which is a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its vicinity towns according to the severity of the situation, came into force on October 15. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the predominant wind direction is east-northeasterly, which is not favourable for transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.         The city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.        The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said, “The change in wind direction and wind speed has positively impacted air quality. It is likely to remain in the upper end of the 'very poor' category on Thursday and deteriorate marginally on Friday.” “The farm fire count in Punjab was around 3500 on Tuesday, but the impact of stubble burning on air quality was negligible because of easterly winds,” it said.         The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- is likely to be around 12,500 m2/s on Wednesday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. The ventilation index lower than 6000 m2/s with average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-air-quality-slips-back-into-very-poor-category-914227.html
11-11-2020||National||SC refuses to interfere with Calcutta HC order banning crackers use, sale||The Supreme Court refused on Wednesday to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order banning the use and sale of firecrackers in West Bengal on Kali Puja to curb air pollution, saying preservation of life was more important amid the coronavirus pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said though festivals were important, but "life itself has been in imperil" amid the pandemic. The bench said the high court knew the local condition better and it should be allowed to do the needful. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association challenging the high court order of last Thursday banning the use and sale of firecrackers during upcoming festivals, including Kali Puja and Chhath Puja, to curb pollution. Kali Puja will be celebrated on Saturday. "We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home," it observed. "We are in a situation where at this time, preservation of life is more important and the high court knows what is required at the ground level." It said the high court had taken care of the interest of citizens, especially senior citizens who may have comorbidities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-calcutta-hc-order-banning-crackers-use-sale-914234.html
11-11-2020||National||Govt employees can make purchases in family member's name under LTC cash voucher plan||Central government employees availing the LTC cash voucher scheme can purchase goods or services in the name of spouse or other family members eligible for LTC fare. The second set of FAQ issued by the Department of Expenditure also clarified that an employee can claim reimbursement for the purchase of goods and services, attracting GST of 12 per cent or more, on or after October 12 even if he/she has not formally exercised the option of availing the scheme. The government on October 12 announced the LTC cash voucher scheme under which employees can purchase any goods or services with a GST rate of 12 per cent or above to avail the benefit. The payments for such purchases have to be made via digital mode or cheque, demand draft, NEFT/RTGS. So far employees had only Leave Travel Concession (LTC) benefits on travels made or forgo the amount. To a query on whether purchase receipt can be in the name of any dependent, the FAQ said, "The invoices of the goods and services purchased as per the scheme may be in the name of spouse or any family member who are eligible for LTC fare as declared in the service records". The expenditure department, under the Finance Ministry, said the special cash package scheme in lieu of one LTC is to "compensate and incentivise consumption" by government employees and the benefits can be availed up to March 31, 2021. The FAQ also clarified that purchase of goods or services on EMI is also permissible under the scheme provided they have been bought after October 12 and have a GST invoice. With regard to a query on whether reimbursement would be available for items purchased after October 12, 2020, but before formally exercising the option of LTC cash voucher scheme, the FAQ said, "All eligible purchases on or after October 12, 2020, but before March 31, 2021, can be counted".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-employees-can-make-purchases-in-family-members-name-under-ltc-cash-voucher-plan-914236.html
11-11-2020||National||India's Covid-19 active caseload falls below 5 lakh after 106 days||Crossing another "milestone" in the fight against the pandemic, the Covid-19 active caseload in India has fallen below the 5 lakh-mark for the first time after 106 days and comprises merely 5.73 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Seventy per cent of the 44,281 new coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours are from ten states and UTs with Delhi continuing to report the highest daily new cases at 7,830. It is followed by Kerala with 6,010 cases, the ministry said. There are 4,94,657 active cases of coronavirus infections as on date. It was 4,96,988 on July 28. "This also indicates a sustained trend of declining active cases in the country. It assumes higher significance in the context of several countries across the globe reporting a surge in the number of new cases," the ministry said. This landmark achievement has been made possible by the Centre's sustained, graded and targeted strategies, their effective implementation by states and UTs, dedicated and selfless service of doctors and all other Covid-19 warriors, it said. Twenty-seven states and UTs have less than 20,000 active cases, the ministry highlighted. "Just 8 states and UTs have more than 20,000 cases; two states (Maharashtra and Kerala) have active cases more than 50,000," the ministry said. A total of 44,281 new cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours while 50,326 cases have recovered during this period. This is the 39th day of daily recoveries exceeding the daily new cases, the ministry underlined. The total Covid-19 recoveries have crossed the 80 lakh mark. The number of total recoveries as on date is 80,13,783 and exceed active cases by 75,19,126. The recovery rate has increased to 92.79 per cent, the ministry said. In another milestone, India has carried out over 12 crore cumulative tests with 11,53,294 tests being conducted in a span of 24 hours. The trend of daily low cases has been made possible by an exponential increase in the testing infrastructure.  The ministry said that 77 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 6,718 newly recovered cases closely followed by the 6,698 figure achieved by Kerala. They are followed by 6,157 recoveries in Delhi. Ten states and UTs account for 79 per cent of the Covid-19 fatalities. A total of 512 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours.  Maharashtra saw the most casualties at 110. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 83 and 53 new deaths, respectively. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 86,36,011 with  44,281 people testing positive for the infection in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 1,27,571 with 512 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-falls-below-5-lakh-after-106-days-914255.html
11-11-2020||National||India insists on restoring traditional patrolling pattern on Pangong Tso north bank amid talks with China on troop pull-back plan||The Indian Army is insisting on restoring its traditional patrolling pattern on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, even as it is discussing with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) a proposal for a mutual withdrawal of the frontline troops from the face-off points near the lake in three stages. The proposal for mutual disengagement from the face-off points on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso was discussed in the last two rounds of talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. The two sides, however, could not yet reach an agreement, primarily because the Indian Army is asking for the restoration of its traditional patrolling pattern, which remained suspended since the Chinese PLA built a bunker near Finger 4 on the northern bank of the lake in early May. A source aware of New Delhi’s talks with Beijing to resolve the six-month-long military stand-off told the DH that the Indian Army was not ready to accept the Chinese PLA’s proposal for a moratorium on patrolling on the northern bank of Pangong Tso – like the one the two sides put in place while agreeing on withdrawal of troops from the face-off point in Galwan Valley after the violent clash on June 15. The Pangong Tso “disengagement” plan being discussed by the two sides will have three stages, beginning with the withdrawal of tanks and armoured vehicles deployed by the two sides closer to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations – on the banks of the lake. It will be followed by the withdrawal of the Indian Army’s troops from Finger 4 to its Major Dhan Singh Thapa post located between Finger 2 and 3 on the northern bank of the lake. The Chinese Army will also withdraw from its current position near Finger 5 to Finger 8. The two sides will withdraw front-line troops from the southern bank of Pangong Tso in the third phase of the proposed disengagement process, the source in New Delhi said, adding that a mutually acceptable process for verification of the implementation of the pull-back plan has also been discussed. The disengagement proposal was discussed during the seventh and eighth rounds of talks between the senior military commanders of the two sides on October 12 and November 6. But what proved to be a sticking point was the Chinese PLA’s reluctance to agree to the Indian Army’s demand on returning to its traditional patrolling pattern from its Major Dhan Singh Thapa Post between Finger 2 and 3 all the way to Finger 8. The communist country’s army instead demanded for a moratorium on patrolling to create a “buffer zone” between Finger 4 and Finger 8. The issue is likely to be discussed again when the military commanders of the two sides will hold the ninth round of talks within the next few days. Another source in New Delhi told the DH that New Delhi might accept Beijing’s proposal for a moratorium on patrolling for a limited period of time, given the fact that both sides generally did not patrol much during winter months. But what the Indian Army was worried about was the possibility that the Chinese PLA might take undue advantage of it, he added. The Indian Army had to suspend patrolling from Major Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 to Finger 8 after its troops had a scuffle with the Chinese PLA soldiers near Finger 4 in early May. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area, thus denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit. The Indian Army too deployed additional troops in response to the Chinese Army’s build-up, resulting in the stand-off, which soon spread to other areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like the fingers of the palm, with the Finger 1 at the western end and the Finger 8 at the eastern end. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the lake, goes through the Finger 4. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the Finger 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-insists-on-restoring-traditional-patrolling-pattern-on-pangong-tso-north-bank-amid-talks-with-china-on-troop-pull-back-plan-914259.html
11-11-2020||National||Stakes high in pandemic, Diwali card games go online||Exams and entertainment, conferences and idle chats, this has been a year of everything online. Now, add to the list card games that are an integral part of Diwali for so many people, including those who usually stay away from any sort of gambling. COVID-19 has robbed many of the razzmatazz of Diwali parties, small and close-knit or lavish, glittering society dos with scores of people at different tables gambling away many thousands and even lakhs of rupees. But the stakes are higher this year with the pandemic and few are willing to take the risk of sitting closely to shuffle playing cards and pass around counters, coins or wads of notes. Enter apps and websites such as Baazi Games, Stickpool and Pocket52 that offer a variety of games, including poker, rummy and that Diwali staple 'teen patti'. These apps give the user the opportunity to play poker or other card games either with family and friends or professionals. As COVID-19 continues its spread – Delhi, for instance, on Tuesday recorded 7,830 cases to take its COVID-19 count to 4,51,382 – a 29-year-old entrepreneur in the city was among those betting on the online cards trend. The lack of invitations for card parties was a "big shock", said the young man who was banking big on Diwali to make up for the loss of nearly Rs 2 lakh last year. "Since last Diwali I have been telling myself I'll cover the loss this year. But due to the coronavirus, not many people in my circle are hosting card parties. I did call up people to check and even thought of hosting a party myself but there was no positive response. Everyone is scared," he said, asking not to be named. He has a lot to choose from. From "free-entry tournaments" to cash tables starting from "Rs 5 to Rs 100" and "Rs 50 bonus" on registering to "Diwali Contest Prize Pool of Rs 3 lakh", the apps promise to have something for everyone in this festive month, the time of the year when gambling not just has societal sanction but is also viewed as auspicious. According to Hindu mythology, goddess Parvati won a game of dice with her husband Lord Shiva on Diwali and declared that whoever gambles on Diwali night will prosper through the following year. It is from here that the tradition of playing card games such as flush, or 'teen patti', and rummy in the run-up to Diwali derives its popularity from. "The COVID-19 pandemic has forced people to stay at home and rethink their lives and has thereby affected the way they choose to entertain themselves. This has just accelerated the growth we were already projecting for the industry… We expect and encourage people to maintain social distancing norms and enjoy gaming online this festive season," Baazi Games CEO Navkiran Singh told PTI. Anyone who knows and loves playing poker is the target audience, added Pocket52 CEO and founder Nitesh Salvi. “And yes, apart from a regular poker player, some occasional and recreational poker players come and play during Diwali. We have Diwali Freerolls with guaranteed real cash prize pools worth Rs 3 lakh up for action this Diwali," Salvi told PTI.   While Stickpool has already registered a "five time" spike in its user base during the festive season, Pocket52 expects an increase of "40-45 percent" in its user base.  "We have seen a spike of around five times in the user base from the past few days as people are getting into the Diwali festive spirit. People want to experience the game of poker around this time and therefore the engagement and average time spent per user has also gone up from regular days," said Stickpool co-founder Vivek Singh. Vishal Bhalla, 31, a regular at Diwali card parties who would end up hopping from one place to another and still never got to attend all the gatherings he was invited to, has also shifted to online poker. "I just don't want to meet anyone. So there is no question of me attending any Diwali card parties this time. I, and my group of 14 people will be playing cards online. Of course, it won't be the same but it is the best I can ask for," said Bhalla, a PR professional. It is the festive season and cards are fun but be cautious, warn the pros. Since it is online and money is involved, there are certain things that a first time user should keep in mind while playing, according to Muskan Sethi, a Pro Poker player. "Always choose a site or app that is recognised by the All India Gaming Federation (AIGF). Always consider risk versus reward, risk minimum for a maximum reward.  Play with players who have a similar skillset as you.  Follow all the rules, don’t play under the influence of alcohol when playing for real money, and don't forget to have fun," said Sethi. She is also the ‘responsible gaming ambassador’ for AIGF. And for those who don’t want to join the online gaming bandwagon, there are still board games and other card games that can be played at home. E-commerce firm Snapdeal has registered a spike in the sale of board games and card games ahead of the festive season. The company has also seen a surge in the sale of casino sets and roulettes. "With most Diwali parties being hosted inside the house with family and close friends, our shoppers have equipped themselves with what they require to keep the celebrations going. We have increased our assortment in this category to cater to the growth in demand for these products," said Snapdeal spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stakes-high-in-pandemic-diwali-card-games-go-online-914273.html
11-11-2020||National||PM Modi to co-chair virtual India-ASEAN summit on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday co-chair a virtual summit between India and 10-nation ASEAN that is expected to focus on measures to recover from the economic turmoil triggered by the coronavirus pandemic and ways to further broadbase the strategic ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the summit will review the status of ASEAN-India strategic partnership and take stock of progress made in key areas such as connectivity, maritime cooperation, trade and commerce, education and capacity building. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners. The summit is taking place amid China’s aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea as well as in eastern Ladakh. A number of ASEAN countries have territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea. Along with Modi, the 17th India-ASEAN summit will also be co-chaired by Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc. "The leaders will discuss ways to further strengthen ASEAN-India engagement and in this context will note the adoption of ASEAN-India Plan of Action (2021-2025). COVID-19, post-pandemic economic recovery and important regional and international developments will also be discussed at the summit," the MEA said in a statement. The 10 member countries of ASEAN are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia. Prime Minister Modi attended the 16th ASEAN-India Summit in Bangkok in November last year. "ASEAN-India strategic partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilisational ties. India’s Act East Policy, underlining ASEAN centrality, reflects the importance, India attaches to engagement with ASEAN," the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-co-chair-virtual-india-asean-summit-on-thursday-914277.html
11-11-2020||National||Modi congratulates JDU nominee for LS bypoll win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Janata Dal (United) candidate Sunil Kumar on Wednesday for winning the Lok Sabha bypoll to Valmiki Nagar in Bihar and lauded the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance for its hard work on the ground. Kumar defeated Parvesh Kumar Mishra of the Congress by over 22,500 votes, the counting of which took place on Tuesday. "I thank the people of Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat for blessing NDA with their support in the by-poll," Modi tweeted. "I congratulate Shri Sunil Kumar Ji on his win and wish him the very best for his Parliamentary tenure. I also laud the efforts of the NDA family that worked hard on the ground," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-congratulates-jdu-nominee-for-ls-bypoll-win-914279.html
11-11-2020||National||Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal speaks to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray over Arnab Goswami's security||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday spoke to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray and requested him to ensure proper security of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is currently in a jail in Navi Mumbai. The telephonic conversation came after family members of Goswami met Sonowal here and urged him to do the needful for the security of the journalist, who they claimed is under "life threat".  "The Assam chief minister spoke to the Maharashtra chief minister and asked him to ensure security of Goswami," an official said. Thackeray assured Sonowal that he would do the needful for the security of Goswami, who hails from Assam. Later, in a tweet, Sonowal said, "Talked to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray ji and requested him for adequate security arrangements for renowned journalist Arnab Goswami. I talked to him as Mr. Goswami's family members approached me and intimated that there is not enough security provided to him." Goswami is currently in Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai in connection with a case of abetment of suicide of an architect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-cm-sarbananda-sonowal-speaks-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-over-arnab-goswamis-security-914298.html
11-11-2020||National||People of Bihar reaffirmed their solidarity for NDA: Tamil Nadu CM||Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday lauded the NDA alliance in Bihar for posting a victory in the recently concluded assembly elections,saying people of the eastern state have reaffirmed their solidarity for the coalition. The chief minister also said good governance leads to progressive state. DMK president M K Stalin too "heartily" congratulated Nitish Kumar on being re-elected to serve as chief minister of Bihar. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), comprising BJP and Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United), returned to power in the state with a slender majority, securing 125 seats in the 243-member state Assembly. The opposition Grand Alliance, led by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav put up a tough fight in the Bihar Assembly polls 2020 managing to clinch 110 Assembly segments. Taking to the micro blogging site, Tamil Nadu CM tweeted, "Good governance leads to progressive state. People of Bihar have reaffirmed their solidarity for NDA alliance. My hearty congratulations for NDA alliance in the state. Best wishes for the People of Bihar." Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Stalin, too in a tweet said, "Hearty congratulations to @NitishKumar for being re-elected to serve as Chief Minister of Bihar." On behalf of the DMK, he conveyed his best wishes to Nitish Kumars government to lead Bihar on the path of equitable, just and inclusive development. Stalin however claimed that the conduct of elections during COVID-19 is testament to the resoluteness of our democracy. "Nevertheless, allegations of malpractice raised by Mahagathbandan leaders are deeply concerning. The hope of every Indian that elections are free, fair and impartial must not belied," he said. In another tweet, he said, "the remarkable performance of RJD to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar inspires confidence in our democracy. I wholeheartedly congratulate @yadavtejashwi for leading the RJD. On behalf of DMK, I wish him and RJD a bright future."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-of-bihar-reaffirmed-their-solidarity-for-nda-tamil-nadu-cm-914299.html
11-11-2020||National||Delhi govt extends 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign till December 31||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the AAP government has decided to extend the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign to curb vehicular pollution till December 31. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched the campaign on October 21, saying that even if 10 lakh vehicles in the city join the campaign, the PM10 levels would fall by 1.5 tonnes and PM 2.5 by 0.4 tonnes in a year. "The campaign was to continue till November 15. However, the Delhi government has decided to extend it till December 31 considering the pollution situation," Rai said during a press conference. It will be called 'Phase 2' of the campaign, he said. Rai also appealed to the opposition to desist from making statement that provoke people against the ban on firecrackers. "We need everyone's support in implementing the ban. If you cannot support the cause, please don’t make any provocative statements. Pollution doesn't differentiate between people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-extends-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-till-december-31-914303.html
11-11-2020||National||SC orders immediate release of Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered immediate release of Republic TV's Editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in 2018 suicide case, saying "if we don't interfere in this case, we would walk on path of destruction". A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee directed for granting interim relief to Goswami and two others after day long hearing in the matter. "If we don't interfere in this case today, we will walk on a path of destruction. If left to me, I won't watch the channel and you may differ in ideology but constitutional courts will have to protect such freedoms," the bench said. In its order, the top court said the Bombay High Court was in error in rejecting the application for grant of interim bail on November 9. "We must send a message today to the High Courts as well. Please exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty," Justice Chandrachud said. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, contended that there was a malice on the parts of the State in initiating action in the case closed earlier. "Will heavens fall if the man is released," he asked.   During the hearing, the court also observed, "Let's take it there is a suicide note. We are assuming the allegations of FIR as gospel truth, even then it is a case of abetment to suicide made out? Forget the heat and dust of the matter but is Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC attracted, when suicide is committed due to financial stress? Would it not be a travesty of justice, if someone is denied bail for this?" The court said the Raigad police should ensure the compliance of the order of release of Goswami forthwith. The accused-- Goswami, Praveen Rajesh Singh and Neetish Sarda-- were ordered to be released on a personal bond for an amount of Rs 50,000 in the case related to suicide of Anvay Naik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-immediate-release-of-arnab-goswami-914307.html
11-11-2020||National||NIA arrests one from Karnataka in LeT recruitment case||NIA will bring an alleged Laskar-e-Taiba (LeT) operative, arrested in Karnataka in relation to a case in West Bengal, to Kolkata on transit remand so that he can be produced before a NIA court in the city. The accused Sayyad M. Idris was arrested from Uttara Kannada on Tuesday, the NIA stated in a release on Wednesday. The accused (28), a resident of Uttara Kannada, was part of several social media groups run by LeT handlers based in Pakistan. The groups were used for recruiting “vulnerable youth” for LeT to execute terrorist activities. The case started in Baduria in West Bengal’s North 24 Paraganas district. “The accused Sayyad M Idris was part of various social media groups run by Pakistan-based LeT handlers in their effort to recruit individuals for sleeper cells of the LeT and for furthering terrorist activities,” NIA stated in a release. The case, started from an FIR lodged in Bengal on March 18, was related to LeT handlers based in Pakistan using social media platforms to “rasicalise and recruit” youths to “propagate their ideology” and for “abetting and advocating unlawful activities.” “In this case, the charge-sheet has already been filed against accused Tania Parvin of Kolkata on September 10,2020,” stated the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-one-from-karnataka-in-let-recruitment-case-914327.html
11-11-2020||National||Centre brings OTT operators under ambit of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting||The government has brought OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar besides other online news and current affairs content under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space. So far, there was no law or autonomous body governing digital content in India. According to a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat on Tuesday night and signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the decision has been taken in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution, by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961 and it will come into effect immediately. "These rules may be called the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Three Hundred and Fifty Seventh Amendment Rules, 2020. They shall come into force at once. "In the Government of India (Allocation of Business, 1961, in THE SECOND SCHEDULE, under the heading 'MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SOOCHANA AUR PRASARAN MANTRALAYA)' after entry 22, the following sub-heading and entries shall be inserted, namely:- VA. DIGITAL/ONLINE MEDIA. 22A. Films and Audio-Visual programmes made available by online content providers. 22B. News and current affairs content on online platforms," it said.  With this, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry has the power to regulate policies related to news, audio, visual contents and films available on online platforms. The decision came in less than a month after the Supreme Court sought the Centre's response on a PIL for regulating the Over The Top (OTT) platforms by an autonomous body. Now, the OTT platforms, which were hitherto unregulated, are expected to come under rules and regulations. In January 2019, eight video streaming services had signed a self-regulatory code that laid down a set of guiding principles for content on these platforms. The code adopted by the OTTs prohibited five types of content, including those deliberately and maliciously disrespects the national emblem or national flag, any visual or story line that promotes child pornography, any content that maliciously intends to outrage religious sentiments, content that deliberately and maliciously promotes or encourages terrorism etc. However, the government had refused to support this code. In their plea in the Supreme Court, advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia sought a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT and Streaming and digital media platforms.   Lack of legislation governing OTT and Streaming Platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds.  "The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT and streaming platforms," the plea said. None of the OTT and streaming platforms have signed the self-regulation provided by the Information and Broadcasting Ministry since February, it added. The ministry had earlier told the top court in a separate case that there is a need to regulate digital media and that the court may first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in media. At present, the Press Council of India regulates the print media, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) represents the news channels, the Advertising Standards Council of India regulates advertising, while the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) monitors films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-brings-ott-operators-under-ambit-of-ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting-914331.html
11-11-2020||National||Should India forget about acquiring Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine?||When Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s Covid-19 vaccine rolls off production lines, Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co. will be waiting to distribute it through a complex and costly system of deep-freeze airport warehouses, refrigerated vehicles and inoculation points across China. After they reach vaccination centers, the shots must be thawed from -70 degrees celsius and injected within five days, if not they go bad. Then the herculean journey from warehouse freezer to rolled-up sleeve must be undertaken all over again -- to deliver the second booster shot a month later. The roadmap sketched out by the company, which has licensed the vaccine for Greater China, offers a glimpse into the enormous and daunting logistical challenges faced by those looking to deliver Pfizer’s experimental vaccine after it showed “extraordinary” early results from final stage trials, raising hopes of a potential end to the nearly year-long pandemic. That euphoria is now being diluted by the realization that no currently used vaccine has ever been made from the messenger RNA technology deployed in Pfizer’s shot, which instructs the human body to produce proteins that then develop protective antibodies. That means that countries will need to build from scratch the deep-freeze production, storage and transportation networks needed for the vaccine to survive. The massive investment and coordination required all but ensures that only rich nations are guaranteed access -- and even then perhaps only their urban populations. “Its production is costly, its component is unstable, it also requires cold-chain transportation and has a short shelf life,” said Ding Sheng, director of the Beijing-based Global Health Drug Discovery Institute, which has received funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The expense of deploying the Pfizer shot will likely heighten existing fears that wealthier nations will get the best vaccines first, despite a World Health Organization-backed effort called Covax that aims to raise $18 billion to purchase vaccines for poorer countries. It also presents a choice now faced across the developing world: to pay for the expensive construction of subzero cold-chain infrastructure for what seems like a sure bet, or wait for a slower, more conventional vaccine that brews batches of protein or inactivated viral particles in living cells, and can be delivered through existing health-care networks. “If there is a protein-based vaccine that could achieve the same effect as an mRNA vaccine does and there’s the need to vaccinate billions of people every year, I’d go for the protein-based shots in the long run,” Ding said. Even for rich countries that have pre-ordered doses, including Japan, the US and the UK, delivering Pfizer’s vaccine will involve considerable hurdles as long as trucks break down, electricity cuts out, essential workers get sick and ice melts. Safe Delivery To safely deliver shots in mainland China and Hong Kong, Fosun will partner with the state-owned Sinopharm Group Co., a pharmaceutical distributor with well-established networks across the country. One of Sinopharm’s subsidiaries has also been developing Covid-19 vaccines. Packed into cold storage trucks, those vials will arrive at inoculation sites where they can thaw and be stacked in fridges at 2 to 8 degrees celsius for a maximum five days before going bad. “The requirement for extremely cold temperatures is likely to cause spoilage of a lot of vaccine,” said Michael Kinch, a vaccine specialist at Washington University in St. Louis. It’s also likely to cost Fosun tens of millions yuan, according to the company’s Chairman Wu Yifang. Fosun is considering importing the vaccine in bulk and filling them into vials at a local plant. That will also require further investment in production and storage. The resulting price tag may be too hefty for many developing nations, including neighboring India, which has struggled to contain the world’s second-largest coronavius outbreak and currently has no agreement to purchase the Pfizer vaccine. ‘Forget It’ Many working in the country’s public health and the pharmaceutical industry have already voiced concern that India lacks the necessary capacity and capability to deliver a vaccine across its vast rural hinterland and population of over 1.3 billion people at the breakneck speed now expected. “Most of these vaccines need minus 70 degrees, which we just can’t do in India, just forget it,” said T. Sundararaman, a New Delhi-based global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, an organization that brings together local activists, academics and civil society groups working on public health. “Our current cold chains are not able to cope with some districts’ need for measles vaccines, and that’s only for children below the age of 3,” he said. “That’s a really trivial number of people compared to the numbers that will need a Covid-19 vaccine.” When asked at a Tuesday briefing if India’s government would look to buy any of the Pfizer vaccine, Rajesh Bhushan, the secretary at the health ministry, said New Delhi is in talks with all vaccine manufacturers. He added that India was in a position to “augment and strengthen” its existing cold-chain capacity, but declined to release any purchase details immediately. Pfizer already has orders from some developing countries like Peru, Ecuador and Costa Rica. It’s unclear how widely those nations plan to distribute the shots, but their small orders of less than ten million doses suggest limited deployment. After the release of their positive preliminary data, some governments have rushed to finalize orders and start negotiations with Pfizer and BioNTech. The European Union confirmed an order of up to 300 million doses on Tuesday, while the Philippines, Singapore and Brazil said they were in talks. ‘Last Mile’ Even without the subzero issue, rolling out a vaccine in a short space of time will be a “major challenge” requiring mass paramedical training to administer two-shot doses, said Pankaj Patel, chairman of Indian drugmaker Cadila Healthcare Ltd., which is developing its own experimental plasmid DNA Covid-19 shot. This is especially so in areas where people are not easily contactable or have to travel long distances to reach vaccination centers. Past vaccination campaigns show that many simply never show up for the second shot, said public health experts. The mounting obstacles mean that some developing countries may pass on the Pfizer vaccine, despite early signs of its exceptional efficacy. “If we were to wait an extra year and have something that’s feasible for us to deliver to as many people as possible in this country, would that be a bad trade-off?” asked Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at the Vellore, India-based Christian Medical College and a member of the WHO’s Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety. “Based on the cost of the Pfizer vaccine, the logistics of an ultra-cold storage -- I don’t think we are ready and I think this is something that we need to weigh the benefits and the costs very, very carefully,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/should-india-forget-about-acquiring-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-914336.html
11-11-2020||National||Bihar polls: Sanjay Raut hails Tejashwi Yadav as 'man of the match'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday praised RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, saying that he has emerged as the "man of the match" in the Bihar Assembly elections and will play a "pivotal role" in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Talking to reporters, Raut expressed doubts over the stability of the next NDA government in Bihar. In the 243-member House, the BJP-JD(U) alliance has won 125 seats, where the simple majority mark is 123, while the opposition grand alliance has bagged 110 seats, he said. "The majority is very thin and anything can happen. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party- JD(U) finished third and if anyone is celebrating the win, it's a joke. The BJP has done well, for which it had to do a lot of political strategising," he said. "Chirag Paswan's LJP ensured the defeat of 20 JD(U) candidates and Paswan is still in the NDA. This is a serious issue," Raut said. "Nobody can vouch for the stability of the new government...I have heard that as the BJP wanted to clip Nitish Kumar's wings, it pitted Chirag Paswan against him," he alleged. Raut said that even if Tejashwi Yadav could not become the chief minister, he has emerged as the man of the match. "Bihar Assembly elections have given a very promising face like Tejashwi. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, should congratulate Tejashwi for putting up a good fight. Tejashwi will play a pivotal role in the next Lok Sabha elections," he said. Devendra Fadnavis also needs to be credited for the BJP's success in Bihar as he was the party's pollin-charge apart from PM Modi, Raut added. "If the BJP keeps its promise of making Nitish the state CM, he should give that credit to Shiv Sena. Everyone has witnessed in Maharashtra what happens when a promise is not kept," he said. The BJP and Sena, which had fought the 2019 state polls together. However, their alliance fell apart over the issue of chief ministership. The Sena then joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form the government. Meanwhile, Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil also praised Tejashwi Yadav after the RJD emerged as the single- largest party in Bihar. Patil, who is Maharashtra unit chief of the ruling NCP, said Yadav's fight is "praiseworthy" and his victory lies in making the incumbent JD(U)-BJP sweat in the election. "Though the Bihar polls result is different (not in the RJD's favour), the fight put up by Tejashwi Yadav is praiseworthy. Made the ruling parties sweat till the last moment and there lies his victory. The youth should seek inspiration from him. Congratulations! Well done @yadavtejashwi," Patil tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-polls-sanjay-raut-hails-tejashwi-yadav-as-man-of-the-match-914339.html
11-11-2020||National||14 scientists from IIT-BHU in world's top 2% scientists' list by Stanford University||At least 14 scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) - Banaras Hindu University have figured among the top two per cent scientists in a global list compiled by the prestigious Standford University. The US-based Stanford University has recently released a list that represents the top 2 per cent of the most-cited scientists in various disciplines. The exhaustive list has 1,59,683 persons with nearly 1,500 scientists, doctors and engineers in India. "The list includes the name of 14 professors of Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University). All these have been selected on the basis of their research paper's international evaluation," IIT BHU Director Pramod Kumar Jain said. The fourteen faculty members include -- Rajiv Prakash, Dean (Research and Development); Pralaya Maiti and Dhananjay Pandey from the School of Material Science and Technology; Yogesh Chandra Sharma and PC Pandey from the Chemistry Department; Brahmeshwar Mishra, Sanjay Singh, SK Singh and MS Muthu from Pharmaceutical Engineering and Technology; Devendra Kumar from Ceramic Engineering; Subir Das from Mathematical Sciences; Rakesh Kumar Singh from Physics; Zahra Sarkar from Mechanical Department and Om Prakash. The list, published by Stanford University, also includes 22 faculty members or researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-scientists-from-iit-bhu-in-worlds-top-2-scientists-list-by-stanford-university-914340.html
11-11-2020||National||India has shifted from tax terrorism to tax transparency, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday underscored tax reforms of the past six years to say India has moved from tax terrorism to tax transparency. Speaking at the inauguration of an office-cum-residential complex of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal at Cuttack, Modi highlighted the reduction in the corporate tax rate, simplified rate structure for individual taxpayers, faceless appeals and quick refunds. "Tax terrorism was a common refrain during past governments. The nation has left that behind and moved towards tax transparency," he said. "The change from tax terrorism to tax transparency has happened because we have propagated the concept of reform, perform and transform," he emphasised. The Prime Minister further said not much happened post Independence to change the exploited and exploiter relation between the taxpayer and tax collector. But now change is happening, he said and went on to cite measures like faceless appeals, quick refunds and dispute resolution mechanism. "We are reforming rules and procedures and using technology," he said, adding the tax administration is being transformed. India, he said, is among the select few nations which have codified rights and responsibilities of taxpayers. "This is an important step in restoring trust and transparency between taxpayer and tax collector." Stating that wealth creators should be honoured, he said easing their problems will help in growth of the economy. Acceptance of as many as 99.75 per cent of the tax returns without a doubt is a step towards trusting the taxpayer, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-shifted-from-tax-terrorism-to-tax-transparency-says-prime-minister-narendra-modi-914341.html
11-11-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Modi's policies won Bihar polls, says Jaiswal; Learn Hindu way of life, says Karnataka minister K Sudhakar||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court grants bail to Arnab Goswami; Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar emphasises on learning the 'Hindu way of life' and adopting ancient practices of wellness and Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal credits Prime Minister Narendra Modi's welfare policies for the ruling NDA's won in the Assembly polls.    Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of November 11, 2020: Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal on Wednesday credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi's welfare policies for the ruling NDA's win in the assembly polls and said all anti-incumbency claims have been negated by the mandate for a fourth term to the Nitish Kumar government. He also made it clear that Kumar will continue to head the NDA government in Bihar and asserted that the gap between the number of seats of BJP and JD(U) will have no impact on the ruling alliance dynamics in the state. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- TV anchor Arnab Goswami granted bail by Supreme Court in an abetment to suicide case. Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami was arrested on Nov. 4, for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer in 2018, in Mumbai. The Court questioned the Maharashtra government over the 2018 abetment to suicide case against Arnab and said that it would be a travesty of justice if personal liberty of a person is curtailed like this. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said if state governments target individuals, they must realise then that there is apex court to protect the liberty of citizens. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Emphasising on learning the Hindu way of life and adopting ancient practices of wellness, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said he will bring in policies to introduce a holistic and comprehensive healthcare system in the state. n an interview to PTI, Sudhakar, who is a medical practitioner, said, "One should learn the Hindu way of life. One should go back to our ancient practices so far as wellness is concerned." "I am moving ahead to introduce this (ancient practices of wellness) in Bengaluru and Karnataka in a holistic and comprehensive manner. I am bringing in new policies," he said. Source: DHNS/ PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-modis-policies-won-bihar-polls-says-jaiswal-learn-hindu-way-of-life-says-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-914346.html
11-11-2020||National||FASTag crosses 2 crore users landmark: National Highways Authority of India||With the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways pushing national highways toll users to pay their user charges through electronic mode instead of cash, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday said the number of FASTag users in the country has crossed the two-crore landmark, registering a growth of 400% in a year. FASTag uses Radio-frequency Identification (RFID) technology that provides users with a smooth and effortless cross over at toll plazas without waiting/halting. At toll plazas, the payment is made digitally through the FASTag linked to the bank wallet. "FASTag users in the country have reached two crore historical landmark, registering a growth of 400% in a year. This has increased the total toll collection to Rs 92 crore per day, which is a substantial increase in the daily toll collection from Rs 70 crore per day, a year ago," NHAI said in a statement. FASTag is contributing to nearly 75% of the total toll collection as of now. "The government’s direction to move towards 100% digital transaction for payments at the toll plazas on national highways provided the required impetus for the FASTag adoption. The dedicated efforts of NHAI, receptive approach of Highways Users & Other stakeholders led to a stupendous increase in adoption of digital mode of transaction at the toll plazas," the NHAI said. The ministry last week said it has made FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers, including old vehicles from January 1, 2020. As per the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheeled vehicles since December 1, 2017, and is being supplied by the vehicle manufacturers or their dealers. "It had further been mandated that the renewal of fitness certificate will be done only after the fitment of FASTag for the transport vehicles. Further that for national permit vehicles the fitment of FASTag has been mandated since October 1, 2019," the statement said. The government also said a valid FASTag is mandatory while getting new third party insurance through an amendment in FORM 51 (certificate of Insurance), wherein the details of FASTag ID shall be captured. This shall be applicable w.e.f. April 1, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fastag-crosses-2-crore-users-landmark-national-highways-authority-of-india-914350.html
11-11-2020||National||Shipping Ministry renamed as the Ministry of Ports||The Centre has renamed the Shipping Ministry as the Ministry of Ports, Shipping, and Waterways, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an announcement to this effect. Maritime shipping and navigation, provision of education and training for the mercantile marine, lighthouses and lightships, administration of the ports, shipping, and navigation -- including carriage of passengers, and goods on inland and national waterways -- will be under it said a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat. The notification, signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, said the decision had been taken by exercising of the powers conferred by clause (3) of Article 77 of the Constitution and by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961. Other subjects that will come under the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways include shipbuilding and ship-repair industry, ship-breaking, fishing vessels industry, floating craft industry among others. Various autonomous bodies like the Port Trusts in Mumbai, Kolkata and others, the Inland Waterways Authority of India and the Shipping Corporation of India will also come under the ministry. Earlier, the Centre has renamed the Ministry of Human Resources Development as Ministry of Education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shipping-ministry-renamed-as-the-ministry-of-ports-914399.html
11-11-2020||National||Meet Dr Celine Gounder, expert with Tamil roots part of Joe Biden's Covid-19 task force||President-elect Joe Biden's administration has yet another Tamil Nadu link. Dr Celine Gounder, an HIV/infectious diseases specialist who has been named to the coronavirus task force set up by Biden, traces her roots to a nondescript village in Erode district. Dr Celine's father Dr Raj Natarajan Gounder was born in Perumapalayam near Modakurichi in Erode district and moved to the US in 1960s and married Nicole Gounder, a French citizen in 1972. Celine is the eldest of the couple's three daughters and has been running a charitable trust in her late father's name in the village since 2018. Biden's running mate is Kamala Harris, whose mother Dr Shyamala Gopalan was born in Chennai and moved to the US at the age of 19 to pursue her higher studies and settled there after marrying Donald Harris, a Jamaican. The infectious diseases specialist flew down to her ancestral village in August 2018 and participated in the 72nd Independence Day celebrations at the government school, where her father did his early schooling. The trust, for the past two years, is awarding scholarships for students who come first in SSLC and HSC exams. “Celine Gounder wanted to do something for her father's native village and hence she launched this trust. The government school where her father studied now has a smart classroom, courtesy Celine. She feels only education uplift people and hence she donated funds for the smart classroom. The foundation has been doing a lot of good work,” N Devaraj, Celine's relative and Secretary of Dr Raj Gounder Foundation, told DH. Celine has also been supporting around 30 disabled children, Devaraj said, adding that she personally called up and asked us to provide kits to the families of these children so that they can have nutritious meals. During her visit in 2018, Celine also met her father's elder brother Sengottaiyan. Thangavelu, a resident of the village, said Dr Raj Gounder studied in the local school till the eighth standard and did his post-graduation from Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru. “The entire village is happy that Raj Gounder's daughter has made it so big in life. She visited our village in 2018 and spoke to us,” he said. Celine also took to Twitter to share the news of celebrations at her father's native village. "I'm extremely happy that @celinegounder & @vivek_murthy have been appointed in the National Pandemic Taskforce of US to combat #Covid19," he tweeted. "Both of them have made India proud and I'm very glad to learn that Dr Celine Gounder has a Tamil heritage. My best wishes to both of them," he said.  Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Opposition Leader M K Stalin congratulated her on finding a place in Biden's task force. "Glad to hear about the appointment of Celine Gounder to President-Elect Joe Biden's National Pandemic Taskforce to combat Covid-19. Happy to hear about the appointment of a woman of Tamil origin to this crucial task force," Stalin said in a Facebook post. "Congratulations & best wishes," he added. Gounder is one of the members of the Covid-19 task force that will guide Biden on dealing with the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 2,36,000 lives in the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-dr-celine-gounder-expert-with-tamil-roots-part-of-joe-bidens-covid-19-task-force-914404.html
11-11-2020||National||After winning in Bihar, West Bengal is prime focus for BJP : Vijayvargiya||After clinching the Bihar assembly polls, West Bengal will be the "prime focus" for BJP where it has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the state elections due in April-May 2021, party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Wednesday. The NDA has won 125 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly, results of which were declared on Tuesday. The BJP with its score of 74 seats has emerged as the party to have won the second highest number of seats after Lalu Prasad's RJD. The saffron party's tally is much higher than that of its ally - the JD(U) which won 43 seats. It will now shift its focus to politically crucial West Bengal, which sends 42 MPs to the Lok Sabha - two more than Bihar, Vijayvargiya, who is also BJP's in-charge of Bengal, said. The BJP, which has made deep inroads in West Bengal by winning 18 of its 42 Lok Sabha seat - four less than ruling TMC in the 2019 general election, was waiting for the Bihar election results before mounting its "final assault" on the Mamata Banerjee government, party sources said. Vijayvargiya is of the opinion that not just Bihar assembly poll results, the saffron party's victory in several by-polls across the country show that not only has the faith of the people in it increased but also in the policies of the BJP government at the Centre. "A victory always increases the morale of the party workers. BJP's win in Bihar and the by-polls will act as a morale booster for its workers in the state. West Bengal will now be our prime focus state. "The ground in Bengal is well prepared for a change and we have to ensure that the anger against the TMC government is channelised. We will use all our energy to free the people of the state from the misrule of TMC," he said. Vijayvargiya asserted that BJP's victory in West Bengal will be "much bigger" as it will "storm to power with a two-thirds majority". "If you analyse the Bihar and by-poll results you will see that BJP's strike rate is very good. In Bengal we are fighting alone, so we are confident of crossing the target of 200 plus seats in the state," he said. Union Home Minister and top BJP leader Amit Shah during his visit to the state last week had said that West Bengal is the "prime focus state" for the party and it will "fight and win it with a massive mandate". BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh had echoed him and said "After Bihar it will be West Bengal for the BJP." "The saffron wave witnessed in neighbouring Bihar will sweep away the TMC in West Bengal too. The difference between the elections in the two states is that we were in power in Bihar for nearly 15 years, but in West Bengal we are a challenger," Ghosh said. A section of the state BJP leaders, however, underlined that the Bihar election results will have little impact on polls in West Bengal, other than seats along the border. But it will act as a "morale booster" for party workers in Bengal. Several state BJP leaders said the party will take a cue from the Bihar poll results and "re-strategise" its campaign issues for the West Bengal elections. To corner TMC, the BJP has been so far stressing on its alleged misrule, law and order issues, violence, corruption and the state administration's handling of the Covid-19 situation in West Bengal. "The Bihar election results have shown that issues like unemployment and migrant labour crisis are crucial in several seats. So we need to stress upon these problems as well. "As Bihar was the first state to hold assembly poll after the Covid-19 outbreak, there are a few things all of us need to learn from it," a senior West Bengal BJP leader said. Although BJP has the advantage of being an "untested challenger" in West Bengal where it has never been in power, the party is well aware that it will be up against Mamata Banerjee, who has the reputation of being a tough fighter, party sources said. "If RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav can put up such a fight (in Bihar), it is anyone's guess the kind of contest we will face in West Bengal," another state BJP leader said. As per the parliamentary poll results, the saffron camp had bagged 40.5 per cent votes and was ahead in more than 125 assembly seats in the state. The central BJP leadership has asked the state leaders to fan out to the districts and organise agitations and mass mobilisations on issues the people are concerned about, before the Congress and Left Front capitalises on those problems, sources in the saffron party said. "People will see several agitations in different assembly segments over local issues from November-December onwards," a BJP leader said adding the party is also working to plug the gaps in its organisational strength in some districts. The Trinamool Congress mocked the saffron party's target of winning more than 200 seats in the state. "As far as coming to power in West Bengal is concerned, the BJP is still living in a fool's paradise. Its candidates will lose deposits in most of the seats," TMC MP and spokesperson Saugato Roy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-winning-in-bihar-west-bengal-is-prime-focus-for-bjp-vijayvargiya-914408.html
11-11-2020||National||Govt increases domestic flights' cap from 60% to 70% of pre-Covid levels||The cap on the number of domestic flights that Indian airlines are permitted to operate was increased from 60 per cent to 70 per cent of their pre-Covid levels on Wednesday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The Civil Aviation Ministry had said on September 2 that the Indian airlines can operate maximum 60 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights due to the prevailing coronavirus situation. It had clarified on October 29 that the 60 per cent cap would be in place till "February 24, 2021 or until further orders". Puri tweeted on Wednesday, "Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May and have reached 2.06 lakhs on 8 Nov 2020." "The Civil Aviation Ministry is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the pre-Covid approved capacity," he stated. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-increases-domestic-flights-cap-from-60-to-70-of-pre-covid-levels-914409.html
11-11-2020||National||'Life itself has been imperilled now': Supreme Court declines to consider plea against ban on firecrackers in West Bengal||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order banning the sale and use of firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja, saying there can be no greater values than the preservation of life. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said though festivals were important, but "life itself has been imperilled now" amid the pandemic. It said the high court knew the local condition better and it should be allowed to do the needful. The court dismissed an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association, challenging the high court order of November 5 which banned the use and sale of firecrackers during upcoming festivals, including Kali Puja and Chhath Puja, to curb pollution. Kali Puja will be celebrated on Saturday. The bench said, "We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home."  "We are in a situation where, at this time, preservation of life is more important and the high court knows what is required at the ground level. The HC had taken care of the interest of citizens, especially senior citizens who may have comorbidities," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-itself-has-been-imperilled-now-supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-against-ban-on-firecrackers-in-west-bengal-914426.html
11-11-2020||National||No abetment to suicide case in matters of financial dealings: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the abetment to suicide cannot be attracted if one commits suicide due to stress arising out of a financial transaction. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee made the oral observations while ordering immediate release of Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in 2018 suicide case. The court said it would deliver a detailed judgement subsequently. "If there is a financial transaction, A owes money to B, and B commits suicide due to financial stress, is that abetment?" the bench asked. The court also expressed concern that the High Courts and the district courts have failed to protect individual liberty in such cases. "The HCs don't grant bail in cases and people are in jail for months. This court is burdened with such pleas. If constitutional courts don't protect liberty who will," the bench asked. Talking about the Goswami's case, the bench said, "Forget the way he (Goswami) screams and yells, what concerns me is the value ascribed to human liberty. If this is what our state governments are going to do to people, courts must step in." Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, pointed out: "Last month, a man in Maharashtra committed suicide saying the Chief Minister Uaddhav Thackeray failed to pay salary? What you do? Arrest the Chief Minister?" He said that there has to be a direct and proximate cause to invoke abetment to suicide charges. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for another accused, asked, "If a man kills himself complaining that the High Court adjourned his case for 10 years, should that High Court judge be arrested?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-abetment-to-suicide-case-in-matters-of-financial-dealings-sc-914432.html
11-11-2020||National||Arnab Goswami, wife seek pre-arrest bail in case of 'assault' on woman cop||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and his wife Samyabrata Ray Goswami on Wednesday approached a sessions court here seeking pre-arrest bail in a case registered against them for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court granted Goswami interim bail in a case of alleged abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik in 2018. He was released from Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai late in the evening. Last week, an FIR was registered against Goswami, his wife and his son at N M Joshi Marg police station in central Mumbai for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer when a police team went to his house to arrest him in the suicide case on November 4. Goswami and Samyabrata on Wednesday filed anticipatory bail pleas which are likely to be heard by additional sessions judge P B Jadhav on Thursday, court sources said. Advocate Shyam Kalyankar, their lawyer, said Goswami and his wife had only verbally protested his "illegal arrest" from his Lower Parel house here last Wednesday. "Neither Goswami nor his wife assaulted any police official. We are relying on several videos recorded in the morning of November 4 when the police barged into their house," he said. Around 40 armed police personnel were present at the time of the alleged incident, the lawyer claimed, asking "who will deter a public servant (from doing his duty) in the presence of such a huge number". "We were only protesting the illegal arrest," Kalyankar said. Goswami and his wife were booked under IPC sections 353 (assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and under the Damage to Public Property Act. The complainant in the case is 49-year-old police officer Sujata Tanvade, who alleged that Goswami, his wife and son assaulted her on that day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-wife-seek-pre-arrest-bail-in-case-of-assault-on-woman-cop-914445.html
11-11-2020||National||Inequality still on the rise in India, stabilised in China: Report||Inequality started to rise in India and China substantially in the early 1990s and 2000s, while it was stabilised in China, it continued to rise in India, according to a report. "In China, the top-1 per cent captured eight per cent of national income in 1990 and rose to 14 per cent in 2019, while in India, the corresponding figures are 11 per cent in 1990 and 21 per cent in 2019," the World Inequality Lab said in the report. It said while inequality started to rise in India and China substantially in the early 1990s and 2000s, it was stabilised in China but continued to rise in India. The report added that this suggests that development and higher growth rates do not necessarily mean more inequality in the distribution of growth. "As a matter of fact, national economic policies matter." In both the countries, inequality increased substantially after the economic liberalisation of the 1980s and 1990s, it said. The report said communist countries like China and Vietnam display lower inequality levels than non-communist countries like India and Thailand. They still display much higher levels of inequality as compared to the western europe, the least unequal region worldwide, it added. China and Vietnam also appear to be more unequal than post-communist eastern Europe but somewhat less unequal than post-communist Russia, it said. According to the report, in the bottom 50 per cent, the population share of India as well as other South Asian econ||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inequality-still-on-the-rise-in-india-stabilised-in-china-report-914449.html
11-11-2020||National||This is victory of people of India: Arnab Goswami out of Taloja jail, hours after SC grants interim bail||Journalist Arnab Goswami on Wednesday walked out the Taloja jail in adjoining Raigad district, hours after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. Goswami came out of the jail around 8.30 pm and waved to people assembled outside from the vehicle carrying him, saying he was thankful to the Supreme Court for granting him bail. He flashed the victory sign and said, "this is the victory of the people of India." The apex court, in its ruling earlier in the day, said it will be a "travesty of justice" if personal liberty is curtailed. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other arrested accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-is-victory-of-people-of-india-arnab-goswami-out-of-taloja-jail-hours-after-sc-grants-interim-bail-914454.html
11-11-2020||National||Govt tightens rules for NGOs intending to receive funds from abroad||The NGOs that intend to receive foreign funding will now face tougher rules with the Union Home Ministry making it clear that such organisations must have existed for at least three years and spent Rs 15 lakh in voluntary activities to be eligible to receive money from abroad. In a notification, the home ministry also said office bearers of the NGOs seeking registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act must submit a specific commitment letter from the donor indicating the amount of foreign contribution and the purpose for which it is proposed to be given. The FCRA rules were issued about two months after the central government had amended the law under which providing Aadhaar numbers of the office bearers of the NGOs was made mandatory, office expenses were brought down to 20 percent of such amount and election candidates, government servants, members of any legislature and political parties were prohibited from accepting foreign funding. “A person seeking registration under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 12 of the Act shall meet the following conditions, namely:– (i) it shall be in existence for three years and have spent a minimum amount of rupees fifteen lakh on its core activities for the benefit of society during the last three financial years,” the notification said. According to the rules, any NGO or person making an application for obtaining prior permission to receive foreign funds shall have an FCRA Account. The home ministry said "a person seeking prior permission for receipt of a specific amount from a specific donor for carrying out specific activities or projects shall meet certain criteria that include submission of a specific commitment letter from the donor indicating the amount of foreign contribution and the purpose for which it is proposed to be given". For the Indian recipient persons and foreign donor organisations having common members, prior permission shall be granted to the Indian person/entity if it satisfies the conditions that the chief functionary of the recipient shall not be a part of the donor organisation, and 75 per cent of the office-bearers or members of the governing body of the recipient shall not be members or employees of the foreign donor organisation. In case of foreign donor organisation being a single individual, that individual shall not be the chief functionary or office bearer of the recipient group and in case of a single foreign donor, 75 per cent of the office bearers or members of the governing body of the recipient shall not be the family members or close relatives of the donor, the home ministry said. Over Rs 58,000 crore foreign funds were received by NGOs registered under the FCRA between 2016-17 and 2018-19. There are around 22,400 NGOs in the country||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-tightens-rules-for-ngos-intending-to-receive-funds-from-abroad-914462.html
11-11-2020||National||Covid-19 touched almost every household in Delhi, says HC||One in four persons in the city appears to be infected by Covid-19 and that the virus has touched almost every household in the national capital, said the Delhi High Court which on Wednesday perused latest sero survey report pointing out that the central district being the worst hit. According to the latest report of the fourth round of sero survey carried out in the national capital, which was placed before a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, the central district of Delhi has seen an increase of more than double in the rate of infection as compared to the data of the survey carried out in September. The latest report has found that Covid-19 antibodies were present in 25 per cent of the persons tested. After perusing the report, filed through Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam, the court said that "one in four persons in the city appears to be infected by Covid-19 and that the virus has touched almost every household in the national capital." "No household has been left untouched," the bench said, referring to the survey data and questioned as to why the Delhi government was relaxing norms in such a situation when other similarly placed states were bringing in restrictions. Under the survey conducted between October 15 to October 21, 15,015 people were tested and the prevalence of antibodies was found to be slightly higher in females at 26.1 per cent as compared to males -- 25.06 per cent -- and also comparatively higher -- at 29.83 per cent -- in participants of more than 50 years of age, the report said. It recommended that since Delhi was continuing to report an increase in Covid-19 cases and is yet to reach its peak, therefore, further sero surveillance should be paused till the numbers stabilize after which it can be resumed. The survey also found that diabetes mellitus was observed to be a risk-factor for subclinical infection. The report further stated that in the July and August rounds of the serosurvey, living in a containment zone was significantly associated with being seropositive.  "However, during the September and October round, the observed seroprevalence was lower in the participants who had ever lived in containment zones," it said. It also said that among the participants not having influenza like illness symptoms, the percentage of seropositivity or presence of antibodies was 26.8 per cent in October, which indicates the asymptomatic status of those who were infected by Covid-19. The report was placed before the bench during the hearing on a PIL seeking increase in the Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-touched-almost-every-household-in-delhi-says-hc-914479.html
11-11-2020||National||Step up Covid-19 testing, avoid super-spreaders: Centre instructs states||Amid a looming threat of a spike in Covid-19 cases during the festive season, the Centre on Wednesday asked states to undertake aggressive testing at market places, workplaces and religious congregations that have the potential to become super-spreaders of the infectious disease. The directions from the Centre came at a meeting with Health Ministers of seven states, chaired by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, even as India’s active caseload of Covid-19 fell below five lakh mark after 106 days. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised states to focus on three areas to break the chain of transmission and keeping mortality less than 1% and the need for prolonged behaviour change. He advised for quick and aggressive testing, targeted testing at market-places, workplaces, religious congregations which have the potential to become super-spreader events; followed by quick tracing and increase the proportion of tests through RT-PCR against rapid antigen tests. Harsh Vardhan reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, Goa, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura through video link. The minister noted that active cases of Covid-19 had come down in Maharashtra, but the state continues to have a large active caseload with a high fatality rate (2.6%) which increases to 3.5% in and around Mumbai. He voiced concern over the higher case fatality rate in Uttarakhand and the increase in active cases in Mizoram and Manipur. The minister said Goa had witnessed 40% of the total deaths in last one month alone, which was a cause of worry, while higher deaths in the 45-60 years age groups in Tripura and Meghalaya were preventable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/step-up-covid-19-testing-avoid-super-spreaders-centre-instructs-states-914485.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||In Brazil’s halt of Chinese vaccine trial, critics see politics||Brazil halted a late-stage trial of a Chinese vaccine on Monday that had been considered a global front-runner in the race to develop a protective shot for the coronavirus, after a “serious adverse” reaction in a participant. The decision provoked a political firestorm on Tuesday after President Jair Bolsonaro, who has been critical of China and spoken dismissively of its vaccine, CoronaVac, called the suspension a political victory. Instituto Butantan, the Brazilian institute assisting with the CoronaVac trial, called the suspension unwarranted, arguing that it had been triggered by the death of a trial participant, but that the death was unrelated to the vaccine. A police report obtained by The New York Times says the participant’s death, which occurred Oct. 29, is being investigated as a suicide. A senior government official for the State of São Paulo, which runs Instituto Butantan, said that fact led health experts at the institute to conclude that it did not raise red flags about the safety of the vaccine. São Paulo state, the largest in Brazil, is led by Gov. João Doria, a political rival of Bolsonaro who has criticized the president’s cavalier handling of the pandemic. Gustavo Mendes, director of pharmaceuticals at Anvisa, Brazil’s health regulatory agency, said in an interview Tuesday that regulators have yet to conclude that the volunteer’s death was unrelated to the vaccine. “It was a precautionary measure,” he said. “Unfortunately, it’s being politicized.” He added: “Halting a study until there is more information is what is expected of a regulatory agency.” CoronaVac, which is being developed by the Chinese company Sinovac, is one of 11 experimental vaccines currently in Phase 3 trials. Sinovac’s drug was seen in China as a leading candidate. But in Beijing’s push to get a Chinese vaccine to be the first on the global market, officials stretched the definition of “emergency use.” They have permitted tens of thousands of people to receive the Sinovac vaccine and two other locally made vaccines, despite having not yet concluded Phase 3 trials. Adverse effects are not unusual in Phase 3 trials. AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson both paused their trials after several volunteers fell seriously ill. In a statement issued Tuesday, Sinovac said Instituto Butantan had deemed the “serious event” not related to the vaccine. The company said it was “confident in the safety” of its vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-brazil-s-halt-of-chinese-vaccine-trial-critics-see-politics-914210.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||Govt needs to define Covid-19 vaccine distribution strategy: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the government will have to define a vaccine distribution strategy to ensure that every Indian gets the Covid-19 vaccine.  Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE have said that their vaccine candidate has been found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. In a tweet, Gandhi said, "Even though Pfizer has created a promising vaccine, the logistics for making it available to every Indian need to be worked out". "Government of India (GOI) has to define a vaccine distribution strategy and how it will reach every Indian," he said. He attached a media report with his tweet, saying that no cold chain logistic company in India has the capability to transport the Pfizer vaccine for Covid-19 to India which required a temperature of minus 70 degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-needs-to-define-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-strategy-rahul-gandhi-914245.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav thanks voters for their support in UP bypolls||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday thanked voters for their support in the Uttar Pradesh bypolls and said that his party is committed to development. The SP's Lucky Yadav won Malhani, the seat which was represented by his father Parasnath Yadav, whose death necessitated the by-election. He defeated independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 4,632 votes. Three of SP candidates were runner-ups --- Javed Abbas (in Naugaon Sadat), Maharaj Singh Dhanghar (in Tundla) and Brahmashankar Tripathi (in Deoria). In a tweet in Hindi, Akhilesh Yadav said, "Thanks to all the voters for their support in the bypolls. We are committed to development."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-thanks-voters-for-their-support-in-up-bypolls-914257.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||Family-run parties biggest threat to India's democracy: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hit out at family-run parties saying they are the biggest threat to the democracy and rued that even a national party had fallen prey to it. Addressing party workers at a felicitation function after the BJP's victory in Bihar elections and various bypolls, he asserted that the only mantra for his party's victory was "Sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka Vishwas". Modi said the poll results in Bihar and other bye-elections across the country have made it clear that people will now support only those who work honestly for development. "People have decided that development alone will be the basis of national politics in 21st century," he said. Modi also said those who cannot fight the BJP democratically have resorted to murdering the party's workers. "This killing game cannot work in a democracy," he said. Lauding the people of the country for reposing their faith in the BJP, the prime minister also thanked and praised the Election Commission, security forces and administration for peaceful and successful conduct of elections. These poll results have broadened the outcome of Lok Sabha elections, the prime minister said referring to BJP's success in polls and bypolls across the country.    "BJP is the only national party in which poor, Dalits, deprived see their representation; only BJP understands the need of every section, region. The poll results have endorsed the way we have tackled Covid-19 pandemic," he said. Modi also said that women across the country are the 'Silent voters' which support the BJP across all rural and urban regions. Amid a festival-like atmosphere with the crowd chanting 'Modi hai to mumkin hai (Modi can make it possible), BJP president J P Nadda earlier said at the event that people of Bihar have put their stamp of approval on Modi's work to deal with COVID-19 and help poor during pandemic. He also said Bihar has chosen 'Vikas raaj' over 'goonda raaj', 'DBT raaj' over 'loot raaj' and LED over lantern: J P Nadda to BJP workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/family-run-parties-biggest-threat-to-indias-democracy-pm-narendra-modi-914401.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||Trouble in store for Congress as AIMIM sets eyes on UP, West Bengal||Trouble could be in store for Congress all the more with Bihar results suggesting that now even the Muslims, which have been voting for the party for quite a long time, is now getting disillusioned with it and deserted it in Seemanchal in Bihar in favour of Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM, which won five seats in the region, defeating some key Congress candidates. Now AIMIM has declared its intent to contest elections in West Bengal where polls are due in 2021 and Uttar Pradesh in 2022. In Bihar AIMIM has contested the polls in alliance with BSP. If it repeats the alliance with BSP in UP, then the entire gameplan of Congress to revive its old social coalition of Dalits Muslims and Brahmins could come a cropper.  While Rahul Gandhi had made serious attempts to woo the Dalit community in UP with his 'dine with Dalit' programmes in UP, the Jatavs among Dalits have stayed on with the BSP and sections of the other Dalit castes have moved to the BJP. The  BSP in UP has often taken a dig at the Congress in recent times, accusing it of being "diffident" in fielding Muslim candidates and raising Muslim issues. In 2017 UP polls, BSP had fielded nearly 100 Muslim candidates. When Owasi on Wednesday while announcing that his party will fight the election in UP in 2020 cryptically said only time will tell which party he will ally with there, the indication was broad enough. BSP mentor had also attempted to forge a Dalit Muslim combination in past. As the party Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in Lok Sabha, took the "vote cutter" in Bihar polls jibe at Owaisi, the latter said that he will fight elections in West Bengal and in the area of Chowdhury. Chowdhury's Parliamentary seat ia Baharampore, where the Muslim population is above 53 per cent. Muslims have generally given the first preference to Congress, wherever it is in a  position to win. That's one of the main reasons why Congress manages to get a good bargain with regional parties like the Samajwadi Party in UP and RJD in Bihar in the eventuality of an alliance like this time when it got 70  of the 243 seats in the state. There was already murmurs of discontent in the community about the main Opposition party not being very forthright in speaking up on Muslim issue. What further led the Congress to lose the traction among minorities is due to MLAs in a number of states like Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat moving in bulk to BJP in succession, thereby raising questions on the logic of minorities voting for Congress. Even in the Assembly bypolls in ten rounds, BJP gained due to their gameplan of a new sort of Operation Lotus in different states. The home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat was its best example, where the Congress had fought a spirited battle in 2017, winning 77 seats and arresting the number of BJP to 99. After three years, BJP is now 111 after winning all eight seats in the bypolls on Tuesday. These polls were necessitated as eight MLAs of Congress had resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha elections this year. In 2018 and 2019 also similar desertions happened from Congress. As a result, the Congress is now down to 65. Congress, which after the 2014 Lok Sabha poll debacle set up A K Antony Committee to go into the reasons of the defeat, came to a conclusion that its perceived pro Muslim tilt favoured the BJP who used it to alienate big chunks of Hindu voters. The subsequent elections saw the Congress pedaling soft Hindutva and the projections of Rahul Gandhi as 'Janeudhari Brahmin' and 'Shiv Bhakt' became the fad in state polls, creating some discomfiture among the minorities.  The Bihar election has brought this out. While Owaisi led a very aggressive campaign in Bihar this time, there were sections of Muslims, which felt the secular parties are taking the community for granted and they should be sent a message that the Muslim voice cannot be ignored. In Amour seat of Bihar, where AIMIM's Akhtarul Iman won the seat by a whopping margin of 50 thousand votes, the Congress candidate was on the third position while the JD(U) candidate was the runner-up. That is indeed a disturbing story for Congress. And unless reversed in time, the main Opposition party of the country will have serious worries, which will not be over by merely dismissing the AIMIM.  AIMIM's lone Lok Sabha MP from Aurangabad in Maharashtra, Imtiaz Jaleel said that his party's performance in the Bihar Assembly elections was a "tight slap" to those who accused the party of being BJP's "B-team".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trouble-in-store-for-congress-as-aimim-sets-eyes-on-up-west-bengal-914476.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||Development only basis for politics now; women BJP's silent voters: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Wednesday that results of the Bihar assembly polls and bypolls across states have proved that "development" will be the only basis for politics in the 21st century and credited women for powering the BJP's political fortunes as its "silent voters". Addressing BJP workers at a thanksgiving programme here following the electoral victory, Modi also attributed the NDA's win in Bihar to its mantra of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas" and also launched a veiled attack on the West Bengal's ruling Trinamool Congress, saying those who cannot challenge the saffron party democratically have resorted to "murdering" its workers to realise their goals. Assembly polls are due in the first half of 2021 in West Bengal, a politically crucial state where BJP hopes to come to power for the first time by ending Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year old rule. Modi also said that the NDA will serve Bihar under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar every BJP member will leave no stone unturned to help it realise its resolve of development in the state. In his address, the prime minister launched a stinging attack on "family parties and family-oriented parties", saying their "web" could be seen from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and that they are the "biggest threat" to Indian democracy. In a clear attack on the Congress, he said a national party has also fallen into the grip of a family and asked youngsters to associate themselves with the BJP to serve the country. The prime minister chose the celebratory atmosphere at the BJP headquarters to underscore the party's growing strength across the country, a day after its stupendous show helped the NDA pip a resurgent RJD-led alliance to the post, even as it notched up impressive wins in bypolls across states like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh among others. Referring to the poll results, he said they have broadened the verdict delivered by the people in the Lok Sabha polls in favour of BJP for its development work. Modi further said his government has undertaken several reforms and launched development as well as welfare initiatives for the people during the Covid-19 pandemic, when many big countries had also got bogged down by the virus spread. The BJP is the only national party in which the poor, dalits and other deprived sections of society see their representation, he said, adding that it is the only national party that represents and caters to aspirations of every section and region of the nation. Modi said the party's rise from "two rooms and two seats" to its dominance in national politics now has clearly shown that people will give only those a chance to serve the country who work honestly for the nation's development. Those who do not understand it are losing their deposits in polls, he said, an apparent reference to the Congress' poor show in these polls. The BJP's model of "good governance" was visible during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, asserting that people's vote for the party have shown their support to the measures taken by his government to deal with the pandemic. Everyone must be wondering when he will speak on the Bihar poll results, Modi said smilingly in the middle of his speech before adding that the only mystery formula behind the NDA's win in the state, where exit polls had mostly predicted a loss for it, was its mantra of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas".    Development work, trust, and aspirations and pride of Bihar have won in the state, he said. Terming the Bihar polls results as "most special", he noted that the BJP is the only party which has seen its tally increase despite being in power in the state for three terms and added that it has performed spectacularly in states like Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat despite ruling them for long.  With pollsters crediting woman voters' preference for the BJP-JD(U) alliance for its win in the hard-fought battle, Modi said India's "nari shakti" (women power) are the BJP's "silent voters" being discussed by experts. From rural to urban regions, they have played a key role in the BJP's good show in polls everywhere, he added. Turning his attention to West Bengal, he raised the issue of alleged political murders targeting saffron party members. "People in some parts of the country think that they will realise their goals by murdering BJP workers. I will appeal to them to see reason... I need not warn them as people will do this. Polls come and go, win and loss happen but this killing game cannot work in a democracy. This 'maut ka khel' cannot get you votes. They should see the writing on the wall," Modi said, without naming any party. The BJP has been accusing the TMC of resorting to killing its workers to terrorise its members, a charge the state's ruling party has rejected. The prime minister asked people to take due care while celebrating Diwai and follow the mantra of "vocal for local", a push for local products. He also hailed the Election Commission, security forces and local administration for the successful conduct of elections, saying India's polling process is a pride of every Indian. Amid a festival-like atmosphere with the crowd chanting 'Modi hai to mumkin hai (Modi can make it possible), BJP president J P Nadda earlier said at the event that people of Bihar have put their stamp of approval on Modi's work to deal with Covid-19 and help poor during the pandemic. He also said Bihar has chosen 'vikas raaj' over 'goonda raaj', 'DBT raaj' over 'loot raaj' and LED over lantern. With the party's strong of poll wins being first under Nadda, who had taken over the helm in January this year, Modi lauded his leadership and asked the large number of party workers present at the headquarters to join him in raising slogans in his support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/development-only-basis-for-politics-now-women-bjps-silent-voters-pm-narendra-modi-914478.html
11-11-2020||National Politics||Modi turns attention to West Bengal with veiled warning to TMC||After leading NDA to victory in Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday turned his attention to West Bengal with a veiled warning to the Trinamool Congress over brutal murders of BJP workers in the state. Addressing party workers at the BJP headquarters, Modi thanked the people for handing over a big victory to the party and taking the organisation to every nook and corner of the country. Modi also endorsed Nitish Kumar as the leader of the NDA alliance in Bihar. “All BJP and NDA workers led by Nitish ji, along with every person in Bihar, will leave no stone unturned to fulfill the commitment made to the people,” the Prime Minister said. He said BJP is the only party which truly has a national connect with the people of India. “From just two MPs and two rooms, today BJP is there in every corner of India,” he told a rapturous gathering which raised slogans of 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Modi hai toh mumkin hai'. He said the BJP has emerged as the only party to which every section of the society has associated its future with. Modi said the election results were also an endorsement of the Centre's policies in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. Turning his attention to West Bengal, Modi alleged that the parties that cannot fight the BJP democratically are involved in killing BJP workers. Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in West Bengal next year. “I don't think I need to warn them, because in a democracy, the people will decide. Elections come and go but this dance of death cannot continue in democracy. Nobody can win elections like this, do read the writing on the wall,” Modi said. Modi credited the electoral victories to BJP's team of 'silent voters' – women across the country – who have "experienced dignity and security under the BJP rule". He also slammed the “web of family parties” spread from Kashmir to Kanyakumari as a “threat to democracy”. “Merit should be the basis of progress, not entitlement and family run parties... Unfortunately, a national party that ruled over the country for several years, has become trapped under the spell of one family," Modi said in an apparent reference to the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-turns-attention-to-west-bengal-with-veiled-warning-to-tmc-914482.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Bypolls: BJP wins 19 out of 28 seats, Congress bags 9||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh won 19 out of the 28 assembly constituencies, where bypolls were held on November 3, giving it a comfortable majority in the House and providing stability to its eight-month-old government in the state. The opposition Congress clinched nine seats. With this, the BJP now has 126 MLAs in the 230-member House, while the Congress has 96 legislators. Due to the resignation of one more Congress MLA recently, the effective strength of the House is 229 at present. The comfortable victory of the BJP, which needed only eight seats to have a full majority on its own in the 229-member House, will not only provide stability to the party-led government in the state, but also further cement the position of senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress earlier this year and joined the saffron party. As per the results announced till Tuesday midnight, the BJP had won 16 seats and was leading in three others (Sanver, Jaura and Mehgaon). The results of these three seats, which the ruling party won, were declared post-midnight. Out of the 12 ministers who contested the bypolls, three were defeated by the Congress candidates. Prominent among them is woman minister Imarti Devi, who lost from Dabra by a margin of 7,633 votes. BJP minister Girraj Dandotia lost from Dimani by a margin of 26,467 votes. Another minister Adal Singh Kansana bit the dust from Sumaoli constituency by a margin of 10,947 votes. Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat won from Sanver by a margin of 53,264 votes. BJP minister OPS Bhadoria won from Mehgaon by a margin of 12,036 votes. The saffron party's Munna Lal Goyal lost by a margin of 8,555 votes against Congress Dr Satish Sikarwar from Gwalior-East. Out of the 22 MLAs who had quit the then ruling Congress in March this year in support of Scindia's move of leaving the party, 15 emerged victorious, while seven others, including three ministers, lost the poll battle. Though Congress left no stone unturned to portray Scindia as "traitor" because of his rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath government that paved the way for the return of the BJP government in the state, the campaign plank failed to find much traction among voters. Scindia has repeatedly said his decision to quit the Congress was driven by "failure" of the erstwhile Nath government to fulfil promises made to people, especially farmers. "The victory of BJP in these by-polls will certainly strengthen Scindia's position in the BJP at the Centre," a political expert said. Though the BJP fared well in 19 of these 28 seats, it suffered losses in the Gwalior-Chambal region as three of its ministers Adal Singh Kansana from Sumaoli, Imarti Devi from Dabra, whom Nath had termed "item" in the run-up to the bypolls, and Girraj Dandotia from Dimani, faced defeat. The BJP had a narrow win in Bhander, where its nominee Raksha Santram Saronia defeated popular Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya by a margin of 161 votes. Besides, a Scindia supporter also lost in Karera in Shivpuri district. "There are a total of 34 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region and among them Congress had won in 26 seats in 2018. Bypolls were held in 16 seats in this region and among them Scindia's supporters won nine seats, which were basically the Congress seats," BJP spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi said. "Earlier, the Congress had more than 80 per cent of these seats, which it had won because of Scindia factor," he said. Scindia's supporters won decisively in the assembly constituencies of Bamori, Mungaoli and Ashok Nagar, which are part of Guna Lok Sabha seat. Besides, among the six ministers that resigned from the Congress along with Scindia, only Imarti Devi lost in bypoll while his loyalists like Tulsiram Silawat, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Govind Singh Rajput, Dr Prabhuram Choudhary and Pradyumna Singh Tomar won decisively from their respective constituencies. Choudhary created a record by winning with a highest margin 63,809 votes from Sanchi (SC) seat. BJP got 49.46 per cent vote share against the Congress's 40.40 in these bypolls. Expressing happiness over the BJP's victory, Scindia said, "I express my gratitude towards the voters for giving a clear mandate to the BJP. The results of the bypolls proved that both former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh were betrayers. It has become a habit of the Congress to question the credibility of the EVMs by not accepting the mandate." Elated over the BJP's performance, CM Chouhan said that the BJP has secured 11 per cent more votes than their rival Congress and termed it as "incredible". "We won the seats by huge margins and lost few by a thin margin. We humbly accept the victory," he said while announcing to implement the roadmap for 'Aatmnirbhar Madhya Pradesh' campaign immediately. Chouhan also accused the opposition Congress of making false allegations and using indecent words against the BJP leaders. Congress leader Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said that his party made efforts to reach out to the public. "We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to the public. I also thank all the voters who took part in the by-elections. I hope that the BJP government will take care of the interests of the farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain the respect and safety of women," Nath said in a tweet. In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly loyalists of Scindia, had resigned from the party and their Madhya Pradesh Assembly membership. This led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led state government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists had joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-wins-19-out-of-28-seats-congress-bags-9-914214.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Pak shells 3 sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan Army heavily shelled forward posts and hamlets on Wednesday in three sectors along the LoC in Poonch districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The Indian Army effectively retaliated. "At about 0915 hours, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Kirni, Shahpur and Qasba sectors in district Poonch", a defence spokesman said. The Pakistan Army has violated the ceasefire 13 times this month. On October 1, an Army jawan was killed and another injured, when Pakistan shelled areas along the LoC in Krishnagati area of Poonch district, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-shells-3-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch-914218.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Goa BJP leaders express happiness over NDA's Bihar performance||With the ruling NDA set to retain power in Bihar, BJP leaders in Goa, including Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar. Taking to Twitter, Sawant said the NDA registered a "great victory" in Bihar. "The people of Bihar have reposed their trust and faith in the strong and decisive leadership of Modi ji. The hardwork and dedication of BJP Karyakartas has borne fruit. I congratulate PM @narendramodi ji, @BJP4India President @jpnadda ji for the great victory of NDA in Bihar polls," Sawant tweeted. State party chief Sadanand Tanvade tweeted, "The people of Bihar have chosen their Government. Congratulations to @narendramodi ji, @AmitShah ji, @JPNadda Ji, @sanjayjaiswalMP Ji and Team @BJP4India for the historic achievement. Let us all work together to overcome today's challenges in #Bihar. Good wishes from @BJP4Goa." As per the EC's website update as on 1.45 am on Wednesday, the results were declared for 234 seats and nine more were yet to be called. As per the trends and results, the NDA appeared set to remain in power despite a spirited performance by the RJD-led grand opposition alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/goa-bjp-leaders-express-happiness-over-ndas-bihar-performance-914220.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||'Matter of personal liberty': SC raps Maharashtra govt over Arnab Goswami's abetment to suicide case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday questioned the Maharashtra government over the 2018 abetment to suicide case against journalist Arnab Goswami and said that it would be a travesty of justice if personal liberty of a person is curtailed like this. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said if state governments target individuals, they must realise then that there is apex court to protect the liberty of citizens. The top court expressed concern over state governments targeting some individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. “We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people,” the bench said while hearing Goswami’s plea seeking interim bail in the case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer in 2018. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court’s November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The bench asked Maharashtra whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, who is the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, saying the issue pertains to “personal liberty”. It observed that Indian democracy is “extraordinarily resilient” and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab’s taunt on TV). “Whatever be his ideology, least I don’t even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional court’s do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably,” Justice Chandrachud said, adding, “the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations”. “If the government targets individuals on this basis...You may not like television channels but this should not happen,” the apex court said. The bench observed that assuming the FIR is “gospel truth” but that is a matter of investigation. “Is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending,” the bench told senior advocate Kapil Sibal who was appearing for the state. “’A’ does not pay money to 'B', and is this the case of abetment of suicide? If the high court don't act in matters like this, there will be complete destruction of personal liberty. We are deeply concerned for this. If we don't act in matters like this then it will be very disturbing,” the court said. Justice Chandrachud observed that courts are being attacked for judgements delivered by them and, “I often ask my law clerk and they say that Sir, please don't look at tweets”. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, referred to various cases lodged against him and the channel and alleged that Maharashtra government is targeting him. “This is not an ordinary case and the Bombay High Court being a constitutional court should have taken note of the incidents. Is this a case where Arnab Goswami is put in Taloja jail with hardened criminals,” Salve said. “I would urge the case to be transferred to the CBI and punish him if he is guilty. What will happen if a person is granted ad-interim bail,” he said. Sibal referred to the facts of the case and said that details of investigation conducted in the matter are not before the apex court and if it intervenes at this stage, it would set a dangerous precedent. Senior lawyer Amit Desai, also appearing for the state, said this is not a case where the court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to grant bail at interim stage. He said the state's ability to investigate a criminal case has to be respected. The hearing in the case is going on and would continue in the post-lunch session. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/matter-of-personal-liberty-sc-raps-maharashtra-govt-over-arnab-goswamis-abetment-to-suicide-case-914246.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh man held for raping Dalit woman||A local court here sentenced a man to life imprisonment for raping a Dalit woman on the pretext of performing exorcism, and also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him. Additional District Government Counsel Lakhan Lal on Wednesday said, "On Tuesday, Additional District and Session (SC-ST) Judge Jagdish Kumar sentenced Rahul Prajapati (an occultist) to life imprisonment for raping a Dalit woman on the pretext of performing exorcism." "The court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him. The Dalit woman was raped at 8.00 pm on June 7, 2018," Lal said. He also said, "When the woman was unwell, Prajapati under the pretext of curing her through exorcism, took her to a roadside eatery and raped her. He was found guilty after the incident, and was lodged in the jail."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-held-for-raping-dalit-woman-914254.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court pulls up AAP govt for relaxing norms even as Covid-19 cases spike||The Delhi High Court Wednesday pulled up the AAP government for relaxing norms for public movement and gatherings in the national capital even as Covid-19 cases were increasing and questioned whether it has any policy or strategy in place to deal with the "alarming" situation. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramanium Prasad said that when Delhi, as city state, was "hands down beating" Maharashtra and Kerala in the number of daily new cases in the past two weeks, what concrete steps have been taken by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to contain the spread of infection. The court noted that the daily number of new Covid-19 cases received for November 10 was at 8,593 and "still counting" and the number of containment zones in the city were 4,016. The court further noted that as per the latest sero survey report of the government the antibodies presence was detected in 25 per cent of the persons tested which meant that one in four persons has been infected by Covid-19. "No household has been left untouched," the bench said, referring to the survey data and questioned as to why the Delhi government was relaxing norms in such a situation when other similarly placed states were bringing in restrictions. The court questioned the rationale behind allowing 200 people to attend public functions instead of reducing the number and permitting public transportation to be fully occupied, saying that these could turn into "super spreaders" of the infection. The court also sought to know as to why the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, has not come out with any legislation to ensure strict adherence to wearing of masks which was being termed as a "vaccine" till the actual vaccine comes. It directed the Delhi government to file a status report explaining steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the Covid-19 cases have risen alarmingly, to contain the spread of the infection and listed the matter for further hearing on November 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-pulls-up-aap-govt-for-relaxing-norms-even-as-covid-19-cases-spike-914287.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Class 10 Jammu and Kashmir board exams begin in Kashmir||The annual board examinations for Class 10, conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education (JKBOSE), commenced in the Kashmir valley on Wednesday with Covid-19 safety measures in place, officials said. The examinations are the first major school-related activity in the valley since the pandemic broke out, the officials said. They said 1,06,465 students -- comprising 74,465 from the valley and 32,000 from Jammu winter zones -- are expected to appear for the examination to be held at 1,145 centres –- 814 in the valley and 331 in the winter zones of Jammu.  The examination centres have been almost doubled from the previous year to ensure adherence to social distancing norms, the officials said. In order to prevent the spread of the infection, the authorities have put in place various preventive measures including social distancing norms and the use of masks and hand-sanitisers, they said. The examination centres across the valley have also been fumigated to minimize the risk of the infection, they added. The government has announced 40 per cent relaxation in the syllabus for the annual examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/class-10-jammu-and-kashmir-board-exams-begin-in-kashmir-914300.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Fundraising for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya to begin after Sankranti||The campaign to raise funds to build the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will commence after the upcoming Sankranti festival, Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt said here on Wednesday. The campaign will be held for 45 days across the world and the construction of the temple will start soon, Swami said.  Swami is one of the 15 members selected to be part of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust which will be overlooking the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. A minimum Rs 10 donation will be sought from the devotees. Those who donate Rs 100 and more will be given a receipt, he told reporters here.   Though they have not made any estimated cost for build the temple complex and other facilities, he said it will be finalised soon. Swami said that the Ram Temple was going to be a grand temple and asked all devotees to donate funds for the construction of the temple. The temple will be constructed as per the ethos of Indian culture and heritage, he said. He said the contract for building the temple has been given to Larsen & Toubro.  The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has already invited ideas for the design of the Ayodhya Ram temple from individuals, subject experts, architects and designers. The trust plans to incorporate them into the masterplan and further suggestions can be sent to the Trust by email till November 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fundraising-for-construction-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-to-begin-after-sankranti-914398.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Explained | Why have pollution levels surged in India?||As winter approaches each year, a haze of toxic smog envelopes vast swathes of northern India, including the capital New Delhi, forcing authorities to shut schools and restrict the use of private vehicles. In the past 48 hours, the Air Quality Index hovered above 475 on a scale of 500, near "emergency" levels, according to the federal monitoring agency SAFAR. The index measures levels of airborne PM2.5 - tiny particles that can be carried into the lungs, causing deadly diseases, including cancer and cardiac problems. Anything above 60 is considered unhealthy. When does this start? And why? Air quality starts deteriorating by the end of October when lower temperatures, higher moisture and a drop in wind speeds tend to trap pollutants in the atmosphere for longer. After the monsoon season ends in September, the wind direction also changes. Dust, industrial emissions and vehicle exhaust bring a sharp spike in air pollution levels. A lack of resources means local authorities cannot effectively clamp down on illegal industries and strictly enforce emission norms. India's sprawling capital city has nearly 10 million vehicles, more than the other three major cities - Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata - put together. Along with garbage burning, cold weather forces people, especially those spending the night in the open, to burn small fires to keep warm, adding to the smog. Rapid urbanisation and shrinking forests have compounded the problem. Why is New Delhi more susceptible? Unlike southern parts of the country, most arid regions of northern India, including New Delhi, struggle with dust, a common air pollutant. Environmental experts say New Delhi's topography hobbles efforts by authorities to stave off the spike in pollution. Also, large scale mining for rocks and sand, used in construction, has hollowed out the Aravalli mountain range, a natural barrier that used to protect New Delhi from dust coming from the Thar Desert. Activists warn the fast disappearance of the Aravalli range will make New Delhi more vulnerable to its pollution woes. Do farm fires contribute? In recent years, the problem has been exacerbated by the burning of crop residues in Punjab and Haryana states, part of the farm belt that borders New Delhi. Relatively prosperous farmers from Punjab and Haryana, India's grain bowl, have started using mechanized harvesters to gather the rice crop, partly to overcome the problem of rising labour costs. Unlike manual harvesting, mechanized harvesters leave stubble and rice paddy straw in the field. Disposing of crop waste is time-consuming. After harvesting rice, farmers get only a short window to plant winter crops such as wheat and rapeseed, and late sowing means lower yields. So farmers find it much cheaper to burn the residue, which accounts for about a quarter of air pollution. In 2018, India earmarked $177.61 million for two years to give farmers a subsidy to buy equipment, such as mulching and seed drilling machines, that dispose of crop waste without burning it. For the 2020-21 fiscal year, the government allocated $746.06 million in farm equipment subsidies. Farmers say lengthy bureaucratic processes to claim the subsidies forces them to burn their crop waste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-why-have-pollution-levels-surged-in-india-914402.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||BJP alarmed by decline in vote share in Uttar Pradesh bypolls||BJP may have managed to retain all of its six seats in the recently concluded by-polls in seven assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, but a sharp decline in the vote share has come as a rude shock for the saffron party. In addition, one of the party's candidates lost his security deposit. A scrutiny of the results revealed that there was a decline of 8 to 9% in the votes polled by the BJP in comparison to its vote share in the 2017 assembly elections. In the Ghatampur assembly constituency, BJP's vote share stood at around 49% in 2017, but it came down drastically to around 38% in the by-polls. Similarly, in Tundla and Deoria Sadar assembly constituencies, the saffron party's vote share declined by 8%. A decline in the vote share was also witnessed in three other assembly seats. To add to the discomfiture of the party, the party's nominee Manoj Singh lost his security deposit in Malhani constituency and finished a distant fourth.    A senior state BJP leader said that the party always discussed its performance at internal meetings and necessary steps were taken, wherever required. "We will certainly introspect as to why our vote share declined," he told Deccan Herald.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-alarmed-by-decline-in-vote-share-in-uttar-pradesh-bypolls-914403.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||No Chhath puja at public places, temples, river banks in Delhi due to COVID-19: DDMA||The DDMA has instructed officials to ensure that Chhath Puja this year is not performed at public places, river banks and temples in Delhi, citing the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. An order issued by Chief Secretary and Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) executive committee chairman Vijay Dev on Tuesday issued directions to all district magistrates (DMs) and deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) for strict compliance and to encourage people to celebrate Chhath at their homes during the pandemic. It also directed the DMs and DCPs to hold meetings with religious and community leaders as well as Chhath Puja Samitis before the festival to get their cooperation to maintain law and order and harmony, and to sensitise the public on the compliance of guidelines and instructions to combat Covid-19. The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi was reviewed and it had been observed that there is a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases in NCT of Delhi in the recent period, the order stated.  “Considering this, it has been decided that Chhath Pooja celebrations in the month of November 2020 may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate the festival at their home only,” it said. Delhi BJP leader and former minister in the city government Kapil Mishra questioned the order and claimed it was issued as the AAP government failed to make adequate preparations for Chatth Puja. "This order banning Chhath Puja in Delhi will not be obeyed Arvind Kejriwal ji. "Delhi government, which was the first to open liquor shops in the country, cannot issue an order to stop Chhath Puja. देश में सबसे पहले शराब की दुकानें खोलने वाली दिल्ली सरकार, छठ पूजा रोकने का आदेश नहीं दे सकती AAP की सरकार छठ पूजा की तैयारी नहीं कर पाई तो बैन लगा दिया "The AP government banned Chhath Puja as it could not prepare for it. Chhath Puja will be performed," Mishra said in a Hindi tweet. The Chhath Puja is celebrated in Delhi in a big way by the natives of Bihar and eastern UP. The two-day festival, falling on November 20-21 this year, involves worship of the Sun God at a water body like a river, pond or tank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-chhath-puja-at-public-places-temples-river-banks-in-delhi-due-to-covid-19-ddma-914421.html
11-11-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court's outrage on right to liberty has been selective: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said while she agrees with the Supreme Court's "outrage" on right to liberty, it has been selective when it comes to Kashmiris. Her remarks came in light of the Supreme Court's observations while hearing the bail plea of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. "Agree with SCs outrage on right to liberty. But sadly this outrage has been selective as there are hundreds of Kashmiris & journalists languishing in jails on baseless charges. Forget court ruling they didn't even get a hearing. Why no sense of urgency for their liberty?" Mufti wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-courts-outrage-on-right-to-liberty-has-been-selective-mehbooba-mufti-914423.html
11-11-2020||Opinion||Why Bihar is a win both for PM Narendra Modi and Lalu Prasad Yadav||A promise is a promise. And the BJP, by all indications, is not going to renege on it in Bihar. Nitish Kumar is set to return as Bihar Chief Minister for his fourth term since 2005, just as the saffron party had promised during the campaign. And yet, an analysis of the Bihar Assembly polls themselves ought to make it clear that such a step goes against the spirit of the verdict. Let us try to understand why it is so. A simplistic view of the results would be that if the Chief Minister wins the majority in re-election, he becomes the natural choice for the top post. But this logic may not work in the coalition era, where the voter can often be placed in a Catch-22 situation.  They can be very much in favour of one partner of the alliance, and be totally against another. In such a situation, the sentiment will be reflected in the number of seats won by the different partners. This is what seems to have happened in Bihar where the BJP won 74 seats out of the 121 it contested, and Nitish Kumar’s JD (U) 43 out of the 115 seats it fought on.  A party in the ruling coalition, that cannot win at least 50 per cent of the seats it contested, cannot be said to have the moral right over the leadership of the next government. The JD(U) strike rate is far below 50 per cent, while the BJP strike rate is far above the mark. That explains the scraping through of the NDA in the state. It simply means the voters were strongly in favour of Narendra Modi, the face of BJP in all elections since 2014, but were averse to Nitish Kumar. In other words, they favoured an NDA sans Nitish Kumar as the head of the government. In such a situation, if Nitish is made chief minister, it is a betrayal of the popular verdict. It will be an instance of the same amoral politics seen in Maharashtra, where three parties came together to form the government, while all the three had strike rates of below 50 per cent. A two-way verdict Taking the logic further, we come across a peculiar situation in Bihar. The verdict shows that the state is divided between two rivals: Narendra Modi (BJP) and Lalu Prasad (RJD), neither of whom was directly in the fray.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, surprisingly continues to enjoy the support of the people despite a failing economy, the Covid-19 crisis and its larger fall-out on the daily life of people. It shows that voters feel that whatever the current situation, only a strong leader like Modi can help them overcome it. It is also a clear signal that Rahul Gandhi’s relentless attack against Modi for the last several months has not only failed, but boomeranged against the Congress leader. Otherwise, the Congress would not have been such a drag in the Opposition ‘Mahagatbandhan’ (MGB) in Bihar. More surprising is the popularity that Lalu Prasad still enjoys among the masses. If he were not in jail and in a position to contest elections, Bihar may have possibly seen a clear verdict in favour of the MGB. While many think this election has seen the emergence of Lalu Prsad’s son Tejashwi Yadav, the logic appears flawed. A significant number of people have voted for non-NDA and non-MGB parties. Although they were against Nitish Kumar, they had no confidence in Tejashwi Yadav either.  Coming back to Nitish Kumar, he lost close to 30 seats thanks to rebel candidates put up by Chirag Paswan, the new LJP chief. If Chirag’s demand for seats had been conceded, the NDA would have won a very comfortable majority. Nitish Kumar’s loss of touch with ground reality seems to have made him underestimate the LJP’s impact.  But beyond that, the CM has also been out of touch with the sentiment of the people through the Covid-19 crisis. He has come across as an arrogant leader at times, something that the politically astute Bihar electorate would not have overlooked easily. While UP’s Yogi Adityanath was seen to be doing everything he could to bring back migrant labourers to his state, Nitish appeared reluctant. So, it is not surprising that the people decided to vote against him although they were unable to decide on an alternative to him, especially given the faith they reposed in the leadership of Modi. That in a nutshell is the story of this election.  (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of several books, including the recently published detective novel Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-bihar-is-a-win-both-for-pm-narendra-modi-and-lalu-prasad-yadav-914407.html
11-11-2020||Opinion||US Presidential Election: Why Trump fears leaving the White House||By Timothy L. O'Brien Donald Trump is the luckiest man alive. Unlike almost, well, everyone, he’s been protected from the consequences of his own mistakes his entire life. Born into a wealthy family, he was insulated from lukewarm academic prospects and serial business crack-ups by his father’s money. (“I often say that I’m a member of the lucky sperm club,” is how he put it in one of his books.) Emerging as a reality-TV star in the early 2000s, Trump discovered that fame allowed him to be as predatory as he pleased without repercussions. (“When you’re a star, they let you do it.”) And his 2016 ascent to the White House opened his eyes to the presidency’s legal armor — which he interpreted broadly and often inaccurately. (“I have an Article II, where I have the right to do whatever I want as president.”) Although Trump has over the years juggled, among other difficulties, ho-hum grades, the threat of personal bankruptcy, sexual assault accusations, an intensive federal investigation and an impeachment, he has plowed ahead relatively unwounded and unencumbered by regret. Wealth, celebrity and the presidency have kept him buoyant. All that insulation has also meant that he hasn’t learned from his mistakes. Every personal and public reckoning has been postponed or shunted aside. Now, however, Trump is staring at two threats that loom after he leaves the White House in January. One is financial, the other legal. Neither is entirely under his control. And both may help explain, along with his perennial inability to accept losing, why Trump won’t acknowledge that President-elect Joe Biden is going to succeed him and why he has enlisted the Republican Party to help him gaslight Americans about the outcome of the presidential election. Trump and the patchwork of businesses he houses inside the Trump Organization are saddled with more than $1 billion in debt, which Dan Alexander of Forbes has helpfully tallied. A portion of that total has been divulged over the past few years in the president’s personal financial disclosures, on file with the Office of Government Ethics. The New York Times recently revealed that Trump has personally guaranteed at least $421 million of the debt, with more than $300 million coming due within four years. In other words, Trump is on the hook for a lot of money that he may have to scramble to repay in a Covid-19-battered economy in which his industries — hotels, leisure, urban real estate — have been particularly pummeled. Forbes estimates his assets are worth $3.7 billion; Bloomberg News pegs them at about $3.2 billion. He’s not going broke. But if the economy continues to struggle in coming months, those valuations will be tested. And much of what Trump holds isn’t liquid, meaning he may be hard-pressed to sell assets quickly if he needs to raise funds. Among Trump’s most valuable holdings, for example, are minority stakes in two properties controlled by Vornado Realty Trust. Rumors of fire sales might further depress the value of his portfolio. Another thing that would weaken Trump’s ability to negotiate sweetheart financial deals or forgiveness: leaving the presidency. On the legal side of the ledger, Trump, his children and their company face aggressive investigations into their finances, accounting practices and tax payments. The Manhattan District Attorney’s Office is investigating Trump for possible tax fraud and falsification of business records, according to appellate court filings. In this probe, which is also examining the president’s payment of hush money to two women who allegedly had sexual encounters with him, the DA’s office is seeking eight years of Trump’s tax returns. It is also taking a look at whether Trump inflated the value of his properties and other assets in order to secure funds from lenders and investors. New York Attorney General Letitia James has launched another investigation, also focused on whether the Trump Organization and the Trump family manipulated valuations to secure funding or engineer tax benefits. James’s probe is a civil case, which could bring hefty financial penalties against Trump but no prison time (unless she finds reasons to recast it as criminal case). Vance’s investigation is a criminal matter, however, and if the Trump crew is found guilty of felonies, prison time is on the table. Trump’s team has fought back hard against the Vance investigation, including arguing before the U.S. Supreme Court that a sitting president is immune from state criminal prosecutions. While the court rejected that notion in a landmark ruling over the summer, it would become a moot argument in any venue once Trump is no longer president. A Trump pushed outside the legal moat that surrounds the White House becomes, for the most part, a Trump who can be sued and penalized just as any other American can. That could also give fresh traction to the sexual assault cases against him. It’s unclear how aggressive law enforcement officials in the Biden administration will be toward Trump. They could resurrect some of the obstruction charges that have gone fallow since former Special Counsel Robert Mueller ended his probe. On the other hand, the political firestorm that could ignite might persuade Biden to hold back. What’s clear is that Trump’s money and freedom are in play. As he comes to grips with losing the 2020 election, he will continue responding ferociously and unpredictably, like a man who for 74 years has been accustomed to getting away with almost anything.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-presidential-election-why-trump-fears-leaving-the-white-house-914414.html
11-11-2020||Panorama||Power of love must replace love of power||“Love it was that made us, and it was Love that saved us, love was God’s plan, when he made man, God’s divine nature is Love,” this is a hymn sung in the churches all over the world. Truly, it was God’s love towards man that made him create us in his own image and save us from all misfortune and catastrophe. Love is even acclaimed as greater than God. If love is given the true meaning and significance it deserves, the world would be a much better place without any aggressions, animosity and crave for superiority.  At the same time, we human beings have the insight and intelligence, to recognise love as the only remedy for enduring peace and harmony in this troubled world. Love has touched the heart of many distinguished people, who are highly respected in the world and have played a great role in their endeavour to bring equal rights and peace to this world with love, and not resorting to methods of violence. The Holy Books preach mainly about love for one another.    The Holy Bible says “And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love; but the greatest of these is love”.  Swami Vivekananda held love in high esteem and said “All love is expansion, all selfishness is contraction. Love is therefore the only law of life. He who loves lives, he who is selfish is dying. Therefore love for love’s sake, because it is the only law of life, just as you breathe to live.”  Martin Luther King Jr., the most important voice of the American civil rights movement, said,  “Darkness cannot drive out darkness: only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate, only Love can do that”. Death due to old age, sickness, accidents and epidemics can be accepted as part of unavoidable misfortune in our lives or the laws of nature. But, are we (the world) not responsible for the deaths of millions of our brothers, who died and are still dying, guarding their countries, when it can be avoided by embracing and using the most freely and powerfully available weapon called LOVE. But, as William E. Gladstone says “We look forward to the time when the Power of Love will replace the Love of Power. Then will our world know the blessings of peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/power-of-love-must-replace-love-of-power-914158.html
11-11-2020||Panorama||A polluter's easy path to the zero-emissions club||By David Fickling,Suddenly, it seems all the world is heading to zero. Just a month after Chinese President Xi Jinping promised to reduce carbon emissions to net zero by 2060, the leaders of Japan and South Korea pledged to hit the same target 10 years sooner. The European Union and UK have already put their 2050 pledges into law. In total, countries accounting for about 56% of the world’s emissions have now announced or are investigating targets to eliminate their emissions by mid-century. Who’s next? Looking down the list of the world’s major emitters, you might think we’ve hit a roadblock. Most of those remaining are major exporters of fossil fuels, which you’d expect to be late to the zero-emissions party. Of the main exceptions, India has for decades vocally resisted efforts to cap its ability to pollute until it’s wealthier, and the status of the US is likely to be uncertain until the dust settles on the presidential election. One major economy is in a different place, though: Brazil. Although the country has never promised to zero out its emissions — and is unlikely to do so under its populist president, Jair Bolsonaro — it would find that path far easier than most. Brazil’s first advantage is that its electricity system was largely decarbonised long ago. Thanks to its vast river systems, the country is the most hydro-powered major economy on the planet, with about 64% of electricity generation coming from its dams. Wind, solar and nuclear account for another 21%, leaving fossil fuels with a scant 15%. Even that small slice should be easier to eliminate than in many other countries. Brazil’s ample hydro endowment means it’s unusually well-placed to manage peaks and troughs in electricity demand in a 100% renewable system, and the costs of building new wind farms from scratch are already lower than those of fuelling and maintaining existing gas and coal power stations. Dams, like fossil-fired generators (but unlike wind, solar and nuclear), can be switched on and off depending on when they’re needed. Where excess solar generation is available in the middle of the day, they can even pump water uphill to be released again during the evening peak. Industry will also be simpler to zero out. One of the challenges emerging economies face is that development in this sector is uniquely carbon-intensive. On-site emissions from China’s industrial companies alone — not including those associated with electricity consumed by factories and building sites — accounts for about 8% of global fossil pollution. For Brazil, that process has long since played out: Its most intensive industrialisation and construction happened in the mid-20th century, and as a share of GDP, it’s among the lowest in the world, in line with the US and western Europe. Transport, the third big slice of emissions in most countries, is also less of a lift. Unlike emerging economies in Asia which will see millions of people move to cities over the coming decades, Brazil is already one of the most urbanised places on the planet, with a higher share of the population in cities than the UK, US or South Korea. Public transport is more developed than in most other countries in the Americas. Using the country’s huge renewable potential to electrify its passenger vehicle fleet would free up biofuel for export to other countries — and other uses, such as trucking, jet fuel and shipping — that will find substitution away from petroleum harder. It’s in the area of agricultural and quasi-agricultural exports that Brazil has most to gain. The largest slices of its emissions come from just two activities: deforestation and cattle farming. Each of those, though, has significant improvement potential. Brazilian beef is some of the most carbon-intensive on the planet. Each kilogram of Brazilian cattle raised on newly deforested land adds as much as 726 kg of carbon-equivalent emissions to the atmosphere. In more established parts of the country, it requires only around 22 kg of CO2, and farms in other countries require half of that, with some figures running as low as 3 kg. That’s largely a result of Brazilian ranching’s low productivity. Often lacking the intensive feeding systems that get cattle in other parts of the world to prime weight in one or two years, the average Brazilian cow has burped up a lot more methane by the time it reaches the slaughterhouse. Grass-fed beef also requires a lot more land than grain-fed intensive cattle, especially when the latter are used for dairy production, too. Encouraging the ongoing trend toward intensification of cattle farming would also have a dramatic impact on deforestation. Just allowing formerly logged forests to continue naturally regenerating could fix around 22 billion metric tons of CO2, according to one 2016 study — roughly enough to absorb the country’s own emissions for half a century. A better idea, though, would be to turn Brazil’s ample forest land endowment into a new export industry. A growing group of countries making pledges to hit “net zero” aren’t yet clear about where the gross emissions in excess of the net figure are going to be offset. Brazilian trees could offer just the solution. At a $50 per metric ton carbon price, restoring just 1% of the country’s 126 million hectares of cultivated pasture each year could fix 150 million metric tons of CO2 and represent a more valuable export industry than beef. Such a change isn’t going to happen under the slash-and-burn policies of Bolsonaro. Its failure to protect its forests has put the free trade agreement between the EU and South America’s Mercosur bloc on ice. Bolsonaro ultimately hasn’t followed through on a campaign threat to pull Brazil out of the Paris Agreement, and the powerful agribusiness bloc in congress can be surprisingly pragmatic on such issues. Momentum on climate could be the catalyst to move forward on trade, while an early seat at the table would give Brasilia the chance to help craft global climate agreements to maximise its own economic benefit from decarbonisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-polluters-easy-path-to-the-zero-emissions-club-914160.html
11-11-2020||Panorama||Fueling India's chess supremacy||Since the heyday of 1988 which saw India’s chess Grandmaster (GM) Viswanathan Anand take to the world stage, the game has inspired many Indian’s to take up the sport with of gusto and elan. Not only did Anand popularise the sport and make it mainstream, but he also showed millions of Indians that it could be a viable alternative as a career and provided many with the aspiration to become sportsmen on the world’s stage. India has thus far produced 66 GMs, and 21 of these in the last three years alone. Eight of these players are between the ages of 10 and 19. What has fuelled this surge in Grand Masters? While a large part of the credit goes to available coaches with considerable experience and expertise, a lot of credit goes towards online gaming. Getting into the International Masters and becoming a Grand Master is difficult enough but it seems that this uphill climb is akin to only reaching the base camp. To break into the top strata of GMs is rarefied air, not unlike that of the high mountainous peaks and equally treacherous. It begins with a need to play the best players from around the world, that means a lot of international travel, which costs money. Also, advanced coaching costs a pretty penny. It is indeed not good enough to reach the top but to continue beating the best is an expensive affair. While most of the players have taken up jobs with Public Sector Undertakings and some get sponsorships, there has never been enough to go around to fuel the growth of enough superstars to dominate the sport of chess. Online gaming has provided a very lucrative opportunity for aspirants who are at an International Master and Grand Master levels to pursue their goals while continuously winning matches and real money in tournaments against other players. Take the case of V S Rathnavel, a young prodigy who earned his Grand Master level at the tender age of 10. But Rathnavel’s story is far from being glamorous. In an effort to raise money, he won a staggering 253 chess games in a manner of 10 hours earning him Rs 10 lakh in prize money. This coupled with a sponsorship from the gaming platform Mobile Premier League, has allowed Rathnavel to pursue his global ambitions and make India proud. His achievements were lauded by none other than the CEO of Niti Aayog, Amitabh Kant. Kant noted that mobile gaming and eSports had provided a great platform for talented people such as Rathnavel. An even more ambitious and aspirational generation of young GMs and IMs will follow VS Rathnavel. With the proliferation of inexpensive mobile devices, access to high-speed data connectivity and heroes to look up to we are sure to see an era of India’s chess dominance at the highest level. Although all is not rosy in India at the moment. Online gaming itself and the ability to raise funds for travel and for coaching not to mention sustenance is threatened. State governments such as those of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are blurring the lines between online gambling and skill-based games such as chess. The jaundiced eye of such states view playing mobile sports as ‘addiction’ or a waste of time and prize money earned from these competitions as ‘gambling’ and/or ‘betting’. They seek to ban online gaming, either through amendment of archaic 19th Century legislation (created before the invention of the modern computer) or through quick-fix ordinances or filing public interest litigations before the local courts. While the apex court of India has showcased an open mind to the idea of eSports these state governments are determined to undermine its position. We are very close to being a globally dominant force of chess. A country that can have more than 25 GMs in the top 100 over the three that we have today. It takes money to achieve this feat and we should not be cutting away the source of such funds not by decree or machinations. (The writer is the CEO at All India Gaming Federation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fueling-indias-chess-supremacy-914164.html
11-11-2020||Right in the Middle||Authors and their literary offsprings||“I have thrown my whole heart and soul into ‘Oliver Twist'”, wrote Charles Dickens, a budding British author, when he started writing his serialised novel of the same name in the year 1836. There is a unique painting titled ‘ Dickens’s Dreams’, displayed at the Charles Dickens Museum in London, that depicts Dickens surrounded by all his literary, fictional characters: Oliver, David, Agnes, Estella, Uriah Heep, Jack Dawkins aka The Artful Dodger, Peggotty Clara, Barkis, Charley Bates, Bill Sikes, Mr and Mrs Bumble, Little Nell Trent. It makes for a fascinating group photograph of the author surrounded by his lovable, literary offspring!  I remember reading a Kannada poet, who likens his literary work to a beautiful string of fresh, fragrant flowers put together by a florist, urging the passersby to buy it for their personal adornment. What is noteworthy here is the kind of intense and abiding love and affinity that exists between a writer and his writings. One desirous of his piece seeing the light of day, and submitting his/her manuscript to the editor of a newspaper or periodical would be as anxious as one sending his ward out into the wide world outdoors.  What follows afterwards would mostly be a period of anxiety, heartaches and heartburns! As it would mostly result in a rejection slip. There is, in fact, much more to be written about rejection slips than what all has so far been written about all the other subjects in Literature! Once I went out to meet the editor of a well-known illustrated weekly magazine in Indianapolis in the state of Indiana, during my stay in America, to enquire about the fate of my submissions to them. I found, during our discussions, how they were feeling somewhat fidgety about their mag having once rejected an article written by Ernest Hemingway. Hemingway then didn’t despair and didn’t bid farewell to writing, he instead went on to win the Nobel prize for his classic ‘Farewell to Arms’.  The first step towards achieving success in freelance writing could be receiving a rejection slip! Next must be the further learning and perfecting of one’s art and craft of writing. Then it is perseverance. I’ve survived the classic rejection slips of yore, intimidatingly impersonal in tone and tenor. It has now been morphed into instant, automated response, setting out terms of the matter. It is not so terse of tone and tenor but in plain and practical words. So much so that it is good now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/authors-and-their-literary-offsprings-914165.html
11-11-2020||Second Edit||Focus on India’s water crisis||The worsening water situation in India has been discussed very often and in great detail, but fresh warnings keep coming out from experts and various organisations. Water scarcity is not specific to India, but it has a special relevance to the country because its per capita availability is low and is falling. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)’s latest report, about 350 million people living in 100 cities of national importance across the world are at immediate risk of a water crisis, and all of them will face a severe crisis by 2050. The report concluded that “these cities face looming scenarios of water scarcity unless urgent action is taken to mitigate and adapt to climate change”. Along with climate change, rising population is also a factor that will aggravate the crisis. The report has named 30 Indian cities, including Bengaluru and other metropolises and Hubli-Dharwad, as very susceptible to water risk. Some of them are in the very high-risk category. The risk has been increasing in the past few decades, and the past few years have seen the situation getting more and more acute. This is because many strategies that have been planned and sought to be implemented to deal with it have not been effective. In most cases, the problem was not with the strategies and solutions but with their implementation. There is greater waywardness in the behaviour of the monsoon, groundwater resources have been depleting and conservation efforts are mostly inadequate. Each of these, and other problems, have to be handled in separate and specific ways, and every region and even locality will need its own solutions. That makes the solutions complex and difficult. In the Indian context, the report says there is the need for a holistic framework on water management and notes how ‘Smart Cities’ as an initiative can help develop urban watersheds and wetlands to bolster freshwater conservation. It also recommends formulation of plans at a local level and inclusion of stakeholders in the development process to evolve a sustainable water conservation strategy. These are known ideas, but they need to be reiterated because the need for effective actions is getting more and more urgent. It is important to maintain and develop urban wetlands and watershed areas, implement rainwater harvesting and micro-irrigation schemes and look for conservation and wastewater reclamation plans. There is greater awareness about the importance of water now, and there is the need for action at government, community and individual levels to deal with the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/focus-on-india-s-water-crisis-914161.html
11-11-2020||South||Telangana people rejecting leaders inspired by Aurangzeb, Osama, Babar and Akbar, says BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay||BJP's Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay said that they would bring Rama-Rajya to the state's people who are “rejecting the leaders inspired by Aurangzeb, Osama bin (Laden), Babar and Akbar.” Buoyed by the BJP seizing the Dubbaka assembly seat from the ruling TRS on Tuesday in a tightly fought contest, Sanjay said that the BJP would soon hoist the saffron flag over the Golconda Fort (in Hyderabad). “Telangana people are wishing for Ramarajya which is only possible by us BJP, the inheritors of Lord Ram's traits. Not those leaders who hold the green-pink flags, appearing before the public like the successors of Aurangazeb, Osama bin (Laden), Babar and Akbar,” Bandi said. “That is why they are taught a lesson by the Dubbaka voters today.”   The pink and green colors are politically identified with the TRS and the AIMIM, parties in alliance in the state. With the Dubbaka success, the BJP has now focused its attention on the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls due in January-February. “With this inspiring victory handed by the Dubbaka voters, we would extend our winning streak to the 2023 assembly elections,” Bandi said. Bandi, the Karimnagar Lok Sabha MP, accused the K Chandrasekhar Rao of becoming “arrogant with power and running a corrupt, dictatorial regime.” The BJP leader fired on CM Rao over the alleged lack of relief to the flood-affected people in Hyderabad. “Dubbaka voters were shocked to see that the CM did not come out of his palatial bungalows when the poor people were suffering in neck-deep waters,” Bandi said while taunting Rao for avoiding campaigning in Dubbaka. Bandi has sharpened his attack on Rao, the TRS party, and government since his police detention on 26 October, a week before the by-poll, while he was on way to Dubbaka in support of party candidate Raghunandan Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-people-rejecting-leaders-inspired-by-aurangzeb-osama-babar-and-akbar-says-bjp-state-chief-bandi-sanjay-914178.html
11-11-2020||South||BJP's Raghunandan Rao finally wins in Dubbaka: How the former TRS man jolted KCR out of his comfort zone||Perhaps no other victorious candidate across the country on Tuesday would relish his success as much as the BJP's Raghunandan Rao in Telangana's Dubbaka. Raghunandan, an advocate, was trounced to third position in the 2014 and 2018 assembly elections here. He was also defeated in the Medak Lok Sabha constituency, comprising Dubbaka, in the general elections last year. And it was the TRS, with which he was till 2013, that triumphed in all the three polls. If only Raghunandan remained with Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao, he might have become a legislator much earlier. Raghunandan, also a Velama (a caste associated with landlords) as the Kalvakuntla family is, rose to a prominent position in the statehood agitation party. But he was “unceremoniously” removed from the TRS seven years back for “anti-party activities.” Raghunandan, who joined the BJP, has from then on been unsuccessfully challenging the KCR and TRS power which only multiplied over the years. But Raghunandan's fortune bloomed with the unfortunate death of the TRS's Dubbaka MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August, due to cardiac arrest. Dubbaka, nestled between Chief Minister KCR's Gajwel, his nephew and finance minister Harish Rao's Siddipet and IT, industries and municipal administration minister and KCR's son KT Rama Rao's Sircilla is seen by the locals as a patch of neglect amidst the three high profile constituencies. Dubbaka voters complain that no mentionable development took place during the past six years TRS rule. With his long association with the area, Raghunandan, with the support of BJP leadership vying for power in Telangana, succeeded in projecting the 3 November by-poll as a contest between KCR's might and the public aspiration for jobs, development in the constituency. On ground political observers said that the BJP victory was propelled by the youth who prevailed upon their parents, grandparents to vote for a change to elect “an educated and questioning voice.” Though the TRS initially taunted Raghunandan saying he was fighting to retain his deposit, the week before the polls witnessed a high voltage campaign and drama with TRS focusing its political attacks on the BJP. The BJP accused the TRS of large scale misuse of government machinery especially the police to target Raghunandan, alleging obstructions to his canvassing. It alleged that the Rs 18 lakh cash seized from the BJP contestant's relative house was planted by the police at TRS's behest. While the TRS has put Solipeta's widow Sujatha as their candidate to garner sympathy votes, voters have evidently empathized with BJP's Raghunandan. On Tuesday, Raghunandan drubbed the TRS with a 1079 vote majority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-raghunandan-rao-finally-wins-in-dubbaka-how-the-former-trs-man-jolted-kcr-out-of-his-comfort-zone-914204.html
11-11-2020||South||Kerala police receive over 2,800 complaints of domestic violence during lockdown||The Kerala police have received more than 2,800 complaints of domestic violence across the state during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Of the total plaints received during the period, a total of 2,757 have been settled, an official statement said here. "Since the lockdown began, police have received 2,868 complaints of domestic violence from various districts of the state till October 31. Of these, 2,757 have been settled under the aegis of the district police chiefs," it said. State police chief DGP Loknath Behera directed to settle the rest of the 111 complaints under the aegis of the Inspector General (IG) in charge of the police headquarters here and the Women's Cell superintendent of police (SP). The DGP, who recently took part in an online adalat to resolve complaints related to domestic violence, at the behest of the newly-set up Conflict Resolution Centre at the district level, listened to the grievances of many people and suggested solutions, it said. Behera said it was a time consuming process to register a case and file a charge-sheet in the court on complaints received in connection with the domestic violence. The new system, which seeks to find a solution through means like direct counselling by meeting plaintiff and opposite parties, was convenient not only for police but also for the complainants involved, he said. A solution would be evolved when complainants and opposite parties open up their mind and talk to each other and police can play a crucial role in this, the DGP said. "The diligence and dedication shown by the police in resolving complaints is an important factor behind the success of this scheme. So, district police chiefs should give special attention in considering the complaints of domestic violence and resolve it," the top official added. As many as 20 women, from various parts of the state, took part in the online adalat and lodged complaints with the state police chief, who directed the district police chiefs to ensure follow-up action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-receive-over-2800-complaints-of-domestic-violence-during-lockdown-914235.html
11-11-2020||South||Man who suffered disability in accident gets Rs 53 lakh compensation||A youth who suffered serious injuries in a road accident has been awarded a compensation of Rs 52.7 lakh by a Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal at Malappuram district in Kerala. Biju, a native of Mooniyoor near Thirurangadi, about 25 kilometres from Malappuram town, was paralysed below the waist after he was knocked down by a goods carrier on July 26, 2016 when he was 29. The accident occured seven month after his marriage. He had done a course in fire and safety, and worked in a firm at Mysore for around six months. He was looking for a job abroad when the accident dashed his hopes. He was also a local football player. The Tirur MACT ordered the compensation along with interest, which would come to around Rs 68 lakh, said advocate P M Sabeena who appeared for Biju along with advocate K P Anilkumar. Sabeena said that Biju suffered 80 percent disability and required support of others for basic needs. The compensation was decided considering his age and future prospects. The mode of payment of the compensation would be known only once the detailed order is available, she said. Biju said that the compensation was a relief as he was now totally confined to wheelchair and bed and unable to go for any work. So far over Rs 4 lakh was spent on his treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-who-suffered-disability-in-accident-gets-rs-53-lakh-compensation-914240.html
11-11-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: Sivasankar's custody extended till November 12||A special court here on Wednesday extended by one more day the ED's custody of M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the Chief Minister, arrested in connection with the alleged money laundering in the Kerala gold smuggling case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) moved an application in the Special PMLA court here, seeking one more day custody of Sivasankar to investigate in connection with the case as his custody period ended today. Considering the plea, the court extended by one more day the ED custody of the suspended IAS officer. Last week, the court had extended by six more days the custody of Sivasankar to probe details of communication between him and Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the sensational gold smuggling case. Sivasankar, arrested by the agency on October 28, was earlier sent to seven day custody of the ED. The ED, probing the money trail in the gold smuggling case, has alleged multiple offences against Sivasankar. The National Investigation Agency, Customs and the ED are conducting separate investigations into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" of UAE Consulate at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-sivasankars-custody-extended-till-november-12-914269.html
11-11-2020||South||TRS worker dies by suicide depressed over party candidate losing Dubbak by-election||Reportedly depressed over the defeat of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) candidate in the bypoll held to the Dubbak Assembly constituency, a 35-year-old party worker allegedly died by suicide in Siddipet district, police said on Wednesday. The man committed suicide by hanging from a tree in Konaipally village late on Tuesday night, a police official said. According to his wife, he was depressed over the TRS candidate losing the by-election,the official added. A case under CrPC section 174 (unnatural death) was registered. The deceased was found wearing a TRS scarf around his neck. In a close contest, BJP's M Raghunandan Rao defeated the TRS candidate Sujatha by a margin of 1,079 votes in the Dubbak by-election,results of which were announced on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-worker-dies-by-suicide-depressed-over-party-candidate-losing-dubbak-by-election-914374.html
11-11-2020||South||What does Stalin know about farmers, he is surviving without an occupation: K Palaniswami||In a scathing attack on DMK President M K Stalin, Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday questioned his knowledge in agriculture and accused him of surviving without being in any occupation. His roots in agriculture was instrumental in aiding him to launch the 'Kudimaramathu' scheme and also ensure that the state bagged the national award in water management, Palaniswami said. Hitting back at the DMK Chief over his 'fake' farmer barb targetting him, the CM said agriculture was his primary occupation and he was a farmer since childhood. "What does he know about farmers? How do you differentiate a fake from a genuine farmer?" he asked when a reporter sought his reaction to Stalin's remark that the chief minister was a "fake" farmer. "I construe that he is insulting farmers by making such unwarranted remark. If you ask me, I can talk about agriculture. But what does he know he doesn't know what profession he is in. Stalin is perhaps the only person who is surviving without being in any profession," Palaniswami alleged, hitting out at the DMK president. The CM who was in this southern coastal district to review the measures being taken by the administration to prevent the spread of COVID-19 besides launch numerous projects, said, "agriculture is my primary occupation. I have been a farmer since my childhood and people of my locality know it. They know I worked hard." "I don't need Stalin's certificate to prove to be a farmer," he said. Palaniswami, who had earlier taunted the DMK chief for speaking about the Centre's reforms in agriculture sector, saying he lacked knowledge on the subject, questioned Stalin's knowledge on farming, again, and wondered how he could differentiate a fake farmer from a genuine without knowing the subject. In fact, his background as a farmer had helped him come out with several schemes including the 'Kudimaramathu' programme for the benefit of farmers and also steer the state to bag the national award in water management. He also recalled his efforts on getting 10 TMC water for parched Chennai from the Krishna river in Andhra Pradesh. Further, he had initiated talks with his Kerala counterpart aiming to resolve the long pending water issues between the two states. "But what has Stalin done for water management in the state when DMK was in power. He is responsible for the Tuticorin incident (police firing on protesters during the anti-Sterlite stir on May 22, 2018, which claimed 13 lives)," the CM said. He accused the DMK president of being a "liar" for blaming the AIADMK government for the Sterlite police firing incident. "During the DMK rule, as a minister Stalin had informed the assembly that land was being allotted for Sterlites expansion programme and that the company was investing Rs 1,500 crore for the same," Palaniswami said. Though Stalin had done everything, he blamed the state government, the chief minister said and claimed that the police firing would not have happened had the expansion not been permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/what-does-stalin-know-about-farmers-he-is-surviving-without-an-occupation-k-palaniswami-914385.html
11-11-2020||South||Minor students from Bihar, UP who were going to vedic school in Kerala detained for want of records||As many as 16 minor students from Bihar and UP have been detained by the Railway Protection Force and the child protection authorities at Palakkad district in Kerala owing to want of proper records. The students were being brought to Veda Patasala at Karigarapully in Palakkad district by train. All were boys in the six to 16 age group. Some of them did not have consent letters of parents or any other documents and hence they were detained on Tuesday and shifted to a children's home. District child protection officer Subha S and officials of Childline visited the children and directed the authorities of the Veda Patasala to produce the required documents within ten days. An official told DH that so far there is nothing to suspect that the incident is related to child trafficking. Among the 16 children, ten were already studying at the Veda Patasala. They went to their native place in August on vacation. Six other children accompanied them when they were returning to Kerala. The Veda Patasala authorities maintained that they were being brought with the consent of their parents. Hence they were asked to produce the documents. Veda Patasala manager E R Ganesan also said that there were no illegalities and all the necessary documents would be produced soon. The issue triggered suspicions as earlier there were incidents of children from other states being trafficked to Kerala by children's homes with the main intention of getting government grants for children. An official of the Palakkad district police said that there is no such suspicions in the present incident. All the students were also quarantined as per the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-students-from-bihar-up-who-were-going-to-vedic-school-in-kerala-detained-for-want-of-records-914396.html
11-11-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Enforcement Directorate points finger at more CMO officials||Causing further damage to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's image, the Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday stated before a special court in Kochi that apart from the Chief Minister's principal secretary M Sivasankar, some more officials in the CMO were aware of the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage. ED assistant director P Radhakrishnan also stated in an affidavit seeking an extension of Sivasankar's custody, that Sivasankar was involved in the gold smuggling activities and he intervened to get the diplomatic baggage tag for the luggages containing gold. Also, the Rs. One crore commission amount involved in a housing scheme sponsored by the UAE Red Crescent for the homeless in Kerala is suspected to have been meant for Sivasankar. The fresh developments came close on the heels of ED summoning CM's additional private secretary C M Raveendran. But Raveendran has not appeared in front of ED yet, citing that he is infected with Covid-19. According to the ED's statement before the special court for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate, revealed after further quizzing that Sivasankar and his team in the CMO were fully aware of the gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel. She also said that Sivasankar was aware of the kickbacks given by Unitac Builders for facilitating the award of the contract from Red Crescent for the housing scheme and the Rs. One crore amount found in Swapna's bank locker was meant for Sivasankar. Swapna also stated that Sivasankar shared crucial information related to many government projects. The court allowed Sivasankar's custody in the ED for one more day. His bail application would be considered by the court on Thursday. Sivasankar was arrested by ED on October 28 and arraigned as the fifth accused in the case registered by ED in the gold smuggling controversy. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said that the Covid-19 infection of C M Raveendran, who has been close with Vijayan as well as the CPM for a long time, is quite suspicious. "Raveendran could be giving more information about the nexus of the CM's office with the gold smuggling accused and hence Raveendran's life could be even under threat," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-enforcement-directorate-points-finger-at-more-cmo-officials-914424.html
11-11-2020||South||Kerala to allow Covid-19 patients missing postal ballots to vote in last hour in civic polls||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance for enabling voters who test positive for Covid-19 or quarantined after the deadline for seeking postal ballot to vote in the last hour of polling in the local body elections to be held next month. The state cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, decided to recommend to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for promulgating the ordinance amending relevant sections of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act. The government had recently amended the acts to extend the voting time by an hour till 6 pm and also to provide postal ballot facility to Covid-19 patients.  An official release said at present those seeking postal ballot needto apply to the returning officer three days prior to the voting day and submit their votes in a sealed manner to the concerned authority. "The amendment is to allow those who test positive or gets quarantined after the deadline (to cast their vote)," the release said. The cabinet also decided to direct the health department to issue specific guidelines on the arrangements required for the Covid-19 patients and the quarantined people. The department would also issue guidelines on the safety measures for the staff on polling duty. The polls are to be held in three phases. While the first phase on December 8 will cover the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki, the second phase on December 10 would be held in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad. Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod would go to the polls in the third and final phase on December 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-allow-covid-19-patients-missing-postal-ballots-to-vote-in-last-hour-in-civic-polls-914428.html
11-11-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district tops list in water conservation||Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh has topped the country in water conservation and bagged the national award under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan for the year 2019. The award, instituted by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, was presented by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday. Kadapa topped the list with 84.84 marks followed by Sangareddy in Telangana with 77.75 and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu with 69.79. Jal Shakti Abhiyan (JSA) is a time-bound campaign taken up on a mission mode approach to improving conditions in around 1,500 blocks in 255 districts across the country that are drought-affected, water-stressed or over-exploited. Of these, 23 are aspirational districts. In Andhra Pradesh, 68 mandals (blocks) in nine districts were chosen for JSA activities. In Kadapa, it was taken up in 13 blocks with activities like watershed development, water conservation and rainwater harvesting, reuse and recharge structures, intensive afforestation and renovation of traditional and other water bodies, according to district Collector Ch Harikiran. "We have taken up some of these works under MGNREGP (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme) and also separately. In all, 2,17,860 works were taken up in the first phase between July 1 and September 15, 2019," senior IAS officer Suresh Kumar, the Central Nodal Officer for JSA, told PTI. He said Krishi Vigyan Melas were organised in which over 3. 72 lakh farmers participated, where they were sensitised on water conservation methods. We had also undertaken an extensive IEC (information, education and communication) campaign by engaging members of the women self-help groups, conducting essay-writing competitions for students, organising focused group discussions among stakeholders and kala jathas (cultural shows)," he said. This ensured active involvement of people in water conservation as water is a precious commodity in a district like Kadapa, he said. Kumar hoped the JSA would help improve the water-table in the parched district and help it overcome the crisis as the conservation efforts begin to yield fruit in the coming seasons. Groundwater-level in the district depleted from 9.15 metres in 2001 to 19.33 m in 2019. Thanks to JSA, the groundwater has been recharged to an extent of 3.57 tmcft this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradeshs-kadapa-district-tops-list-in-water-conservation-914434.html
11-11-2020||South||TTD's bhakti channel employees found accessing porn, sending links to devotees||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams looks engulfed by all sorts of controversies. After political, public furore over the temple land auction proposals, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy's faith declaration and so on, now it has emerged that devotees are receiving porn links in emails from the Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti Channel. SVBC was in news for another such indecorous episode earlier this year. Telugu actor-comedian and YSRCP man Prudhvi Raj had to resign from the channel's chairmanship in January after the audio tapes of his obscene, harassing conversation with a women employee became public. In the present case, Venkata Krishna, a devotee had sought some details through email regarding "Shatamanam Bhavati", a programme on SVBC. TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy and Executive Officer Jawahar Reddy ordered an immediate inquiry. On Wednesday, Suresh Gedela, CEO of SVBC informed that an office subordinate (attender) was removed from service after his alleged involvement in forwarding a porn site link to the devotee was proved. “A vigilance probe found that a few more employees are also involved in such willful, indecent conduct. If proved guilty, action will be initiated on those employees too,” the official said. Hindu organisations and BJP are pointing to a rot in the SVBC management and demanding a cleansing of the recruitment process to ensure jobs are offered to the devotional and committed candidates. And only to the required strength to prevent such “vulgar, time-pass” activities. Questions are also being raised as how an office subordinate is allowed access to the computers.  To avoid such embarrassment in future, officials said that henceforth, “all the SVBC computers will function under the supervision of TTD IT Wing and each computer will be password protected for security.” It has also been decided to bring SVBC under the supervisory control of TTD Vigilance. TTD said that a cyber-cell has been constituted and a team of 25 software engineers carried out computer security audit in the SVBC buildings. SVBC is a hugely popular spiritual channel run by the temple board, in Telugu, Tamil. Kannada ,Hindi channels are in the offing. In August, SVBC faced disapproval for failing to live telecast the Ramajanma-bhoomi temple foundation ceremony at Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttds-bhakti-channel-employees-found-accessing-porn-sending-links-to-devotees-914464.html
11-11-2020||South||Only green firecrackers allowed for Diwali in Andhra Pradesh||In compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) orders, the Andhra Pradesh government has issued directions that only green crackers could be sold and used for Diwali. The timings for the bursting of crackers is also restricted to two hours, 8 pm to 10 pm, on Diwali day. The measure is to minimize air pollution due to firecrackers that could aggravate the Covid-19 danger. As of November 9, as many as 8,16,322 persons recovered from Covid-19 and another 21,235 active cases are under treatment whose lung capacity might be at risk, health officials said. “The health commissioner has requested to issue suitable instructions to the concerned on restricted use of firecrackers in the interest of Covid-19 patients (recovered and active) and in the interest of public health at large,” a government order issued by Nilam Sawhney, state chief secretary, on Tuesday said. The state also issued Covid-19 guidelines for selling crackers. All shops selling crackers shall maintain 10 feet distance between each shop. Purchasers should maintain six-feet social distance in the queues. The purchasers shall also be advised against using hand sanitizer during Diwali celebrations but use normal soap while bursting crackers and lighting diyas. Collectors, police superintendents/commissioners and municipal commissioners are instructed to implement the NGT orders across the state. The NGT has in its November 5 order issued directions for remedial action against air pollution due to use of firecrackers aggravating the menace of Covid-19, posing higher danger to the lives and health of the vulnerable groups. The NGT directed to impose a ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in areas where the air quality is poor, very poor and severe. In cities/towns where air quality is moderate or below, only green crackers can be sold and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during Diwali and Gurpurab; 6 am to 8 am on Chatt and 11.55 pm to 12.30 am during the Christmas and New Year eve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/only-green-firecrackers-allowed-for-diwali-in-andhra-pradesh-914480.html
11-11-2020||South||Inter-state bus services resume between Tamil Nadu & Karnataka over Deepavali||In view of Deepavali, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday allowed inter-state bus services between the state and Karnataka till November 16 without e-registration. In an order issued late on Wednesday night, Chief Secretary K Shanmugam said the inter-state buses can ply between the two states from November 11 to November 16 after following the Standard Operating Procedure. “Operation of inter-state bus services between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu by the State Transport Undertakings shall be permitted from 11.11.2020 to 16.11.2020 without e-registration,” the order said. The Tamil Nadu government had stopped inter-state transport services in mid-March due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inter-state-bus-services-resume-between-tamil-nadu-karnataka-over-deepavali-914484.html
11-11-2020||South||Congress leader carries bullets in handbag, creates flutter in airport||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S Jayakumar created a flutter at the airport here on Wednesday after live bullets were found in his handbag as he was about to board a flight to Coimbatore. The bullets were detected when Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel scanned his baggage this morning. He was immediately detained and later handed over to the Chennai airport police, airport sources said. On being questioned by police, the Congress leader said the bullets belonged to him and his wife as they had licensed firearms. Police said Jayakumar was let off in the evening after he produced documentary evidence pertaining to the licenses of the firearms that he and his wife possessed, besides an apology letter. Thereafter, he boarded a flight to Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-carries-bullets-in-handbag-creates-flutter-in-airport-914486.html
11-11-2020||State||Karnataka gets its first recycled plastic house||Imagine building a house without any additional cost to the environment. A waste collector in Karnataka in collaboration with Plastics For Change India Foundation got himself a home made completely with recycled plastic waste. The Plastics For Change India Foundation, which has been working to develop and improve the quality of life of informal waste collectors across the coastal belt of Karnataka, has constructed a house for a waste collector using recycled plastic at an estimated cost of Rs 4.50 lakh at Pacchanady. Speaking to reporters, Shifrah Jacobs, chief impact officer of Plastics For Change India Foundation, said that 1,500 kg of recycled plastic were used for the construction of the house of Kamala, one of the beneficiaries. About 60 panels produced by recycled plastic have been used. Each panel is prepared using 25 kg of plastic. “This is an innovative and environmentally sustainable project that converts hard-to-recycle plastic waste into building material that can be used to construct low-cost shelter.” “This is Karnataka’s first environmentally-friendly ‘recycled plastic house’ in Mangaluru. The durability test of the construction material has been conducted before building the house,” she said. The house was constructed with the help of a construction partner from Hyderabad. The construction cost can be reduced if more houses are constructed at a time, she said. “In the second phase, we are planning to come up with 20 such houses and more than 20 tonnes of plastic will be utilised. This can be used for multiple applications, including construction of toilets,” Shifrah added. The Foundation has been working with communities located in Pacchanady and Kurikatta in Mangaluru. Online educational programmes Shifrah said, “To ensure that the children from low income communities have continued education, we have stepped in by providing supplementary tuition classes and by setting up virtual online classes (with smart TV) for students from classes VI to X in the community.” “A total of 20 children are benefited from this initiative in Pacchanady and Kurikatta.” The initiative is being set up to ensure that the quality of education for these children aren’t affected despite their inability to go to schools, she added. “Apart from ensuring that social-distancing protocols were maintained, the classes also provided nutritional supplements for its attendees.” “The Foundation is now establishing virtual classrooms, allowing teachers from cities like Bangaluru to teach these children through smart TV setups,” Shifrah added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gets-its-first-recycled-plastic-house-914231.html
11-11-2020||State||Restrict derogatory, inflammatory content: Karnataka govt tells social media firms||The Karnataka government has requested social media platforms to restrict derogatory and inflammatory content, said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, here Wednesday. The decision was in the wake of social disturbances caused due to such posts in the state, resulting in losses to damage and property. Speaking to DH, Bommai said that the government was in regular touch with representatives of all social media platforms. "The Home Department organises regular meetings with Facebook, Twitter and other firms. We have requested them to come up with a 'filter' to prevent hateful content on social media," he said. It can be recalled that a social media post had triggered the violent DJ Halli riots, resulting in three deaths due to police firing apart from other damages. Bommai said that the government was initiating measures to prevent cybercrime in the state. "Authorities are more vigilant about cyber crimes these days," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/restrict-derogatory-inflammatory-content-karnataka-govt-tells-social-media-firms-914289.html
11-11-2020||State||Government yet to take decision on school reopening: S Suresh Kumar||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said that the government was yet to take a decision on reopening of the schools. He was speaking to media persons after visiting Sree Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Temple in Dharmasthala. He offered special puja at the temple and met Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade. The Minister lauded the ‘Jnana Taana’ programme of Shri Kshethra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project. “Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools have not been reopened. There are limitations to online classes too. After holding discussions with experts, the government will take a decision on reopening of the schools,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-yet-to-take-decision-on-school-reopening-s-suresh-kumar-914474.html
11-11-2020||State||Video featuring Puneeth Rajkumar to promote tourism in Chamarajangar||In an effort to promote the tourism destinations and religious places in Chamarajanagar district, the district administration has created a publicity video titled 'Cheluva Chamarajanagara', with a tagline 'Land of Tigers', which will be released soon. The 4.15 minute video has a brief message by actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who is also the ambassador of Chamarajanagar district, said Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, after releasing a 28-second teaser, here, on Wednesday. The DC said, "This was an effort to boost tourism activities in the district. The video would be officially launched soon." He also thanked actor Puneeth Rajkumar for his cooperation. However, a 4.18 minute video is already being circulated on the social media before its official launch, having Chamarajanagar district administration's name. The authorities are yet to confirm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/video-featuring-puneeth-rajkumar-to-promote-tourism-in-chamarajangar-914487.html
11-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Will bring in policies to introduce Hindu practices of wellness: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka may soon policies to learn the Hindu way of life Emphasising on learning the Hindu way of life and adopting ancient practices of wellness, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said he will bring in policies to introduce a holistic and comprehensive healthcare system in the state. In an interview to PTI, Sudhakar, who is a medical practitioner, said, "One should learn the Hindu way of life. One should go back to our ancient practices so far as wellness is concerned." "I am moving ahead to introduce this (ancient practices of wellness) in Bengaluru and Karnataka in a holistic and comprehensive manner. I am bringing in new policies," he said. Sudhakar further said he would stress on prevention of diseases such as diabetes, cancer, hypertension etc. Lamenting that the spending on public healthcare by all the previous governments had taken a backseat, he said this is an area where he would like to focus. "We need to build a robust healthcare system, especially when primary and secondary healthcare should be robust. We should focus more on prevention of a disease," Sudhakar said. Asked whether Ayurveda was of any help during the pandemic, the minister said he was not armed with any medical evidence to prove that it works the way allopathy does. "I don't know whether Ayurveda and Unani have the same protocols as allopathy, but I know for a fact that Ayurveda is a great science, very ancient science, which works. All diseases cannot have the same protocol of treatment," he added. The infection and mortality in Karnataka have come down drastically from over 10,500 fresh cases and over 200 deaths a day to somewhere between 2,000 and 2,500 infections and 20 to 30 deaths a day. Asked how it was reduced, the minister said after eight months with the virus, the medical world has developed a line of treatment after many trial-and-errors. "Since it is almost eight months now, a structured and specific treatment protocol has been achieved," he said. He added that Karnataka had used technology to the optimum level by setting up a war room, tele-ICU connecting all the ICUs across all the districts of the state to ensure uniform treatment protocol. The serological survey with a sample size of 16,700 people conducted in Karnataka indicated that about 1.93 crore people in the state had a brush with the virus. Responding to a query whether Karnataka was close to herd immunity, Sudhakar said it was quite natural to develop it. "It is quite natural to develop it. This sample size is not very big. In a big dynamic country like ours, the spread of coronavirus is a reality. So more positive cases is a reality but herd immunity has to happen finally but we cannot predict when," he pointed out. Herd immunity, also known as population immunity, occurs when a high percentage of the community is immune to a disease and making its spread from person to person unlikely. To another question on how Karnataka dealt with the pandemic, Sudhakar said the state was the first to use latest technologies. "We were the first in many things like tele-ICU, using technology, 'Aptamitra' helpline, Quarantine mobile applications, home isolation applications -- We monitored the infected or primary contacts using technology, identifying the primary and secondary contacts and counselling," he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-bring-in-policies-to-introduce-hindu-practices-of-wellness-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-914285.html
11-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Video record SC/ST atrocity complaints: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||In order to prevent authorities from misleading victims filing cases under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa directed police to video record the complaint filing process of such cases, here Wednesday. Speaking at a meeting of the Social Welfare Department, he said that police were video recording witness statements and Panchnama of cases registered under the Act. This should be extended to the process of registering complaints also, he said. Noting that only five to six percent of the cases under the Act were prosecuted, he instructed authorities concerned to improve prosecution rates. "Police officials should file FIRs in all atrocity cases. Measures should be taken to ensure that charge-sheets are filed within 60 days of the complaint," he said. Steps should be taken to ensure that victims of caste harassment are compensated as per law. The government has set aside Rs 30 cr for the purpose, of which Rs 15 cr is in Deputy Commissioner accounts, according to the CM. Yediyurappa recommended opening fair price shops in every colony or 'thaanda' of SC/STs, where there were at least 100 ration cardholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/video-record-sc/st-atrocity-complaints-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-914353.html
11-11-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Assembly bypolls setback: JDS cites multiple reasons||JD(S) Karnataka president H K Kumaraswamy on Wednesday conceded that the party could have been more organised in its approach towards the bypolls to two assembly segments, where it turned in a disappointing performance yielding electoral ground. The regional party was relegated to the third place in Sira and Rajarajeshwari (RR) Nagar seats, despite having considerable presence of Vokkaligas -- the party's core support base -- there, and failed to secure even 50 per cent of the votes received by it in the 2018 Assembly election. "...yes there was some delay (in going for campaigning and also announcing candidates), we could have been more organised, there were financial issues as well," Kumaraswamy told PTI. He noted that in by-elections, people generally back the ruling party for the "sake of development and getting the work done." "...there is still over two years time for the assembly election. We will organise in a planned way..there is no need to lose heart because of these results..," he added. JD(S) legislature party leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too on Tuesday said that bypoll results were not a "yardstick" for a political party and he would concentrate on strengthening his party. The JD(S), which had won the Sira seat in the 2018 assembly polls by getting 74,338 votes, was relegated to the third place with the party candidate Ammajamma B, wife of late party MLA Sathyanarayana (whose death necessitated bypolls) securing 36,783 votes. In RR Nagar also, JD(S) ended up a distant third with V Krishnamurthy securing just 10,269 votes. The party during the 2018 assembly polls too came third, but had secured 60,360 votes. BJP candidates have won both seats in the bypolls held on November 3. Speaking about the loss in Sira, H K Kumaraswamy said, "during the campaign, the ruling BJP made certain announcements, which seems to have worked in their favour. From our side too there was a delay in the announcement of the candidate. The ticket was given to a woman (Ammajamma B) thinking that it may workout, but it is proved to be wrong." While in RR Nagar, "there was no confidence that our candidate would win. Our own workers too lacked confidence and this led to the decline in votes for the party," he said. Ahead of the bypolls, JD(S) also faced an exodus of local leaders to other parties, which further contributed to its defeat, he pointed out. To a question whether the party failed in garnering Vokkaliga votes, Kumaraswamy said, "..it is getting reflected to an extent..in the Vokkaliga belt things seem to be a bit shaky, we are yet to analyse it." In Sira, since all the three candidates belonged to "Kunchitiga Vokkaliga", he community votes have split and JDS votes to some extent have shifted to BJP, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/assembly-bypolls-setback-jds-cites-multiple-reasons-914355.html
11-11-2020||West||Drug probe: Arjun Rampal's girlfriend appears before NCB||Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal's girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Wednesday as part of its probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood, an official said. Gabriella reached the NCB's zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai in her car just before 12 noon to join the investigation, the official said. A large number of media persons gathered outside the office. On Monday, the NCB had carried out a search at Rampal's residence here as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood. It had asked Rampal and Gabriella to join the investigation on Wednesday. However, sources said that Rampal is likely to be questioned by the NCB on Thursday. The search at the residence of the model-turned-actor came a day after the NCB arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife Shabana Saeed after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. The NCB had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones and tablets during the search at Rampal's residence and questioned the actor's driver. Last month, Gabriella's brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the NCB from a resort in Lonavala in drugs case, the official had said. It was alleged that he was in touch with drug peddlers. Last Thursday, the court had awarded to the anti-drugs agency his custody along with that of executive producer Kshitij Prasad in another drugs case in which four grams of cocaine was recovered from a Nigerian national Uka Emeka in Andheri last month. The NCB had launched a probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drug-probe-arjun-rampals-girlfriend-appears-before-ncb-914260.html
11-11-2020||West||Gujarat: Secondary schools and colleges to reopen from Nov 23||The Gujarat government on Wednesday announced the reopening of schools, colleges and universities in a phased manner from November 23 even as the state continues to battle Covid-19. The government said the decision has been taken after meeting all the stakeholders. Primary schools have not been permitted to resume as yet. While announcing the decision, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told reporters in Gandhinagar that post-Diwali vacation, secondary, higher secondary schools, colleges and universities will be permitted to reopen. He said that such educational institutes will be instructed to follow Covid-19 norms as issued by the state as well as the central government. "The Cabinet has decided that classes for standard 9 to 12 and postgraduate colleges, medical, paramedical colleges, final year undergraduate colleges, final year engineering, all polytechnics and ITIs have been permitted to reopen from November 23," Chudasama said. He added that vice-chancellors, school and college managements along with other stakeholders have been consulted and SOPs are being prepared to take all precautions. Chudasama said that schools and colleges will have to provide hand sanitizers, thermal guns for checking temperatures, hand wash facilities, among others. Besides, the students will have to bring written permission from their parents to attend school or college. Besides, the government has suggested that education institutes should avoid pressuring students for their presence as well as assembly, prayers or any mass gathering in the campuses. In a note, the state government said that schools and colleges should keep social distancing in the classroom as prescribed in the SOPs. It said that the gap between two students in a classroom should be 6 feet at least. "If classrooms are small, computer halls, laboratories, libraries, among others, can be used," the note released by the government stated. The state has been steadily reporting 900 to 1000 new coronavirus cases daily for the last couple of weeks, with a total of 1.65 lakh people infected so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-secondary-schools-and-colleges-to-reopen-from-nov-23-914325.html
11-11-2020||West||ABVP national secretary accidentally drowns in river||ABVP’s National Secretary and students' activist Aniket Ovhal was drowned in a river in the Nandurbar district of Maharashtra on Wednesday. Aniket had graduated from the Ruia College in Mumbai and had been associated with the students’ wing of the Sangh parivar. Ovhal was elevated to the national level from Maharashtra secretary two years ago. He was active during the ABVP protests in Jawaharlal Nehru University. Aniket was on a visit to Jalgaon and Nandurbar district of North Maharashtra. “ABVP family is heart-broken and shaken by the untimely demise of our National Secretary Aniket Ovhal. With his demise, we have lost a committed worker, and the nation has lost a face of the social and student movement, who continuously strived for welfare of students,” the ABVP said. “It is shocking news. I used to speak to Aniket often. He was enthusiastic,” state BJP spokesperson Keshav Updhayay said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abvp-national-secretary-accidentally-drowns-in-river-914400.html
11-11-2020||West||Indian sex workers suffer setback as watchdog U-turn on labour rights||India's sex workers suffered a setback on Wednesday following a U-turn by the country's human rights body, which said women in prostitution should not be registered as workers or guaranteed financial aid from the government amid the fallout of Covid-19. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) last month asked state governments to recognise sex workers as informal workers, which would have entitled them to benefits and aid from a $23 billion fund for India's poor during the coronavirus pandemic. While the watchdog's non-binding advisory was hailed by several campaigners as a boon for the rights of an estimated 800,000 sex workers across India, other activists said such a move would be illegal and risked legitimising sex trafficking. Prostitution is legal in India but most related activities such as soliciting, pimping, and running a brothel are crimes. The NHRC on Wednesday issued a new statement that said sex workers could not be registered officially or categorised as informal workers. The rights watchdog said they should instead be given help on "humanitarian grounds" during the pandemic. "If they are not defined as workers, it is a failure to recognise the work they do to earn their livelihood and feed their families," said Smarajit Jana, founder of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, a collective of sex workers in Kolkata. "This is a setback ... they will not be recognised as full-fledged citizens of the country, having full access to various citizenship documents and right to social and development schemes," added Jana, whose group represents 65,000 sex workers. Sex workers worldwide have lost work, earnings and their homes during multiple lockdowns to contain Covid-19. Many have been subjected to violence and blamed for spreading the virus. Supiya, a sex worker for more than a decade in Mumbai's red light district, said work had dried up and that she had been unable to financially support her parents as usual since March. "I am getting customers once in two days now and making about 150 rupees ($2) per client," said the 35-year-old, who did not disclose her full name. "How will I survive on this? Sex trafficking fears The NHRC - which makes recommendations but has no power to enforce them - said it changed course following letters from campaigners questioning the legality of its initial advisory, which focused on protecting women's rights during Covid-19. "Women in prostitution should get all the support as a marginalised group, but registering them ... and giving them workers' rights is going off-track," said Sunitha Krishnan, founder of anti-trafficking charity Prajwala. "Running a brothel is illegal. Giving women there workers' rights completely misses the mark ... brothels have a large number of trafficked women or those (who are) coerced." Yet the majority of women in prostitution are not victims of exploitation, according to advocates and collectives who said the plight of India's sex workers was going under the radar. Aarthi Pai, a legal advisor for the National Network of Sex Workers, said in a letter to the NHRC last month that a "worker identity" would protect sex workers from violence and abuses. "Sex workers have no resources and are stigmatised when they look for other jobs," said Bani Das, co-founder of non-profit Kranti, which supports the children of sex workers. "During the lockdown, they were asking for work but nobody took them (on)." India's top court in September asked states to provide food to women in prostitution after a survey by a collective in five regions found fewer than half of 120,000 sex workers had benefited from a government food welfare scheme for the poor. Unaware of the ongoing debate over their rights, several sex workers said they were worried about rent and being able to eat. Trafficking survivor-turned-sex worker Mumtaz - who lives in Mumbai - said she was living off food handouts from charities and was struggling to pay her daily rent of 100 rupees ($1.35). "I need work, not aid," the 40-year-old told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone, giving only her first name. "We (sex workers) are all desperate here," she added. "The pandemic has turned us into beggars."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-sex-workers-suffer-setback-as-watchdog-u-turn-on-labour-rights-914415.html
11-11-2020||West||Mumbai Metropolitan Region crosses 6 lakh Covid-19 cases||The total Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region crossed the six-lakh mark on Wednesday.  The total cases in MMR now stands at 6,00,550 and deaths 18,164. Of this, the financial capital of Mumbai accounts for 2,66,748 cases and 10,506 deaths. The total progressive cases in the state now is 17,31,833 with addition of 4,907 cases on Wednesday, while total deaths are 45,560 with 125 deaths in last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-metropolitan-region-crosses-6-lakh-covid-19-cases-914420.html
11-11-2020||West||Thackeray govt would not last full term: Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said on Wednesday that though his party did not mind sitting in opposition, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in the state will not last for another four years. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, formed after the Sena fell out with the BJP, will complete one year this month. Speaking to reporters here, the BJP leader claimed that if there was an election now, 900 out of 1,000 people will say that they will vote for the saffron party. To a question if the BJP will `resume' its efforts to form government in Maharashtra following favourable results of the Assembly polls in Bihar and by-polls elsewhere, Patil said it will not do anything to topple the government. "We are ready to sit in opposition and work as the main opposition party for the next four years, but this government will not last for four years," he said. Considering the "atrocities against women" in Maharashtra, people want this government to go, he claimed. "A girl was raped and murdered in Parola tehsil of Jalgaon district. The Hathras incident (in Uttar Pradesh) was unfortunate, but will Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi come and meet the victims' family here like they went to Hathras?" Patil asked. "We will not do anything against the Constitution. Toppling this government is not our culture," the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thackeray-govt-would-not-last-full-term-chandrakant-patil-914433.html
11-11-2020||West||No selection tests for candidates of West Bengal boards' class 10, 12 exams in 2021 due to Covid||The West Bengal government has decided not to hold selection tests for students scheduled to write state boards' class 10 and 12 examinations next year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. These students will be allowed to appear for Madhyamik (class 10) and Uchcha-Madhyamik (class 12) exams directly, Banerjee told reporters after a Cabinet meeting. She also said that the Cabinet gave its nod to immediately initiate the recruitment process to fill up vacancies of 16,500 school teachers' posts from the 20,000 candidates who have cleared the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) examinations. "Students could not go to schools due to Covid-19 pandemic. The education department has taken a decision that those willing to take the 2021 Madhyamik and Uccha-Madhyamik exams will not require to clear any test. They will be allowed to sit for these (two) examinations," she said. Educational institutes in the state remain closed in the state since March after the pandemic struck. Though digital classes have started, many students have not been able to take part in them due to want of either smart phones or internet facility. "We have also decided to start the recruitment process to fill up 16,500 vacancies from the 20,000 successful TET examinees. Interviews will start in December and the entire recruitment process will be completed by January. The recruitment for the rest of the candidates will be made later in phases," she said. Banerjee said that offline examinations for the next TET, in which around 2,50,000 candidates have applied, will be held as soon as possible. The state Cabinet also decided to form three new battalions in the state police by January 31 next year keeping in mind the demand and sentiment of the people of Cooch Behar, Jangalmahal and Darjeeling hills, she said. A total of 3,000 people will be recruited in the three battalions. The chief minister expressed hope that the decision to set up the new battalions will make local people happy. The Cabinet also cleared a proposal to handover 99 acre of land to the Bagdogra Airport authorities in north Bengal, Banerjee said. Earlier on September 30, the chief minister had handed over 104 acre of land to the authorities of Bagdogra Airport for its expansion, renovation and upgradation. Banerjee said that the Cabinet also decided to extend the last date for paying penalty for violation of rules by drivers of buses, taxis, trucks and auto-rickshaws till June 30 next year. "We have received requests from several unions to waive the penalty until the Covid situation improves. So, we had extended the last date for three months. But the situation is still continuing, so we have decided to extend it till June 30, 2021, so that they can provide service to people," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-selection-tests-for-candidates-of-west-bengal-boards-class-10-12-exams-in-2021-due-to-covid-914437.html
11-11-2020||West||Goa CM Pramod Sawant assures dip in coal imports in years ahead||Under pressure from Opposition and civil society groups over fears of increased coal imports into the state for the purpose of fuelling steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary district, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, as well as top South Western Railway officials on Wednesday, maintained that the quantum of coal imports and transportation through would, in fact, dip in the coming years. On Wednesday, a day after Goa's top Congress protested outside the SWR zonal headquarters in Hubbali, in Karnataka, the additional general manager of the railway division also denied reports of an increase in coal transportation on its rail tracks and said that the ongoing track doubling project had more to do with enhancing passenger, logistics and military transport capabilities in the sector. "Coal has multiple uses. The primary requirement of coal has been for power only. Our traffic (coal transportation) pattern has been going down. The requirement of coal will not increase in the future," Mishra told a virtual press conference in Panaji. "The permission to transport coal is granted by the state government's pollution control board. There is a ceiling in force. We cannot breach the ceiling which has been set for coal transportation," Mishra also said. The rail track doubling project from Castle Rock railway station in Karnataka to the Tinai ghat station in Goa is one of the three projects being opposed by Opposition parties and civil society groups, claiming the projects would lead to the axing of nearly 50,000 trees in the reserved forests in and around Mollem village in South Goa. The opposition to the projects also stems from the belief, that the doubling tracking of railway tracks and expansion of the National Highway 4 would lead to increased transportation of coal imported to the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary region. The entire track doubling project stretches over a tract of 342 km out of which a 90 kms stretch is located in Goa. Out of the 90 km stretch, the SWR has managed to complete double tracking along only 7 km, in wake of the prolonged protests, which have also been supported by some BJP MLAs, including former Environment Minister Alina Saldanha. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant who was addressing the media on Wednesday after his two-day visit to Delhi, where he met Union Ministers for Railway and Union MoS Shipping Piyush Goyal and Mansukh Mandviya respectively, also denied any possibility of an increase in coal imports and transportation in Goa. "Coal is being imported to Goa since 1947. The maximum coal imported was in 2017 around 14 million tons. As the export of iron ore decreased, coal handling had been increased by the Goa port," the Chief Minister said, adding that the Opposition was trying to paint the wrong picture against the state government ahead of the 2022 polls. Sawant also said that efforts were on to decrease coal imports at Goa's major port to 8 million tons. "Last year coal imports at Mormugao Port Trust stood at 9-10 million tons. We are trying to bring it down to 8 million tons," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-assures-dip-in-coal-imports-in-years-ahead-914443.html
