01-07-2021||---||SAD alleges violations on Beas riverbed, department denies||Amritsar, June 30SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on his way back from Amritsar today conducted a “raid” after suspecting illegal mining on the Beas riverbed located along the national highway.As Sukhbir, along with his cavalcade and mediapersons, reached thespot, drivers ran away abandoning the mining machinery and JCBs.He lodged a complaint against Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and MLAs Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Sukhpal Bhullar, Inderbir Bolaria, Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Kulbir Singh Zira. He also named mining kingpins Ashok Chandak, Rakesh Chaudhary and Mohan Pal while registering the complaint at the Beas police station.Truck drivers who were allegedly being charged a ‘goonda tax’ of Rs 16,000 per truck filed a separate complaint against the sand mafia. On the other hand, a counter-complaint has been submitted by M/S Friends and Company to the Director General of Police, Punjab, and the SSP (rural) against Sukhbir, Amarpal Boney Ajnala, Virsa Singh Valtoha, and other SAD leaders for threatening its employees and obstructing the legal mining operations at the desilting site in Wazir Bhullar duly allotted to the company by the state government.The Mining Department clarified that the place Sukhbir visited was a completely legal site and leaders “were trying to take political mileage with unfounded allegations of illegal mining”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-alleges-violations-on-beas-riverbed-department-denies-276548
01-07-2021||When the going gets tough||Covid 19: Going beyond the call of duty...||A doctor who doodles to relieve stressAs an intern at SGRDI, Dr Tavleen Sandhu was among the young batch of doctors on duty at the frontlines when the virus was at its peak in the city. Working to find ways to combat the pandemic as well as stress, Dr Sandhu used doodling as an effective stress management technique for herself and those around her. “I had been doodling since I was a student of medicine. It was an excellent stress buster for me. During the Covid-19 peak, I turned to doodle art as an effective tool for stress relieve and to create awareness regarding Covid- appropriate behaviour,” she said. Dr Sandhu has been leading creative campaign for disease awareness, including Covid-19 safety protocol, mental health awareness and violence against doctors. “I used to doodle after a stressful day at work and that’s when my colleagues started encouraging me to use my art to make people understand the importance of following safety measures,” she said and added that doodle can be an effective tool in helping people improve mental health. “It helps in improving focus, relieving stress and productive engagement.”A popular perception about doctors that you want to change?Doctors are beyond the popular perception of being bookworms; total dedication to the profession aside.‘Lending an ear to ease suffering and trauma’Dr Raman Chathrath has managed a rare feat of making his profession his passion. Dr Chathrath has been leading several community outreach programmes, including ‘Each One, Save One’, that focuses on teaching life saving techniques like CPR and first aid to masses. During the pandemic, he realised that treatment of a patient goes beyond medical prescription. “It has been an exhausting time, watching people lose their loved ones and doctors trying their best to alleviate the pain and suffering of people. We had reached out to the Civil Hospitals in remote areas in Batala and Tarn Taran, making sure that everyone had access to treatment,” he said. He started free ambulance service, distribution of food and medicine for patients and providing oxygen concentrators free of cost for home treatment. “The most important service I offered was to lend an ear. I used to be available to anyone going through mental trauma 24x7. I received maximum distress calls during night, when people used to just call in a moment of anxiety or panic, seeking help,” he said. Dr Chathrath still volunteers as telephonic consultant. As for his own, he said although the stress was more than usual, “I felt a deep sense of accountability towards anyone who reached out to me, whether they were my patients or not. Yes, it was not easy, but difficult times, require unprecedented efforts.”A popular perception about doctors that you want to change?One thing that I want people to understand about doctors is that they too are human and suffer from same emotions as any other human being. They cannot be beaten up, blamed for things beyond their control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-going-beyond-the-call-of-duty-276603
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Covid cases, casualties decrease significantly in June’s latter half in Amritsar||In what could be termed as a significant development for residents, the number of Covid-19 cases and casualties have gone down significantly during the latter part of the month.The district reported a total of 2,039 positive cases and 108 deaths due to the disease during the month of June. However, the number of daily positive cases came down to two digits after June 13 as the district witnessed an upturn.The district reported only 648 positive cases and 33 deaths after June 13 in comparison to 1,391 cases and 75 deaths in the first 12 days of the month.The district had reported a total of 12,194 positive cases and 495 deaths due to the disease in May. In April, it had reported a total of 11,498 positive cases and 286 casualties.The significant improvement has led residents as well as authorities to believe that the second Covid wave is receding. However, at the same time the Health Department and district administration has expressed concerns about the possible third wave of infections.A health official said: “During the month of June, there were four days, when the district did not report even a single death. Before that, the district had been reporting deaths due to the disease every day for more than three-and-a-half months. In regard to the number of deaths and daily reported cases, the situation has vastly improved.”He said there was no time for complacency, as ignoring safety protocols may result in reversing the trend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-cases-casualties-decrease-significantly-in-junes-latter-half-in-amritsar-276606
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar reports 1 death, 34 cases||With one more death reported in the district due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll increased to 1,565. The district health authorities have also reported 34 new cases, with which the total count has increased to 46,741.The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Kaur, a 60-year-old resident of Kadyal Village, near Lopoke. The new cases include 19 influenza-like illness cases and 15 contacts of positive patients.With the recovery of 40 more patients, the recovery count has improved to 44,889. The district at present has a total of 287 active cases.The health authorities said 2,503 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid-19 on Wednesday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Those who received the first dose of the vaccine include 533 residents above 45 years and 1,404 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years. The second dose was given to 242 residents above 45 years and 324 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years.2 die, 3 +ve in Tarn TaranTwo deaths and three active cases were reported in the district on Wednesday. The toll has reached 366 and the number of active cases has reduced to 70, which was 503 on June 1. As many as 44 active cases have been isolated at their respective homes. As many as 988 samples were collected to be tested for the virus on Wednesday by the Health Department teams. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 333 citizens were vaccinated on Wednesday and total 1,96,787 persons have been vaccinated till date. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-1-death-34-cases-276608
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Punbus contractual workers call off strike||The Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union called off its strike on Wednesday and resumed working after the government called them for a meeting.Kuljit Singh, president, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said the strike was called off after a meeting of the union with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Transport Minister Razia Sultana was fixed in Chandigarh for July 1. He said the government assured to positively look into the demand of regularisation of nearly 7,500 contractual workers in the Punbus and PRTC.Sahildeep Singh of Fatehgarh Churriyan said the strike had once again brought private buses at the forefront. They had been relegated following the freebie of free travel to women passengers. He said there was no change of fare between government and private buses as the tariff of Rs35 was being charged from one person.Sudesh Kumar, a general merchant, said he frequently goes to remote and isolated rural areas to sell general merchandise. He said though the availability of buses came down, there was no overcharging by private buses. For example, he pays Rs30 per person for travel to Tarn Taran, a town which is 24 km from Amritsar. He said daily passengers shell out only Rs20 for the same distance. Shubham Tulli, a garment trader, said: “There were less number of buses available on different routes during the two-day strike, but at the same time enough passengers were also not available.” He added that he visited garment shops in almost all satellite towns, including, Baba Bakala, Ajnala, Rajasansi and Ramdas among others. Giving its reasons, he said people were avoiding travel due to Covid-19 infection and rising mercury. The opportunity to avail free travel facility in the state-run buses brought out only women passengers, who were not seen during the strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-contractual-workers-call-off-strike-276612
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Power outages amid sweltering heat rile Amritsar residents||The scorching heat on Wednesday and frequent power outages compounded problems of city residents and left them wondering what happened to the tall claims of Punjab being a ‘power surplus’ state. The irked farmers held a protest to showcase their resentment.Shamsher Singh, a resident of the Golden Avenue, said the power supply played a hide and seek game today and his family was not time to replenish daily water reserve.He suggested powercom employees to at least compensate for those hours when the Municipal Corporation and the improvement trust release piped potable water supply to houses. He pointed out that many families like his kept waiting for the light at the morning.Also read:Harpreet Singh, another city resident, said, the PSPCL’s complaint helpline (1912), which generally works efficiently, was of no use today. The telephone line was constantly busy. Power outages in the morning and the noon coincided with the water supply schedule. It upsets the routine of families.Farmers, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, held a protest outside the office of PSPCL’s Chief Engineer today. They raised slogans against the government and questioned its promise of a ‘power surplus’ state. They sought the government to annul all power procurement agreements with private thermal plants, ensure 8-hour power supply to agriculture motors, 24-hours to urban areas, reduce power tariff on domestic connections and others.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the committee, addressing agitating farmers and activists, said already farmers were forced to sow paddy crop with high diesel cost. Now, they were not being given enough power supply for paddy. Due to inadequate workforce in the PSPCL, as many as 300 to 400 transformers are being managed by only a couple of employees. He reminded the CM of his promise of annulling power procurement agreements with the private companies engaged in producing thermal power. He added that the state was giving the costliest domestic power supply in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-outages-amid-sweltering-heat-rile-amritsar-residents-276613
01-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Couple killed in road accident||Travel fraud: Three bookedTarn Taran: Three, including a husband-wife a couple running a travel agency at the local Jandiala road, have been booked by the police in a fraud case. Accused Jaswinder Singh, his wife Sawinder Kaur of Jamalpura and their relative Harjit Singh of Sarai Amanat Khan were running ‘Alfa Education Abroad Services Private Ltd’ on the local Jandiala road. Kulwant Singh of Kajikot road had lodged complained over two years ago. He said the accused promised to send his son Gursharan Singh to Australia and also took Rs7.66 lakh from him three years back. They failed to send his son to Australia. A case was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-killed-in-road-accident-276614
01-07-2021||Amritsar||41 safai sewaks regularised by Amritsar Municipal Corporation||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation regularised jobs of 41 employees of the health wing after completion of their probation period on Wednesday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal gave them confirmation letters. These Class IV employees were appointed in 2012.The safai sewaks had met the Mayor regarding the delay in their confirmation some weeks ago. He took strong cognisance of the delay and orders were issued to officers concerned to sort out the matter at the earliest.The Mayor said orders have been issued to confirm services of 41 sanitation workers of the health wing. The employees were appointed in 2012, but due to some reasons, service of these employees were not regularised by the previous government, due to which they were facing financial crisis.He said services of these safai sewaks have been confirmed and their dues will be cleared soon.The Mayor said apart from the confirmation of 41 safai sewaks, the case of some other batches has also been brought to his notice. He said those getting Rs 2,800 allowance per month would now get the DC rate.Apart from this, the matter related to regularising jobs of street light patrollers and sewermen working in mohalla committees was also under consideration.“The Municipal Corporation has hired around 400 employees through outsourcing. In three-and-a-half years, the incumbent house has provided employment to 700 persons. The MC has given jobs on compassionate grounds to 150 persons,” said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/41-safai-sewaks-regularised-by-amritsar-municipal-corporation-276615
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC floats tender||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) has floated short-term tenders after the failure of an e-auction for its 12 parking lots in the city.Earlier, the MC had called for bids but the due to insufficient number of bidders the tendering process got cancelled on June 27. Now on June 28, the MC floated short-term tender for seven days. The tenders would open on next Monday. The bidders have to submit their bids within ongoing week.According to information, there was no bidder for six of parking lots in the tender opened on last Monday. The lots, including the MC office, Ranjit Avenue, District Library, Rani Ka Bagh, Uppal Hospital, Hotel Park, Cant Chowk, Old Sabji Mandi and Telephone Exchange did not get any bidder. The parking lots at Bhandari Bridge, Kairoan Market, DTO Office, Macchi Mandi, Guru Nanak Bhawan and Kacharri Chowk got two bidders for each.As per the rules, at least three bidders are required to allot the parking.Dharminderjit Singh, Estate Officer, said, “We have now extended the date for bidding and floated short-term tender. Hopefully, the parking lots would be allotted to the eligible contractors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-floats-tender-276617
01-07-2021||Amritsar||Doctor’s Day celebrated||Vax camp held at Mount Litera SchoolFICCI FLO Amritsar carried on with its vaccination drive and held another mass vaccination camp at Mount Litera Zee School on Wednesday. The camp was organised to ensure that those who couldn’t get vaccinated, could take the jab and shield not only themselves but the people around against the deadly virus. As many as 100 people got vaccinated with Covaxin shots. “We’re committed to give our best foot forward in order to eradicate this virus from the world. Making this world a Covid-free place is what we aim at,” shares Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FLO Amritsar and also director, Mount Litera School.BBK DAV College organises quizBBK DAV College for Women’s faculty and students of economics department organised a quiz competition. Fourteen students were shortlisted on the basis of written test. Quiz was conducted in four rounds i.e. rapid fire round, riddle round, Union Budget 2021-22 and current affairs round. Diwanshi emerged as winner of the competition. Quiz was followed by extempore completion. Shipra Aggarwal bagged the 1st position, Akshita Malhotra 2nd and Sakshi Poddar won the 3rd prize in the competition of extempore. Principal Pushpinder Walia applauded the efforts of the department of economics for organising such productive activities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-day-celebrated-276618
01-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Left parties up in arms against Centre’s policies||Comrade Bant Brar, state secretary of the CPI, has criticised the Central government for its economic and the ‘anti-people policies’ causing unemployment and rise in the prices of essential commodities, including petroleum products, in the country.The communist leader was addressing a joint district-level rally organised by the CPI and the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) here on Wednesday. He alleged that the wrong policies of the Union Government had ruined the economy of the country as the public sector had been captured by the corporate sector and it was reason that prices of essential items had sky rocketed. He said atmosphere of fear or insecurity prevailing among the minority communities, Dalits and women were part of the fascist policies of the Central Government. He condemned the government for not resolving the farmers’ issues.The workers of the Left parties organised a rally at the local Gandhi Municipal Park and passed through various streets of the town. Later, they burnt the effigy of the Prime Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/left-parties-up-in-arms-against-centres-policies-276619
01-07-2021||Amritsar||NCC ADG visits holy city Amritsar||Maj Gen JS Sandhu, AVSM, Additional Director General (ADG) of NCC Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh Directorate visited the NCC Group Amritsar on Wednesday. It was his first ever visit after assuming charge as ADG of the Directorate.He was received by Brig Rohit Kumar, Group Commander of NCC Group Amritsar. He interacted with the officers of the group and visited one unit. The ADG was also briefed about the activities carried out by schools/colleges through NCC cadets and their contribution to society towards educating locals during Covid times.The ADG appreciated the efforts of the group and highlighted that Amritsar group is the only one in the country, which has Ashok Chakra to its credit. “The NCC cadets of this group have scaled very high positions and one such eminent name is Kiran Bedi, IPS and Maha Vir Chakra awardee Maj BS Randhawa,” said Maj Gen JS Sandhu. He conveyed his best wishes to the group HQ, NCC units, ANOs, staff and cadets and encouraged them to stay motivated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ncc-adg-visits-holy-city-amritsar-276621
01-07-2021||Amritsar||July 4, 1955 attack on Golden Temple: SGPC to hold akhand path||The SGPC has decided to organise an event to commemorate the attack on the Golden Temple by the then Congress government on July 4, 1955 during the Punjabi Suba Morcha.To commemorate the attack, Akhand Path will be started at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on July 2, and the bhog will be held on July 4.Addressing a press conference, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Before the military attack on Golden Temple and Akal Takht by the Congress government in June 1984, an attack was also launched at this holy shrine to crush the Punjabi Suba Morcha in 1955. The attack took place at midnight of July 3 and 4, 1955. During this attack, the government sent a large number of police personnel to the shrine complex, under the leadership of DIG Mahasha Ashwani Kumar Sharma.”Bibi Jagir Kaur said at that time Jawaharlal Nehru was the Prime Minister of India and Bhim Sen Sachar Chief Minister of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/july-4-1955-attack-on-golden-temple-sgpc-to-hold-akhand-path-276628
01-07-2021||Amritsar||GNDU to hold practical exams online||The practical examinations of graduate and postgraduate courses, graduate and post graduate diplomas of Guru Nanak Dev University will be conducted through online mode before the commencement of theory examinations.Prof Manoj Kumar, in-charge examinations, said the regular candidates, who are going to appear in their reappear practical examinations, should contact their concerned colleges immediately. He said the students appearing in private/additional practical examinations advised to register their email IDs at those centres in which they appeared for practical examinations of previous semester. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-hold-practical-exams-online-276632
01-07-2021||All the requests of residents of Chohla Sahib and 14 surrounding villages to get around one-and-a-half km road repaired has fallen on deaf ears for the past 13 years. Water can be seen accumulated on this stretch throughout the year. Guru Arjan Dev had stayed at a historic gurdwara in the village surrounding Gandiwind||Where is the street?||Committed to social causeFarm leader Arsal Singh Sandhu famously known as Master Rasal Singh, president, Border Area Sangharsh Committee, is totally committed to a noble cause. He served in the Education Department from 1962 to 1996 and is known as an encyclopedia when it comes to protests. Soon after joining the department, Sandhu took part in organisational activities in 1964 as teachers were protesting for a pension scheme. That was the time when teachers who retired from the department used kiosk (stall) to sell ink to write on slates and sweet tablets, among others. Sandhu played an active role in the teachers’ movement. He remained active leader of the the Government Teachers’ Union till his retirement. He is one of those rare teachers who protested on February 8, 1978. The then SAD government had given a special annual increment to non-striking teachers. Sandhu said when the strike ended on February 8, 1978 the strike was marked 71.08 per cent which reduced to 40.2 per cent when the government announced to give the special increment. He was sent to jail for 17 days during the Unemployed Teachers’ Union’s agitation in 1980, which lasted for around three months. He still remembers the importance of election of the Government Teachers’ Union held in 1977 after the lifting of the Emergency. It was a direct fight between Rana (Tarlochan Singh Rana) and Dhillon (Ranbir Singh Dhillon) factions. He said the Dhillon group had favoured the Emergency while the Rana group was opposed to it. In the election, teachers expressed their resentment against the Emergency and supported Rana group, which won nine districts, he said. Dhillon won three districts and Gopal Krishan Chatrath, who was associated with the Congress, won Gurdaspur district, he said. Sandhu added that results of the election were broadcasted from the BBC. After his retirement, Sandhu joined kisan movement as district chief of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha and was given the responsibility to highlight issues and problems of border area’s farmers. He has detailed information farmers, including those having land across the fencing. Despite being 84-year-old, Sandhu is never absent from organisational activities. He actively mobilised farmers to attend farmers’ stir in Delhi.Loan for priority sectorThe district authorities proposed Rs 9,470 crore loan for the priority sector during the current fiscal. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, besides Jaskirat Singh of NABARD and bank officials, took part in the meeting. The district administration expressed satisfaction over achieving the target of 70 per cent in credit deposit (CD) ratio, which was 60 per cent at the national level. The banks, which earmarked the target of Rs 9,100 crore, could provideRs 4,577 crore. (Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/where-is-the-street-276641
01-07-2021||---||Sukhbir Singh Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu spar over ‘missile’ remark||Amritsar, June 30SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today termed Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu as a ‘misguided missile’ which could go in any direction and also criticised AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, terming his visit to Punjab as a ‘deceptive’ one.Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD Chief Loose cannonSidhu is a misguided missile, which has no control. It can hit anywhere, including himself. He always remained a controversial figure.Within minutes of Sukhbir’s remarks, the cricketer-turned-politician hit back and tweeted, “Guided and aimed at you to destroy your corrupt businesses... Until your Sukh Vilas built on Punjab’s ruins is not turned into a Public School & Public Hospital to serve Punjab’s poor, I won’t relent !!”Sukhbir was in Amritsar today and after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple along with his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, he said Sidhu, like a misguided missile, could explode in any direction. “I fear that it could hit him too,” he said sarcastically while adding “right from a cricketer to a politician, he remained a controversial figure”.Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress MLA Aimed at youGuided and aimed at you to destroy your corrupt businesses. Until your Sukh Vilas is turned into a public school, I won’t relent.Launching an attack on Kejriwal, he said, “Kejriwal has no association or connection with Punjab. Who will be held accountable if Kejriwal’s words were not kept? His announcement of 300 units of free power, if AAP comes to power, proved to be hollow at the spot when he was made to clarify if the power consumption exceeded the prescribed limit, every unit will be charged. He was here just to deceive the people of Punjab,” Sukhbir said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sukhbir-singh-badal-navjot-singh-sidhu-spar-over-missile-remark-276545
