02-07-2021||The state government’s smart school project has not only equipped government institutes with modern equipment||Smart Wonders||Colourful walls, motivational quotes and emphasis on enhancing learning skills of children by establishing educational parks, reading corners (libraries), computer labs, projectors and LEDs in schools has changed the equation. Every space and walls are now a learning experience for kids.The government school for boys is located in the historic township of Verka. As one enters the institute, one is greeted with pictures of national heroes on colonial-era structure, which has now been painted with beautiful and soothing colours. New structures, including a computer lab and smart classrooms have also come up under the state government’s smart school project.“Under the Building As Learning Aid (BALA) programme, the Education Department is using walls of school buildings as a tool of learning,” says Balraj Singh, District Smart School Mentor. Of 419 government schools, over 400 schools have been transformed into smart schools in the last one year and all these institutes are e-governed, he said.Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary) said though use of technology has been introduced in the National Education Policy, we have used every space, including doors, windows and classroom floors as learning resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-wonders-277179
02-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal
||Pathankot girl among 30 recipients of coveted Diana Award||Tribune News Service Pathankot, July 1 Pathankot girl Muskaan Kohli (23) knows that a strong woman stands up for herself, while a stronger woman stands up for everybody else. Her work in the field of helping distressed women has fetched her The Diana Award. She is among 30 youngsters chosen from India and 300 globally in the 9 to 25 age group. The award was given to her through a virtual ceremony held recently. Established in memory of Diana, the Princess of Wales, the prize is considered to be the highest accolade a young person can get for social action or humanitarian efforts. It is given out by the charity of the same name and has the support of her two sons — the Duke of Cambridge and the Duke of Sussex.   Muskaan, a post-graduate in sociology from the prestigious Delhi School of Economics, works for an NGO Ladli Foundation Trust, which aims to empower the underprivileged women and needy children. These days, her foundation and the Delhi police are jointly working on ‘Project Roshan’, wherein aimless youth, who have the potential to hook on to drugs, are identified and shown a proper path in life. “I try to provide women belonging to the lower strata of society with a sense of dignity. My woman lives for the present, has plans for the future and laughs without fear of anyone or anything. I always tell them that I want a woman who overcomes obstacles by tackling these with faith instead of tiptoeing around it in fear,” she says. Muskaan, after completing her matriculation from St Joseph’s Convent School here shifted to New Delhi for her graduation. It was then, where she met oppressed women and children living a life of hell just because they were underprivileged.  “I used to wake up every morning asking myself why can’t I reach out to them? The Ladli Foundation gave me a perfect springboard to do so. Actually, they are not underprivileged. In other words they are ‘Children of a Lesser God.’ Slowly I started mingling with these women. I steadily turned their ‘can’ts to cans’ and their dreams into plans,” Muskaan quipped.   Working for Ladli, she manages to make a little money, too, which in her words is enough to sustain herself in a big city like Delhi. These days, apart from turning the wheel of fortune for needy women, Muskaan has started preparations for the civil services exam as well. How would she like to be remembered? Well, while getting ready for yet another tough day on the streets of Delhi, Muskaan replies: “I want to be a social change maker. I would like to be remembered as an educated woman, a courageous woman, a loving woman and above all a woman who practices what she preaches.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pathankot-girl-among-30-recipients-of-coveted-diana-award-276947
02-07-2021||---||2 fall prey to virus, 37 +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 1The holy city witnessed two more deaths from the virus on Thursday, taking the toll to 1,567 patients.As per the bulletin issued by the health authorities, 37 new positive cases were also reported in the city, of which 16 were contacts of infected patients. Thus Amritsar has total 46,778 positive cases.Those who died due to Covid were identified as Karamjit Kaur (48) of Rajasansi and Dalbir Kaur (60) of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar area. Karamjit Kaur was admitted to a private hospital, while Dalbir succumbed to the virus at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here.As many as 44 patients recovered from the viral disease and the number of total recovered patients stands at 44,933. The health authorities said there were 278 active cases in the city at present. They said 1,160 persons in the district were inoculated for Covid during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of them, 901 got the first dose of vaccination while 259 received the second dose.Tarn Taran sees no fatalityThe district today saw no death due to Covid and reported only one fresh case. The district toll stands at 366. The number of the active cases has reduced to 50 and 32 of these are under home isolation.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said a total of 1,97,083 persons had been vaccinated in the district so far, including 296 persons who got the jab on Thursday. Teams of the Health Department also collected 981 samples to be tested for Covid on Thursday.Tarn Taran admn aims to jab 18K in special campsThe district administration has proposed to vaccinate 18,000 citizens of selected blocks of Tarn Taran district in the camps to be organised from Saturday. The instructions were issued to all officials of the departments concerned at a meeting presided over by ADC Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal on Thursday here.The ADC said vaccination had been made compulsory to get an arms licence. He said to be issued an arms licence, the application of those persons will be preferred over others, who besides their family members, would pursue 20 other to get vaccinated. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said all citizens above 18 years were being vaccinated for free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-fall-prey-to-virus-37-ve-in-amritsar-276948
02-07-2021||---||‘Monsoon ready’ claim of Amritsar MC falls flat||Amritsar, July 1  Monsoon is just round the corner and de-silting of sewer lines is still incomplete in the city. There are also chances of low-lying areas remaining waterlogged during the monsoon.  Apart from de-silting of sewer lines, there is also a need for infrastructural development to tackle the waterlogging issue in several localities. However, the Municipal Corporation didn’t make any serious effort to develop the infrastructure for the drainage of rainwater. Most of the areas in the city are deprived of storm sewers to drain rainwater. The sanitary sewer lines are unable to tackle the heavy flow of water. In the absence of timely de-silting, sewer lines in the city get choked.  In the last several years, the area around Heritage Street in the walled city has been facing regular waterlogging. According to information, the disposal of the sewer line of the Heritage Street area is at Lohgarh Nullah. When it rains, the nullah overflows and poses a hurdle in the disposal of water coming from the Katra Ahluwalia side. Similarly, some of the areas of the Focal Point and Sultanwind Road witnesses waterlogging.  The Municipal Corporation officials and Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu claimed that they have spent a good amount on de-silting and the residents would not face any issue during the rainy season.  Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu had visited the Tung Dhab and initiated the de-silting project to address the problem of water-logging on the Batala Road and Majitha Road areas a few weeks ago.  Mahesh Khanna, chairman, sub-committee for water supply and sewerage of MC said: “I have written to the department officials to submit the status report of de-silting in the city. We have conducted de-silting in the walled city area with new machines brought to clean the narrow lines in the congested lanes of the walled city. De-silting has been conducted on all main lines with super-suction machines. The constituency level report would be prepared soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/monsoon-ready-claim-of-amritsar-mc-falls-flat-276949
02-07-2021||---||Amritsar cops grope in dark in murder case of wine contractor’s employee||Amritsar, July 1 It was on June 21 that a wine contractor’s employee Avtar Singh Gill was allegedly murdered by a notorious criminal and son of a cop. But even after 10 days, accused Antarpreet Singh, alias Antar Kahlon, is still out of the reach of the police. The police have so far arrested one person, who had allegedly hosted a party for the accused.  Perneet Singh Dhillon, SHO Sultanwind police station said raids were continuously on at the suspected hideouts of the accused, who are absconding after the incident.  Kahlon’s father Tejinder Singh, a Sub-Inspector was posted at the CIA staff here.  Antar Kahlon and his accomplices had allegedly killed Avtar Singh Gill during a road rage under the Sultanwind police station area on June 21. His brother Heera Singh was also injured in the assault. Nevertheless, the family members of the deceased had alleged that the police were sheltering the accused. They met senior police officials while alleging that they were being pressurised for reaching out a compromise. They said a political leader was also sheltering him, while Antar Kahlon was in touch with a Batala-based gangster. Earlier, an SUV, in which the victims were travelling, was damaged by the accused, but it too was stolen from outside the house of the victim a couple of days after the incident. It raised many eyebrows while the family members pointed out that it was the duty of the police to take the vehicle in their custody.  Dhillon said the police were making every effort to nab Kahlon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cops-grope-in-dark-in-murder-case-of-wine-contractors-employee-276950
02-07-2021||Neha Saini
||Amritsar: Refused entry to practice, athlete 
calls out Khalsa College authorities||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 1 Navjeet Dhillon, an international athlete and the 2018 Commonwealth Games bronze medallist, on Thursday alleged that she was not allowed to undergo training at Khalsa College.  Navjeet, who is an alumni of Khalsa College for Women, and a discus thrower, said guards posted at the entry gate of the college misbehaved with her and her brother, Jesse Dhillon, who is also an athlete. “We have been training at Khalsa College right from the beginning. My father and I prepared the ground without any funds. On Wednesday, I along with my brother and few other discus throwers went to the college for practice session. Security staff at the gate did not let us to enter the campus and disrespected us by saying that they do not know who we were. Meanwhile, other sportspersons were having their practice session on the ground,” she said. Irked by the treatment meted out to them, Navjeet posted the entire incident on her Facebook page. “It’s demoralising for athletes to go through such humiliation when we have worked hard to achieve so much for our country, state and alma mater,” said the athlete.  Navjeet had also won a silver medal at the Asian Junior World Championships. She’s currently training for the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games 2022. Meanwhile, Khalsa College authorities termed the incident as a misunderstanding. “It’s unfortunate that this happened, but this incident should not be blown out of proportion. We have not yet opened two sports grounds of Khalsa College for outsiders. Only students of the institution are allowed to practice and entry is allowed after issuing a specific permit card. As per the guidelines of the state government, we are only following the safety norms. Navjeet and other discus throwers have been practicing here earlier as well. The security staff only asked for a permit card issued by the college. Had they approached me, it could have been provided on the spot,” said Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-refused-entry-to-practice-athlete-calls-out-khalsa-college-authorities-276951
