03-07-2021||Charanbir Singh||Smart ideas make for smart schools||The boss is always rightGurdaspur city was converted into an impregnable fortress early this week. Security was as tight as they have for the US Presidents. The occasion was the high profile visit of DGP Dinkar Gupta. Old timers recall that never before has the city played host to so many senior officers at one time. Apart from the DGP, there were two ADGPs, an IG, three SSPs and several BSF officers. Even if a fly had been seen, it would have immediately been swatted down by the security men. All ranks from constable to the DGP were present. First Gupta conveyed a joint meeting of the BSF and the Punjab Police. This was followed by an hour-long tete-e-tete with officers of his force. Drones and drugs took precedence over everything else. The issue of drones flying in border areas was discussed threadbare. And quite rightly so because a few days ago, a payload carrying flying machine was dispatched by Pakistan to carry out an aerial attack in Jammu. The DGP engaged himself in some serious discussions. When SSP Nanak Singh pointed out that such drone flights were common in the areas of Kalanaur and Dera Baba Nana, triviality was relegated to the sidelines as Gupta attached more significance to the proceedings. After all national security was at stake. After the drones came the drugs. The DGP asked officers to ensure no dope was sold in their respective areas of jurisdiction. This was followed by a dialogue on the Integrated Check Post (ICP) building of the Kartarpur corridor. Officers were asked to keep an eagle’s eye in and around the corridor. The rationale was that if a drone attacked the prestigious corridor it would leave many red faces in the police department. Hence, it was decided to upgrade the security mechanism around the passage. Once lunch was put in place, the erudite Gupta dropped his guard a bit following. The drones and drugs were consigned to the backburner. He remembered his days in Patiala where he had his education. His father was in the PSEB (now PSPCL) and he described in detail his links with the royal city. The name of Saudi billionaire and Saudi arms dealer Adnan Kashoggi also popped up during a conversation with a BSF commandant. So did football icon Diego Maradona. The police chief seemed to have an unwavering command on every issue and every discussion that came up. After a few minutes, officers gradually started retreating. Obviously, they were no match for the well read DGP. The situation was such that even if he had sold a lie, it would have passed scrutiny. As they say, the boss is always right!A bridge to nowhereIn Gurdaspur, year after year, PWD officials perform a ritual. That is when the monsoons arrive, like it has these days, they dismantle the pontoon bridge over the Ravi. This is done in June every year and in September the 700 metre-long bridge is brought back. This overpass actually connects residents of a block of 12 villages to Gurdaspur. Now-a-days, if anybody has to go to this area he or she will have to take a ride on a rickety boat. Ever since Independence, politicians and bureaucrats have turned a Nelson’s eye to the welfare of these villages which are inhabited by nearly 5,000 people. They live in Kafkaesque conditions. There are government dispensaries but no doctors. Schools are there, but teachers are absent. Girls after completing their matriculation seldom study any further because their parents do not allow them to go to Gurdaspur. Harried villagers are hemmed in by the Ravi and the Ujh on the one side and the India-Pakistan border on the other. Leaders seldom visit these villages because there are not many voters to ignite their interest. In the 1980 general elections, residents threatened not to exercise their franchise. Taken aback by the turn of events, PM Indira Gandhi asked Governor Jai Sukh Lal Hathi to tour the area. The Governor after promising villagers the moon returned to Chandigarh. Not a file moved. Now, these residents have decided to boycott the 2022 assembly polls till “conditions in their area improve.”— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-ideas-make-for-smart-schools-277677
03-07-2021||Amritsar||Challenges faced by vets discussed||Digital makeover of ‘DAV Sanchar’DAV Sanchar, a quarterly newsletter published by the DAV College, has undergone a transformation. The college newsletter is now available in new digital format that will allow the users to access it on the device that they are reading it on. While releasing the new digital avatar of the college newsletter, Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said: “The digital publication of the web letter is another step forward in our focus to be a more sustainable and environmentally aware community.”Webinar on post-Covid tourismBBK DAV College for Women’s Department of Travel and Tourism and Department of Geography organised a webinar on “Post-Covid Tourism Scenario” to discuss the impacts of Covid on the tourism industry. Dr Prashant Gautam, Professor UIHTM, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the resource person for the event. While addressing the students, Prof Prashant said tourism industry had been hit hard due to Covid globally as well as in India, and also discussed various repercussions of this setback on the travel industry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/challenges-faced-by-vets-discussed-277676
03-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: National Lok Adalat on July 10||Jalandhar man found deadAmritsar: A Jalandhar resident, identified as Amritpal Singh, was found dead in a hotel room, near Shivala Bhag Bhaian, here on Friday. According to police, he apparently committed suicide by hanging though further investigations were under progress. ASI Kartar Singh, investigating officer, said family members of the deceased were informed about the incident. The exact cause of death would be ascertained following autopsy, he added.He said the deceased took a room on Thursday evening. However, when he did not open his room till noon, the hotel authorities opened his room with a duplicate key. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-national-lok-adalat-on-july-10-277675
03-07-2021||Amritsar||Covid: 1 dies, 16 test +ve in Amritsar||A 63-year-old woman, identified as Paramjeet Kaur of Dashmesh Avenue, succumbed to the Covid-19 disease here on Friday. With this death, the toll rose to 1,568 in the district. Besides, the district Health Department reported 16 positive cases, pushing the tally to 46,794. The new cases included 10 influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. The department reported the recovery of 35 patients with which the number of recuperated persons reached 44,968. At present, the district has a total of 258 active cases.A total of 1,246 persons were inoculated against Covid-19, taking the tally of those vaccinated to 5,43,393 in the district. The health authorities stated that 51,901 residents above 45 years had been vaccinated with both doses so far.Besides, neither health care workers nor FLWs were vaccinated due to the short supply of vaccines. Under the mission Fateh, a vaccination camp will be held at 25 designated sites in the city tomorrow.12 test positive in Tarn TaranNo new Covid-induced deaths were reported for the second consecutive day in the district, while 12 persons tested positive for the virus on Friday. The number of active cases has been reduced to 58, of them 33 are home isolated. Teams of the Health Department collected 988 samples on Friday, while 1,97,488 persons had been vaccinated in the district till date. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-1-dies-16-test-ve-in-amritsar-277674
03-07-2021||---||Animal Husbandry Dy Director resigns||Amritsar, July 2Protesting against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, including delinking of non-practising allowance (NPA) from the basic pay, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Dr Amarjit Singh on Friday resigned from his service.He submitted his resignation to the Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association to be forwarded to the Punjab Government if it failed to remove the controversial recommendations, which would adversely affect their salaries and pension benefits.The association was already perturbed over reducing the pay scale of the newly recruited veterinary officers from Rs 56,100 to Rs 47, 600 by the Finance Department in January this year. The Deputy Director expressed his anguish over shifting an association leader from Bathinda to Fazilka during the protest.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Amarjit Singh said the Punjab Government also break the pay parity granted by the apex court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court to the veterinary doctors on a par with medical officers. He said they were brought down to Level-8 matrix from Level-10 matrix.Dr Gagandeep Singh Dhillon, district president of the association, said the Sixth Pay Commission’s new recommendations had shocked them. Earlier, the Finance Department of Punjab government disturb the pay parity and now NPA was delinked from the basic pay, thereby adversely affecting their salaries and pension benefits.He said the association along with doctors would continue with their strike till Saturday. In case the government failed to address their problems and remove the ‘anomalies’, the agitation would be intensified. They would abide by the instructions of the Joint Punjab Doctors’ Coordination Committee formed following the ‘unjustified’ recommendations.In the meanwhile, health services at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital were severely affected with doctors, paramedical staff and laboratory technicians remaining on strike. Only emergency services and Covid-related works continued to function in the hospital.Dr Rakesh Sharma, Chairman, Employees’ Welfare Association, said doctors at the government-run health facilities who were termed frontline warriors and worked diligently during the Covid-19 pandemic were feeling betrayed. “What honour the Punjab Government is trying to give to doctors and health workers by reducing their salaries?” he said.He said the Punjab doctors would continue their agitation until their legitimate demands were met and the government withdrew these recommendations. The people had a tough time as only emergency services were allowed while OPDs services remained affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/animal-husbandry-dy-director-resigns-277673
03-07-2021||---||SAD slams Congress over power outages||Amritsar, July 2Activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) protested against unscheduled power cuts being imposed by the state government and constant hike in petrol and diesel prices by the Centre.Protesters raised slogans against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The SAD leadership gave a slogan “Capt bhajao, bijali liyao”.Speaking in Majitha, Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal had made the state power surplus during his tenure. Capt Amarinder Singh did not maintained infrastructure and failed to meet the demand.Now, the state needs 1500 megawatts more power, but the PSPCL has been unable to deliver.“The Akalis had developed the infrastructure and provided free power to several sections of society, especially economically-weaker section. Now, farming sector and industry is badly hit with power cuts,” he said.Amarjit Singh, senior vice-president of SAD, led a demonstration at the power station of the PSPCL on Majitha Road.“The SAD and the Bahujan Samaj Party gave a call to stage a protest against power cuts. Farmers are getting less than four-hour electricity supply. How can paddy be irrigated without power? Earlier, labourers became jobless due to the pandemic and now industry has been asked to shut for 48 hours due to power outages. Capt Amarinder Singh-led government failed on every front,” he said.SAD leader Talbir Singh Gill said Capt Amarinder Singh did not develop any infrastructure to meet demand, but closed a thermal plant in Bathinda. Punjab is facing a shortage of power due to anti-Punjab policies of the Congress. People will change the government after six months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-slams-congress-over-power-outages-277672
03-07-2021||Our Correspondent 
||BKU protests in Tarn Taran against power cuts and inadequate canal water supply||Tarn Taran, July 2 Activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta) on Friday organised protests in their areas against unscheduled power cuts and inadequate canal water supply to farmers.  The SAD workers, under the leadership of Iqbal Singh Sandhu, a former member of the  Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board, gheraoed the office of Powercom subdivision, Chabal, for hours on Friday. Braving the scorching heat, the activists staged a dharna.   Iqbal Singh Sandhu, while addressing the protesters, said the state government had failed to provide uninterrupted eight-hour power supply to the farmers. He said large areas of paddy fields have been converted to dry land due to insufficient water supply, besides domestic power supply was also not up to the mark. He condemned the state government for increasing the power tariff many times.  He took note of withdrawal of the social welfare schemes launched by the previous state government. Other SAD leaders too spoke on the occasion and highlighted the problems being faced by the border area farmers. Workers of the Bharti Kisan Union, led by Gurbaj Singh Sidhwan, staged a dharna in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) to highlight the problems of Khemkeran area farmers. Jasbir Singh Gandiwind, district president of the union, said the farmers were neither getting uninterrupted power supply nor canal water supply for decades. He said the canal water system had been collapsed as the water distributaries had not been cleaned for the past many years.   He stressed on deloading of the overloaded feeders and replacement of burnt transformers within 24 hours. The union presented a memorandum of their demands to Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General). The workers also protested in front of the office of Deputy Chief Engineer in Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bku-protests-in-tarn-taran-against-power-cuts-and-inadequate-canal-water-supply-277646
03-07-2021||---||Centre liable for hardships faced by citizens: NSUI||Amritsar, July 2 Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for constant price hike of petroleum products (petrol, diesel and LPG), National Students’ Union of India’s (NSUI) state chief Akshay Sharma on Friday said the Centre was liable for severe hardships being faced by citizens. The NSUI members held a protest at Novelty Chowk.  “This exorbitant rise in prices of essential commodities has made it almost impossible for citizens to make both ends meet,” he said. He said the insensitive Central Government has been sleeping while people were desperately looking for ways to survive. He said PM Narendra Modi-led government has raised price of LPG cylinder from Rs 594 to Rs 834 in the last seven months. “Besides, rate of milk has been hiked as if already high prices of petrol and diesel were not enough. The impact on livelihoods and jobs has been most compelling across all sectors and millions have lost their jobs. The Centre’s arrogance is killing Indian citizens,” he said. Meanwhile, the NSUI activists took out a march in Tarn Taran on Friday against the rising prices of fuel. They also burnt an effigy of the Union Government. Addressing on the occasion, Hrithik Arora, state leader of the union, said the rising fuel prices, especially petrol and diesel, had upset the daily budget of the common man, who was finding it difficult to make ends meet. He alleged that wrong policies of the Union Government would be the main cause of the downfall of the Modi-led Central Government. He said the Assembly elections due next year in the state would be the litmus test for the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-liable-for-hardships-faced-by-citizens-nsui-277647
03-07-2021||---||GNDU to allow PhD by publication, set up hostel for international students||Amritsar, July 2 Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) will allow PhD by publication and PhD by monograph from this session onwards to ease the process of getting published while carrying out research for its scholars.  The announcement followed a Senate and Syndicate meeting held through the hybrid mode on Friday in the university. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet Minister, Punjab, Prof Ved Prakash, former chairman UGC, Prof SS Johl, former chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Prof Mohammad Miyan, former vice-chancellor of Central University of Odisha, Paramjit Singh, IAS, Special Secretary, Government of Punjab, and Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar were some prominent personalities who attended the meeting. Prof Ved Prakash, former chairman of UGC and former vice-chancellor of NEUPA and Prof Mohammad Miyan, former vice-chancellor, Central University of Odisha, and former member of UGC were the academicians who became members of the Syndicate from Senate. The decision to allow PhD by publication has been taken to enhance the research achievements of the university by allowing students to publish their research while pursuing PhDs.  Registrar KS Kahlon said the research paper, which is essentially documentation of all the research data, could now be considered thesis of publication, saving researchers’ tedious task of compiling a separate thesis. Already, the H-Index of the university has increased from 64 in 2017 to 113 in 2021, which is among the highest in the region. The increase in H-Index would help the university to garner more funds for research activities. The university will also establish a separate hostel for international students. GNDU has been attracting a large number of foreign students from various countries like African countries, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives with an increased intake every year. It was shared in the meeting that this year a record number of around 300 students from foreign countries will get admission in the university.  “At present, we have 65 international students pursuing various courses at GNDU and another 300 have applied for admissions this year. We were making do with the existing hostel facilities for them. But it has been proposed that a separate international hostel will now be constructed,” informed Kahlon.  The university has already launched the online courses for Indian Diaspora abroad in Punjabi language. Navdeep Singh Suri, distinguished fellow and Director Centre for Diplomacy and former ambassador to various countries, has been conferred the status of Professor of Eminence. The Syndicate also approved the starting of Guru Gobind Singh College, Jandiala (Jalandhar), as a constituent college with a substantial grant-in-aid from Government of Punjab; commencing Ar. Paramjit Singh Mahoora Memorial Award for the Best Architect that will be given by GNDU and the establishment of Bhagat Kabir Chair as announced by the Punjab CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-allow-phd-by-publication-set-up-hostel-for-international-students-277648
03-07-2021||---||Joda ghar, cloakroom soon at Akal Takht Secretariat||Amritsar, July 2The SGPC has initiated the service of expansion of joda ghar and a new gathri ghar (cloakroom to store belongings of visitors) on the entrance of Akal Takht secretariat for the convenience of the sangat visiting the Golden Temple.However, this move had led to hampering of the langar sewa that was being carried out by a private organisation run by Kulwant Singh, a retired manager of Punjab and Sind Bank, for long, as the new project was being developed on the same plot. The members of the organisation staged a mild protest too.Sometime back, the Golden Temple administrative officials had objected to his langar sewa, following which it was discontinued for some time but was later resumed.Today, the temporary arrangements such as shed and preparation infrastructure for the preparation of langar have been demolished by a ditch machine, says Gurpal Singh, a member of the organisation. “The land was under the management of PUDA. I have lodged a complaint with the DC,” he said.It is learnt that the SGPC personnel later took away their belongings but some persons lay down in front of the vehicles and stopped them. Ultimately, they were removed from the spot to pave way for the ceremony to be conducted to lay the foundation for joda ghar and gathri ghar.Giani Harpreet Singh, officiating jathedar of Akal Takht, Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of SGPC, Giani Jagtar Singh, additional head granthi of Golden Temple, Surjit Singh Bhitewad, Advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, Baba were present on the occasion.The Kar Sewa (voluntary service) of this shoe house has been handed over to Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale. After the ardas to start the Kar Sewa, prominent personalities volunteered to lay the foundation stone.Prayers were offered on the occasion and prominent personalities were present. Bibi Jagir Kaur said this joda ghar would have the capacity to accommodate more than 5,000 pair of shoes at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joda-ghar-cloakroom-soon-at-akal-takht-secretariat-277649
03-07-2021||---||Of spy stories & covert operations of RAW||Amritsar, July 2Writers Anushka Nandkumar and Sandeep Saket talked about their book, ‘The War that Made RAW’ with journalist Kaveree Bamzai in a web session hosted by Majha House today. The two talked about the conception of the book that explores the possibility of 1962 and 1971 wars in establishing India’s elite intelligence agency.Introducing the book, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House said, “It is the most unusual book in terms that it is the first book that exhaustively talks about the intelligence agency that is now integral to the safety of our country. It also honours the brilliant minds that remain behind the scene even as they map out surveillance strategies for the country.”Talking about the 1962 and 1965 wars with China and Pakistan, the writers shared that India lost one and won the other by a very short margin. “It was after this that the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi segregated the Intelligence Bureau into two distinct units, one for internal intelligence and the other for external intelligence, which was put under the guidance of Mr Kao who was the intelligence officer for Indira Gandhi. His team was also humorously referred to as the ‘Kaoboys’,” said Sandeep Saket.“RAW was formed in 1968 and the war with Bangladesh ended in 1971. It occurred to us that the two events were related. We started gathering stories and slowly built up the narrative but it was only at the behest of our friend that we started thinking of the material as a book. Our background in cinema helped us to visualise the narrative so we could make it more compelling and readable,” said Anushka Nandkumar.They also said although the incidents in the book are real, they had to step in as writers to build up dialogue between different characters Leaders like Indira Gandhi, Zulfiqar Bhutto, General Yahya Khan, Rameshwar Nath Kao, P N Banerjee were all important in those years, and they feature prominently in the book which makes it all the more realistic and interesting.‘Operation HAT, a joint covert operation by the US’ CIA and RAW, the foiling of infamous airplane highjack where the hijackers were honored by the Pakistani government, and many other such incidents have been mentioned that makes it no less than a thriller.“Covert international espionage has always been an interesting topic. People are always interested in knowing how things function behind the scenes; they want to know how information and intelligence is gathered; how spies are stationed in different countries; how they act, what challenges they face are all subjects of fascination for everyone. Mainstream films and OTT series have brought the life of spies right into our own lives. We are hoping that our book, a labour of love, will also receive the same amount of love and appreciation,” the writers concluded in a lighter tone.How the idea of book was conceivedIntroducing the book, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House said, "It is the most unusual book in terms that it is the first book that exhaustively talks about the intelligence agency that is now integral to the safety of our country. It also honours the brilliant minds that remain behind the scene even as they map out surveillance strategies for the country.” The writer Anushka Nandkumar said, “RAW was formed in 1968 and the war with Bangladesh ended in 1971. It occurred to us that the two events were related. We started gathering stories and slowly built up the narrative but it was only at the behest of our friend that we started thinking of the material as a book.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-spy-stories-covert-operations-of-raw-277650
03-07-2021||Amritsar||Khalsa College of Pharmacy's research paper declared best in Bangkok conference||A research work on “Potential Benefits of Andrographolide in Aluminium induced Neurotoxicity”, conducted by the department of pharmacology, Khalsa College of Pharmacy (KCP), has been declared as `Best Research Paper’ during the 8th world conference on pharmaceutical sciences and manufacturing held at Bangkok in Thailand.  “The work was accomplished by Dr Nitish Bhatia, associate professor (pharmacology) and presented online in the conference,” said KCP Principal RK Dhawan. He said the conference was attended by more than 500 participants (virtually) with speakers from a number of countries worldwide. “It is a matter of pride for all of us that research work conducted at KCP has got global recognition”, said Dr Nitish. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-of-pharmacys-research-paper-declared-best-in-bangkok-conference-277651
03-07-2021||Amritsar||Putlighar blast: Victim’s families sit on hunger strike at Amritsar's Bhandari Bridge||The family members of the Putlighar blast victims on Friday sit on an indefinite hunger strike  here after all the promises made by political leaders remained unfulfilled even after two years of the incident. Bhartiya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha and Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj, the two organisations have been supporting the protest.The family members of the victims, Rajinder Kumar and Rattan Lal who had died in the blast, said though politicians assured them of providing compensation and a government job to kin, they did not bother about fulfilling their promises.In mid-February, the organisations had held a massive protest in the Putlighar Chowk area. The dharna was lifted after Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka reached the spot and assured the family of all possible help.Aman William, vice-president of the Mooknivasi Mukti Morcha, said in the past three months, they had visited the residence of the Congress MLA and he always sought time for the same apparently for procuring time for dilly-dallying their justified demand.They said they were on hunger strike since Thursday. Neither the administration nor any political party that claimed itself to be the well-wisher of the Dalit community, paid any heed to their grievances. Incidentally, the office of a political party was located near the agitation site.The organisations threatened to block the Bhandari bridge in case their demands were not met. On September 23, 2019, a blast at the residence of a scrap dealer in the Luv Kush Nagar area had claimed the lives of two persons — Rattan Lal and Rajinder Kumar— while around six persons were injured. They had blamed the police administration for the blast. They had claimed that the police had got the Cantonment police station cleaned and the scrap was sold to the scrap dealer.The dealer brought the same to his residence in the congested Luv Kush colony in Putlighar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/putlighar-blast-victims-families-sit-on-hunger-strike-at-amritsars-bhandari-bridge-277652
