04-07-2021||Amritsar||Staff protest at Civil Hospital||Protest against pay panel reportAmritsar: On the call of the Agriculture Technocrats Union, officials of various departments, including agriculture, horticulture, soil conservation and animal husbandry, protested against recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission at Kheti Bhawan recently. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Agriculture Technocrats Union, said they condemned the government for implementing recommendations of the 6th pay panel, which violates pay parity of agricultural technocrats with veterinary doctors. Instead of 2.25 formula, the new pay scale should be fixed according to same formula and arrears should be released in a single instalment. Sandhu said while farmers were fighting for their rights at the borders of Delhi against the black laws introduced by the Centre, the state government was not paying attention to rights and legitimate demands of agricultural technocrats. From July 1 to 8, a series of protests would be organised by the Agriculture Technocrats Union at the district-level headquarters for two hours daily. TNSBaba Jeewan Singh Chair at GNDUAmritsar: The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has taken up the task of representing the voice of the Ranghareta Samaj in highlighting various aspects of the life philosophy of Shaheed Baba Jeevan Singh. Baba Jeewan Singh was a warrior in the army of Guru Gobind Singh and according to historians, considered among his trusted aides. Dr. Tarsem Singh Sialka, member of the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, today wrote to CM Amarinder Singh, urging him to establish Baba Jeewan Singh chiar at GNDU. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-protest-at-civil-hospital-278088
04-07-2021||Amritsar||Pensioners flay pay panel report||The Police Pensioners’ Welfare Association today criticised the state government for ignoring pensioners in the sixth pay commission. The association also demanded implementation of the Supreme Court decisions regarding the old pension scheme. The association headed by Sukhdev Singh Chhina held a meeting at its office here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pensioners-flay-pay-panel-report-278087
04-07-2021||With his father being admitted to hospital after his oxygen saturation level fell dipped||‘Cultivated empathy for others during crisis’||Garav stated that after all of them recovered, they decided to help the families where members were sick and required food. "I contacted an NGO. All I had to do was collect disposable tiffin boxes and deliver the packed food at a designated place. On two occasions, we contributed 10 meals which were cooked by my mother," he said, adding it was a small way of expressing gratitude towards the unknown people from the society who helped us with food when we needed it.“Covid-19 is not just a disease. It is also a test of our compassion and humanity. We should not shy away from helping those in need,” said Garav, adding that it is a lesson he learnt after testing positive on May 13 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cultivated-empathy-for-others-during-crisis-278086
04-07-2021||---||Akalis demand financial relief for paddy growers||Amritsar, July 3  Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia demanded an immediate financial package for paddy farmers who were being forced to use diesel generators to rear their crop because the government was not providing them eight-hour uninterrupted power supply. Addressing a press conference here, Majithia stressed that the farmers who had ploughed their standing paddy crop amidst lack of power supply, be given an immediate compensation of Rs 20,000 per acre. He announced that the party would hold ‘dharnas’ tomorrow to demand justice for the farmers, industrial sector which was penalised for compulsory day offs and the common man, as well, who were also suffering due to 10-12 hour power cuts.  “The farmers and ordinary consumers were on streets for want of power, whereas CM Capt Amarinder Singh was hosting a five star lunch for Congress leaders in Chandigarh instead of holding review meetings to resolve the power crisis in the state. The PSPCL has asked government undertakings not to use air conditioners for three days”, he said.  The SAD leader said even though paddy transplantation was an annual affair, the manner in which the Congress government had purposely mismanaged the entire operation had endangered the farm economy of the State. “Farmers in large parts of Malwa and Majha regions have been struck a double blow by being denied canal water. This is why people are on the roads and protests are being held even in Mehraj, the ancestral village of the CM and in Patiala, his hometown”. Virsa Singh Valtoha, Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, Dalbir Singh Verka, Manjit Singh Manna and Malkiat Singh AR were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akalis-demand-financial-relief-for-paddy-growers-278041
04-07-2021||---||Fire breaks out at restaurant||Fire breaks out at restaurant  Amritsar, July 3 A fire broke out in the chimney of a restaurant in Mall of Amritsar on Friday afternoon. The fire caused smoke everywhere in the mall. The fire and smoke created panic among the people who were in the restaurant. The fire was doused by the fire brigade personnel and no casualties were reported.   Lovpreet Singh, assistant divisional fire officer, said the fire broke out in the kitchen of Italian Pizza Restaurant in Mall of Amritsar in the afternoon. The fire brigade was informed about the incident at 6 pm and within 15 minutes of receiving the information four fire tenders arrived on the spot. The mall buildings already have fire extinguishers and other equipment.  The cause of the fire was yet to be known, but  there might be some issue in the kitchen chimney which led to fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-breaks-out-at-restaurant-278042
04-07-2021||---||Woman commits suicide, husband among 3 booked||Amritsar, July 3A married woman committed suicide in Mahtupura mohalla in Attari on Thursday evening. The deceased has been identified as Manpreet Kaur.Following the statement of Manpreet’s father Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Vallah, the police have booked deceased’s husband Malkeet Singh along with his two sisters on the charge of abetment to suicide.Dowry harassmentThe complainant alleged that Manpreet was his second daughter and she was married to Malkeet in June last year. He said he had given dowry as per his capacity. Gurdeep said a few days after the marriage, the accused started harassing her daughter for bringing insufficient dowry.Upset over continuous harassment at the hands of her husband and his two sisters, she came to her parents and started living with them in Vallah.Gurdeep said later Satnam Singh intervened and a compromise was struck and Manpreet went with her husband. He said she again faced harassment at their hands and informed them about this over the phone. She even threatened to end her life.He said around 7.30 pm on Thursday, he got a call that Manpreet has committed suicide by hanging with a ceiling fan. He said he along with his wife Paramjit Kaur and other relatives rushed to Attari and found her hanging.Attari Deputy Superintendent of Police Gurpartap Sahota said a case under Sections 306 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at Gharinda police station. He said the suspects would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-commits-suicide-husband-among-3-booked-278043
04-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Vaccines — tugboats of adaptive immunity’||A webinar on the topic, “Vaccines: The tugboats of the adaptive immunity”, was organised by Dr Salim Ali Zoological Society of DAV College here. Dr Manpreet Kaur from the Genetics Department of Guru Nanak Dev University was the resource person. She said there was a need to critically look at the immunisation programme as more than that of a vaccine delivery platform. “We need a health system based on disease control strategy rather than on a vaccine delivery programme. There is a need to create a bridge between the individuals and community, and acknowledge that healthcare (for the individual) and public health (for the community) must go hand-in-hand. Vaccine effectiveness and the National Immunisation Programme must aim to concentrate on the causes of the diseases that they seek to address,” she said.  DAV College Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said vaccine provides protection from disease, not from normal infection, which is prevalent everywhere. “Immune system responds to infection and prevents one from disease, for different time duration by different vaccines. Therefore, some vaccines require to be followed by booster doses too,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vaccines-%E2%80%94-tugboats-of-adaptive-immunity-278044
04-07-2021||---||SGPC condemns attack on Sikhs in Afghanistan||Amritsar, July 3 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Bibi Jagir Kaur strongly condemned a grenade attack on the Sikh community in Jalalabad, Afghanistan. She said the Government of India should approach its counterpart in Afghanistan to ensure safety of life and property of the Sikhs. “Sikhs seek welfare of mankind. Due to such attacks, some forces are trying to intimidate and spread a sense of fear among the Sikhs. Earlier, a group of Sikh leaders had been targeted in Afghanistan and several top leaders of the Sikh community were killed.” The SGPC chief said thousands of Sikhs have migrated from Afghanistan due to the insecurity. “Appropriate steps should be taken by the Centre to ensure safety of Sikhs in Afghanistan. We stand in solidarity with the Sikh community,” she said. She also prayed for recovery of Sikhs injured in the grenade attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-condemns-attack-on-sikhs-in-afghanistan-278045
04-07-2021||---||Contaminated water supply ruffles residents’ feathers||Amritsar, July 3  Residents of ward number 38 on Sultanwind road have been getting a supply of contaminated water for the last several weeks. Despite complaints to the Municipal Corporation the issue is still unaddressed.   The residents claimed that drinking water was getting contaminated with sewer water.  Paramjit Singh, a resident of Ward Number 38, said: “The residents are suffering from diseases due to contaminated water supply in the area.”  Another resident said they were getting potable water from hand pumps and avoiding tap water being supplied by the MC. The residents claimed that they were also buying water from the market.  “We have filed complaints about the contaminated water supply several times but no one makes an effort to address the issue. There might be small leakage in the supply line but at least the MC should address the issue”, said Gurmeet Kaur, a resident of the area.  Remaining unheard for long, finally the area residents, led by Gurmeet Kaur and Balwinder Kaur, staged a demonstration against the MC on Wednesday. Local Congress leaders visited the demonstrating residents on the UBDC Bridge.  Jatinderpal Singh Ghoga, Congress leader and husband of councillor Gurjit Kaur, assured the residents of resolving the issue. “The line of potable water supply was leaked in street number 3. It was crossing through a sewer water tank outside a house. We have traced the leakage. Now the cemented floor would be dismantled to repair it. The problem would be sorted out within three to four days. Probably, the pipe would be repaired on Monday”, said Ghoga.  Besides, the residents of ward number 38 have also complained of water supply shortage as the pump of tubewell is lying defunct. The councilor assured that the supply of water would be restored soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contaminated-water-supply-ruffles-residents-feathers-278046
04-07-2021||---||Green belt at BRTS lane||Amritsar, July 3The authorities have decided to develop a green belt alongside the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) lane. Anil Kumar, CEO, BRTS, said surroundings of the BRTS depot and its bus stops would be converted into green belt.He said 150 saplings have been planted at the BRTS depot on Thursday. He said apart from this, saplings would also be planted at the BRTS bus stops. “Greenery is need of the hour. Environmental issues can be tackled if every person plants at least two saplings,” he said.A special vaccination camp was also organised at the BRTS depot to inoculate BRTS employees. More than 80 employees were vaccinated. The CEO said every employee of the BRTS was encouraged to get jabbed at the earliest. He said thousands of people use the BRTS buses to reach their destinations and vaccination would ensure safety of passengers and employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-belt-at-brts-lane-278047
04-07-2021||---||FLOkari campaign for revival of phulkari||Amritsar, July 3Amritsar FICCI FLO has initiated a campaign to highlight the craftsmen behind the growing fashion industry — the ‘karigars’ who work tirelessly to make sure that those hi-end labels and red carpet entries never go wrong. Creating awareness and support regarding their livelihood, that has been hit due to the pandemic, the FLO’s initiative for ‘karigars’ today got appreciation from ace designer Manish Malhotra.A web interaction with Manish Malhotra, for FLOkari, FICCI FLO Amritsar’s campaign for revival of phulkari, the star-designer shared his own endeavour to support weavers and craftsmen from fashion industry in these trying times. “Craftsmanship needs attention. We need to instil in people a love for their traditional cultures and admiration for our super talented karigars. The fact that Indian embroideries got recognition in global fashion industry shows how unique our traditional craftsmanship is,” he said. He called FLOkari a brilliant initiative by FLO Amritsar, “Phulkari is a kaleidoscope of colours with all those abstract, geometrical patterns that inspire and connect with the youth. Traditional crafts need to be supported wholeheartedly,” he said.Talking about the change that pandemic has brought in the fashion industry at large, since lockdown and economic slump has also hit the couture culture, Malhotra said: “We are going to witness a sense of self-being and self-styling with acceptance coming in. People are going to be experimental and diverse with their choices. A lot sustainable choices in fashion are being promoted, with niche, home grown brands that promote the ideas of acceptance and individuality now becoming popular.” He further adds that we must encourage this sense of uniqueness and individualism among our youth by listening to them more than telling them. This is the only way they are going to view our advices as wisdom and consider us a part of them.Manish shares his love for movies and styling and how he used to comment on his mother’s and teachers’ styling. “I had a very distinct approach towards fashion and glamour when it came to Bollywood stars. I wanted to it be very creative and authentic and natural at the same time,” said the fashion maestro.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flokari-campaign-for-revival-of-phulkari-278048
04-07-2021||---||Adding her own twist to the dark tales of life||Amritsar, July 3 The thrills and chills of the supernatural has always made for engaging reading, as all Ruskin Bond fans must be aware of. With time, this genre of literature, too, has undergone a modern makeover or so feels Venita Coelho.  The award-winning author on Saturday spoke about her book Dark Tales, a collection of 11 very dark, twisted stories in a session hosted by Majha House. In conversation with Preeti Gill, founder Majha House, she said: “When I thought of writing ghost stories, I did not want to go the Ruskin Bond way. I wanted the tales to be contemporary and very Indian. So, I took very modern instances such as being in a theatre, where the fire breaks out and you can’t exit. That’s a chilling situation and then just slips the ghost in to bring in more fun.”  Venita, who is a celebrated author of children literature, while speaking about her deep and unsettling interest in the supernatural, said while they were young, they had to suffer a lot of power breakdowns. “My mother would gather us round the table, light a candle and begin telling us ghostly tales in a hushed-up voice for effect. I guess it was then that my interest in the supernatural began,” she said.  In her book, she has woven the story titled ‘Devdas’ around the Mumbai bomb blasts that shook her. “This is a perfect example of what I mean when I say that I take everyday stories from our lives, stories that have become normal for us but are horrifying nonetheless. All I do is add a ghost to the proceeding, like a dressing to a salad, to increase the flavour and pleasure.”  Not sticking to conventions, she said it would be simplistic to write just a ghost story in a vacuum. “It is important to have some cultural resonance coming across the story even if it is something metaphorical. Like my story ‘Ram Lakhan’ in the book, about conjoined twins, is actually about the tragic Naxalite movement, where the police paid the villagers to turn against their own. Hence, the metaphor.”  She also mentioned recent incidents of real-life horror that send a chill down her spine. “The countless bodies floating in the Ganges, being pecked at by birds, isn’t that a horror story in itself?” she asked. Inspired by writers such as Stephen King and Clive Barker, Venita herself has not had a ‘ghostly’ experience. “But I believe that ghosts exist somewhere in the twilight zone. It just adds romance to life. Otherwise, how very dull and uninspiring it would all be,” she joked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adding-her-own-twist-to-the-dark-tales-of-life-278049
04-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Authorities fail to throw open Ranjit Singh’s memorabilia to public||TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICEAMRITSAR, JULY 3Another death anniversary of the legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh went unnoticed in the last week of June as no attempt was made by the authorities concerned to throw open to public his memorabilia — the summer palace.Situated in the heart of the city, he used to stay at the summer palace for visiting the Golden Temple during his stay in the holy city. The restoration work of the summer palace has jumped many deadlines. It continues to remain out of bound for people as it has been under restoration for the past nearly 14 years.The conservation work, being carried out by a Mumbai-based private concern, had exactly begun in 2007. It has now entered the final phase of placing paintings, artefacts, weaponry and other objects reminding the period of his reign. Before the restoration work, the summer palace building used to house a museum.Officials and workers engaged at the site said both external and internal walls were now ready and false ceiling, installing air-conditioners and light fitting work had also been finished. Conservation work was done by carefully using the same ingredients which used to prevail during the period of the Maharaja. These materials were derived from natural sources like extracts of plants, lime, eggs, moong dal and others. Before this to happen, the entire old material on the wall was painstakingly scrapped.People associated with the tourism, tour and travel industries are keenly awaiting the re-opening of the summer palace to add one more place in the itinerary of the visitors. They say that efforts should be made to bring in visitors for the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama, which is situated close to the summer palace.AR Mishra, Project In-charge, Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB), said the project got delayed as no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) were required for as small a move as hammering a nail in a wall. Covid-induced restrictions also delayed the execution of the projects. “It is likely to be completed in the next two months,” he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/authorities-fail-to-throw-open-ranjit-singhs-memorabilia-to-public-278050
04-07-2021||---||Prime suspect in Jagroop bouncer murder case held||Amritsar, July 3  The Ranjit Avenue police have nabbed Gurjinder Singh, a prime suspect in the killing of a bouncer in the posh locality in October last year. Jagroop Singh of Nangli Batha village was shot dead by notorious gangster Preet Sekhon along with his unknown accomplices when the victim was returning home. Sekhon had claimed the responsibility of the murder in a social media platform.  Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said that Gurjinder accompanied Sekhon while shooting Jagroop Singh. He was produced in the court and brought on three day police remand for further interrogation. Jagroop used to work at European Night Beer Bar and Restaurant. He was returning home along with his friend, Sukhwinder Singh Goldy, after his shift. When they reached near In and Out Bakery, around four persons came in a white Swift car. Three of the occupants came out of the car and fired indiscriminately at Jagroop and fled from the spot. He suffered bullet injuries on his neck and back. Goldy rushed Jagroop to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Sekhon and Jagroop had a dispute at a marriage of a common friend in Sanghna village in 2019. Robin Hans said that the accused was arrested by Hoshiarpur police in a murder case. Later he was lodged in Kapurthala jail. He said Gurjinder was brought on production warrant, produced in the court which granted his three day police custody for investigations in the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-in-jagroop-bouncer-murder-case-held-278051
04-07-2021||---||1 dies, 12 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 3With one more death reported in the district on Saturday, the toll increased to 1,569. The health authorities have also reported 12 new cases, with which the total count of positive cases has increased to 46,806.The deceased has been identified as Manohar Lal, a 36-year-old resident of Shaam Nagar village, near Majitha. The new cases include seven influenza-like illness cases and five contacts of positive patients.The district has also reported recovery of 24 patients with which the total recovery count increased to 44,992. The district at present has a total of 245 active cases.No death in Tarn Taran, three test positiveNo death was reported due of the coronavirus infection on Saturday however, three persons tested positive. The toll stands at 366 and the number of active cases has reduced to 58 and 32 persons have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 837 samples were collected by the Health Department teams from different places on Saturday and the reports of 588 samples were yet to arrive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-dies-12-test-ve-in-amritsar-278052
04-07-2021||---||Sarpanch shot at, robbed;  drives himself to hospital||Amritsar, July 3  Three unidentified persons shot at Daljit Singh, sarpanch of Wadala Khurd village, on the Baba Bakala-Dhayanpur road here on Friday evening. Robbery is stated to be the reason behind the incident.  The victim drove himself to a private hospital, where he is under treatment. The police authorities said a case has been registered, while further investigations were on. The police were analysing the CCTV cameras near the spot to find some clues about the perpetrators.  ASI Kartar Singh, Investigating Officer, said Daljit was stable and under treatment. He said he had gone to Dhayanpur in Gurdaspur for some work and after finishing his work, when he was returning, three bike-borne persons signalled him to stop. He said as he stopped his car, the accused knocked at the window.  He said when he came out, the accused pointed a pistol at him and started mugging him. He said he scuffled with the robbers, who later fired a shot at him. The bullet hit his stomach and he fell. The accused took out cash and mobile from his pocket and fled away. Daljit then drove himself to a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarpanch-shot-at-robbed-drives-himself-to-hospital-278053
04-07-2021||---||Man duped of Rs 24 lakh||Amritsar, July 3  A local resident, identified as Harbhajan Singh of Bal Khurd village, fell victim to a phishing racket that duped him of Rs 24 lakh. Following preliminary probe, the police have booked seven persons for fraud and criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.  Those booked were identified as Subham Gupta of West Delhi, Poonam of Uttam Nagar, West Delhi, Aakash Kumar Morya of Badarpur, West Delhi, Ram Shankar of Madhya Pradesh, Bulliangir Halam of Bangaluru, Liansiakjoy Chorei of North Bangalore and Manoj Kumar of Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. No arrest has been made till now.  Harbhajan Singh lodged a complaint with the police in March this year. He stated to the police that he befriended Doris Caliton from London UK around three months ago who told him that she had sent a parcel containing a gold chain, iPhone, a diamond ring, a laptop, perfume and a camera through Global Express Courier.  He said later, he got a call from a person who asked him to deposit some cash before releasing the parcel. He got the cash transferred in different bank accounts. Later, he got suspicious and lodged a complaint with the police.  Now, a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the IT Act has been registered against them. The police said further investigations were under progress and efforts were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-duped-of-rs-24-lakh-278054
04-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Panchayat secretary nabbed taking bribe||The state Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Saturday nabbed Rataul gram panchayat secretary red-handed  taking Rs5,000 bribe from a contractor.   Contractor Jagjit Singh Dhillon was given the contract to construct the building of village Saanjh Kendra for a cost of Rs12,09,000 under the Central scheme. Twenty per cent of the amount was to be given to the contractor from the panchayat funds after producing the resolution. Panchayat secretary Sushil Kumar was dilly-dallying to give him the copy of the resolution and demanded a bribe of Rs10,000. He took Rs5,000 from Jagjit Singh at his restaurant and all activities were captured in the CCTV cameras. Despite that Sushil was not ready to give him the copy of the resolution, the contractor said.   Jagjit brought the matter to the notice of SSP Vigilance Bureau (VB) who laid a trap.   As soon as Sushil Kumar took the money the VB team nabbed him with the bribed money in the presence of shadow witness Narinder Singh SDO (Powercom).  The accused had been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The VB was collecting the property details of the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panchayat-secretary-nabbed-taking-bribe-278055
04-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Power shocker for local trader||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3Raja Harmeet Singh Batra, a local businessman and resident of posh Mall Road, was in for a shock, when he received this month’s electricity bill.The Powercom authorities handed over a bill of Rs11.54 lakh for power consumption at his residence. What was more surprising was that he had solar panel installed at his house.“Usually, we get a power bill between Rs2,000 and Rs3,000 maximum. But this month’s bill has left me perplexed and that, too, when the state is reeling under severe power shortage. We are still struggling to understand the latest instructions of the Punjab Government,” he said.He said: “We were calling the PSPCL authorities for getting clarity on the new instructions as to what should be done and on what days the industry has been asked to remain shut. In between, we got this power bill at my residence. The bill number 1003392738 showed a consumption of 1,347 units. The amount payable by the due date against the bill was Rs11,54,770.“I fail to understand how the power corporation billed such hefty amount without taking into account the fact that we have solar panel installed at our house and the department is aware of this,” he said. “I will ask my staff to reach the Civil Line Division for rectification of the bill,” he said.PSPCL officials, meanwhile, feigned ignorance over the same and said the consumer should approach the office concerned and a rectified bill would be issued to him. This must be some software glitch and would be looked into, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-shocker-for-local-trader-278056
04-07-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Woman among 2 held with drugs||Tarn Taran, July 3  Goindwal Sahib police arrested a resident of Goindwal Sahib village with 253 gm of heroin and a woman shopkeeper of Patti town with 1,500 intoxicants and syringes used for taking drugs.  SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said 253 gm of heroin was seized from Satnam Singh Sattu and he had been booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.  The SSP said in another case, Kamlesh Kumari, who was running a grocery shop in Patti, had been arrested with 1,500 intoxicants and 490 syringes. The woman was arrested following the raid conducted by sub-inspector Amandeep Kaur. The Patti police have registered a case under Sections 22,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-among-2-held-with-drugs-278057
04-07-2021||Amritsar||Road named after Sant Singh Lidhar||Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said that following the approval of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the state government has decided to name Raiya to Khadoor Sahib road after former MLA shaheed Sant Singh Lidhar who laid his life to bring Punjab back on a peaceful track. Notably, Sant Singh Lidhar had served as a two time member of Punjab Vidhan Sabha from Beas constituency and he was a noted social worker of the area. Singla said the Punjab Government was committed to providing better road connectivity to people and efforts would be made to achieve the set targets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-named-after-sant-singh-lidhar-278058
04-07-2021||Amritsar||Couple’s bodies found in hotel in Amritsar||A lover couple allegedly shot themselves in a hotel room near the interstate bus terminus here today.The youth has been identified as Prabhnoor Singh (18) of Ghumanpura, while the girl, a minor, belonged to the Khalsa College area. The police have sent the bodies for a post-mortem examination and started their investigation.Investigating officer Narain Singh said the two checked into the hotel around 8.30 am. After several hours, the staff heard two gunshots and rushed towards the room, which was bolted from inside.They informed the police who later broke open the door and found the bodies, with bullet wounds in the head, lying in a pool of blood.Preliminary probe revealed both were preparing for IELTS at an institute near Guru Nanak Dev University here. They reportedly had an affair but families were opposed to their marriage. DCP Mukhwinder Bhullar said initial probe suggested Prabhnoor first shot the girl and then turned his father’s licensed weapon on himself. A case was being registered against the hotel owners, besides Prabhnoor’s father. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couples-bodies-found-in-hotel-in-amritsar-277933
04-07-2021||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu refutes SAD charge on pending bill||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, has rubbished allegations of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal that the Amritsar MLA had not paid the power bill of their house in time.In a video message today, she launched a counter-offensive against Sukhbir, claiming the SAD chief did not carry money during travel and depended upon others tagging along in case the need arose. She alleged Sukhbir’s family availed of medical bills and sight-seeing tours from the state exchequer.Coming to her husband’s defence, she said Sidhu had left his Rs 30-crore job for the state and their rental income from showrooms also stopped during the Covid-19 pandemic. PSPCL sources said there was no anomaly on part of its staff in the power bill amount. Sidhu’s mansion situated in a private township on the city outskirts had a 60 kW connection with an LTCT meter. The meter gave accurate reading, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-navjot-kaur-sidhu-refutes-sad-charge-on-pending-bill-277918
