05-07-2021||Amritsar||Theft at hospital building site in Jandiala Guru||Body arrives from SharjahAmritsar: The body of Harbans Lal, 45, who died at Sharjah, was airlifted with efforts made by Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, run by Dr SP Singh Oberoi, here on Sunday. Chaman Lal, Lubhaya Ram and other from the victim’s family came from Anokharwal village in Nawanshahr district to receive the body at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport in the wee hours of Sunday. They said he passed away after slipping in the bathroom on July 11. He was taken to a hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. The deceased is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son. Manpreet Singh Sandhu, an office-bearer of the Trust, said it had initiated a scheme to either give pension or fixed deposit to those needy families who lost their dear ones in the Gulf countries. He said soon a team of the Trust would visit the residence of Harbans Lal to ascertain the economic condition of the family. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theft-at-hospital-building-site-in-jandiala-guru-278508
05-07-2021||Open House||Open House: Ramping up vaccination, scaling up O2 supply way forward||Targeted vaccination to go a long wayThe city saw innumerable deaths and Covid cases since last year. Though, the curfew is being lifted and a third wave, likely to be caused by the Delta variant, is also being anticipated, the district authorities should take some effective steps to prevent the third wave’s effects. First of all, administrative bodies should adopt a targeted vaccination strategy. The primary goal of the vaccination programme should be to tame the virus. Secondly, it should prioritise high-risk groups and potential super spreaders. They are more likely to get infected than others, and are also more likely to infect others. Lastly, the idea of reopening of educational institutions should be postponed till September as there is a prediction that the third wave would be a great threat for the children. To conclude, as the third wave of Covid is expected to be the most detrimental one, the district administration should prepare itself to deal with it.Harsimrat PannuMinimise transmission of virus at every costEven though the fatalities and the number of Covid cases are on a decline, the public should not lower guard and follow Covid protocols in toto to keep the third wave at bay. With relaxations in lockdown restrictions, the district administration has a daunting task in hand to implement the Covid-appropriate protocols in every nook of the city.The administration has to be alert and take a strict action against violators to safeguard against the looming dangers of third wave. Administration should rope in volunteers, NCC, NSS cadets and stationed them at bus stands, railway stations, malls, vegetable markets, Big Bazaars along with police for protocols complianceSuspected hot spots be declared as containment zones to curb virus spread. Mass vaccination drive be launched along with awareness campaign to get the most vulnerable be vaccinated at the earliest. If possible door-to-door vaccination be undertaken with help of ASHA workers. Covid specific hospitals be identified & equipped with facilities like ICU with 24×7 oxygen supply & ventilators with trained manpower. Increase bed çapacìty in existing hospitals. Increase test and tracing of Covid suspect & isolate positive case at the earliest before it engulfs othersThe administration should take steps to minimise the chances of virus transmission, even as the best of hospitals are equipped to treat the infected patient and not to stop transmission òf virus similar to the best of road network can improve speed & hassle free movements and not to stop the accidents on roads.Anil VinayakQUESTIONThe sustained campaign against drugs and illicit trade has been continuing since long but the menace is still far from being over. What should be done to ensure a drug-free society?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 8).Plan an appropriate strategyThere is no way we can prevent the third wave, given that India is a very large country with a huge population most of whom are ignorant and irresponsible citizens. This wave is like a storm. Almost all countries have had to bear the brunt of the pandemic in all its forms and stages. Our nearest city across the border, Lahore, reeled under the third wave. No one knows how and when, if at all, it will end. The only question is how to face it. No doubt, we must gird up our loins and plan an appropriate strategy to come out of the new wave, with minimum damage. However, much depends on how many people are jabbed and how many are given the second dose. Under the given circumstances, an ordinary citizen’s contribution in this context cannot be more than ensuring to step out only when strictly required and following a Covid-appropriate protocol. Unfortunately, all our tourist spots these days are bursting at the seams and all public places are choked; all hotels and restaurants are packed to capacity and trains and buses are crowded. Most of the people have already given up wearing the masks. The most decisive factor however is going to be the availability of vaccine. The health care staffs have been on their toes ever since the outbreak of the pandemic and they must be appreciated and incentivised.PROF MOHAN SINGHChallenges aplenty for medics, govtThe third wave is inevitable since the vaccination process has covered no more than just 5% of the population of India. One suspects though that the herd immunity (51% antibodies in Mumbai kids) will overtake the vaccination supply remedy. It shall eventually be a short term solution. Considering the size of India’s population, the target of vaccination will be achieved only in 2023 and no earlier. Nevertheless, the lessons from the second wave must be the roadmap for preparing for the third wave. This virus is here to stay and our protocols must ensure beds, oxygen and adequate medicines for the population. The challenges to the medical and scientific fraternity are immense as the mutating virus is going to wreck havoc.Gunbir SinghOnly second wave is gone, not CovidThe way people have been going out, thronging markets and public places; third wave seems to be inevitable. The government has tough job in hand to tackle the third wave effectively If the first wave caught the government unawares in terms of PPE kits, hospital beds and ventilators, the second wave found us wanting in terms of oxygen, life-saving drugs and beds. But to prevent third wave, a collective effort on the part of government and the public is required. It has been more than one year, the government has tried everything to educate people regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour, but to no avail. So, the government is left with the options such as stepping up the vaccination drive and inoculating maximum population as soon as possible. The second is to strictly pass a rule to ban public gatherings, be it religious, social, political or election-related till the pandemic is over.Jaspreet GoverGenerate awareness among peopleFor the past one year, Amritsar has successfully struggled with two Covid waves. Though the fatalities and cases are decreasing, the fear of third Covid wave haunts the public. To cope with the third wave, the administration should ensure that people become conscious by wearing masks in the public space, avoiding public gatherings and getting vaccinated.TS BhattiEnsure optimum availability of beds, O2Though the Covid cases are declining and the process of unlocking is under way, the administration needs to set-up unipoles and launch other campaigns to knock some good sense in the minds of the citizens and convince them to wear mask, sanitise hands and maintain a 2-metre distance for the next few months. Keeping in view the anticipated third Covid wave, the state Health Department should issue the guidelines for government and private hospitals. Adhering to the same shall enable these hospitals to get licence to treat patients. This time, we shall ensure that no life is lost due to the non-availability of oxygen, beds and medicines.Manish AggarwalBan on large gatherings a mustDrive should be accelerated to vaccinate every citizen at the earliest and for the said purpose, micro camps need to be organised at wards, villages, colleges, universities, religious institutions, and offices, etc. Administration should start a special drive during unlocking phase to motivate people to report to the administration if they suffer from any Covid symptom. It will help the administration in making necessary arrangements. The new cases need to be sent to research labs at regular intervals to detect if there is any new variant of Covid. Private doctors and testing labs should also be motivated to bring to the notice of the administration if they observe any unusual change regarding Covid. During unlocking phase, the administration should try its best to ensure that people wear masks, maintain social distancing and do not gather in large numbers. Gatherings in the form of political rallies, religious functions, weddings, cremations, etc, should not be allowed for at least another one or two months.Dr Lakhwinder SinghShare responsibility, ease burden on docsCovid-19 has badly affected all sections of the society. We have already lost several precious lives. No doubt it is a global problem but in an overpopulated country like India, reeling under illiteracy, poverty and high population density, the problem becomes grave. Different waves in the form of variants are a big threat if the public doesn’t take precautions. It’s not only the duty of district administration to educate and enforce strictly the relevant guidelines but I think citizens should themselves follow all required guidelines for their own as well as the fellow citizen’s safety. Shopkeepers, shoppers, and other businesses will also be affected in case of non-cooperation by citizens. At the same time, administration should also keep in mind the livelihood of citizens while preparing and enforcing guidelines.The new Delta+ variant may be more dangerous and can cause much more fatalities. My humble appeal to all fellow citizens is to avoid unnecessary visits out of home and in case of an emergency, follow all precautions. Protect yourself and reduce unnecessary burden on district administration, doctors, police and all involved in preparing to control the third wave.Prof Dr Balvinder SinghEverybody needs to do his bitWe have already seen how fatal complacency can be with the rising number of cases and deaths during the second wave of the pandemic. The third wave is anticipated soon as the Delta Plus variant of the Coronavirus is slowly spreading out among the masses. Both the administration and the public should do their part and ensure that the regulations are strictly followed by everyone. We have seen how the people thronged the markets as soon as the Sunday Lockdown was lifted without any masks or social distancing. We should always remember that prevention is better than cure and join hands to defeat this deadly disease.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHTake measures or be ready to face the musicThe second wave was more deadly and catastrophic, which took a toll on the lives of people. Now, since the cases have dwindled and unlocking process has begun, there is a danger of third wave looming large on our heads! Similar was the case when after the first wave, people flouted all norms and threw all protective measures to the wind and hence paid a mammoth price in the end! With the lifting of the Covid lockdown and restrictions, the district administration should cap gatherings, congregations and any sort of get-togethers! Any positive case should be tracked, tested and the person and area to be kept under containment! There is a large chunk of population, including children, that is vulnerable to the virus! The pace of the vaccination should be ramped up to the hilt! Vaccination or herd immunity holds to key to curb the next wave! Infrastructure especially in the rural areas should be given utmost attention! All supplies, including drugs, oxygen, ICU beds, and trained medical professionals have to be adequately kept ready to face any sudden calamity! Above all it is the moral duty of all personal to follow and adopt an appropriate Covid behaviourDr Raman GuptaNow, Onus entirely on district administrationThe lockdown has been lifted as a part of the measures for unlocking restrictions imposed in the wake of second Covid wave and the usual hustle-bustle has returned with gay, but predictions are rife that the third Covid wave is going to hit the states with vengeance and is said to be stronger and more virulent than the second which has not yet exited completely . Can the ebb and flow of the Covid third wave be predicted? Are the alarmists raising the bogey of the third wave for some ulterior motives? These are the questions that are playing on the people’’’’s fears. Whether the much hyped wave is inevitable or not, it can possibly be averted if the district administration continues to take stringent measures. It must ensure an adequate supply of oxygen and availability of vaccines. Infrastructure and childcare should be ramped up along with the maintenance of Covid bed.Tarsem S BumrahThwarting the third wave a challengeAmritsar administration must be prepared to be more vigilant after unlocking so as to thwart the third wave and prevent another Covid disaster. Though the best long-term solution is mass vaccination, there is a massive mismatch between demand and supply of vaccines at the moment. Given the current pace of vaccination, the only immediate solution is to rigorously follow the advice on Covid-appropriate behaviour and masking.L J SINGHMake healthy habits the new normalFully aware of the devastating consequences of the pandemic, people should understand how important hygiene is. Since, we all know how to fight Covid, it is the responsibility of every citizen to wear mask and maintain social distancing. But unfortunately, some unruly citizens refrain from following the rules. Therefore, in the coming weeks where third wave is predicted, the administration should work more on handling the notorious people who don’t wear mask while going out of their house. Levying the penalties will make people more conscious. The need of the hour is to resort to spread awareness message among the community. Radios will help people know the danger of third wave. Newspapers should highlight the measures to deal with third wave. Gatherings should be prohibited for at least two more months. It’s not the right time to reopen schools and colleges. Once the vaccination is complete, things will be in a better situation.Naureen KaurToo early to let your guard downIt seems that the gradual relaxation of restrictions post- Covid has induced a complacency among people, majority of whom are not following Covid-appropriate behavior, as if Covid has met its end. Knowingly or unknowingly, they are welcoming the third wave of Covid by gathering at crowded places and flouting all norms. People should understand that it is the collective social responsibility of everybody to prevent devastation likely to be caused by the third wave. It is heartening to note that vaccinations have been ramped up. But it is yet to pick up in rural areas where people are still hesitant to get vaccinated. All key figures in the villages should be involved to convince people of its necessity and remove all their unfounded doubts. The challenges posed by variants such as the Delta must be met fast by the scientists.ANIL KHANNABan road shows, rallies for sometimeThough we were forewarned of the second wave of Covid, we still lost many precious lives and numerous livelihoods. But here is the time to take a lesson from the past mistakes and gear up to defeat the threatening third wave. Centre and the state governments, with the active participation of the public, should act in unison to avoid blame game as happened in the case of vaccine and oxygen supplies in the recent past. They should take the following steps on priority basis: Central and state governments should see to it that with uninterrupted supply chain vaccination is completed within shortest possible time frame. Medical facilities in government hospitals should be upgraded with the supply chain of medicines, oxygen etc in place to meet any emergency requirements. As a responsible citizen, we all should follow the preventive norms such as wearing mask, keeping physical distancing and frequently washing hands. It is alleged that assembly polls in some states and UT played a significant role in spreading the virus during the second wave. So to avoid repeating the same mistake, Election Commission of India should call a meeting of all political parties to make a strategy for campaigning during the forthcoming assembly polls in early 2022. All road shows and rallies ahead of elections should be totally banned. They should be allowed to campaign through printed material or electronic media.Naresh JoharCovid protocol is here to stay for longStringent steps and precautions are needed to handle the third wave. The administration has eased the curbs and now, it is now the responsibility of the public to adhere to the norms such as social distancing, hand sanitisation and wearing of masks. While the second wave taught us several lessons, we need to tread cautiously.Indu Aurora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-ramping-up-vaccination-scaling-up-o2-supply-way-forward-278506
05-07-2021||Amritsar||Sukhbir Badal had misused power against Bains, says LIP leader||After FIR against SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal at the Beas police station, activists of the Lok Insaf Party (LIP)said that Badal too misused his power against LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains and registered FIR in April 2015, when he opposed the sand mafia being patronised by the SAD.Charandeep Singh Bhinder, leader of LIP at Baba Bakala, shared the pictures of illegal sand mining being conducted during the SAD-BJP regime and FIRs registered against LIP president Bains.Bhinder said, “Sukhbir Badal is making hue and cry as the incumbent government has registered a case against him after he raised the issue of illegal sand mining in the Beas area. The sections of IPC are bailable and no one is going to arrest him. Such mild cases are an attempt of the Congress government to make Sukhbir Badal as leader of the Opposition. Otherwise, the Congress and SAD are in alliance and now it is an open secret. During his tenure, Badal misused his powers and registered a case against Simarjit Singh Bains under Sections 307,379 and 506 of IPC at the Mehrban police station. Bains had exposed the illegal sand mining scam patronised by the SAD”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sukhbir-badal-had-misused-power-against-bains-says-lip-leader-278503
05-07-2021||---||Voice of Amritsar's initiative: Planting a sapling in memory of Covid warriors||Amritsar, July 4A sapling plantation drive in memory of those medical practitioners who died fighting the Covid-19 pandemic was organised at the Government Medical College here on Sunday.The event organised by a local organisation, Voice of Amritsar, was attended by Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni. While lauding the efforts for planting saplings at the college, Soni said it was the responsibility of every citizen to work for increasing the green cover and preserving the environment.Soni added that the sacrifices made by the frontline Covid warriors, who had lost their lives while performing their duties, would always be remembered. Speaking on the occasion, he added that all vacant posts at government medical colleges would be filled soon.He also added that the work of upcoming cancer institute at the GMC is nearly 90 per cent complete and it would soon become operational. VOA secretary Rakhi Sehgal said a total of 200 tree saplings would be planted at the GMC. She added that they were planting trees of Gulmohar, Amaltas, Neem, Ashoka and Awla. She claimed that the organisation had a target to plant 10,000 saplings in the district during the ongoing season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/voice-of-amritsars-initiative-planting-a-sapling-in-memory-of-covid-warriors-278502
05-07-2021||---||2 targeted in Amritsar; mobiles, scooter snatched||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4The incidents of snatching and robbery continue unabated in the holy city while the police have failed to nail the perpetrators.A doctor was robbed by four armed persons when he was returning home after finishing his duty at a private hospital here on Saturday night. The incident occurred in the posh Medical Enclave area. Originally hailing from Anandpur Sahib, he, along with his family, lives in rented accommodation at Chand Avenue.The victim, identified as Dr Vinod Kumar (in pic), said as he was passing the Medical Enclave area on his scooter, four persons — two of them were riding a bike and two others riding a scooter — stopped him. He said the accused had covered their faces while one of them was wearing a bag of Food Delivery Company.He said before he could understand, one of the accused took out a pistol and pointed at him. He said he got afraid and asked them to take whatever they wanted. He said the accused took away his expensive i-Phone and a smart watch. They also wanted to snatch his scooter, but dropped the plan and fled from the spot.A complaint was lodged with the Majitha Road police station where a case has been registered against unidentified persons in this connection. The police said they had got CCTV footage of the incident. He said due to darkness, the number plates of the scooter and the bike were not visible. He said further investigation was under progress to identify the suspects.Meanwhile, in another incident, three unscrupulous elements snatched a mobile and a scooter from a Putlighar resident here on late Saturday evening. The incident occurred in the Bhindisaida area.The victim, identified as Gurmit Chand, said he was a inverter and battery dealer and used to install the same after taking instalments. He said after collecting the instalment from Bhindisaida village on Saturday, he was going to Nepal village on his scooter when three bike-borne persons stopped him forcibly.He said the accused, who had covered faces, pulled out the keys of his scooter and started assaulting him. He said they snatched his mobile and scooter and fled away.Bhindisaida police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC against unidentified persons and launched further probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-targeted-in-amritsar-mobiles-scooter-snatched-278500
05-07-2021||---||Op Clean: 7 cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4Yet another search operation at the Amritsar Central Jail led to seizure of seven mobile phones and two mobile chargers on Saturday.Prisoners from whose possession the mobile phones were recovered included Manoj Kumar, besides him, cops also booked Harjinder Singh Jinda of Hashampur, Ajnala, Gurbhej Singh of Kot Ise Khan and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi. According to the jail authorities, Gurbhej and Harjinder, were murder accused. Three mobile phones were found abandoned in the jail complex.Sukhdev Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, said during inspection of room number 7, a cell phone was recovered from Harjinder while a phone and a charger were recovered from the dustbin.Similarly, on checking room number 2 of barrack number 3, a cell phone was seized from Gurbhej and a phone was located in a bin, informed the Assistant Superintendent.Likewise, two phones were recovered from gangster Manoj Kumar and prisoner Gurpreet Singh, during checking of room number 6 and room no 2 of isolation barracks, respectively. Another smart phone was found hidden on the backside of a exhaust fan in a bathroom.Jail authorities said search operation was part of ‘Operation Clean’ launched by the Prison Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-clean-7-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-278499
05-07-2021||---||Army man booked for raping 17-yr-old||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, July 4An Army man has been booked by Goindwal Sahib police for sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl for the past more than one-and-a-half years.The accused has been identified as Gurlal Singh of Vadda Bhagwanpura (Patti) village. The victim is a resident of Khadoor Sahib village.The victim, a schoolgirl, alleged that she came in contact with Gurlal one-and-a-half years ago. He used to take her to different places and established physical relations on the pretext of marrying her.The victim said, in the meantime, he got recruited in the Army and had come on leave for a month. He came to the village to visit a relative and called her at his residence when he was alone.She said this time, he refused to marry her and said he was about to marry someone else. The accused raped her, that day too. He also threatened to harm her in case she disclosed it to anybody.The victim revealed the whole incident to her mother who later lodged a complaint on the helpline — 112 and also lodged a complaint with the Goindwal Sahib police.Sub-Inspector Baljit Kaur recorded the statement of the victim on Saturday. A case has been registered under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC, and Section 6 of the POCSO Act by the Goindwal Sahib police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-man-booked-for-raping-17-yr-old-278498
05-07-2021||Amritsar||Covid: One dies, 14 test positive in Amritsar district||The district authorities reported one Covid-19 related death on Sunday with which the toll has increased to 1,570. The deceased has been identified as Chanchal, a 48-year-old woman from Hussainpura. With 14 new positive cases, the total count in the district has increased to 46,820. The new cases include seven influenza-like illness cases and seven contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 40 patients, the recovery count has reached 45,032. At present, the district has a total of 218 active cases. TNSNo death, positive case reported in Tarn TaranFor the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, the district authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district. Moreover, no positive case was reported in the district today. A total of 366 persons had succumbed to the virus in district to date. At present, the district has 54 active cases and 29 patients were isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said teams of the Health Department collected 734 samples and report of 459 samples was still awaited. The Health Department inoculated 1,287 citizens today. With this, 2,16,192 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-one-dies-14-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-278497
05-07-2021||---||Amritsar Administration mulls inoculating 40K residents from today||Amritsar, July 4The district inoculated 43,830 residents on Saturday, which is the highest in a single day during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, revealed authorities.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said special camps were organised in rural areas to expedite the vaccination of eligible residents. The Health Department had organised 42 camps on Saturday to take up the challenge to vaccinate 40,000 residents.Additionally, vaccination was also conducted at 47 vaccination centres across the district. The Deputy Commissioner said the target could be achieved due to the cooperation of the general public.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said after the successful drive on Saturday, they plan to expedite the drive.“Now, we know that such a large number of people can be inoculated in a single day. On the basis of our performance, we would demand enough vaccines so that the momentum could be maintained,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said the district at present is getting sufficient number of doses to continue with the vaccination drive. Those who were inoculated on Saturday include 20,983 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who were given the first jab and 10,019 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who received the second dose.2,665 residents get the jab on SundayThe district, however, vaccinated 2,665 residents on Sunday. The health authorities said since it was a public holiday and no special vaccination camps were organised, hence the drop in numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-administration-mulls-inoculating-40k-residents-from-today-278496
05-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar residents left high & dry as power plays hide-and-seek||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4Erratic power supply is troubling one and all — be it rural consumers, industrial or urban dwellers alike.The situation of power availability in rural areas is quite grim. Farmers with standing crops have no other option but to switch over to costly diesel-run generators, jacking up their input cost. Jagbir Singh, 53, a resident of Fatehpur Rajputan village, said power was snapped in residential and agriculture areas on Saturday and supply was yet to be restored in some of the areas.PSPCL splits rural areas into two separate entities — Agriculture Power Line (APL), which supplies power to fields and Urban Power Supply (UPS), which is for inhabited areas in villages.The feeder at Fatehpur Rajputan, through its 40 transformers, supplies power to Chappa, Nabipur, Othiyan and some other villages but it has two employees to look after such a vast paraphernalia, Jagbir pointed out. He said there was no supply issues before the sowing of paddy on June 10. Thereafter, the scenario kept deteriorating.Dinesh Gupta, area SDO, said PSPCL staff was on job to plug loopholes and rectify damaged parts after the storm late on Friday. He said those villages which did not get stipulated power supply of eight hours a day would be given 16 hours supply in a day to make up for the loss.Harpreet Singh, 36, of Chohan village, said fields in his area were not getting more than 4-hour supply a day. His village receives power supply from the power feeder at Khinda village, which also supplies power to Malowal, Jabowal, Jodhnagri, Talwandi, Kheda, Khalchiyan, Muchchal, Balia, Takhtuchakk, Chajjalwadi and Thattiyan villages by rotation.He said farmers were compelled to run diesel generators for hours to make up for the loss. At Rs90 per litre diesel and high labour cost, the input cost has increased manifold. Power supply scenario to inhabited villages is equally gloomy. Most of the villages were getting power supply 10 to 14 hours every day in the Jandiala area.Industrialists rue 72-hour long power outageThe PSPCL enforced a 72-hour long power outage for large-scale units having power load above 100 kw from Sunday 8 am till 8 am on July 7. Earlier, the industry was not subjected to long power cuts.Kamal Dalmia, adviser to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission who operates a large-scale unit, pointed this out as a discriminatory move for the border zone industries. He said the north and centre zones were subjected to 48-hour long power cuts. He suggested that to tide over the crisis, the state-run Power Corporation must procure power from those states that have surplus electricity through power grid and resume operations of the stalled thermal power plants at the earliest. “This is another blow to the industry after the Covid-19 pandemic, which we are yet to recover from.”Skattar Singh Dhillon, chief engineer, PSPCL, blamed delay in the arrival of monsoon, intensification of heat wave and surge in the demand of power by both domestic and rural consumers for upsetting the balance of supply and demand, leading to the present power crisis.Citizens harried in urban areas as wellPower supply is playing hide-and-seek in urban areas as well. Brief periods of power outages ranging between 10 and 30 minutes are erratically enforced in different areas of the city. Pawan Sharma of posh Ranjit Avenue said power cuts were unheard of after the state was declared power surplus during the SAD-BJP coalition government. Now, all of a sudden residents were subjected to long power cuts. He said when the power supply is less, there is a need to prioritise the supply chain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-left-high-dry-as-power-plays-hide-and-seek-278495
05-07-2021||Amritsar||SGPC organises event to marks 1955 attack on Golden Temple complex||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), for the first time, organised an event to mark the 1955 attack at the Golden Temple complex and displayed teargas shells lobbed by the police.The attack was planned by the erstwhile government, headed by the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru, to scuttle the ‘Punjabi Suba Morcha’ attended by Sikh leaders and supporters at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall located in the shrine complex on July 4, 1955.The SGPC commemorated the event in the presence of president Bibi Jagir Kaur, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Hapreet Singh and others. The SGPC chief said the event would be documented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-organises-event-to-marks-1955-attack-on-golden-temple-complex-278329
