06-07-2021||Amritsar||Group Capt Anmol Mehra takes charge of command of Air Force Station, Amritsar Cantonment||4 mobiles seized from Central jailAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated four mobile phones, including two from two prisoners, during a search operation carried out in room number 2 of barrack number here on Sunday. According to jail authorities, two mobiles were seized from two prisoners identified as Ranjit Singh and Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga, while two phones were found unclaimed. A case has been registered against them. TNSAAP’s women wing prez joins CongAmritsar: Pooja, president of AAP’s women wing of Ward Number 70 falling in the Central constituency, joined the Congress party here on Monday. Cabinet minister OP Soni welcomed her on joining the party with her supporters. Soni along with councillor Vikas Soni and other Congress leaders joined them into the party by offering siropas. Pooja said she decided to join the conventional party for its policies and works carried out by it during the past few years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/group-capt-anmol-mehra-takes-charge-of-command-of-air-force-station-amritsar-cantonment-279010
06-07-2021||Amritsar||Webinar on Covid & Mental Health||Courses in Theological studiesWith a view to arming the Christian youth, interested in serving the church and humanity, with theological degrees, the Diocese of Amritsar (DoA), Church of North India (CNI), inaugurated the courses in theological studies at Baring Institute of Theology (BIT), Batala, run by the Management of Baring Union Christian College Association (BUCCA). Reverend Dr P K Samantaroy, Bishop, DoA and Chairman, BUCCA, said the BIT is affiliated to the Senate of Serampore College (University) and offers theological courses including Diploma and Bachelors in Christian Studies. The Bishop added that the BIT aims at imparting religious and Christian theological education to students of theology in the North-West Frontier region.“There was a growing demand for a Christian theological institute in Punjab considering the fact that a number of renowned theological institutes are situated in other states of India and are, therefore, out of the reach of people of North India,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-covid-mental-health-279009
06-07-2021||Neha Saini||GREEN FINGERS: Sculpting their garden of dreams||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5Madhu Sud and her husband Sajeev Sud believe in expressing through art. Madhu, who is a designer, has been running a boutique since 1980s and her husband is a Chartered Accountant by profession and a sculptor by passion. Their sprawling garden is a living space they have created through natural elements.“I love gardening and I have personally nurtured it, adding to it bounty and taking care of plants. It has been a hands-on job, but I believe in natural living spaces and we have lots of native and seasonal plants,” said Madhu.Her garden includes varieties of flowering plants (geraniums, lilies and chrysanthemums), medicinal herbs, including basil, neem, aloe vera, parsley, a small kitchen garden and fruit trees. Standing tall are 30-year-old bottle palms that she has nurtured through years.“We have created a garden on the concept of horticulture, high on sustainability and keeping in mind the diversity of annual and perennial species,” said Madhu.She has same number of plants indoors with bamboos, variety of flowers, money plants and aloe vera in every nook and corner of the house. While she has added to the greens in her garden, Sajeev’s sculptures add to the aesthetics. Spiritual sculptures, figurines made from clay can be found in most corners and as centre pieces.Adding an old world charm, these sculptures make their garden a sacred space, giving a glimpse of their creative soul, to anyone who has an eye for aesthetics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-fingers-sculpting-their-garden-of-dreams-279008
06-07-2021||Amritsar||New projects to solve drinking water shortage, says Soni||Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Saturday assured the city residents that they would not face shortage of potable water here.Soni said new tubewells were being installed and new pipelines laid in various areas of the city.Soni said with this pipeline, residents of various localities, including Anand Vihar, Dream City, Waheguru City, Dashmesh Vihar, Baba Deep Singh Colony, Thakur Enclave, Shiva Vihar, Satnam Nagar and adjoining colonies and areas along the Chabbal road would get drinking water.He inaugurated Nau Gajapark, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs15 lakh. He said these parks were a lifeline for those living in urban areas, where children could play and adults could go for walks. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-projects-to-solve-drinking-water-shortage-says-soni-279007
06-07-2021||---||Teachers protest Punjab pay commission report||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, July 5Teachers of government schools, under the banner of the Master Cadre Union, Punjab, today staged a protest against the recommendations of the sixth Pay Commission, which has allegedly reduced salaries of all categories of employees.Manjinder Singh Dhillon, district president of the organisation, said the recommendations of the Pay Commission were a cruel joke. “The union will carry on with its protest till teachers get their due,” he added. He also demanded justified pay scales for the master cadre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-protest-punjab-pay-commission-report-279006
06-07-2021||Amritsar||8 months on, 2 held in man’s suicide case||Eight months after a youth committed suicide, the police have arrested a woman and her brother in the case. They were identified as Sheetal Sharma and Sanjay Sharma alias Kaalu.The deceased has been identified as Naresh Puri who had ended his life by consuming poisonous substance on September 17 last year allegedly following his harassment by in-laws of his deceased brother. Sheetal was his sister-in-law.On the statement of his father Ravinder Puri, the police have booked four persons — Sheetal Sharma, her two brothers Shivam Arora and Shubham Arora of Guru Nanakpura and Bunty. A case under Sections 306, 34, 506 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered.Ravinder Puri alleged that Naresh’s elder brother Avtar Puri lost his leg and an arm in a mishap at the Gurdaspur railway station. He said he got him to marry Sheetal in 2014. However, in November 2014, he ended his life after consuming poisonous substance. After his death, Sheetal returned to his parents and married again.He said he had a shop in the Pink Plaza market and did not want to sell it. He said his lawyer asked him to bring consent from his daughter-in-law Sheetal before selling the shop. He alleged that when he asked her for signature, she started demanding her share in the property. He said he filed a case in the court against it. He said due to continuous harassment from her family, his younger son Naresh Puri consumed poisonous substance.Amarjit Singh, Sheetal and Sanjay were arrested and later released on bail. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-months-on-2-held-in-mans-suicide-case-279005
06-07-2021||---||Post-matric SC scholarship: Aided colleges unhappy over Punjab Govt’s undertaking||Amritsar, July 5Close on the heels of private colleges saying no to the state government’s undertaking on the Post-Matric SC scholarship, the Non-Government Colleges’ Management Federation (NGCMF), too, have come up with their reservations.They urged the state government to reimburse pending grants relating to the scholarship for the SC students who passed out from 137 aided colleges in the state. The decision was taken during a meeting convened under chairmanship of the coordination committee of the NGCMF, Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.The committee unanimously announced that none of their 137 colleges would give such an undertaking as desired by the state government.Other issues, including pending DPI grants, appointing representative to managing committees of colleges by the DPI were also discussed.Recently, the state government had issued orders to pay only 40 per cent of Rs 200-crore arrears of educational institutions (SC scholarship scheme) for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20. It would be paid in six quarterly instalments.“This is highly deplorable. How can colleges survive? The government is going away from its commitments to pay the Post-Matric SC scholarship grants,” said Chhina adding that they would contest against the circulars issued by the Social Welfare Department.“The order mentions that colleges would be giving a mandatory undertaking that they would never seek the remaining 60 per cent amount neither from the state government nor from students. Our federation has decided not to sign any such undertaking sought by the state government,” he said and added that the government must consider colleges’ demand of immediate release of the funds. He said the Centre has already issued directions to release the amount.Former vice-chancellor of GNDU Dr SP Singh, who is a member of the committee, said the state government has also recommended that private educational institutions would not withhold roll numbers, certificates or degrees of students, would make no claims and take back pending court cases. “How can colleges give such an undertaking when dues are not being cleared,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-matric-sc-scholarship-aided-colleges-unhappy-over-punjab-govts-undertaking-279004
06-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Setting trends: From having a unit locally to being country’s largest manufacturer of weighbridges, he’s come a long way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5Instrumental in turning his local unit into country’s most sought after and largest manufacturer of weighbridges, Harwinder Singh never thought of moving out of the holy city for his love for local food and culture.All these years, he never planned shifting his manufacturing centre to the eastern part of the country, which has resources (steel) needed to manufacture weighbridges. However, things are now getting out of hand. A weighbridge normally weighs 10 tonnes and its raw material — steel — comes from West Bengal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.Due to transportation and logistics problems, his company has to shell out Rs80,000 more on each weighbridge being manufactured at the local unit. Now, his company is in the process of buying a piece of land in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur to set up a fabrication plant there.Harvinder, while recalling his journey, said he had started the vocation by manufacturing mechanical weighbridges with a sum of Rs35,000 in 1982. Realising the marketing trend, his company switched over to manufacturing electronic weighbridges in 1995. For gaining technical know-how, his company took expertise from a Japanese company as well.“We switched over to manufacturing electronic weighbridges by getting technical wherewithal from a Japanese company and gradually developing our own engineering wing,” he said. Soon, his concern was manufacturing in-house Printed Circuit Boards (PCB) for weighing systems. Earlier, they used to import the PCBs from other countries. PCBs convert the analog signals into digital.His companies with an annual turnover of Rs68 crore have clocked three times more exports in the first quarter of this fiscal in comparison to the export level achieved during the last fiscal. Currently, his concerns are exporting weighbridges to 10 countries with an office in Tanzania.On the success of his venture he credited this to employees who have been wholeheartedly working with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/setting-trends-from-having-a-unit-locally-to-being-countrys-largest-manufacturer-of-weighbridges-hes-come-a-long-way-279003
06-07-2021||---||4 camels die in road accident in Tarn Taran||Amritsar, July 5In a road mishap which claimed lives of four camels in Tarn Taran, the police have failed to take any action in this regard.An NGO, Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association, has urged the DGP of Punjab police and the Tarn Taran SSP to take action against the truck driver and hold a probe.The camels had sustained serious injuries when the vehicle in which they were being ferried collided head on with another truck on the Amritsar-Bathinda highway on July 2.Officials of the Animal Husbandry have suspected that it might a case of camel trafficking from Rajasthan to Jammu and Kashmir.The incident has also caught the eye of the Ministry of Fisheries, and Animal Husbandry and Dairy, which has asked the Tarn Taran police for appropriate action at the earliest.Dr Rohan Mehra, president of the association, said they had received information that two camels were injured after a truck collided with the vehicle in which the camels were being ferried. One camel had died on the spot while another was critically injured. When association members went to the spot, they spotted five camels, he added.Mehra said there was no facility in Tarn Taran for the treatment of the camels and thus, they were handed over them to the NGO after giving first aid. The camels were treated at Khalsa College Veterinary Hospital, from where they were shifted to SPCA after hours-long treatment.Two camels later succumbed at Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). Only one was survived, which was handed over to a dera head on their request.Dr Harinderpal Singh Chandi, deputy director, Animal Husbandry, said the caretaker of the camels refused to give his address and said the camels were in the area for grazing. “This is a hardly believable story. It appears that camels were were being smuggled to Jammu for slaughtering but it is for the police to investigate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-camels-die-in-road-accident-in-tarn-taran-279002
06-07-2021||---||Avtar Gill murder: Accused threatening  us, says wife of victim||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5Seema, wife of Avtar Singh Gill, who was beaten to death by notorious criminal Antarpreet Singh Kahlon and his accomplices, alleged that the accused and his father, a Sub-Inspector, were threatening her family and the eye witnesses of dire consequences.She said their life was in danger as the police failed to nab the accused even after 15 days of the crime. Gill, who worked with a wine contractor, was killed on June 21.Though the police had claimed it to be a road rage incident, family members said it was the fallout of an old enmity.Kahlon and his accomplices have been absconding, while the police had nabbed only one person who had hosted a party for the accused on the fateful day. Kahlon’s father Tejinder Singh, who is a Sub-Inspector, has been posted at the CIA staff here.Earlier, family members of the deceased had alleged that the police were sheltering the accused. They had met senior police officials alleging that they were being pressurised for striking a compromise.An SUV in which the deceased was travelling was damaged by the accused. It was stolen from outside the house of Gill a couple of days after the incident. It raised many eyebrows while the kin pointed out that it was the duty of the police to take the vehicle into their possession.In a letter to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Seema alleged that Kahlon, Jaskaran Bholu, Gursimran, alias Gopi, Jaskaran Singh, alias Gama, and Jagroop Bambra, killed her husband on June 21.She said they were threatening to kill her and her family. She said SI Tejinder Singh was influencing the case and threatening her to withdraw the case. She said if anything happened to her family members, Kahlon and his father would be responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/avtar-gill-murder-accused-threatening-us-says-wife-of-victim-279001
06-07-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev Hospital staff boycott work over pending demands||Amritsar, July 5Employees of Guru Nanak Dev (GND) Hospital held a protest rally under the banner of the joint coordination committee of the Paramedical and Health Employees’ Unions in support of their demands here on Monday.Their demands included revision of the pay commission report, regularisation of jobs of contractual workers and implementation of the old pension scheme after retirement. The employees also boycotted work for two hours, as a result of which health services were affected.Coordination committee president Narinder Singh said instead of addressing the genuine issues raised by the employees, the government was harassing them. He said with the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report, the salaries of the employees would not increase, rather decrease.Employees’ leader Prem Chand said, “The inflation is sky-rocketing. The prices of petrol and diesel and many other essential commodities have increased in the recent past. In such a scenario, how can the government expect its employees to manage with decreased salaries.” The employees’ leaders stated that many among them were working on contract for over the last 10 years.Jatin Sharma said, “The contractual employees are paid less and exploited more as compared to regular employees. They continue to work hoping that their services would be regularised someday. Most of the serving contractual workers have spent prime of their life hoping to be regular employment.” He said the services of all contractual workers should be regularised. The employees also threatened to strike the work completely on July 8 and 9 in case the government failed to accept their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-hospital-staff-boycott-work-over-pending-demands-279000
06-07-2021||---||2nd wave nearly controlled, prepare for third, says Soni||Amritsar, July 5After a meeting held to review the Covid-19 management programme, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni claimed that the second wave of the infections in the state has been controlled. To establish his point, he said at present only 64 patients are admitted to three government medical colleges across the state.At the same time, Soni asked officials to gear up for the anticipated third wave of infections. “We had started preparations for the third wave long ago. We pray that the situation does not arise but in case it happens, we should be ready,” he said.The minister said so far 79,28,426 persons have been tested in the state for Covid-19 of which 3,34,065 tested positive and 5,322 lost their lives due to the disease. Talking about the district, he said 6.02 lakh people have been vaccinated so far. “The days of initial hesitation are over and now residents are coming forward to get the injection. It is a good sign,” he said, adding that the state is still not getting sufficient number of vaccines from the Centre.“The quota given to us every week is exhausted in four days only,” he said.Soni said the upcoming cancer institute at GMC would be a boon for residents of Punjab and nearby states. “At present, they have to go to PGI. With an institute opening here shortly, people will be benefited,” he said, adding that the Rs120-crore project is near completion.The meeting was also attended by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill, Commissioner MC Malwinder Singh, Principal Government Medical College Dr Rajiv Devgan and Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.No death, nine test positive in Amritsar districtAmritsar: The district Health Department has reported nine positive cases in the last 24 hours, with which the total count has increased to 46,829. The district reported no death due to the virus on Monday. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 30 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 45,062. The district at present has a total of 197 active cases. TNSTarn Taran reports no death, 3 test +veThe district reported no death due to Covid on Monday though three persons tested positive. The toll remains at 366 and there are 56 positive cases so far of which 29 have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams collected 967 samples to be tested for Covid infection from different places on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 624 citizens were vaccinated against the pandemic on Monday with which total number of vaccinated persons has reached 2,16,816 so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2nd-wave-nearly-controlled-prepare-for-third-says-soni-278999
06-07-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Marginal farmer’s 19-year-old son from Tarn Taran district makes it to IAF as Flying Officer||Tarn Taran, July 5Son of a marginal farmer from Chaudhariwala village (Naushehra Pannuan) in Tarn Taran district has been commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force.Adesh Parkash Singh Pannu is a student of NDA preparatory academy Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran. He belongs to a marginal farming family. His father Amarbeer Singh Pannu serves in the SGPC and mother is a government schoolteacher. He got his primary education from a private school in the village. The proud father said: “My son is quite mature and had the zeal to serve the nation at a very young age. I have been proud of him and will always be.”Colonel Kulbir Singh Puri, a retired group officer of the academy, said Adesh, apart from clearing his Class XII, was trained at Nishan-e-Sikhi Institute of Science and Training (NDA preparatory wing).The 19-year-old boy was commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force during the combined graduation parade held at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on June 19.Adesh cleared the NDA exam in March 2017 for the Air Force and joined the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune, in May 2017 as course batch 138. The passing-out parade was held on May 30, 2020, after the completion of the three-year training.He joined the Indian Air Force Academy, Dundigal, Hyderabad, Telangana, in June 2020, for further training, where he was commissioned as a Flying Officer. Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib is being run under International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect.UPSC guidance at Nishan-e-Sikhi soonNishan-e-Sikhi, under the chairmanship of International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, is going to start a preparatory centre for the civil services at Khadoor Sahib village with an aim to prepare students for the UPSC-related examinations.Avtar Singh Bajwa, secretary of the institute, said the sect has been working in the field of education since 1970 with several educational institutions. Admissions to the course is going on and final date for the registration is July 11. Nishan-e-Sikhi also runs an NDA wing, from where 19 students were selected in the armed forces as officers. With the new initiative, the civil services aspirants will get the much-needed study material at their doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/marginal-farmers-19-year-old-son-from-tarn-taran-district-makes-it-to-iaf-as-flying-officer-278998
