07-07-2021||Amritsar||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri booked in Amritsar for hurting Sikh sentiments||Meanwhile, Gate Hakima police booked Bhupinder Singh of Gurbax Nagar for hurting sentiments of Hindus. Hardeep Sharma in his complaint said he was national president of Youth Taksali Hindu Shiv Sena. The accused posted a video on social media, in which he used objectionable words against Hindu gods and goddess. SHO Gate Hakima police said a case under Sections 295-A, 153-A and 506 of the IPC and Section 67-B of the IT Act was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-booked-in-amritsar-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments-279473
07-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Fried (talia) no longer appeals to taste buds of Amritsar folks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6The Covid-induced lockdown has surely changed the eating habits of people. Now, they are no longer fans of fried (talia), which was once a hot favourite of city folks.They may be called pakode in the rest of the country but in the walled city their shops are called Talia Wale Di Hatti and sizzling hot products are called talia. Available in a variety of vegetables such as potato, cauliflower, onion, pumpkin, masala payaj, patod (leaves of arbi), brinjal, spinach and others, dipped in besan and fried in mustard oil, once they used to be a part of platter in the noon and at night. People would also relish these with tea in the evening.Amit Kumar, who is the third generation owner running the family shop, said his grandfather had set up it over 100 years ago. He said the costly mustard oil, spices and post-pandemic cut in salaries of people put these items off the list of preference of people. “Before the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, the daily sale at my shop used to be between Rs 7,000 and 8,000. It has now come down to Rs 2,000,” he rued, adding that undoubtedly, the paying capacity of people decreased.“It has forced less than 10 shops engaged in the profession to reduce the number of products. Even a couple of shops have shut closed down and the remaining ones are forced to prepare a limited number of items,” Amit said.These traditional snacks have been hit by the rising costs of mustard oil and other ingredients. A litre of mustard oil costs around Rs 180 and prices of almost all spices used in their preparation has increased manifold.Hari Om, another shop owner, wondered why people preferred unhealthy snacks made from maida. These items may be fried, but all of them are cooked fresh and we do not refrigerate them to serve these items next day. “One would not find even a small fridge at these shops to store the prepared items,” he said.“Restricting the number of attendees at a party has also led to a fall in bulk orders. It was another major blow to their earnings,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fried-talia-no-longer-appeals-to-taste-buds-of-amritsar-folks-279429
07-07-2021||---||6th Punjab Pay Commission report: Health Dept staff protest in Amritsar, burn effigy of state govt||Amritsar, July 6The employees of different cadres in the Health Department staged a massive protest outside the Civil Surgeon’s office on Tuesday demanding revision of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report.The protest was supported by ANMs, LHVs, multipurpose health workers, pharmacy officers, staff nurses, medical lab technicians, ESI Employees’ Federation, radiographers, sanitary inspectors, Class-IV field workers, drivers, medical education and Research Employees’ Union and Dental College Employees’ Union.The employees also burnt the effigy of the state government and criticised the state government for the pay panel report which is against the financial interests of the employees.Employees’ leaders Shamsher Singh Kohri and Ashok Kumar said the pay panel report was discriminatory. They alleged that while the report was liberal towards the benefits of top-level officials, it is against the interests of Class-III and Class-IV workers. They said the reduction in various allowances being given to employees is unjustified and against the interests of government employees. They said the protest would continue till the report is revised as per the demands of the employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6th-punjab-pay-commission-report-health-dept-staff-protest-in-amritsar-burn-effigy-of-state-govt-279430
07-07-2021||---||Amritsar industrialists irked over PSPCL move||Amritsar, July 6Industrialists and their associations have expressed resentment over the government and the PSPCL move for exempting a section of local textile industries from the four-day compulsory power shutdown, which concluded at 8 am on Tuesday.The Bal Kalan Industrial Welfare Association has written to the government blaming unfair and biased favour given by the PSPCL to units involved in the textile, dyeing and processing industry.Raj Kapoor, general secretary of the association, said favourable treatment to a section of the industry amounted to step-motherly treatment to others. It would mean creating an uncompetitive environment within the local industry.Chief Engineer/PP&R of the PSPCL through a communique intimated Amritsar Textile Processor Association that on the basis of the association’s representation, textile, dyeing and processing units were exempted from the four-day power outage.Jagdish Chand Arora, president of Shastri Market Association, said the PSPCL enforced 72-hour long power outage for large-scale units having power load of 100 kw and above from 8 am on July 4 till 8 am on July 7. Many industrialists were compelled to run their units on diesel-run generators, hiking their investment cost. On the other hand, the exempted units were spared from such inconvenience. He said it sparked an unhealthy competition among industrialists.He said it looks like a discriminatory move against border-zone industries. As the north and centre zones were subjected to 48-hour long power cut and the border zone was subjected to 72-hour long power outage.Already reeling under the Covid-19 induced economic crisis, the power shutdown was another blow to the trade and industry, he said."Favourable treatment to a section of the industry amounted to step-motherly treatment to others. It would mean creating an uncompetitive environment within the local industry."— Raj Kapoor, general secretary, Bal Kalan Industrial Welfare Association"PSPCL enforced 72-hour long power outage for large-scale units having power load of 100 kw and above from 8 am on July 4 till 8 am on July 7. Many industrialists were compelled to run their units on diesel-run generators, hiking their investment cost. On the other hand, the exempted units were spared from such inconvenience." —Jagdish Chand Arora, president of Shastri Market Association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-industrialists-irked-over-pspcl-move-279431
07-07-2021||---||No death, 21 test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 6With 21 positive cases reported in the last 24 hours, the total count in the district increased to 46,850. These include 10 influenza-like illness cases and 11 contacts of positive patients.The district has not reported any death on Tuesday. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 20 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,082. The district at present has a total of 198 active cases.Only 4 test +ve in Tarn Taran, no deathNo death was reported in the district while four persons tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. There are 56 active cases so far of which 27 were isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,305 samples have been collected by the Health Department teams to be tested for Covid infection. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-death-21-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-279432
07-07-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Rising transformer thefts vex farmers in Amritsar subdivision||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6Unsatisfied with the arrest of an alleged electricity transformer thief by the police, farmers from villages under the Sarai Amanat Khan subdivision of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Tuesday announced to gherao the police station on July 12.The subdivision has reported a whopping 72 thefts of electricity transformers installed at tubewells. The rise in the incidents of transformer theft at a time when farmers are badly in need of tubewell to irrigate their paddy fields has perturbed them.Hardeep Singh, a farmer leader from Rasoolpur village, said, “Last week, the farmers along with a police party set up a naka to nab thieves. Three persons were intercepted. While two of them managed to flee, the third one was nabbed by local youths and handed over to the police.” He said even after a week, the police station failed to give them a copy of the FIR and action taken against the accused. He said the farmers would gherao the police station and demanded action as no other alternative was available.They said the police had released the alleged thief handed over to them by the residents.Hardeep Singh said, “The transformer at my tubewell too was stolen earlier last month. When it was reinstalled, I remained at the tubewell with a gun to guard the machine. I left for home at 4am thinking that there is no danger of theft early in the morning. At 6am when I returned, the transformer had already been stolen.”Another farmer said, “Every night four to five transformers are stolen from different villages in the area. The police and PSPCL employees ask us to keep a watch.” He said it was not possible for them as many farmers had more than one tubewell at different locations.SHO, Sarai Amanat Khan, Deepak Kumar said, “We had arrested a person, taken him on police remand and sent him to judicial custody on expiry of the remand. We have also raided the house of one of his accomplices who is absconding. The address of the third one could not be ascertained.” He said the police had already beefed up patrolling at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-transformer-thefts-vex-farmers-in-amritsar-subdivision-279433
07-07-2021||---||Verka booths come up on public property in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 6With the Assembly elections due next year, local politicians have started allotting “Verka” booths to its supporters on public land, especially in parks of the city. More than eight such booths have come up in various parks and markets in the last few weeks. Most of the booths have been allotted by the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) on its land.While some politicians patronised their supporters to set up illegal kiosks on some prime locations, the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation made their attempts futile in the past.According to information, a number of persons put a demand before local MLAs of the ruling parties to set up these booths. A large number of unemployed party activists have aspirations that senior leaders would allow them to set up a kiosk on any corner to solve the issue of unemployment.The government or ruling party leaders do not have any job to provide to unemployed party activists, so it is the only solution to allot them a Verka booth or help to set illegal kiosks in any park.However, the practice is not new as power was largely misused during the previous government regimes. A large number of Verka booths and illegal kiosks were installed on public land during the SAD-BJP regime. Close associates of a former Cabinet minister of the BJP got a Verka booth in Company Garden. Some other persons got Verka booths in Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Government Medical College and other prominent parks.During the Congress rule, Verka booths were installed at parks in Ranjit Avenue and Amritsar Improvement Trust. One such booth has been installed at Nehru Shopping Complex, which is in violation of building bylaws too. The open space near stairs, which connects stairs with verandas, has been officially encroached to allot the booth. Dharminder Jeet Singh, Estate Officer, MC, said, “We did not allot any booth in our parks as public parks are not meant for shops. Some people had tried to encroach on footpaths and parks but we demolished as soon as the encroachment reports.” Dinesh Bassi, Chairman, AIT, said, “We have allotted seven booths, but got permission from the government for it. The government allows the setting up of Verka booths and there is no violation of rules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/verka-booths-come-up-on-public-property-in-amritsar-279434
07-07-2021||---||Despite less work, his hope lives on||Amritsar, July 6Raju Gupta is among those PoP workers who have been facing the hardest time since the Covid-19 outbreak. It has been more than one-and-a-half years since labourers have left the city to return to their native states.Labourers have not been getting much work as people have avoided getting construction or renovation work done during the pandemic. But whenever Raju gets some work, he finds himself in need of co-workers to finish the job.“We need at least four people to work on the ceiling. One prepares plaster, two work on the podium and one helps to supply the plaster. It is an art and we can’t hire any unskilled labourer in this work. Other members of our crew went back home during the lockdown and now, my brother and I are left alone. It has become quite hard to manage things,” said Raju. Frequent changes in railway bookings and hike in bus fares have also led to hurdles for labourers to return back to the city.Raju, along with his co-workers, prepare food at his rented room in the morning and then start work around 9 am.“As we work indoors, we don’t take long breaks in the afternoon. We work on contract and try to spend maximum time on work. I leave for home late in the evening. Sometimes, we work during the night. If some customer needs his house furnished within a target time, we work 12 to 16 hours a day. Due to inflation and shortage of work, we are unable to save much. We spend half of the earnings here and only a small portion is sent back home,” Raju added.Now, construction work has resumed in the city and Raju is hopeful that they would not sit idle anymore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-less-work-his-hope-lives-on-279435
07-07-2021||---||Veterans want GNDU’s worn  AstroTurf to be replaced||Amritsar, July 6 Hundreds of budding hockey players are being continuously denied the opportunity to hone their skills on the AstroTurf at  Guru Nanak Dev University’’s hockey ground, which according to them has worn out and outlived its life. This is the solitary hockey ground in the Majha region.  After learning the basics of the game on the normal ground, players graduate to this ground to sharpen their skills of ball possession, stick work, defence and attack.  Former hockey Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi said the present condition of the ground was deplorable and players could not train on it. The border district has produced an array of national and international players. At present, six players of the district who had once studied in the university and played on its hockey ground, are in the national men and women teams drafted to play in the Olympics. Currently, about 400 men and women players of Amritsar and Tarn Taran depend on this ground for preparation. A large number of players and the solitary ground offer each team only twice a week period to play. The Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions drastically curtailed the playing time of players. However, veteran hockey players are of the view that the vacuum is drastic as all nationals and entire international tournaments are played on the AstroTurf. This track adds so much velocity to the ball that a fine player without adequate playing exposure of the AstroTurf would be at a loss. Mandeep Singh, assistant director, Sports, at GNDU, said: “The present synthetic hockey track has outlived its life and the university has applied to the Sports Authority of India to replace the present one. Earlier, the SAI had replaced the turf in 2013. This time, it (SAI) asked the university to apply under the Khelo India and the documentation work was underway. At present, an AstroTurf costs Rs7 crore, but in case of the university’s hockey ground, the foundation was intact. So, it will require less amount to replace the worn out portion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/veterans-want-gndus-worn-astroturf-to-be-replaced-279436
07-07-2021||---||Factory workers soft target for unscrupulous elements||Amritsar, July 6Artisans and labourers working in factories based in designated and non-designated industrial areas of the city have become a soft target for unscrupulous elements.They are being constantly subjected to mugging and being looted at gunpoint. Sahwan Ali, a skilled artisan working at a yarn factory in the old Focal Point, said he along with his two co-workers, Basant and Dhanjiv, were returning to quarters after finishing work at 7 pm on June 11. They were waylaid by about five unknown persons who not only attacked them but also fled with their belongings. They saved their lives by running in separate directions.Of nearly 435 industrial plots, 426 are functioning in the old Focal Point. Most of the factory owners say that there was a spike in the incidents of mugging after the outbreak of Covid-19 and during the lockdown period last year.When contacted, a number of industrialists from designated and non-designated industrial areas in the city stated that there was a rise in the incidents of robbing and a number of their workers were targeted. Even thefts were committed in their factories.Raman Kumar Gupta, an industrialist who has a unit in the New Focal Point on the Vallah road, said, “The number of incidents of workers and drivers being looted at gunpoint has risen. There are nearly 125 working units in this industrial area. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, only a couple of incidents used to take place, but later the number rose. He added that several such incidents went unreported as the victims did not want to go through the hassles of visiting police stations repeatedly.Kamal Dalmia, Chairman, Focal Point Industries Association, said a number of carts serving non-vegetarian items appeared in the New Focal Point area. Workers throng these carts and people from outside also mixed with them. Many of them drank liquor by the roadside.He cautioned that it could lead to law and order problem there. All industrial units at least must install CCTV cameras at their entrance. Citing the example of London, which he had visited 13 years ago, he recalled that he was told that there were nearly three crore CCTVs for a population of about one crore.Dr JP Singh, who has an industrial unit in the designated industrial area at Nag Kalan village, said the incidents of looting were reported on the seventh of every month when salaries were disbursed and 22nd of every month when the advance of salary was released.Harpal Singh, ADCP-3, claimed that no incidents of snatching, even at gunpoint, were reported from the industrial areas falling in his jurisdiction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/factory-workers-soft-target-for-unscrupulous-elements-279437
07-07-2021||---||Online open book exams begin in govt schools||Amritsar, July 6  The semester exams for government schools from Classes III to XII 12 began in online mode from Monday. The examinations will follow open book system, with students of class III and V being given a day to complete the question paper and submit it to the school. For senior classes from sixth onwards, the online examinations will be conducted every day within a given period of time.   The current mode of examinations have been adopted keeping in mind the special circumstances created by pandemic. Rekha Mahajan, Deputy District Education Officer, said that the purpose of conducting examinations in online mode was to keep the students engaged in studies. The department of district education has also been organising workshops for teachers of government schools to prepare them for hybrid model of education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-open-book-exams-begin-in-govt-schools-279438
07-07-2021||Amritsar||Socio-economic survey from today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/socio-economic-survey-from-today-279440
07-07-2021||Amritsar||Public speaking contest organised by DAV College, Amritsar||GNDU declares resultsThe results of Bachelor of Library & Information Science, (Sem- I), certificate course in Arabic (part time), (Sem-I), Certificate course in Persian (part time), (Sem-I), certificate course in urdu (part time), (Sem-I), BBA (Sem- III), BBA (Sem- V), MA. Journalism & Mass Communication (Sem– III), Diploma course in French (part time), (Sem-I), Diploma course in German (part time), (Sem-I) and advance diploma course in French (part time), (Sem-I) of session December 2020 are declared by the GNDU. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in, informed Prof. Manoj Kumar, professor in charge (examinations). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/public-speaking-contest-organised-by-dav-college-amritsar-279446
07-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib forcibly taken away, SGPC files complaint against Satkar Committee members||A month after the ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib was forcibly taken away from a house for allegedly not following the ‘maryada’, the family along with the SGPC on Tuesday lodged a police complaint against the Satkar Committee members and an SHO, accused of patronising them.SGPC member Bibi Kiranjot Kaur that said on June 2, around 15-20 satkar panel members forcibly entered the house of a Sikh family and took away the ‘saroop’. It was neither delivered to the Akal Takht nor Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. A probe conducted on the complaint received by the SGPC later revealed the Gursikh family was taking care of the ‘saroop’ as per the ‘maryada’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saroop-of-guru-granth-sahib-forcibly-taken-away-sgpc-files-complaint-against-satkar-committee-members-279198
