08-07-2021||Amritsar||Scribe alleges harassment||2 phones, drug powder seizedAmritsar: The jail staff recovered two mobile phones and 1.5-gm drug power from the Central Jail here on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Vikram Kumar, alias Bunty. Jaswinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said while checking barrack number 3, room number 5, the staff recovered a mobile phone and 1.5 gm intoxicating substance from the accused. While from room number 7, an unclaimed phone was seized from a dustbin. A case under Sections 21-A/61/85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered. TNS1 held with fake arms licenceTarn Taran: The CIA staff nabbed a person who purchased a pistol by producing fake arms licence. The accused has been identified as Naresh Kumar, a resident of Chheharta (Amritsar). He was arrested from Harike on Tuesday. The Deputy Commissioner said hundreds of fake arms licences had been issued by the Arms Branch. He said the accused procured licence from the office of the District Magistrate by producing fake documents. Cops said the accused in connivance with employees of the District Magistrate procured the arms licence by giving address of Mari Nau Abad village instead of Chheharta. A case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC has been registered in this regard by the Harike police. Four such cases have been registered by in the last one year. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scribe-alleges-harassment-279954
08-07-2021||As the battle for the upcoming Assembly election in state gains momentum||Political parties set sight on 2022 Assembly poll||This BJP leader is farmer-friendlyThe resentment of former Punjab minister and senior BJP leader Anil Joshi against three farm laws is quite natural. Joshi had represented the Amritsar city segment twice. Anil Joshi belongs to an agricultural family in Sangha village, just 4 km away from Tarn Taran. The family still has a house in the village. Kishori Lal Joshi, his father, who was a schoolteacher, was shot dead by extremist in 1991. The family had converted their cloth shop into a mall in the heart of the city. The family has close association with farmers for the last several years. The family shifted to Tarn Taran about 33 years ago and started its cloth shop. Anil Joshi started attending RSS shakha at an early age and became an RSS leader and a local businessman. Madan Lal, ailas Mama Madan, gave him tips to enter politics.Frandipur first village with 100% vaccinationFrandipur is the first village in the district to vaccinate its people fully. The village has a population of 800 and all eligible 526 residents above the age of 18 have been vaccinated. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta have appreciated the efforts of the officials and staff of the Health Department to achieve this feat. Dr Satnam Singh, SMO, CHC Sursing, and Naveen Kalia, Block Extension Educator, said the target was achieved with the help of staff and village sarpanch Baljit Singh.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-parties-set-sight-on-2022-assembly-poll-279946
08-07-2021||---||‘Stop illegal constructions in Amritsar city’||Amritsar, July 7Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Smart City Project CEO Malvinder Singh Jaggi conducted a meeting with officials of the MTP Department, the Land Department and the Smart City Mission and reviewed the works being carried out here on Tuesday.During the meeting with the MTP Department officials, Municipal Town Planners Narendra Sharma and IPS Randhawa and Assistant Town Planners Parminder Singh, Sanjeev Devgan, Krishna Kumari and Virendra Mohan, the Commissioner clearly stated that there should be no illegal construction, especially commercial, anywhere in the city. If illegal construction was going on at any place, it should be stopped immediately.He listened to officials in detail about the shortcomings and issues being faced by them. The Commissioner asked the MTP Department to enhance the MC’s revenue.During the meeting with estate wing officials DharminderJeet Singh, the Commissioner said there should be no illegal encroachment in the city. Action should be taken immediately.Regarding the projects of Smart City Mission, Smart City CEO Malvinder Singh Jaggi conducted a meeting with Nodal Officer, SE, Improvement Trust, Pradeep Jaiswal and MC’s Superintending Engineer and took detailed information about the ongoing projects of Smart City. Jaggi directed the officials to summon the contracts of those projects which are running at a slow pace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stop-illegal-constructions-in-amritsar-city-279928
08-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran teachers burn effigy of FM Manpreet Badal||The Master Cadre Union protested on Wednesday against the disparity in pay scale and recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report. Teachers marched in the town and burnt an effigy of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Manjinder Singh Dhillon, district chief, Master Cadre Union, said on the instructions of the Finance Minister, they were being paid less than what was recommended by the 6th pay panel report. Agitating teachers presented a memorandum to MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri. Members warned to intensify the stir if the government fails to address their grievances. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-teachers-burn-effigy-of-fm-manpreet-badal-279922
08-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Inspired by Sikh Gurus, NGO plants saplings on Airport Road||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7Inspired by Sikh Gurus, members of the Just Sewa Society have been doing a yeoman service when it comes to charitable work.Harsimran Singh, founder of the NGO, said 45 families were contributing ‘Dasvand’ (10 per cent) of their income to sustain the campaign, which has been assisting youngsters from below poverty line (BPL) in rural areas.On Wednesday, the NGO planted 15-ft high 50 saplings at Max City on the airport road. Harsimran said we discontinued planting of saplings after finding 90 per cent mortality rate among them. He said they asked the the government and the NGOs to plant a little grown-up plants to ensure afforestation in the city. “This step inspires nearby residents to take care of plants more keenly.”The 15-ft high plants of gulmohar, amaltas, legistonia, alistonia, arjun, sukhchain, mango and jamun, were planted. Each plant costs Rs 900 in the market, he said and added that they brought a truckload of plants (Rs 300 each) from Lucknow.A batch of 96 students were being also trained in various fields. English is taught by Dr Supreet Kaur, Assistant Professor, Khalsa College; Gurpreet Kaur, masters in English and Jasjit Kaur, a Canada-based NRI. Roop Kamal, a professional make-up artist, has been training the needy. Gaity Bhatia has been teaching fashion designing and stitching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-inspired-by-sikh-gurus-ngo-plants-saplings-on-airport-road-279920
08-07-2021||---||Library langar: A book for everyone at Government High School, Abdal||Amritsar, July 7To encourage its students to read and amplify its activity-based education, government schools across the district have revived the ‘library langar’ concept. The library langar was an initiative started in 2019 by the then Punjab Education Secretary to promote reading and ensure that books are given to students for free.On Wednesday, Government High School, Abdal, held the first ‘library langar’ on its premises, where parents, along with students, came to pick books.Deepika Dean, headmistress, Government High School, Abdal, said: “The main aim was to make books available at each house. The initiative holds it importance far more now that students are bound to be at home due to the pandemic. It will help in engaging themselves productively without exposure to screens,” she said.A range of books were displayed for not only students, but also for parents. The event also saw curious participation from local villagers, who were encouraged to pick up books for reading. The Dean said before the pandemic, library langars were held once a month, apart from holding daily reading sessions at schools during assembly or free periods.“Teachers, too, are being encouraged to reach out to their students,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/library-langar-a-book-for-everyone-at-government-high-school-abdal-279919
08-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Recarpeting of link road brings respite to residents||Amritsar, July 7The work of recarpeting of a road, which links 10 MC wards in the North constituency, was inaugurated at Mustfabad here today. While inaugurating the work, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that the road was quite significant as it connected 10 wards of the North Assembly constituency. This road connects localities of Ward No. 13, 14, 15, 19. Simultaneously, this road also passes through Majitha Road Bypass and joins Mahankali Temple, Gurdwara Baba Sri Chand, Laxmi Vihar, Dutta Enclave, Greenland, Nand Vihar, Mustafabad and main Batala Road.Rintu said the construction work of this road has been started in Mustafabad area in Ward No. 19. “The previous governments did not pay much attention to this area. Hence, it remained deprived of basic facilities. Since the issue of this road came to our notice, we started the work on this road on a priority basis. This road will be recarpeted in a record time.”He said Mustafabad would be beautified and new tubewells have been installed for convenience of people of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-recarpeting-of-link-road-brings-respite-to-residents-279918
08-07-2021||---||Solid-waste  management technique: Swachhta Saarthi Fellowship for GNDU research scholar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7The Government of India under its ‘Waste to Wealth’ mission launched the ‘Swachhta Saarthi Fellowships’ (SSF 2021) to recognise students, community workers/self-help groups and municipal and sanitary workers, who have been engaged in tackling the enormous challenge of waste management, scientifically and sustainably.The ‘Waste to Wealth’ mission is one of the nine national missions of the Prime Minister’s Science, Technology, and Innovation Advisory Council (PM-STIAC). The fellowship is an initiative to empower young innovators who have been engaged in community work of waste management. and awareness campaigns /waste surveys/studies as ‘Swachhta Saarthis’ and implement actions to reduce waste for a greener planet.Soubam Indrakumar Singh, who is pursuing PhD from GNDU (Department of Botanical and Environmental Sciences), has been awarded the fellowship.The monthly fellowship is in recognition of his work on solid-waste management through vermi technology employing earthworms.His supervisor, Dr Adarsh Pal Vig, Dr Jatinder Kaur and faculty members of GNDU congratulated Soubam.Dr Vig said, “Managing waste is one issue that has deep implications—those who generate waste are not those who clear it. The Swachhta Saarthi Fellowships will recognize people who go beyond the call of duty in tackling waste and manage it scientifically.”Divided into three categories||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/solid-waste-management-technique-swachhta-saarthi-fellowship-for-gndu-research-scholar-279917
08-07-2021||---||Sacrilege incidents: Early justice sought||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7Bhupinder Singh, who has been campaigning against Dera Sacha Sauda since 2017, started a signature campaign for early justice in sacrilege cases on Wednesday.Flanked by Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who was killed while protesting against the desecration, Bhupinder said he would mobilise the opinion of people in the matter on the website Punjab Mangda Insaaf. He said a petition with signatures of people would be submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Bhupinder said he would visit each district of Punjab and Haryana to mobilise the opinion of Sikh masses.“In case the need arises, I will visit those countries where Sikhs live in large numbers,” he said.Bhupinder Singh, who will submit petitions against sacrilege incidents, had demanded justice in nearly 400 desecration cases before the Assembly elections in the state.Sukhraj said no justice had been given after hundreds of desecration cases and even passage of nearly six years. “It is depressing that the probe report of SIT was quashed and the accused are roaming free,” he said. Sukhraj claimed that the Congress was voted to power in 2017 to give justice in the sacrilege cases, however, it did not live up to voters’ expectations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sacrilege-incidents-early-justice-sought-279914
08-07-2021||---||Two die, 28 test Covid positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 7With two deaths reported due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll in the district increased to 1,572. The deceased have been identified as Kiran, a 50-year-old woman of Islamabad and Satwinder Kaur (60) of Batala Road.The district also reported 28 cases with which the total count of infections increased to 46,878. The cases include 11 influenza-like illness cases and 17 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 25 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 45,107. The district, at present, has a total of 201 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 16,118 persons received the jab on Wednesday. The health authorities said 7,137 residents were inoculated in urban areas, while 8,981 were given injections in the rural areas.No casualty, five test positive in Tarn TaranNo causality due to Covid was reported in the district on Wednesday as a result of which the district toll remained at 366. As many as five persons tested positive on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said with 6,176 citizens getting the vaccination against Covid, the total number of persons who have been jabbed reached 2,23,500 on Wednesday. To achieve the target of vaccinating maximum persons, the district administration held vaccination drive at 120 sites. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-die-28-test-covid-positive-in-amritsar-district-279913
08-07-2021||---||This floating fountain near Tarn Taran Road bridge is a cynosure of all eyes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7A colourful floating fountain and lights installed on the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC), also known as Sultanwind Canal, near Tarn Taran Road bridge, are a major attraction for the city residents these days.Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale had recently developed the canal bank as a trekking spot after removing heaps of garbage from here. He renovated the tracks thus providing a clean environment to people in the city. A large number of people on both sides of the canal now love coming for morning and evening walks here.This fountain has become the center of attraction due to its 40 to 50-feet high flow and colourful lights. Ram Singh, a sewadar from Dera Kar Sewa Bhuriwale, said the fountain reduces air pollution and temperature with its flow. As a result, visitors feel respite from heat when they see this fountain. The floating fountain was designed by Bhupinder Singh, a local technician, and he claimed that it was the first of its kind in the city in terms of strength and security. The lights can change 12 colours and the shapes of the fountain can also be changed from its different nozzles. The fountain runs in the morning and evening through an automatic system installed in it.In addition to constructing historical shrines, Sant Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwalia in collaboration with the administration, is also working on beautifying the Sultanwind Canal (Upper Doab) for the last one year. He planted a large number of saplings on the canal bank. The work of conserving the environment and planting saplings is being lauded by residents in Amritsar.A large number of people, including families, flock to the canal to enjoy the cool and clean environment and now — colourful floating fountain.However, the sewadars are facing issues with the garbage, which is still being thrown into the canal. “Some people do not shy away from throwing garbage and other materials into the canal water. Though the garbage collection vehicles have been coming to the streets to pick up routine household garbage, many people throw building waste, household waste, useless clothes, rotten fruits and vegetables and religious materials into the canal,” said Ram Singh, sewadar of Dera Bhuriwale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-floating-fountain-near-tarn-taran-road-bridge-is-a-cynosure-of-all-eyes-279911
08-07-2021||---||Artistes from Amritsar remember the legend Dilip Kumar||Amritsar, July 7Dilip Kumar, who passed away after a prolonged illness on Wednesday morning, was paid tributes by the artistes from Amritsar at a special commemoration hosted at Virsa Vihar.Eminent theatre artistes including Kewal Dhaliwal, Arvinder Chamak and others remembered the legendary actor of Indian cinema, who was called the ultimate method actor by another legend of Indian cinema — Satyajit Ray.“The fact that he had roots in both India and Pakistan, as he was born in Peshawar, made him immensely loved and respected by people from both countries. Once in 1982, he conducted an interview with Noorjahan, when she was in Bombay. A rare conversation took place between the two great artistes in Punjabi. Even at social gatherings with Raj Kapoor, Dilip Kumar preferred to speak in Punjabi,” said Kewal Dhaliwal, who is also a theatre historian. Dilip Kumar had also attended plays by noted playwright Gursharan Singh, whenever he performed in Bombay.Arvinder Chamak, who had once visited Dilip Kumar’s residence in Bombay, while helping a friend from Pakistan in his research on the late actor’s roots in Peshawar, said he was bowled over by the humility and hospitality of Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu.“Their hospitality was well-known. Anybody who visited them was treated with warmth and love. I met him a few years ago and we spoke briefly about cinema and his memories of Pakistan. I feel grateful that I got to meet him in my lifetime,” said Chamak.Another actor couple from Amritsar, BP Singh and Ekta BP Singh, too, were good acquaintances of Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu. “My late husband, who was a theatre artiste, was working as the manager at a bank where Dilip ji had an account. In early 2000, Dilip ji met my husband and they clicked over their love for cinema and theatre. I was young and trying my luck in films at that time and once we visited Dilip ji at his home, he shared tips on how I needed to transform myself to fit into the filmi world,” said Ekta, who is an actor settled in Mumbai now.“The first thing he asked me to do was to cut my hair short, as being a Punjabi girl, I had very long hair,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artistes-from-amritsar-remember-the-legend-dilip-kumar-279910
08-07-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Power outages affect one and all||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7Frequent power cuts in rural and urban areas have been affecting the day-to-day life of everyone, especially children, elderly and the sick.Ankita Mahajan, a resident, said, “Water supply timings are fixed. In case there’s a power cut during the specific period, it means that one has to cope with severe shortage of water.”For working couples, things have become very difficult. “Most of the time, I prefer to finish all my work at night. But there’s no power supply even during the night,” said Ravneet Kaur, another resident.Jagveer Singh said his ailing grandfather becomes uncomfortable whenever there’s a power cut. “We have a separate inverter for his room, but it gets very hot during the afternoon and air-conditioner has become a necessity,” he said.In rural areas, severity of power cuts is greater than urban areas. Dairy farmers said in summer, hybrid cows need regular bathing and fans. “When power cuts are for over eight hours, we have to rely on generators,” said a dairy farmer, Balkaran Singh. He said all farmers do not have generators.Rise in the consumption of electricity has been caused by increased demand for tubewells to irrigate fields and air- conditioners.A power corporation official said, “If monsoon gets delayed, the situation is bound to worsen. Even if it rains for an hour or two, farmers switch off their tubewells as fields get irrigated and it helps in ensuring enough supply for domestic consumers.”...But Demand for electronic appliances rise, Intensive heat wave, delayed monsoon to blameAmritsar: Prolonged, intensive heat wave and delayed monsoon this summer has compounded troubles for residents, resulting in the generation of demand for electronic appliances. Anil Kapoor, president of the Amritsar Distributors’ Association, said the market elicited demand for ACs, desert coolers, pedestal and ceiling fans in June and July owing to prolonged heat wave and parched summer so far. He said the stock of these appliances with retail shops have conveniently exhausted this season. “The distributors were receiving demand for supply of more appliances on long credit. But dealers are not ready for cashing in on such a deal, when the fear of a third wave is looming large,” he said. In addition, the rise in prices of fossil fuel and metals such as copper and steel hiked the prices of the entire range of electronic appliances. For instance, there is a hike of Rs200 per piece for all kinds of fans and Rs1,000 increase in the prices of desert cooler and geyser as well. Deepak Mehra, a retailer, said the demand was generated in the market, but 10 to 15 per cent hike in the prices of desert coolers, fans, fridge and air-conditioners from last year was playing a spoilsport. Even then, customers were coming and buying such products. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-outages-affect-one-and-all-279907
08-07-2021||---||Amritsar man arrested for robbing Chandigarh resident of Rs 1.26 lakh, jewellery||Dera Bassi, July 7The police have arrested an Amritsar resident in a loot case. The suspect, Vipan Kumar, alias Ricky, was among those who allegedly robbed a Chandigarh resident, Davinder Sharma, of Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery on June 3.The suspect was traced through the registration number of the SUV used in the crime and arrested from Buttra village of Baba Bakala. He was produced in a court, which sent him to five-day police custody.The complainant, Davinder Sharma, had stated that he used to repair jewellery of goldsmiths of Punjab and Haryana and had gone to Paonta Sahib for work on June 3. He was returning with Rs1.26 lakh and jewellery worth Rs14-15 lakh when the incident took place.Sharma said at Ambala, he took a lift in an SUV going towards Chandigarh. Apart from the driver, there were three persons in the SUV. Sharma stated that when they reached Dera Bassi around 9.30 pm, the driver took a turn towards the forest area near Dera Bassi.The suspects then threatened him and robbed cash, jewellery, an ATM card, a mobile phone and other documents before fleeing.A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Dera Bassi police station on June 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-arrested-for-robbing-chandigarh-resident-of-rs-1-26-lakh-jewellery-279671
08-07-2021||Amritsar||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri arrested for hurting religious feelings||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri has been arrested on charges of using offensive language against a particular community and provoking religious sentiments.Suri had posted a video in which he and some of his associates were seen using objectionable words against the community.SGPC member Bhai Manjit Singh and Damdami Taksal leaders lodged a complaint with the police yesterday against Suri after which he was booked under Sections 295A, 153A and 506 of the IPC and Section 67B of the IT Act.Activist heldActivist Bhupinder Singh has been arrested for using objectionable language against a particular community. He was arrested from Tarn Taran district and produced in an Amritsar court before being sent to the Gurdaspur jail.President of the SGPC Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The government should keep such people under check.”It is reported that the Shiv Sena leader has been sent to the Ropar jail. Ranjit Singh of Damdami Taksal demanded that Suri’s accomplices, including Arun Kumar Bhopa and others, be arrested soon.Meanwhile, activist Bhupinder Singh has also been arrested for using objectionable language against a particular community. Bhupinder Singh was sent to the Gurdaspur jail. He was arrested from Tarn Taran district, produced in a court in Amritsar and sent to jail. He alleged he was not allowed to meet his family.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-arrested-for-hurting-religious-feelings-279692
08-07-2021||Amritsar||Held on frivolous charges by Delhi, Haryana police: Punjab farmers||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee, constituted to look into the atrocities on farmers during the agitation against three farm laws, today met the “victims” in Amritsar.Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, who heads the panel, said the farmers who faced brutality or were allegedly tortured and booked by the Delhi and Haryana police during the agitation recorded their statements.Sandeep Singh from Tarn Taran said he had accompanied a farmers’ jatha on January 20 to participate in the tractor rally. “But we had no inkling as to what shape will it take. Following the violence, I was arrested on January 29 and put behind bars. We were beaten up for no reason. My bail was arranged by DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa on March 3. I believe the panel will bring justice.”Another farmer Harjinder Singh said he had gone to the rally but could not participate in it. “Despite that we were picked up and lodged in Tihar Jail. We were booked on frivolous charges,” he said. The panel will submit its report by July 31. Vaid said the committee would propose that besides legal aid, the victims should be assisted economically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/held-on-frivolous-charges-by-delhi-haryana-police-punjab-farmers-279659
