09-07-2021||Amritsar||General House meeting of Amritsar Municipal Corporation today||Trader robbed of Rs20,000Amritsar: Munish Khurana, a cosmetic trader, was robbed of around Rs20,000 by armed robbers near Kukkrawala village on Wednesday. He was returning from Ajnala after selling cosmetics. Khurana, a resident of Katra Karam Singh, told the police that he was returning from Ajnala to Amritsar and when he reached near Kukkrawala village, two motorcycle- borne persons, came from behind and hit his motorcycle. Due to this, he lost balance and fell on the road. He said the accused then pulled out a sharp-edged weapon and snatched his bag containing around Rs20,000 and his bike. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC in this connection. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/general-house-meeting-of-amritsar-municipal-corporation-today-280461
09-07-2021||---||Covid: 2 die, 16 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 8With two deaths on Thursday, the district toll increased to 1,574. The deceased have been identified as Chand Rani (69) of Islamabad and Darshana Rani (69) of Chheharta.The district health authorities have also reported 16 positive cases, with which the total count increased to 46,894. These include 10 influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 15 cases, the recovery count increased to 45,122. The district at present has a total of 202 active cases.Vaccination drive hit hard as centres run out of dosesA day after the district inoculated 16,118 residents, the Covid-19 vaccination drive was hit hard on Thursday, as only 343 residents received injections owing to the shortage of vaccines.At most of the centres in the city, employees reported shortage of vaccines. The health authorities said they have sent a demand for the vaccines. “We can inoculate around 40,000 residents in a day if the vaccine is available. The shortage forces us to stop vaccination drive,” said a Health Department official.One dies, 6 test positive in Tarn TaranA Covid-infected person died while six persons tested positive in the district on Thursday. The toll reached 367 and the number of active cases has reduced to 46, of which 28 have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 856 samples were collected, which would be tested for Covid and the test report of 577 samples was still awaited. Total 7,949 citizens have tested positive for Covid so far, out of which 7,536 have been treated successfully. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-2-die-16-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-280460
09-07-2021||---||Heroin seizure: Handover case to NCB, say Akalis||Amritsar, July 8The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta to tell people why the state government was not investigating the role of Congress’ Khadoor Sahib legislator Ramanjit Singh Sikki in the 300-quintal heroin seizure case. The party also demanded that since the Punjab Police had failed to do its duty in probing Sikki’s closeness with the main accused in the case, the matter should be handed over to the National Crime Bureau (NCB).SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha also demanded that the role of Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwala should also be investigated by the Directorate Revenue Enforcement (DRE) since the preacher had close links with the family of accused, Prabhjit Singh, a resident of Chohla Sahib village in Tarn Taran.Prabhjit’s cousin was Dhadrianwala’s gunman, added Valtoha. Another family member of Prabhjit was an accused in a drug seizure case in Canada, said Valtoha.“Dhadrianwala leads a seven-star lifestyle and owns cars worth crores despite the fact that he does not have any source of livelihood. His role in patronising drug smugglers should be probed. Dhadrianwala also owes an explanation to people on this issue,” Valtoha said.The SAD leader said Prabhjit, the main accused in the 300-quintal drug seizure case, was the right-hand man of Ramanjit Sikki. This was the reason why the Punjab Police were not pursuing any lead regarding the case in the state, Valtoha added.“Both CM Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta should tell why they are silent about this case despite knowing that Prabhjit used to import gypsum from Pakistan. Hundreds of quintals of drug might have been smuggled from Pakistan to India by the gang,” said Valtoha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heroin-seizure-handover-case-to-ncb-say-akalis-280459
09-07-2021||---||Tramadol seizure: Rajiv Bhagat gets interim bail||Amritsar, July 8Even as former district Congress chief and now Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Rajiv Bhagat got an interim bail from a local court in connection with the seizure of banned drug (tramadol), the police said it would oppose his bail on July 19, the next date of hearing.Bhagat was nominated following the investigation into the seizure of tramadol by the Mattewal police in May. Three alleged drug traffickers were nabbed by the police at that time.Their interrogation led to a raid at a firm in Paonta Sahib and huge quantity of tramadol was seized by cops. The police had booked Bhagat under the NDPS Act on June 25.Majitha Assistant Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana said the police would oppose the bail on the next date of hearing.On the basis of the probe conducted so far, the police had named Bhagat as a kingpin of the racket. He along with Amarpeet Singh, alias Sunny, and Manu Chohan, used to supply tramadol, to other parts of the city, claimed the police.On May 18, had seized 45,000 tramadol capsules from the possession of three persons.This further led to the seizure of the drug worth Rs 15 crore from a factory in Paonta Sahib on May 28.The police had nabbed the alleged owner Munish Mohan of Unique Formulations. During the probe, the police booked Parmar in the case. The police have so far arrested 10 persons in the case. Besides Mohan those arrested included Prem Kumar Jha, who runs a medical store in Delhi and his employee Bablu; Ranu Bhargav of Mohali; Rajesh Wadera; Parmod Bisht; Sunny, a chemist from Katra Sher Singh, and Chohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tramadol-seizure-rajiv-bhagat-gets-interim-bail-280458
09-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Putlighar blast: Kin, Dalit organisations block traffic at Bhandari Bridge in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 8The indifferent attitude of the Punjab Government and district administration towards the family members of the victims of Putlighar blast and Dalit organisations forced them to block traffic at Bhandari Bridge here on Thursday.They had been on hunger strike for the last one week in protest against the failure of the government to fulfil its promise to provide job to the kin of the deceased besides giving suitable compensation to them.Later, following the assurance of the district administration, they ended their four-hour long dharna. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vikas Heera, who came to the spot on behalf of the government, sought 10-day time for the same.“We are in the process of providing relief to victims’ families. There were some objections which will be clear soon,” he assured the agitators.Aman William of Bharitya Moolnivasi Mukti Morcha and Charan Singh Lakha of Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj said if the government and authorities concerned failed this time, they would start an indefinite and intensive agitation again. “We will protest outside the residences of Cabinet Minister OP Soni and Raj Kumar Verka or at Bhandari Bridge,” they said.After all promises made by the political leaders remained unfulfilled even after two years of the incident, they sat on an indefinite hunger strike at Bhandari Bridge here a week ago.The family members of the victims — Rajinder Kumar and Rattan Lal — who died in the blast, alleged that though politicians assured them of providing compensation and a government job to the kin, they did not bother to fulfil their promises.In mid-February, the organisations held a massive protest at the Putlighar Chowk area. The dharna was lifted after Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka reached the spot and assured the family of all possible help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/putlighar-blast-kin-dalit-organisations-block-traffic-at-bhandari-bridge-in-amritsar-280456
09-07-2021||---||6th pay panel report: Employees hold pen-down strike in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||Amritsar, July 8The Punjab and UT Employees and Pensioners’ Front held a protest rally at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on Thursday and burnt the copies of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report. The employees initiated two-day pen down strike from Thursday.Addressing a gathering, employees’ leaders accused the state government of making false promises to employees and promoting privatisation of public sector institutes.District president Gurdeep Singh Bajwa said recommendations of the pay panel were against the interests of employees and they will organise a state-level protest in Patiala on July 29.They demanded that allowances, which have been decreased, should be restored to their earlier level and arrears of the dearness allowance should be released immediately. The other demands included regularisation of contractual workers, implementation of benefits granted by anomaly committee of 5th Pay Commission report.The leaders said the protest would be further intensified in the coming days, if the government failed to respond to their demands.The ESI Employees’ Federation also joined the protest at ESI Hospital, Majitha Road, and announced to observe pen-down strike in support of the agitating employees.Meanwhile, the Employees’ Welfare Association at Civil Hospital has also announced to initiate pen-down strike from Friday demanding that the government consider their demands. Rakesh Sharma, chairman of the association, said: “The employees would boycott all services except emergency and Covid care from July 9 to July 11.”6th Pay panel report a cruel joke, say staff in Tarn Taran Tarn Taran: The normal work in offices of the state government departments was affected on Thursday due to the ‘pen-down, tool-down’ strike call given by Punjab UT Mulazam and Pensioner Sanjha Front. The strike call received massive response in the district. The employees of the Education, Health, Powercom, Irrigation, Roadways and Revenue Departments among others participated in the strike. On the first day, employees held marches and burnt the effigy of the government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. The teachers of government schools on the call of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised protests at their respective schools against the 6th Pay Commission report. Baljinder Singh, Nachhttar Singh, Romesh Kumar Shergill and other leaders, while addressing a rally, said the pay scales were affecting the serving and the retired employees. The protesting employees burnt the effigy of Finance Minister Punjab for the alleged role in giving less scales to employees. Powercom employees and pensioners, too, lodged their protest at the circle office of the Powercom. Gurpreet Singh Mannan, Mangal Singh Tharu, Dhanwant Singh Randhawa were among others, who called the 6th Pay Commission report a cruel joke with employees. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6th-pay-panel-report-employees-hold-pen-down-strike-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-280455
09-07-2021||---||Amritsar: All out on roads protesting; Is anyone listening?||Amritsar, July 8To protest against high prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, farmers staged protests at 10 different places in the district on Thursday. The protests were organised as per the call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leading the protest against the three controversial agricultural laws.Long queues of tractors were seen standing alongside the roads at towns including Rayya, Mehta, Mannawala, Kathunagal, Majitha, Attari, Ajnala, Chogawan, India Gate and Golden Gate among other places. As a symbol of high prices of LPG, farmers carried empty cylinders on their tractors.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader associated with SKM said: “The participation in protest was encouraging. Even as the paddy transplantation season is going on, a large number of farmers attended the protests at all sites.” While farmers protested, they did not block any roads as earlier decided by the leaders. They stood on the roadsides for two hours — from 10 am to 12pm.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura of Vegetable Growers’ Association, who lead the protest at Nawa Pind on Amritsar-Mehta road, said: “The Centre and state governments has made diesel, petrol and LPG as a mean to earn revenue and help the corporates in amassing all wealth. The poor are no longer able to purchase LPG and even diesel is out of reach.”The protesters carried placards demanding decrease in prices of fuel and control inflation. They also demanded repealing of three agriculture laws stating that with corporates taking control of the markets, the poor would not be able to afford even food.While criticisng the Central government for rise in prices of fuel, the farmer leaders accused opposition parties of not taking up the issue and mobilising public. Farmers said most of the traditional parties were pro-corporate as they need funds to contest elections.Trade unions up in arms against CentreAmritsar: On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, members of various trade unions, on Thursday held a demonstration against inflation and fuel prices at Bhandari Bridge on Thursday. Carrying empty LPG cylinders, protesters raised slogans against PM Narendra Modi-led Central Government. They said the Centre has turned a blind eye towards the plight of a common man. “Price of LPG cylinder has increased from Rs400 to nearly Rs900 during the NDA rule. Rates of pulses and edible oil has also increased manifold,” said Daswinder Kaur, a communist leader. She said earlier farmers and now labourers would end their lives along with their families if the Centre fails to take corrective measures. Another communist leader, Amarjit Singh Asal, said, “Demonetisation, faulty GST, Covid-19 and unscheduled power cuts, have ruined the industry and traders. The Centre and the state government are a mute spectators. The Central Government is busy in its Cabinet expansion while it has doing nothing to provide any relief to people and industry,” he said. Gurdip Singh Gilwali, Rajinderpal Kaur, Narinderpal Kaur, Kulwant Rai Bawa and Rakesh Handa, among others, were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-all-out-on-roads-protesting-is-anyone-listening-280454
09-07-2021||Nitin Jain||AIIB sends $105 mn for 24x7 drinking water supply project in Ludhiana, Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 8Another financial support of $105 million has arrived for the much-awaited 24x7 canal-based surface drinking water supply project in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the government has confirmed.The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has approved the financial aid after an equal amount of $105 million was sanctioned by the World Bank (WB) recently.Both the international banks have approved their 35 per cent share each for the Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project (PMSIP) to strengthen urban services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the two largest cities in Punjab, while the state government will bear the rest $90 million, which accounted for 30 per cent, a senior government functionary told The Tribune on Thursday.The PMSIP is expected to cost US $300 million, of which the WB and AIIB share is 70 per cent, under which they have approved $210-million, while Punjab’s share is 30 per cent, amounting to $90-million.The project has been approved by the Union Ministry of Finance’s Department of Economic Affairs and posed to the WB and the AIIB for external financing.The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC) under the Local Government Department has initiated the PMSIP aimed at improving service delivery in Ludhiana and Amritsar by strengthening municipal governance finance and service delivery systems and capacities for this project with technical and financial support of the WB and AIIB.A major focus of the project will be on providing efficient water supply and sanitation services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, cities that are the engines of economic growth for the state. The improvement in the water supply will benefit more than three million people in 2025 and an estimated five million projected population in 2055. Industrial and commercial users would also benefit from the good quality reliable water supply.In Ludhiana, the project will cost Rs 1,942 crore, which will be spent for water treatment plant, transmission and storage, including Rs 700 crore for 10 years of operation and maintenance.The land for water treatment plant and other ancillaries is under acquisition and the same is also being reviewed at the level of the World Bank for conducting social and environmental studies.The site selection committee, headed by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, has approved 54 acres of land at Bilga village in Ludhiana.The request for proposal (RFP) to engage contractors on design, build, operate and transfer (DBOT) basis has also been forwarded to the World Bank for approval, following which the tenders will be floated.In Amritsar, the project will cost Rs 1,156.2 crore, including Rs 686.2 crore for water treatment plant, transmission and storage, besides Rs 470 crore for operation and maintenance services.The land for the water treatment plant and other ancillaries has already been acquired.The work has been awarded for execution of a bulk water supply project, which will be completed in three years.Present statusPresently, Ludhiana and Amritsar draw their water by pumping out groundwater from hundreds of bore-wells dug up across the two cities. Pumping groundwater directly from these bore-wells leads to significant water loss and wastage as households are not incentivised to save. Studies have also revealed that Ludhiana’s groundwater is contaminated with nitrates and other heavy metals, while Amritsar district’s with arsenic.Future planThe project will shift water supply from rapidly depleting and highly contaminated groundwater sources, to a centralised treatment plant drawing water from local canals (surface water sources). This shift is likely to have significant health benefits, studies have shown.Funding patternThe project will finance all new raw water systems, water treatment plants, transmission systems, and reservoirs to supply clean water to cover entire cities under the DBOT contract. The DBOT operator will manage the operations and maintenance of these water supply systems under the direct supervision of the Municipal Corporations in the two cities through city-level water utilities.The project will also provide sub-grants to all the Municipal Corporations in Punjab to finance critical non-medical interventions that address impacts of the Covid crisis, and to improve their readiness to tackle disasters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aiib-sends-105-mn-for-24x7-drinking-water-supply-project-in-ludhiana-amritsar-280386
09-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Industry in Ludhiana flays PSPCL's exemption to Amritsar textile units||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 8The industry in Ludhiana has questioned the move of the PSPCL to exempt the Amritsar textile industry from the ongoing power cuts.The textile industry in Amritsar has been considered as a ‘Continuous Process Industry’ and has been exempted from the mandatory weekly off.The Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organisation (FICO) has opposed this ‘partial behaviour’ of the government and PSPCL. They demanded that the PSPCL waive off the mandatory weekly off for the city textile industry. KK Seth, chairman, and Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, said, “Why is the industry in Amritsar being exempted? We fail to understand such biased approach,” said Jain.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said “There are thousands of industrial units in Ludhiana belonging to various sectors. All are neglected, whereas the textile industry in Amritsar is allowed to operate. ”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industry-in-ludhiana-flays-pspcls-exemption-to-amritsar-textile-units-280401
09-07-2021||GS Paul||People’s pulse - Majha: Advantage Cong, but far from done deal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 8The traditionally Panthic belt of Majha gave the Congress a near-sweep of 22 out of a total of 25 seats in the 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections. Going into the 2022 polls, though, the ruling party is saddled with anti-incumbency, unfulfilled poll promises and dissension, exemplified by Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu’s open and relentless attacks against the Capt Amarinder Singh government.Rift blown out of proportion The Congress’ internal differences are being blown out of proportion, but I agree not fulfilling poll promises can backfire. Time is short and we need to make amends.— Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet MinisterAccording to the 2011 Census, Sikhs make up 68.94 per cent of the population of Amritsar district, and 93 per cent of Tarn Taran district. In 2017, the Congress rode to power on the back of rural and Panthic Sikh votes, as the electorate sided with it while shunning the Shiromani Akali Dal mainly over the controversial exoneration of the Dera Sacha Sauda chief, followed by the Bargari sacrilege and firing in 2015. The rural belt, which was once SAD’s main base, favoured the Congress, which won five of the six seats in Amritsar. Four seats with a large Sikh presence in Gurdaspur, too, had gone to the Congress. In Tarn Taran district, which has the highest Sikh population percentage in the state, all four seats went to the Congress.If there are rumblings of discontent within the Congress, unrest is brewing in SAD’s Tarn Taran unit, with heavyweights Virsa Singh Valtoha, a two-time former Khem Karan MLA, and party chief Sukhbir Badal’s brother-in-law Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, a four-time MLA from Patti, both eyeing the Khem Karan seat. Kairon, in fact, has staked claim from all four seats of Tarn Taran.Doors open for farmersThe BJP has opened its doors for negotiation on farm laws, made possible the Kartarpur corridor, and also ensured GST rebate on langar. People will give their approval to these steps.—Shwait Malik, BJP Rajya Sabha MemberIn Gurdaspur, the Congress stands on a slippery wicket in Fatehgarh Churian, won by Tript Rajinder Bajwa in 2017 with a slender margin of 1,200 votes. He has shifted his focus to Batala and got a mayor of his choice appointed. However, following former MLA Ashwani Sekhri expressing displeasure, it would be difficult for the Congress to ignore his claim for candidature from there.All eyes are also on former MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who may not be averse to contesting Assembly polls, perhaps from Gurdaspur. In Qadian, his brother Fatehjang Singh Bajwa is the sitting MLA.Fledgling panthic parties comprising the ‘rebel Taksali Akalis’ under the umbrella of SAD (United) are trying to forge an alliance, but Akali Dal’s breakaway factions led by former MP from Khadoor Sahib Ranjit Singh Brahmpura could at best make a dent in the parent party’s vote share.Questions are also being raised on how well alliance partner BSP could compensate the SAD with the Dalit votes, given the large numbers of Mazhabi Sikhs in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur. BSP’s vote share was a mere 5 per cent in 2017 and it has no base to talk about in Majha.BJP president Ashwani Sharma has announced that the party will contest all 117 seats, but its handling of the farmers’ protests could prove to be a big dampener. Adding to its problems, former minister Anil Joshi has been critical of the party’s “anti-Punjab” moves. “We could not address Punjabis’ grievances at an appropriate level. People will reply,” he says. He is believed to be at loggerheads with former state head Shwait Malik, who it is believed is keen on contesting from Joshi’s constituency. The Aam Aadmi Party, which could not open its account in Majha in 2017, is still struggling to establish a foothold. A notable addition to the ranks is former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who led the sacrilege investigations. AAP’s state joint secretary Ashok Talwar sees the Congress as the main opponent. Dr Jagroop Singh Sekhon, Head, Department of Political Science, Guru Nanak Dev University, says the Congress is at an advantageous position “as its main opponent SAD has been so discredited for manoeuvring issues for political gains during their tenure, that it would be difficult for them to bounce back”.Public welfare issues rather than Panthic matters are likely to affect the vote trend this time, attributed also to the pandemic’s fallout on the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/peoples-pulse-majha-advantage-cong-but-far-from-done-deal-280207
