10-07-2021||The lynching of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) employee Deepak Kumar by some members of the managing committee of a local gurdwara early this week has sent shivers down the spines of locals. The logic being propounded by residents is that if it can happen to him||Timely action averted communal clashes||‘Don’t be blinded by bright lights of Bollywood’Even as MP and film star Sunny Deol is recuperating from a shoulder injury in a US hospital, Congressmen, oblivious to this fact, are busy putting up missing posters in his constituency. The fact that Deol is unwell was brought to the notice of the general public by his PA Pankaj Joshi only after the posters came up. Obviously, he had to come clean on the MP’s whereabouts in the face of criticism by his detractors. It is another matter that Deol, even when he was in the pink of health, seldom visited his constituency. The last time he was here was in September last year when he met a couple of officials, took cognisance of the Central Government sponsored works and flew back to Mumbai the next day. There is a school of thought that celebrities should not be given tickets because once elected they do not have much time to spare for their constituents. Congressmen claim that this time people were blinded by the bright lights of Bollywood but next time things will be different. “Hopefully, in the next elections, our area is represented not by a celebrity but by a person who knows the problems of the voters like the back of his hand,” said an officer.Dubai police felicitate philanthropist OberoiDubai-based businessman and noted philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi is once again in the spotlight. Early this week, a senior officer of the Dubai police, Brigadier Khalid Ali Shuhail, acting director of the Dubai Police Department of Community Happiness, felicitated Oberoi at a special ceremony for the work he did during the pandemic. The businessman, who is in Dubai these days, regularly visited the city’s labour camps, home of immigrants, to distribute masks and sanitisers during the second phase of Covid. Doctors and paramedical staff of Dubai hospitals were also handed over PPE kits. Oberoi also financed chartered flights to bring back Indians stranded in the Gulf during last year’s lockdown. Cadavers of people who died due to Covid were also brought back to India through the businessman’s efforts. On his part, Oberoi remains unassuming and humble to the core. “Covid-19 has sent chills deep down the spines of international trade, global diplomacy, social and health care professionals simply for being guided by politics, not science. On my part, I want doctors to find a scientific solution to ward off the third wave, if at all it does come,” he opined.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/timely-action-averted-communal-clashes-281000
10-07-2021||Amritsar||Helpline number for Covid released||BBK dav college Students get jobsBBK DAV College for Women’s students were able to earn significant positions in online placement drives held by Tata Consultancy Services, and Wipro under WASE and WIMS programmes. Six students of BCA and BSc IT were selected in TCS and nine students of BCA and BSc were selected in Wipro. Students were after rigorous online screenings which included aptitude test, technical test followed by HR interviews. TCS is India’s one of the largest Indian companies in market capitalisation and deals in consulting, technology and outsourcing services. Wipro provides information technology services and consulting and business process services. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia congratulated the students and wished them luck for their upcoming endeavor. She also congratulated Manoj Puri, Dean, Placements and his team for their splendid efforts.Sapling plantation driveKhalsa College for Women (KCW) and Rotary Club-North today initiated a joint “Tree Plantation Drive” at the college campus. The annual drive is the first of the rainy season for both the organisations as they harp upon a month-long plantation of the trees to safeguard the environment, facing large scale deforestation. Khalsa College Governing Council secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina exhorted one and all to plant maximum plants this season. “Let us join hands to plant saplings to make the campus eco-friendly and greener”, he appealed as he praised the Rotary for donation of plants to the college. He further added that it is time that we all pay heed to our surroundings and work to build a better planet and it is very important for each individual to plant at least one tree in his lifetime. “The trees represent prosperity, life, growth and beauty. The life on earth gets the maximum support from trees”, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helpline-number-for-covid-released-280997
10-07-2021||---||Importance of flora, fauna discussed||Amritsar, July 9SciRox, Science Club of Guru Nanak Dev University, in collaboration with ENVIS Hub, Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, organised a national webinar on Van Mahotsav 2021 under the aegis of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The objective of the webinar was to make students and people aware about the forest situation in India and their needs.The key speakers of the event were Dr Manoj Kumar from Forest Research Institute, Dehradun and Rajiv Chaturvedi from BITS, Pilani, Goa Campus. Prof (Dr) Anish Dua, Dean Students’ Welfare inaugurated the session by highlighting the significance of flora and fauna in our lives.Dr Manoj Kumar explained the meaning and need of sustainable forest management in India. His talk highlighted that the main objective of sustainable forest management is to conserve biodiversity ensuring equitable sharing of responsibilities in forest management, supply of food, security to cultural and livelihood needs of forest dependent communities. He also emphasised the importance of Forest research institute in India.Dr Rajiv Kumar Chaturvedi focused on highlighting various laws such as forest conservation act 1980, for the conservation of forest. He said that changes in climate are directly affecting the state of forests in India. “Climate disturbances lower down forest productivity and affect the habitat of various species that ultimately affects mankind,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/importance-of-flora-fauna-discussed-280996
10-07-2021||---||SGPC's Dharmik Parikhya results out||Amritsar, July 9The Dharam Prachar Committee of the SGPC that conducts Dharmik Parikhya (religious examination) across India for flourishing Gurbani, Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh Gurus) principles, Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh code of conduct) and Sikh history annually, has declared the result of examination that was conducted in February.A total of 13,418 students appeared in the religious examination of the 2020-21 session. In the first category (Class VIII & IX), Amarbir Kaur, a student of Guru Gobind Singh Convent School, Suhawa, Tarn Taran and Taranjit Kaur of Bhai Nand Lal Public School, Sri Anandpur Sahib, secured the first position. Similarly, Parminder Kaur, a student of Bhai Nand Lal Public School, Sri Anandpur Sahib, secured the second position and Agamjot Kaur and Tarvinder Kaur of the same school secured the third position.In the second category (Class XI & XII), Simranjit Kaur of Mata Sahib Kaur Girls Senior Secondary, Gehal, Barnala, and Gurnoop Kaur of Khalsa Collegiate Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwala, secured the first place. Similarly, Rajnish Kaur of Paradise Public School, Kot Majlas Batala, Kiranvir Kaur of Mata Sahib Kaur Girls Senior Secondary School, Gehal, Simrat Kaur and Jasmine Kaur of Navneet Public Senior Secondary School, Narmana, Nabha; Jasleen Kaur of Khalsa Public Senior Secondary School, Jand Sahib, Chamkaur Sahib; Komalpreet Kaur of Baba Gurmukh Singh Baba Uttam Singh Senior Secondary School, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran secured the third position.In the third category (graduate), Karampreet Kaur of Guru Nanak College, Moga, secured the first position, Komalpreet Kaur of Sant Baba Hazara Singh Girls College, Nikke Ghuman, secured the second position and Sehajpreet Singh of Guru Arjan Dev Khalsa College, Chohla Sahib, secured the third position.In the fourth category (postgraduate), Amritpal Kaur of Guru Nanak College, Moga, secured the first position; Harjit Kaur of Baba Aiya Singh Riarki College, Tugalwala, Gurdaspur, secured the second position and Tarjinder Kaur of Guru Nanak College, Moga, secured the third position.SGPC assistant secretary, media, Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said 1,092 students secured scholarships by securing more than 70 per cent marks. According to four categories, those students who secured scholarships will be given amounts of Rs1,100, Rs2,100, Rs3,100 and Rs4,100, respectively.He said similarly, 20 students have secured the first-three positions and got listed in the merit and they will be given amounts of Rs5,100, Rs4,100 and Rs3,100, respectively, special prize and mementoes. The principals and religious teachers of those students who secured merit positions will also be honoured by the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpcs-dharmik-parikhya-results-out-280995
10-07-2021||Neha Saini||Neena Gupta reinvents herself at 60||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9Neena Gupta reinvented herself at the age of 60 with ‘Badhai Ho’ and there’s no stopping her now. Her book “Sach Kahun Toh” has been admired for her honesty and clarity with which she has admitted to mistakes she made in her life.On Friday, the actor talked about her life and her choices at FICCI FLO, Amritsar Chapter’s special web session ‘The Neena Narrative’.She shared that while growing up in Delhi, she used to loiter around with her brother in the neighbourhood and escaped from studying. The actor said she used to look forward to Navratras and kanjaks, as all hoity-toity boys in the neighbourhood had to wash her feet on the given day.Talking about her autobiography “Sach Kahun Toh”, Neena said the book is an invaluable compendium of the trajectory of her life. “Women (any age) in our country do not get much recognition and my life was no different. Several issues that I have touched upon in my book, including making wrong decisions and need for sex education among youngsters, is very important. Women must be apprised about sex education and sexual abuse right from the inception of their school life,” she said.The actor also revealed how frustrated she was on realising that people assumed her shift to Delhi as her reluctance to work. So much so, that she had asked for work on social media platform. “It was a very bold move on my part and I was quite intimidated about possible repercussions,” said Neena.“Every person I met in Mumbai used to ask me, why I had moved to Delhi for a while and this was taken as my unofficial resignation from the film industry,” she said and shared her love for Sanskrit literature and disseminated the message of valuing one’s vernacular language.On being asked about ageism and stereotyping in the film industry, she retorted that she doesn’t like any labels. “As a woman, I feel that one has to fight against societal norms — age being one of them. It has nothing to do with stereotypes and everything to do with our deep rooted mindset.” Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FLO Amritsar, said they would be honouring Neena’s work by planting panchvati trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/neena-gupta-reinvents-herself-at-60-280994
10-07-2021||---||Govt staff, pensioners protest against 6th pay panel report||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9On the second day of the protest, hundreds of employees of various government departments gathered at the bus stand on the call given by the Employees and Pensioners Joint Front. District conveners Ashwani Awasthi, Gurdeep Singh Bajwa, Joginder Singh, Sanjeev Sharma, Sukhdev Singh Pannu, Manjinder Singh Sandhu and Harjinderpal Singh Pannu led the rally and laid siege at the bus stand for two hours. Speaking at the rally, the leaders said the Punjab Government had cheated the employees in the 6th Pay Commission, including contract and daily wage workers.Employees’ leader Harjinder Singh Satiala demanded termination of the 6th pay Commission recommendations, besides restoration of the old pension scheme. He criticized the dictatorial attitude of the present government. He called all employees to join July 29 protest rally in Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-staff-pensioners-protest-against-6th-pay-panel-report-280993
10-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Renovation work to preserve heritage police station begins in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, July 9The Punjab Police have started the renovation work of the dilapidated building of the city police station to preserve its heritage. The work has been started on a war footing. Baba Jagtar Singh of the Kar Sewa sect too was extending a helping hand to the cause.The work has to be done by the Punjab Police Housing Corporation. A sum of Rs 2 crore had been sanctioned for the work by the DGP, Punjab, and Rs 35 lakh had been received by the district police for the same.It was the only such old building with a monument status built about 150 years ago in Tarn Taran by the British Government. The building of Sri Darbar Sahib, Tarn Taran, was an exception.The district police claiming to collect information regarding the building from different sources revealed that it was among the eight buildings built in Amritsar and Lahore in 1942 by the British Government. The railway station and the main post office in Amritsar were included in the eight buildings.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said as the old architect-designed Nanakshahi bricks was used in the construction, these would be preserved while renovating the building without dismantling it.The district police were taking the services of archaeologists for the work to preserve its heritage. The main wooden gate of the police station too was the symbol of rich heritage. Many rooms of the building were made with wood of superior quality which was not easily available in market nowadays.Earlier, the offices of the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Revenue, Treasury, besides the police station were functioning from the building. The police station had temporarily been shifted from here to the old bus stand due to the unsafe building.The SSP said the office of the local DSP too would start functioning from the building and every possible facility would be provided for visitors. Saplings will be planted in courtyards.The police are taking the services of experts of Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) to install the rainwater harvesting system. After the renovation work, the building will become a favourite spot for heritage lovers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/renovation-work-to-preserve-heritage-police-station-begins-in-tarn-taran-280992
10-07-2021||---||No fatality, 17 test positive in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 9The district health authorities reported 17 positive cases, with which the total count increased to 46,911 on Friday. The authorities reported no fatality today. These include nine influenza-like illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients.With recovery of 17 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,139. At present, the district has a total of 198 active cases.The vaccination drive continued to remain in doldrums due to short supply. A total of 160 people, including 140 at government-run vaccination centres and 20 at private vaccination centres, were inoculated today.Tarn Taran reports 1 deathThe district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Friday, taking the toll to 368, while no new infection was reported. The active cases in the district has been reduced to 45, of them 28 are home isolated. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 264 eligible persons were vaccinated on Friday, with this the number of vaccinated persons in the district had risen to 2,24,117. The teams of the Health Department collected 984 samples and results of 604 samples were still awaited.Dist Covid Update||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-fatality-17-test-positive-in-amritsar-280991
10-07-2021||---||Minor raped at Dalla Rajputa||Amritsar, July 9A 15-year-old girl has accused a youth of allegedly raping her. The accused has been identified as Manpreet Singh, a resident of Dalla Rajputa village. The police have registered a case and launched further investigations. The incident had occurred three days ago while a complaint was filed on Thursday.The complainant told the police that on July 6, her parents and other siblings, had gone for paddy transplantation while she was alone at home. She alleged that the accused entered their house by jumping over the wall.She said she was cooking food in the varandah and the accused dragged her to a room where he raped her and clicked her objectionable pictures. She alleged when she tried to raise an alarm, the accused covered her mouth. As my family members came back the accused fled away. She alleged the accused threatened to kill her family in case she told her about the incident to anyone. The police have registered a case under Sections 376, 452 and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act against Manpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-raped-at-dalla-rajputa-280990
10-07-2021||---||Amritsar MC General House meeting: 60 resolutions okayed, 8 put on hold||Amritsar, July 9Sixty resolutions related to development works, infrastructural issues and service of employees were passed during a meeting of the General House of the Municipal Corporation. Besides, eight resolutions were opposed by Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi and Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar following which the House decided to keep these pending.The Deputy Mayor opposed the MC move wherein a letter was written to the Department of Local Bodies to regularise sewermen working in 'mohalla sudhar committees' from 2012-16. "When the state government asked to regularise the employees, the MC should regularise all even those who have not completed a term of three years. The sanitation workers who served during Covid-19 should be regularised on priority," Bakshi said.Councillors, officials sans maskA number of councillors were absent while several left the meeting midway. Most councillors did not participate in the discussion on the resolutions passed in the House. Though residents and the media were not allowed to enter the meeting hall in view of the Covid-19 restrictions, a large number of councillors and MC officials were not wearing a mask.MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi elaborated the policy but Younis Kumar expressed dissatisfaction over it.The resolution numbers 59 to 62 were also opposed by the Deputy Mayor. These resolutions were about dismissing the services of three sewermen and a clerk of the MC due to long absence.Younis claimed that most of the time, officials don't mark their attendance due to some personal rivalry. "The cases are needed to be verified and we have to listen to the sewermen before sacking them," said Deputy Mayor.New Commissioner welcomedDuring the meeting, the new Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation, Malwinder Singh Jaggi, was welcomed by members of the House. Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, who has been recently promoted to the IAS, was also felicitated by the House.The Senior Deputy Mayor alleged the connivance of MC officials with a contractor, who was given the job of repairing tubewells despite his bad conduct, which was highlighted during the previous House meeting.The proposal of leasing the MC land to set up charging stations for e-vehicles at 10 prime locations of the city was also opposed by Bakshi. "The MC is going to lease out the prime location to Smart City for Rs100 per month for 11 years. The Smart City will sublet these charging stations to some private company and earn lakhs. We will not allow loot of MC assets," he added. The House put the resolution pending.The proposal of outsourcing garbage collection from the walled city areas was also opposed by the Mayor’s deputies. They claimed that it was a violation of an MoU signed with the solid waste management company. “The costly machines brought by the civic body should not be handed over to private players. The clauses of hiring firms for garbage collection are also faulty. The resolution requires more homework and a study of challenges of garbage collection in the walled city,” said the Deputy Mayor. The resolution was also put in the pending list.The senior leaders also opposed the resolution to sell MC properties and sought that their details be given to the House.The resolution regarding development works at Durgiana Temple was also opposed for 'faulty' procedures adopted during the tendering.Congress leaders also opposed the ongoing installation of gas pipeline, claiming that it was damaging roads, water pipelines and sewer lines. "The MC spent Rs1.5 to 4 crore in each ward of the city on roads, water pipelines and sewer lines," said Bakshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-general-house-meeting-60-resolutions-okayed-8-put-on-hold-280989
10-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||At 76, he is serving the hospitality sector with élan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9During his more than five-decade long association with the hospitality industry, Bhupinder Singh, 76, invariably charted a new course, which the rest followed at the time when it was not that common. Be it the opening of a hotel or a restaurant, both were heralded as courageous steps in the then local society.He, along with his elder brother late Diwan Singh, was instrumental in setting up Hotel Astoria in 1970 on the Queen’s Road, which was closed in 2012. He then opened a restaurant Astoria Food Pavilion in posh Ranjit Avenue in 1999, when there was no eatery there. Now, the area boasts of an array of big hotels and a number of restaurants.He studied at Alexandra, St Francis and Ram Ashram schools, and graduated from DAV College in 1963. “After studies, I did not have any psychological pressure to earn a living, as my family owned sufficient farm land in Sohia Kalan on Fatehgarh Churriyan Road,” he said.After an elaborate and well-thought-out plan, both brothers started a hotel with 12 rooms in 1970. He did not mind reading a few books on the subject to gain an understanding of customers and other aspects of the hospitality industry.Unlike present times, when there are a hundreds of hotels, including a good number of five-star hotels, there were not more than 15 to 20 hotels in the holy city back then.“Imperial, Ritz, Grand, all dating back to pre-independence era, Amritsar hotel, Palace hotel, Mrs Bhandari’s Guest House and Hotel Airlines were some of the famous hotels then,” he recollected.Recalling the hotel’s opening day, he said barring the maiden day, when no customer came, the occupancy remained above 80 per cent till its closure. Response of visitors was so warm, that his family demolished the ancestral residence situated behind the hotel and merged it with the hotel’s building to increase its room strength to 31 in 1973. Both brothers shifted their residence to Basant Avenue. “It was a tough decision to close that hotel, but one has to move on with the changing circumstances within the family and around,” he said.He, along with his son Navneet, opened a restaurant in Ranjit Avenue after that. A top furnishing company was roped in from New Delhi to do its interiors. His son, who is now settled in London, keeps him updated with international trends to keep the restaurant in tune with the current times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-76-he-is-serving-the-hospitality-sector-with-%C3%A9lan-280928
10-07-2021||---||Minister warns of strict action against depot holders, officials||Amritsar, July 9Taking cognizance of complaints regarding discrepancies in weight of wheat disbursed among blue card holders, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni today warned of strict action against depot holders involved in such acts.Responsible officials would also be taken to task, said minister during a meeting of the district grievance redressal committee here today. He asked officials to solve problems faced by the people in a time-bound manner.Yesterday, Jaswant Singh, a social activist, along with several residents, had alleged that ration depot holders were distributing less wheat allotted by the government among blue card holders.He further alleged that the District Food and Civil Supply Department had failed to ensure proper supply of wheat. “Blue card holders are getting 8 kg or 9 kg wheat against 10 kg allotted for two months,” he added. This was a major scam as it was happening all over Punjab while the authorities had failed to ensure proper supply of wheat, he said.A vigilance probe should be ordered to nail those involved in the scam, he added. As per the information when wheat was released from godown it was drenched to increase weight, he said.Clear instructions had been given to the District Food Supplies Controller (DFSC) to ensure proper disbursal of allotted wheat to beneficiaries, said minister. Stern action would be taken, if the department failed to comply with instructions, the minister added.Another issue regarding involvement of private hospital on the Fatehgarh Churian road in unethical practices around one-and-half-year ago was also taken up at the meeting. Though three enquiries were held in the case, no action was taken against culprits.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira was directed to look into the matter, said minister. “We will take up the issue at the next meeting after 15 days,” the minister added. Seventy five complaints were taken up in today’s meeting out which 58 were solved, the minister added. The remaining complaints were pending and would be taken at the next meeting, the minister said.Among those present at the meeting, include MLAs Sunil Datti and Santokh Singh Bhaliapur, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Additional Deputy Commissioner Ruhi Dug and MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-warns-of-strict-action-against-depot-holders-officials-280929
