11-07-2021||Amritsar||Own a pet? Be aware of zoonotic diseases||While pets, especially dogs, are considered most loyal and wonderful human companions, health experts warn against unsafe contact with them as lack of awareness about zoonotic diseases could prove fatal.The zoonotic diseases are the diseases communicated to humans from animals.Dr Madan Mohan, district epidemiologist, said: “Ebola, swine flu, rabies and even Covid-19 are a few of the examples of zoonotic diseases.” He said it is important that all pets kept at home are properly vaccinated and examined by a veterinarian on a regular basis.“The pests could be carrying virus, bacteria, fungus or parasites, which could be easily transferred to humans in the family. It is important that health of the animal is watched keenly and one should follow all cleanliness guidelines, especially washing hands, after touching a pet,” said Dr Madan.The district Heath Department had earlier last week celebrated World Zoonosis Day to raise awareness about the issue and released posters in this regard. The medical experts said the trend to keep pets at homes, especially dogs, has caught up recently.“Not only the owners of pet dogs, but others who are into piggery, poultry or dairy farming must be aware of the causes and preventions of zoonotic diseases,” said the epidemiologist, adding that more awareness programmes would be organised in the district to bring the issue to the notice of residents.Ebola, swine flu, rabies and even Covid-19 are a few of the examples of zoonotic diseases. It is important that all pets kept at home are properly vaccinated and examined by a veterinarian on a regular basis. The pests can be carrying virus, bacteria, fungus or parasites, which can be easily transferred to humans in the family. It is important that health of the animal is watched keenly and one should follow all cleanliness guidelines, especially washing hands, after touching a pet. — Dr Madan Mohan, district epidemiologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/own-a-pet-be-aware-of-zoonotic-diseases-281442
11-07-2021||Amritsar||One dies, 15 test positive in Amritsar||With one more death, the district toll increased to 1,575 on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Satnam Singh, a 69-year-old resident of Chheharta.The district health authorities have also reported 15 new cases, with which the total count increased to 46,926. The cases include eight influenza-like illness cases and seven contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 34 patients, the recovery count improved to 45,173. The district at present has a total of 178 active cases.The health officials said a total of 2,590 residents were given injections for Covid-19 on Saturday. As many as 30,485 healthcare workers, 75,116 frontline workers, 2,53,984 residents above 45 years and 1,70,814 residents in the age group of 18-45 years have been given the first dose of the vaccine so far. Those completely vaccinated include 15,299 healthcare workers, 17,562 frontline workers and 51,901 residents above 45 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-15-test-positive-in-amritsar-281445
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Prime suspect held in Mall Road robbery case||The city police have nabbed prime suspect in the Mall Road robbery case, in which armed robbers had kept a family of a jeweller hostage and looted gold jewellery worth lakhs on March 21.He was identified as Harnesh Thakur, a resident of Dera Bassi area. Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations), confirmed the development. He said Thakur was brought on production warrant from Rajasthan this week. He was arrested by the Rajasthan Police in connection with dacoity of gold worth Rs12 crore. He said the investigations were under progress to identify his accomplices, who were yet to be arrested.Harminder Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (detective), and SHO Civil Lines police station Shiv Darshan said Harnesh was another notorious person and former Army man, identified as Ranjit Singh, of Patiala accompanied him. Both were part of an interstate gang of robbers and had a number of criminal cases in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.The ACP said Ranjit Singh knew other accomplices who accompanied them while robbing the jewellers’ family on the Mall Road area near Kitchlew Chowk. He said the accused remained in the house for at least four hours.The victim, Ashish Arora (goldsmith), along with his father SK Arora, mother and grandmother, was present in the house when the accused entered the house. They pointed guns at the family, held them hostage and later took along Ashish Arora.They decamped with a box containing over 700 gm of gold ornaments worth around Rs25 lakh. They also took away Rs50,000 cash from the family. Before escaping, they locked the family in the bathroom, so that they could not call the police immediately. The house has two entry points — one from the main Mall Road and other from the Kennedy Avenue side.Harminder said Ranjit Singh, who was an ex-serviceman, knew the other accomplices, who accompanied them in the Mall Road robbery.“Ranjit Singh had done the recee of the house before the gang looted the family,” said Harminder Singh, adding that efforts were on to arrest Ranjit. The duo was involved in the Rajasthan dacoity also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-held-in-mall-road-robbery-case-281447
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Pigeon flying takes ugly turn  as friends stab youth to death in Amritsar village||A minor dispute over flying pigeons turned ugly when a youth was stabbed to death by his friends in Chatiwind village here on late Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Suraj (21). He used to work as a plumber.The police have arrested two of his friends — Rajpreet Singh and Judgepreet Singh — here on Saturday. Among others who were booked include Arshdeep Singh and Deepu. All of them in their early 20s.Manmeet Pal Singh, SHO Chattiwind police station, said the victim and his friends had kept pigeons and used to indulge in pigeon flying during the day. He said the accused were jealous of Ranjit as his pigeons used to defeat the pigeons of his friends. This led to a quarrel a few days ago.He said last night, when he had gone out of the house for some work, the accused attacked him near Chabba village bus stop. Though initially he managed to run from the spot, the accused again caught and stabbed him with sharp weapon in his chest and fled.Ranjit was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed. The SHO said raids were on to nab the remaining suspects, while a case of murder was registered against them.Ranjit and his friends had kept pigeons and used to indulge in pigeon flying during the day. The accused were jealous of him as his pigeons used to defeat their pigeons. This led to a quarrel a few days ago. On Friday night, when Ranjit was out, the accused attacked him near Chabba village bus stop. Though initially he managed to run, the accused again caught and stabbed him with sharp weapon in his chest and fled. Ranjit was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed. Raids are on to nab the remaining suspects.— Manmeet Pal Singh, SHO Chattiwind police station||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pigeon-flying-takes-ugly-turn-as-friends-stab-youth-to-death-in-amritsar-village-281449
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Finally, a messiah for garbage lifters on donkeys||Garbage lifters working to collect waste from narrow streets of the walled city areas on donkeys, are being paid meagre salaries. There are 45 such persons and a similar number of donkeys working to collect the garbage from the city, who are working for the last two decades. The MC pays Rs2,850 per month to each donkey owner.Now, these ‘donkey batches’ have found a messiah in the form of MC Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar, who claimed that there has been no hike in their salary for the last 15 years.“The owner of the donkey gets less than Rs100 for a day. This amount is insufficient to feed a donkey. What about the person who collects garbage door to door? This is a violation of collector rates fixed by the government. They should be paid at least the collector rates. Some extra amount should be paid to feed the donkey,” said Younis Kumar.The narrow streets in the walled city are a major challenge for door-to-door collection of garbage in the city. There are some streets in the city that are less than 3-feet wide, where small carts cannot enter. Donkeys are the only option that are doing this job efficiently.It is the first time, when someone in the MC has raised a voice in favour of donkey batches in the last 15 years in the House. Younis Kumar said the services of these donkey batches needed to be recognised and advocated a good salary which should not be less than the collector rates fixed by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finally-a-messiah-for-garbage-lifters-on-donkeys-281450
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Youth booked for raping 16-yr-old||A minor girl was allegedly raped by a youth in the Beas police station area. The incident occurred in March while a case was registered on Friday.According to 16-year-old victim, when the incident came to light, the people mediated and strike a compromise between them. It was decided that the accused boy would marry her when she attained the age of 18. It was also decided that the girl would stay with the accused, identified as Germanjit Singh of Jallupur Khera village, at his residence.The victim now alleged that after keeping her for four months, the boy now refused to marry her and threw her out of the house. Following this, a complaint was lodged with the police who registered a case under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act.Jaswinder Kaur, investigating officer, said both the victim and the boy studied in the same school. She said on March 1 the accused came to the residence of the victim when she was alone. However, both were caught by girl’s family and later the issue reached to village panchayat. The girl’s family refused the keep the girl and she was sent with the boy with consent of both the families. The panchayat and elderly people from both the families said that they would be married once they become major. She said now the victim alleged that the accused beat her up and pushed her out of the house.Jaswinder Kaur said Germanjit was yet to the arrested while medical examination of the girl was conducted. She said raids were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-raping-16-yr-old-281451
11-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Domestic servant alleges rape||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/domestic-servant-alleges-rape-281452
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Author Samrat Chaudhary recalls his journey along Brahmaputra||Author Samrat Chaudhary interacted with writer Mitra Phukan in a web session hosted by Majha House here on Saturday, discussing Chaudhary’s latest book The Braided River. The book is a stirring and true account of Samrat’s several journey down the Brahmaputra river.Introducing the book and the writers, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, “This is a marvellous travelogue but it goes much beyond that single genre as it talks about many other human issues. Class conflict, caste conflict, nationality issues, you name it and the book has it.”Highlighting the various issues the book talks about, Mitra said although the book is full of adventures and escapades, it is political in nature as it forwards people’s points of view about life and what they feel about the political turmoil they are facing; it is historical too as it traces history of wars, and how the waterways developed and how they were used.Samrat said the Brahmaputra had different significance, when intertwined with other rivers and tributaries. “Brahmaputra as Brahmaputra exists only in Assam; it has a different name in other countries passes through: it is Tsangpo in Tibet, Siang in Arunachal Pradesh and Jamuna in Bengal. Before we crossed over into Arunachal Pradesh, I had to leave the river and hitch random lifts in trucks or Sumos or whatever other mode was available, and since it was the monsoon season, the roads were hardly existent and we all got tossed about like clothes in a washing machine,” recalled Samrat.Talking about the political nuances in the book, Samrat said he was in the Upper Assam when the NPR was announced by the government. “I witnessed confusion, anger and fear experienced by the people. At once, after the announcement, I could see that an invisible divide came to exist between people. There was a strong sense of ‘us’ and ‘them’. It was sad to see people’s apprehensions and how unsure they were of their future,’ said Samrat.Likening his journey on the river to the journey of life, Samrat said that as you travel you learn new things which add to your perception and you also learn to shed, to discard old ideas and notions which previously were holding you back. “It is a very life-enhancing experience. I also believe that when you travel using very basic modes you end up learning much more than you would if you fly and land in a five-star hotel. Only when you travel like the common people do, only when you converse with them, share with them – their language, their foods, the problems they face - that you stand to grow as a person,’ opined Samrat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/author-samrat-chaudhary-recalls-his-journey-along-brahmaputra-281453
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Man held with 15 stolen bikes||Man held with illegal pistolTarn Taran: The Chabal police have arrested a resident of Cheema Kalan with an illegal pistol and two cartridges near Baghiari village. The accused was arrested by the police party, led by ASI Harjinder Singh from the local CIA .The accused has been booked under Sections 25,54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OCLive-in partner accused of rapeTarn Taran: A 35-year-old woman, who is six-months pregnant, lodged a rape complaint against resident of Wazir Bhullar village with whom she was in a live-in relationship for the past more than three years. The accused, identified as Bikramjit Singh (22), has been booked under Section 376 of the IPC. The Goindwal Sahib police said the complainant, Kamaljit Kaur, was married to Yadwinder Singh of UP about 16 years ago and came back to her parental village Kallha and started living with Bikramjit Singh. She said Bikramjit and his family members started harassing her mentally and physically and threw her out of the house. Further probe is on. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-15-stolen-bikes-281454
11-07-2021||Amritsar||200-yr-old trees in Ram Bagh under special care||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with officials of the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) inspected the ongoing beautification work at the historic Ram Bagh here on Friday.During his visit, the city Mayor said the MCA was paying special attention to the beautification of the Ram Bagh as the historic monument has existed since the times of Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The mayor said about 55 safai karamcharis and gardeners had been deployed to take care of the garden and maintain it. The mayor said there were more than 200-year-old trees in the garden for which a separate team had been appointed to take special care of these trees.“Musical fountains were also supposed to be installed to add beauty to the garden, but the organisation failed to install it. Now we are going to start the musical fountain at a cost of Rs 50 lakh,” said Rintu. He said the entire garden would be fenced with iron grills. A separate park was being set up exclusively for women.The Mayor said a dream park was also being set up at Company Bagh at a cost of Rs 4 crore, which would attract more visitors to the garden. “We are focusing on the improvement and beautification of the Company Bagh. We are undertaking all kinds of development projects to beautify it,” Rintu said.Praising the office-bearers of the Amritsar Vikas Manch and the Amritsar Club, the Mayor said, “We are proud that the eminent gentlemen of these organisations have been working with the team of the municipal corporation to beautify the historical Ram Bagh.” He also appealed to the residents of the city to cooperate with the MC in beautifying the historic garden.However, the MC has failed to implement the MoU signed with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to remove the encroachments from the garden. Still, a large portion of the garden is under private players, who have exclusive rights of entry to the land under their possession. No efforts have been made to remove the encroachments.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said besides the Ram Bagh, special attention was being paid to the Chali Khoo area, where the largest micro forest of Punjab is being developed. Rintu said the entire team of the civic body was working day and night to beautify every ward and every area of the city. Those present on the occasion were Krishan Kumar Sharma, Lali Chandok, Kapoor, Daljit Singh Kohli, Manjit Singh Saini, Rajesh Mehra, Sandeep Singh (SE), Raman Kumar (JE) and Yadvinder Singh (JE).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/200-yr-old-trees-in-ram-bagh-under-special-care-281455
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Rice millers peeved over increase in freight charges||The Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters’ Industry is peeved over raising of freight charges by ‘self-styled’ truck unions by more than 50 per cent for ferrying the export cargo to sea ports in Gujarat and Maharashtra thereby disrupting the rice trade.The association has urged the district administration and the police officials to intervene and disband such truck union allowing free movement of goods across the country.Logistics charges rise by over 50%The association alleged that arbitrary and unjustified increase in the charges from Rs120 to Rs130 per ton to Rs190 to Rs200 per ton from Amritsar to Gujarat and other sea port destinations there by increasing the logistics charges by more than 50 per cent. This has caused disruption in our export and domestic business.In a statement issued here on Thursday, the association alleged that arbitrary and unjustified increase in the charges from Rs120 to Rs130 per ton to Rs190 to Rs200 per ton from Amritsar to Gujarat and other sea port destinations there by increasing the logistics charges by more than 50 per cent. This has caused disruption in our export and domestic business.The association said Amritsar alone accounted for over 1,000 trucks every month carrying basmati and rice cargo to different parts of the country and also for exports. The majority of basmati exporters are based in Punjab with an annual turnover of Rs14,000 crore and it is important that the shipments have to be delivered on schedule and any disruption can play havoc with the trade.It alleged that the unholy alliance of truckers were threatening our regular truck operators forcing them to join their unions and adopting coercive methods and forcing them to not to load their trucks rendering the business unviable in states like Haryana, Rajasthan, UP, Delhi and MP.“We urge Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera to instruct Regional Transport Authority for immediate action and ensure seamless movements of essential goods,” said the association. It added that their trade was already facing difficult times due to pandemic and coronavirus lockdowns in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rice-millers-peeved-over-increase-in-freight-charges-281456
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Capt not allowing police to act against Bains: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday said it was shocking that despite clear directions of a Ludhiana court to book Lok Insaf Party (LIP) leader Simarjit Bains for raping a 44-year-old woman four days ago, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was not allowing the police to proceed in the matter.Addressing a press conference here, SAD spokesman Virsa Singh Valtoha said it was eight months since the 44-year-old widow accused Bains of raping and sexually exploiting her.“The police have failed to take any action in the matter despite clear guidelines on this issue by the Apex court. The victim was forced to go to the court to seek justice and finally after a protracted legal battle, the court of the Additional CJM in Ludhiana ordered the police to register a complaint against Bains on the basis of the complaint of the victim. The police have still not swung into action.”Stating that state police chief Dinkar Gupta had committed dereliction of duty by not taking action against Simarjit Bains, the SAD leader said this was not the first time the DGP had not taken action against Bains despite court orders to do so.“Earlier, the Gurdaspur sessions court ordered the custodial interrogation of Bains for threatening the Deputy Commissioner but the police has not executed the court directive since the last two years.” Valtoha said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-not-allowing-police-to-act-against-bains-sad-281458
11-07-2021||---||Free coaching for job aspirants||Amritsar, July 10The Chief Khalsa Diwan Educational Committee on Friday announced that they would set up ‘CKD Centre for Competitive Examinations’ to provide free training to aspirants who have applied for the posts of sub-inspectors and constables in the Police Department. The centre would ensure free coaching and physical training by experienced teachers.The registration would commence from July 12 between 10 am to 2 pm at CKD Institute of Management and Technology. Students would be selected after an interview by a three-member committee.Nirmal Singh, chief, CKD, said sometimes deserving students cannot fulfil their dreams of getting good jobs due to financial crisis. “To ensure that money does not becomes an obstacle in their bright future, the CKD is going to impart free training for competitive exams. Special efforts are being made by the educational committee to achieve this goal,” he said.Educational Committee secretary Dr Sarabjit Singh Chhina said due to Covid, classes would be conducted online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-coaching-for-job-aspirants-281462
11-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Staff protest pay panel report||Agitations held by the government employees against recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report and regularistaion of their services has been badly affecting day-to-day work. Not just staffers, but protests by officer-rank cadre, has made things difficult for masses and the government.On Friday, members of the Block Development and Panchayat Officers’ Association, staged a dharna outside the office of the DDPO here.Lal Singh, district chief of the association, said recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission were going to reduce their monthly salary, besides other allowances.Members of the MGNREGA Karamchari Union also protested outside the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development).Baljit Singh, district chief, MGNREGA Karamchari Union, said they had been working for the last 12 years, but their services have been not regularised to date. The protesting employees raised slogans against the state government.Employees from the Deputy Commissioner , SDM’s office, besides roadways, revenue, irrigation, education, health, PWD and PSPCL, organised a massive rally at a local bus stand, against the recommendations of 6th pay panel report. The protesting employees burnt an effigy of the state government. Sukhpreet Singh Pannu, Karwinder Singh Cheema, and Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, among others, addressed their counterparts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-protest-pay-panel-report-281463
11-07-2021||Amritsar||7 DAV college students get jobs||Mgmt development programme at IIMIndian Institute of Management, Amritsar, inaugurated a management development programme for the employees working in the Direct Sales, SBU of HPCL on the theme “Achieving Excellence in Sales Leadership (AESL) -A 360-degree Approach”. Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM-Amritsar, Abhishek Datta, Executive Director, HR HPCL, and Prof Sujit Raghunathrao Jagdale, Programme Coordinator, AESL, were present at the inaugural ceremony. Prof Ramamoorthy, while addressing the participants, said when products and services were becoming obsolete, investment in learning would give the edge that organisations need. Datta said the kind of turbulence and disruption the technology had brought up in the market required that we reflect on what we need to stop, what we need to start and also what we need to accelerate. IIM-Amritsar has designed a 360-degree sales effectiveness approach encapsulated in this fast-track programme to cater to the new industry needs. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-dav-college-students-get-jobs-281464
11-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||After lockdown, power crisis hits labourers hard||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 10Power crisis in the state has once again rendered thousands of migrant labourers without work, besides shutting down large-scale units.Without work for week as industry shutThe unit has been closed for the past one week. I am being paid a monthly salary of Rs12,000 for 12-hour daily shift. The factory owner is not likely to pay me anything without work. Malu Rai, a weaverMalu Rai, a weaver at an industrial unit here, who returned along with his wife and two sons from his native place in Bihar to resume his job on July 5, was in for a rude shock. “A day after working at the unit, it has been closed for the past one week. I am being paid a monthly salary of Rs 12,000 for 12-hour daily shift. I have been idle for a week and the factory owner is not likely to pay me anything without work”. He claims to shell out Rs 2,500 as room rent and average Rs 600 towards power tariff, besides fees of two school-going kids and monthly ration. He wondered how he will manage all these expenses.Pardeep Kumar, who works at an embroidery unit, feels himself a little lucky that he did not bring his family along from Bihar. He returned here at the beginning of this month. “After working for a couple of days, my daily wages again stopped, reminding me of those tough days of the lockdown.” He is staying with two more co-workers in a 10x10 room at a monthly rent of Rs 1,800. “Learning from the past, we did not bring families and rented a single room to curb expenditure”. Their common fear is that industrialists might not give them wages during the power shutdown period as they had during the lockdown period.Meanwhile, large-scale industrialists, having power load above 100 kw, are annoyed with PSPCL for extending their power outage from 8 am on July 8 to 8 am on July 11. They claim that they were not timely informed about the power shutdown. Industrialists asserted that clamping of power shutdown on the industry was not a solution. PSPCL should purchase electricity to overcome the shortage.They lamented the industry had already suffered a lot in the wake of two lockdowns. A majority of factories are being run at partial capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-lockdown-power-crisis-hits-labourers-hard-281318
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Bodies of newborn girls found at GMC||In a shocking incident, two bodies of newly born girls were found at a parking lot opposite Bebe Nanki Mother and Child Care Centre at Government Medical College (GMC) here on Saturday. The incident came to light when a passer-by noticed stray dogs at the site.The passer-by then talked to a shopkeeper who informed the security personnel of the hospital. Later, the police arrived at the site and the body was shifted to the mortuary.A few minutes after the police left, people found another body in a pit dug nearby for construction purpose. The hospital authorities said they had verified their records and none of the children born or admitted with them was missing.“The security personnel conducted an inquiry and found that the bodies were dumped elsewhere and were brought to the hospital premises by dogs,” said hospital’s medical superintendent Dr KD Singh. He said the police were investigating the matter.Officials at the police station said a case had been registered and footage from CCTV cameras was being procured to look out for any suspicious vehicles or persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bodies-of-newborn-girls-found-at-gmc-281336
