12-07-2021||Amritsar||Protesting farmer from Amritsar village dies after returning from Singhu border||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-farmer-from-amritsar-village-dies-after-returning-from-singhu-border-282017
12-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Government Medical and Dental Colleges staff to strike work today||Amritsar, July 11The faculty at Government Medical and Dental Colleges here has announced a one-day strike on Monday in protest against the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report during which all services except emergency and Covid care would be boycotted.The protest would affect the OPD, operation theatre services, teaching of medical students, medico-legal cases except for emergency and postmortem. President Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association Dr Mridu Grover said if the government failed to solve the issue of non-practising allowance (NPA) by July 20, the association would intensify the protest and go on an indefinite strike.The doctors in the state are protesting against the pay panel report on the issue of decrease in NPA from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and it’s delinking from the basic pay. Doctors reason that the new changes would result in decreasing their salaries and they would have to bear financial loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-government-medical-and-dental-colleges-staff-to-strike-work-today-281873
12-07-2021||---||100 farmers volunteer to take part in dharna outside Parliament||Amritsar, July 11The farmers’ associations have started preparations for the protest outside Parliament from July 22 as announced by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and prepared a list of 100 volunteers, who would be participating in the dharna. A meeting of farmers’ unions was held at Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna Bhawan on Sunday.Sulakhan Singh advocate who presided over the meeting said a list of 100 volunteers has been prepared. He said farmers are upbeat after the SKM announced about the dharna outside Parliament.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, vice-president, All-Indian Kisan Sabha, said: “We have decided that five members would be sent for the dharna daily. If the government decides to arrest the agitators, it has been decided that we would not apply for bails and continue sending five members daily till the farm laws are repealed.”Sources in the farmers’ unions said the SKM has decided not to allow more than 500 farmers at the dharna site on a single day. “It has been done to keep a check on anti-social or suspicious persons attending the protest under the garb of being farmers. The local units will send committed and dedicated farmers only,” the source said.It has been learnt that the first batch of volunteers from the district would participate in the protest outside the Parliament on July 26. The 40 farmers unions from across the country would be spearheading and managing the dharna, Nizampura said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/100-farmers-volunteer-to-take-part-in-dharna-outside-parliament-281874
12-07-2021||---||Brief spell of rain in Amritsar brings much-needed respite||Amritsar, July 11After sweltering heat, residents got a pleasant surprise on Sunday afternoon as delayed monsoon eventually lashed the district. It was preceded by strong winds bringing much respite to the common people and farmers.Both rural and urban parts of the district experienced sudden showers in the afternoon marking the arrival of monsoon. The spell did not last more than half an hour but provided the much-needed respite from the scorching heat and extreme humid weather that had been prevailing in the region for the last several days.Farmers heave a sigh of reliefThirst of parched land with standing paddy crops was quenched to some extent by the brief showers. Farmers have been keenly waiting for the monsoon to reduce their dependence on erratic power supply. They have not been able to properly irrigate their farms since the government allowed them to irrigate their land on June 10. Power crisis in the state has further hit the irrigation process severely.Harpreet Singh, a young farmer from Jandiala, said the spell of shower was brief, so it had a limited impact. “But it brought down the soaring temperature of the day with expectations of good showers in the coming days,” he said.In city, people heaved a sigh of relief from the scorching summer and humid weather.A local, Parminder Singh said the brief spell of downpour accompanied by strong winds brought down the temperature and offered relief from a long spell of heat wave. It looked like the roads and other open areas would clog but it vanished in no time. It seemed the parched land needed water, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brief-spell-of-rain-in-amritsar-brings-much-needed-respite-281875
12-07-2021||---||Nihangs booked for murder bid, robbery||Amritsar, July 11 Four persons involved in the trading of cattle were allegedly attacked and robbed by armed Nihangs in Kaleke village on Friday.   They were rescued by the cow shelter people and later admitted to Baba Bakala Civil Hospital for treatment.  Abdul Wahid, who originally hails from Muzaffarnagar in UP and now resides in Kaleke village, said he along with his brother Khaleel and cousin Nivazist used to trade buffaloes. He said they have been living in the village for the last three months. He said on Friday around 3 pm, he along with Kashmir Singh of the village, Khaleel and Nivazist were present in the home, when around 20 Nihangs barged into their house.  He said while accusing them of selling cattle to the slaughter house, they started beating them brutally. They took out Rs67,000 from his pocket and Rs13,000 from that of Khaleel. He said they also took two buffaloes to Baba Bharath cow shelter in the village, where the cow shelter people saved them.   SITejpal Singh, investigating officer, said a case of attempt to murder, robbery and causing grievous hurt was registered against unidentified Nihangs. He said further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nihangs-booked-for-murder-bid-robbery-281878
12-07-2021||PK Jaiswar
||Cops bust third interstate weapon-smuggling module||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 11  Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar (rural) police on Sunday busted yet another MP-based illegal weapon module, and arrested two persons in this connection. The accused have been identified as Daler Singh and Gurjit Singh, both residents of Begowal village. The police have recovered a .30 bore illegal weapon from their possession and booked weapon supplier Mandeep Singh of Khargone district, Madhya Pradesh. According to police, the duo used to sell weapons in Amritsar and adjoining areas after procuring the same from Madhya Pradesh. Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana said they got a specific input that the duo was involved in weapon smuggling. The informer told that they were travelling in an SUV (PB-11-BU-2338) following this a checkpoint was set up and the accused were intercepted. During inspection of the vehicle, cops recovered a .30 bore weapon from Daler. A case under Sections 25 and 25 (8) of the Arms Act has been registered against them. They were brought on the police remand and further investigation was under way.  Cops said efforts were on to nab Mandeep. This is third such module busted by the police in the recent past. Earlier, the police had unearthed two such modules, including one small arms manufacturing unit in MP and arrested smugglers who supplied weapons to gangsters and radical elements in Punjab. In April, the Amritsar (rural) police had arrested three Madhya Pradesh residents Crore Singh, Ram Singh Patwa and Chander Pal and seized 30 illegal weapons from their possession. They were nabbed from Burhanpur district during a special operation. The arms seized included 25 .32 bore pistols, five .30 bore pistols and 32 magazines, besides an Alto car and a motorcycle. In January, Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu, both natives of Khargone village in MP, were arrested. The police had recovered 12 (.32 bore calibre) country-made pistols with 15 magazines along with a huge cache of ammunition from their possession. The gang was suspected to have supplied over 24 pistols (.32 bore) to gangsters and criminals in the recent past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-bust-third-interstate-weapon-smuggling-module-281880
12-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Cong failed to tackle drug menace: AAP||Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a march against drugs menace and burnt an effigy of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, in Tarn Taran, on Sunday. The AAP has been demanding a high-level probe into the relations of Congress MLA Sikki and Brahmpura with Prabhjit Singh, a resident of Chohla Sahib. Prabhjit was arrested around two weeks ago after three quintals of heroin, which was smuggled from Afghanistan, was seized at Mumbai Port. AAP MLA Kulwant Singh Pandori said their party wanted to know about the relation between MLA Sikki and Brahmpura with international smugglers. He said Prabhjit, who had less than four acres, has amassed wealth worth crores within the last four years. Pandori said intelligence agencies failed to track anti-social activities of Prabhjit and alleged that the Congress has failed to tackle drug menace in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-failed-to-tackle-drug-menace-aap-281881
12-07-2021||What should be done to ensure a drug-free society?||Joint efforts of govt, society needed to end the menace||Govt, society must act togetherDespite the sustained campaign against drugs and illicit trade, the menace of drug addiction is plaguing our society. So, the foremost duty of parents is to provide their adolescents a loving, stable and secure home environment. Teachers and society should apprise the gullible youngsters of the deleterious effects of drug abuse. The government in tandem with society should make efforts to annihilate the monster of drugs to purge our society of drug addiction. A strong religious base along with strong family ties and high morals can help wrench out this vicious evil to ensure a drug-free society. The government should use all its might to bring the drug trade to a grinding halt. Nefarious elements dealing in drugs should be put behind bars without any summary trial. The law should be made more stringent and enforced more rigorously. National drug prevention network, community leaders and strong community coalitions are the key to changing public attitudes, perceptions and reducing the availability of illicit drugs. People should be made aware that drug use is not normal and is in no way a part of their life. More funds should be earmarked for the prevention of drug abuse. People ought to shun toxic relationships. People with substance use disorders should be identified and referred for assistance. Addicts and their families should be encouraged to ask for help. Rehabilitation centres should be watched closely and their functioning should be scrutinized periodically. Drug addiction treatment should include behavioural therapy. Addicts should be prevented from relapsing and helped on priority if relapsing occurs. People should stand together to save youth and society from drugs. Last but not the least, right type of education in schools, colleges and universities can play a significant role in ensuring a drug-free society.Tarsem S BumrahBuild more drug rehab centresIt’s a complete failure of the ruling government as the culprits involved in drugs and illicit trade are protected by politicians, drug authorities and cops. The menace would continue unless and until the government determines to eradicate the same from our society. Today the menace of synthetic drugs is prevailing as well which are being manufactured by pharma companies and are easily available with chemists and are being sold without any prescriptions. We need to build and increase the present capacities of drug rehab centres and get our youth out of this quagmire. Needless to say that drugs like termites eat the wealth, health and happiness of the addicted home and their family members. The day the government decides to eradicate the drug trade, it would not take more than 15 days to take everything in control.Manish AggarwalBreak smuggler-politician-cop nexusDrugs, not addicts, should be shunned from Punjab because addiction is a disease. One survey of drug addiction conducted by the society for promotion of youth and masses in the state revealed that initially, they start taking drugs for the sake of fun. To ensure a drug-free society, enforcement, treatment and prevention programme for drug abuse must be initiated. Earlier, the state government had started the Buddy programmes. The nexus between smugglers, politicians and policemen must be broken to ensure a drug-free society.Ankur GuptaHold anti-drug drives, street playsThe drug menace is eating into our social fabric and the economy like a termite and destroying the physical and mental health of our youth who are vulnerable to it. It is a multidimensional problem and needs a similar combative strategy to eradicate it. All children in schools must be made aware of the disastrous effects of the drugs. Involving youth, social organisations and community leaders in spreading awareness by holding seminars and anti-drug campaigns and street plays can help a lot. The chain of demand and supply of drugs has to be broken to get optimum results. Reducing the supply of drugs by cracking the mafias and their nexus with the politicians and law protectors must be given priority. Stringent legal measures and their enforcement by committed and dedicated enforcement agencies are required to be taken. It is a global menace and can be controlled by the co-operation of all the governments by actively curbing drug trafficking on the borders. The people already addicted to drugs should be counselled and their treatment must be made affordable and accessible. Combined efforts of all the stakeholders can ensure a drug-free society.ANIL KHANNAGive strict punishment to culpritsTo ensure a drug-free society, the government must raise awareness among the masses of the bane of drug abuse. Secondly, swift action needs to be taken by the police against drug mafia operators operating in the state. Last but not the least, laws should be made stricter to punish sellers of drugs as well as consumers of drugs.SANJAY CHAWLAPromoting sports the need of the hourIf the menace of drugs and illicit trade is still far from being over what does it suggest? Either the long campaign against these is just superficial and a mere eyewash or is facing resistance from within the system itself that is supposed to put an end to it. No mafia, of drugs and illicit trade being no exception, can operate without being hand in glove with the law-enforcing agencies and political clout. Even a confirmed optimist would not see hope in the near future given the present scenario. Those already addicted must be treated in well-equipped and well-staffed de-addiction centres. The young people, who are still away from the menace, must be given at least a semblance of hope for their secure and good future. For this, quality institutions providing education and promoting sports and professional skills are required. But, this cannot be done overnight. The first relief that the parents in Punjab get from the ongoing exodus of youth for foreign shores is that their child will be safe from drugs. The financial costs involved, even if beyond their means, are managed. Till some really effective measures are taken to eradicate the menace of drugs and illicit trade, it becomes the duty of parents, social activists and committed NGOs to keep on sensitizing the youth to the horrible consequences of taking drugs and indulging in illegal activities while dwelling upon how life promises happiness and prosperity following the path of hard work and dedication.HL SharmaPoliticians must stop patronising itAlmost all politicians in our country prefer business, which generates quick and easy money. They started with ration shop to quota-permit business according to their status. Then they moved to cinema halls, LPG agency, petrol pumps and now switched over to transport, property dealing, sand mining, drug trafficking and illicit liquor. So, the involvement of high-profile politicians in this trade is answer to your question why in spite of best efforts to stop it, this illicit trade is going on. All such exercises to curtail this trade are futile due to involvement of politicians. In the past, serious allegations against a senior leader of the Congress were levelled by an ex-DGP of Punjab, but no enquiry was held. A similar allegation was leveled against a minister during the BJP-Akali Dal regime, but again nothing concrete came out of it. So, this illicit trade will continue till politicians cease to patronize it.Naresh JoharState govt needs to pull up its socksPunjab has become infamous because of drug and its illicit trade. The sustainable campaign against drugs has been going on since long but there has been no way out. The Punjab Government in August 2018 has constituted a Special Group on Drugs which submitted its report Comprehensive Action against Drug Abuse (CADA) but because of the lack of political will, the report is being implemented half-heartedly.TS BhattiKeep an account of your child’s companyAll of us might have come across cases of drug overdose and the consequent deterioration of mental and physical health either through news or some other source. Some of us also might have interacted with people suffering from addiction of the same. First of all, to address the issue, the government and the required authorities should keep a strict check under the trade of such products so that it does not reach the public through illegal means. The youths should make a conscious choice of people they are coming in contact with. Secondly, parents should keep a strict vigil on their child’s activities. Third, drugs rehabilitation centres should be setup in every city and efforts should be made in order to bring the victim of the drug abuse to the concerned authorities. Lastly, the victim needs to be pushed in positive directions by his/her peers and family.Manvi MalhotraBe a responsible citizenThe biggest menace in today’s society is drugs and illicit trade, which is quite detrimental. Our future is based upon the progress and education of our youngsters— the future citizens of the world — but they are completely under control of drugs and it has become their routine to indulge in such activities. There are also many Bollywood films spreading awareness on drugs in movies such as Udta Punjab, Blackia, DSP Dev and many more. It is the duty of the government to implement strict rules. Moreover, citizens must also participate in it by informing it to government’s authorities if anything like that happens in or around them. Concluding, the illegal traders could only be controlled by strict actions and the cooperation of citizens.Izleen ChaudharyEasy availability to blameThe rampant drug abuse throughout India and the continuous efforts being made at different levels to uproot the same are no mystery to the masses. Yet, the crisis persists. One doesn’t need a detective to discover the roots of the menace attributed to various Indian traditions, which are often cited as a reason for its continuation. While India also has a history of drug abuse for pharmaceutical reasons, this has lately turned into ‘abuse’ due to various factors including stress. Besides heroin and cannabis products such as charas and bhang, the proclivity for marijuana and alcohol is also on the rise among the youth. Being a border state, Punjab is the worst affected with this menace, which seemed to have abated during the lockdown, only to rise again thereafter. Drugs can damage the brain at different levels. Au contraire, mind control can help curb drug abuse. While therapies are available to treat those battling addictions, holding campaigns to teach individuals ways and means of controlling their drug-cravings through mind control exercises can go a long way in defeating this evil.Shaheen P ParshadNeed to break the supply chainThe government has been trying hard since years for a drug-free nation. Drug smuggling has been on a rise and millions of rupees worth of illicit drugs are being recovered as evidence. The youth mortality rate has come down but drug trafficking has not been completely stopped. Who can forget the August 2020 incident in Punjab in which more than 100 people died due to poisoned liquor. The state government should take measures such as giving rewards like keeping a check upon drug peddlers and breaking the supply chain. The assets of drug smugglers should be confiscated. Places where drugs are sold and used more should be declared as hotspots and more attention and surveillance must be paid. The government should create awareness among the youth. The youth should be made to understand that drugs deteriorate health, reduce quality of life, and disturb social networks and personal relationships. Drugs not only impacts a person but whole family is affected badly economically and emotionally too. Teachers should also be involved in the campaign against drugs as students of schools and colleges will listen and obey them. Local government officials including mayors, MCs and sarpanches should be involved in the campaign as they are in contact with. Almost all people in their areas can form a huge network in breaking the chain. Making nation drug-free isn’t the sole responsibility of the government but responsibility of every individual because youth are the future of a nation. So let’s all get rid of drugs from the society. Only then Punjab will be drug free.Sucha SagarCheck cross-border movement of drugsEvery day we see in newspapers that large amount of drugs are being nabbed by the authorities. But these still find some way to enter the state which point towards some glaring loopholes in the whole system. Drones are the future of surveillance and these should be deployed at the border belt to check the cross-border movement of drugs. It is so sad that people, mainly youngsters, are consuming drugs, one of the main reasons for their unemployment. Punjab is an agricultural state which is a great boon for the nation as it feeds majority of the people. Drug-addicts must be counseled and motivated to look at life in a positive way.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHAchieve de-addiction on a larger scaleThere is a need to adopt a multi-faceted approach to fight drug abuse, rehabilitate addicts and motivate youngsters to stay away from drugs. The other step that the local administration should take is to spread an anti-drug awareness as a preventive measure. Achieving drug de-addiction on a larger scale in Amritsar is possible if parents and civic bodies work in tandem.Akash KumarQUESTIONUnscheduled power cuts amid an intense heat wave across the state have left residents fuming and fretting. The rising demand for power has exposed chinks in infrastructure and preparedness in tackling with such a situation. What steps should be taken to ensure that residents don't reel under long power cuts in the state? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-efforts-of-govt-society-needed-to-end-the-menace-281964
12-07-2021||Amritsar||Voice of Amritsar's green initiative||The present supply of saplings was raised with care by PS Bhatti, which included moringa, tamarind, phalsa, amla, mulberry and jujubes. Gunbir Singh, president, Dilbir Foundation, said under hash tag #The5TreeProject, only native fruit varieties would be planted. Harkrishen Singh, environmentalist, said: “After the pandemic, there is awareness among residents to plant trees to save the environment. Generally, when they consult some professional nursery owner, they suggest them costly ornamental plants. We have to plant native plants as it provides nesting to birds, good shade, wood and oxygen.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/voice-of-amritsars-green-initiative-281965
12-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Car-borne men fire at woman in Tarn Taran village||Rape case: police station gheraoedTarn Taran: Residents of the town on Sunday gheraoed the local police station in protest against not arresting the accused booked for raping a 12-year-old Dalit girl who was his domestic servant. Ashok Kumar (65) of the local Gali Deekap Kairon Wali was booked under Sections 376 of the IPC and Section 7 of the POCSO Act, 2012, on Saturday. Dalwinder Singh Pannu of the CPM, Beldev Singh Pannu of the AAP and others said as the victim belonged to a Scheduled Caste, the police did not add knowingly sections under the SC/SC Act to the FIR, which was necessary to take compensation by the family from the government. The protesters warned that they would continue with their gherao till the accused was arrested. OCWoman commits suicide, 2 bookedAmritsar: Neha (35) of Haripura area allegedly committed suicide by hanging following her harassment by in-laws. The police have booked Jaswant Kumar and Kuldip Joshi, father-in-law and brother-in-law of the victim, respectively. The victim’s sister Shallu of Rajasansi said Neha was married to Ravi Kumar for the last 14 years. She said her in-laws used to harass her. On Friday, she had gone to meet her sister when she told that Jaswant and his son harassed her. Perturbed over this, her husband Ravi did not return home for the last three days. On Saturday, Neha ended her life by hanging herself in her room. The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Jaswant and Kuldip, but no arrest has been made till now. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/car-borne-men-fire-at-woman-in-tarn-taran-village-281966
