13-07-2021||---||Amritsar tourist killed in Dharamsala after a fall into gorge||Dharamsala, July 13Manmeet Singh, a tourist from Amritsar in Punjab, died after falling into gorge in the Kareri lake area of Dharamsala.He had come to Kareri area along with his friends. Yesterday, while coming back from Kareri lake, Manmeet reportedly fell into a gorge.Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary and Congress leader from Shahpur, said locals were trying to retrieve the body of Manmeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-tourist-killed-in-dharamsala-after-a-fall-into-gorge-282590
13-07-2021||Slug||Govt schools carry out plantation drives||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, organised a webinar to make students and people aware about forests in India.Carrying forward the activities of Van Mahotsav, the government schools have been doing massive plantation drives and setting up kitchen gardens. Government Secondary School, Bhakna Kala, today carried out a plantation drive in collaboration with the Rotary Club. Over 100 saplings of fruit bearing and dar shrubs were planted on the campus, pushing for awareness among students and staff and also encouraging them to plant trees in their neighbourhood.Principal Sharanjit Kaur said students and staff have been asked to plant 10 saplings each. The Education Department has been running plantation and eco-awareness activities in collaboration with the Forest Department ahead of monsoon. It directed each government school in the district to carry out mandatory plantation drives and set up kitchen gardens so that organically produced vegetables can be served in mid-day meals.Pankaj Sharma, a schoolteacher from Government School, Bhoewali, said each school has been planting around 100 saplings. “The process of promoting plantation and setting up kitchen gardens in schools started two years ago. Now, we have expanded the drive to engage locals and students to plant more trees in their neighbourhood. The drive will conclude just before monsoon ends.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-schools-carry-out-plantation-drives-282155
13-07-2021||---||‘Minority community facing hardships in educating wards’||Amritsar, July 12As the financial condition of the people belonging to the minority community has dwindled in the border state due to the Covid-induced restrictions, they are finding it difficult to provide quality education to their wards.The representatives of minority communities alleged that the schools established by the minority community also do not inform them about various facilities being provided by the Central and state governments to them. Therefore, they also dither from providing these facilities to them.They were holding a meeting with Emanual Nahar, chairman, Punjab Minority Commission, here on Saturday. Amritsar’s Member Parliament Gurjit Aujla, chairman, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, Raj Kumar Verka and MLA Sunil Dutti were also present on the occasion.Taking serious note of this, Nahar said the minority commission would write to these schools to keep seats reserved for the minority community children. He said due to the pandemic, the economic condition of the minority people, a majority of whom live below poverty line, has dwindled.Aujla, while speaking on the occasion, said due to ill-conceived policies of the Central Government, there was a sense of insecurity among the minority communities and he assured that he would raise the issue in the Lok Sabha. He said the inflation has seen a sharp rise during the BJP rule.Verka said he would take up their issues with the Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and it would be raised in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha as well. He said Amritsar Improvement Trust has already issued Rs25 lakh for the construction of a community hall of the minority community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minority-community-facing-hardships-in-educating-wards-282156
13-07-2021||Amritsar||Van mahotsav: Schools carry out plantation drives||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, organised a webinar to make students and people aware about forests in India.Carrying forward the activities of van mahotsav, the government schools have been doing massive plantation drives and setting up kitchen gardens. Government Secondary School, Bhakna Kala, carried out a plantation drive in collaboration with the Rotary Club. Over 100 saplings of fruit bearing and dar shrubs were planted on the campus.Principal Sharanjit Kaur said students and staff have been asked to plant 10 saplings each. The Education Department has been running plantation and eco-awareness activities in collaboration with the Forest Department ahead of monsoon. It directed each government school in the district to carry out mandatory plantation drives and set up kitchen gardens so that organically produced vegetables can be served in mid-day meals.Pankaj Sharma, a teacher at Bhoewali school said: “The process of promoting plantation and setting up kitchen gardens in schools started two years ago. Now, we have expanded the drive to engage locals and students to plant more trees in their neighbourhood. The drive will conclude just before monsoon ends.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/van-mahotsav-schools-carry-out-plantation-drives-282157
13-07-2021||Amritsar||Girl ends life in Amritsar, youth booked||Two held with 290-gm heroinAmritsar: The city police have nabbed two drug peddlers and recovered 290-gm heroin from them. They have been identified as Kanwaljit Singh, alias Gopi, of Hard Khurd village; and Jaspreet Singh of Khatrai Khurd village. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against them at the Cantonment police station. They were brought on police remand for further interrogation to ascertain the source of the contraband. Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said the police got a tip-off that the accused were travelling in a black Tata Safari on the Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churian Road from Gumtala side to sell heroin. A checkpoint was installed at Gumtala Bridge and the accused were intercepted. During checking, the police recovered 290-gm heroin and an electronic weighing scale from them. Further probe is on. TNSYouth held with illegal weaponAmritsar: The police have nabbed Saurav, a resident of Amarkot, for allegedly possessing an illegal country-made weapon and two live bullets on Sunday. He was brought on police remand. According to preliminary probe, Saurav said the weapon was provided to him by Nikhil. Cops said they were verifying the claims and ascertaining credentials of Nikhil. A case under relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against Saurav. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-ends-life-in-amritsar-youth-booked-282158
13-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar textile industry looking to get back on the track||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12As the second wave of Covid-19 is phasing out, the textile sector here is looking up for a revival. Once known as the Manchester of India, the city still houses a number of textile factories and processing units.A large number of units here are engaged in manufacturing suiting and shirting, women apparel, shawls, blankets and woolens.The printing and dress material manufacturers are upbeat about the sale of their stuff. Due to travel restrictions in the wake of second wave, the local retailers could not travel to Ludhiana and other districts to procure material and depended upon the city-based manufacturers for their needs.Akhil Jain, Executive Director, Madame, which has local presence, said: “The textile industry is considered to be the second largest after agriculture as far as economic growth and employment creation is considered.”“The textile sector faced the heat of pandemic in terms of transportation and availability of labour. We are aware of the repercussions that the pandemic can have on the skilled workforce. The volumes may decrease but the demand will not stop,” said Jain. He anticipated that people would get back to shopping as things normalise.“The new normal is ushering in some positive signs of recovery for the industry. Financially strong companies may be able to cover the gap but the smaller ones are anticipated to put up a strong fight for their survival,” Jain observed.Piara Lal Seth, president of the Shawl Club of India, said agents of local shawl manufacturing units have gone out to book orders and upon their return they would come to know the level of success.He, however, rued that people from Kashmir, long-trusted salesmen for the Amritsar manufactured shawls, did not visit the city this year due to travel restrictions.“Last year too, they could not sell the shawls due to Covid-19 restrictions,” said Piara Lal, adding that he was expecting a restriction-free season ahead.Krishan Sharma, a warp knit fabric manufacturer, said: “With the hope of revival, we have brought artisans and labourers from other states, and factories have resumed work from the last month.” “However, with the power supply to large scale units being disconnected for the last several days, all our plans have gone haywire,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-textile-industry-looking-to-get-back-on-the-track-282159
13-07-2021||---||Shortage of equipment, staff mar Amritsar Fire Department||Amritsar, July 12The Fire Brigade Department of Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, (MCA) has been facing acute shortage of staff and equipment. The office of the Accountant General Audit, Punjab, Chandigarh, (Indian Audit and Accounts Department) asked the Municipal Corporation to fill the vacant posts and get the required equipment.As per the official record of the MC, there are 125 sanctioned posts in the Fire Department of the MC. As many as 63 posts are lying vacant. The department has outsourced 33 employees on various posts, such as drivers and firemen. Only 29 regular employees are working in the Fire Department.Apart from this, the department has a shortage of 10 fire engines, 25 fire-proof suits, 15 breathing apparatus sets, three generators, two mini fire tenders, two motorcycles, two foam tenders, two water bourses, two light towers, aerial ladder platform, twin ladder table and advance rescue van.The Municipal Corporation had got some of the modern equipment under the Smart City a few months back. Currently, the MC has only four fire stations.With the extension of the MC jurisdiction and establishment of outer city areas, the Fire Department had proposed to set-up four new fire stations to effectively tackle fire incidents. As per the city’s population, which is around 13 lakh, office of the Accountant General Audit asked to fulfill the shortage of staff and equipment.In the recent MC House meet, it was proposed to buy 10 fire tenders, two mini fire tenders, two motorcycles, two quick response vehicle, 25 fire suits and a van. The amount of Rs 11.39 crore proposed to buy this equipment.Apart from this, now, the MC will also buy uniforms for officials and employees of the Fire Department.Lovpreet Singh, Additional Divisional Fire officer, said, “We got the equipment under the Smart City. Now, the audit team and director local government also ordered to buy all required equipment to tackle the fire incidents efficiently.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-equipment-staff-mar-amritsar-fire-department-282161
13-07-2021||At a time when the death of a family member due to Covid had shattered us||Survived pandemic, giving back to society||“I lost my brother Navdeep Bhatia, a chief pharmacist at the District TB Hospital, who was the first one to contract Covid in our family in August last year. After observing the symptoms, when we saw his oxygen-level dipping, my sister-in-law, nephew and I took him to the hospital where his reports came out to be Covid-positive. We got him admitted to the hospital and got ourselves tested too. Later, we found that we too were Covid positive and went into quarantine. At that time there was a great panic regarding Covid among people and unfortunately, I also lost my brother to Covid,” he said.“Those were very difficult times. We took every precaution advised by the doctors. When we recovered after 14 days and tested negative for Covid, we performed the last rituals of my brother. The loss taught us lessons and we decided to help the society in every possible manner. We organised Covid awareness camps, vaccination camps and provided medicines in government hospitals,” said Bhatia.—(As told to PK Jaiswar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/survived-pandemic-giving-back-to-society-282162
13-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Mehar Singh Chutala is dist prez of Jat Maha Sabha||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-mehar-singh-chutala-is-dist-prez-of-jat-maha-sabha-282163
13-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||As Amritsar city unlocks…||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12Malls, eateries, hotels, gyms and other commercial establishments resumed functioning after the lockdown and the night curfew was lifted from the holy city on Monday.Avneet Singh, a local resident, said he had been waiting for the malls to resume functioning as he was keen on buying some household items of some good brands, which were not easily available. “These household items are available in the open market, but lack fine finishing,” he said.Paramveer Singh, general manager of Taj Swarna, said: “With the lifting of the lockdown and relaxations in progress, the situation has started getting better and we expect things to improve further. We have seen people being more aware and conscious. With the vaccination drives and safety measures offered by the hospitality industry, travel will be much safer and reliable. We have started seeing pick up in queries from newer feeder markets such as from the western and central states. With relaxations, travellers have started coming to Amritsar. Business will gradually normalise.”An employee of a leading shopping mall in the town said some staff members have been called to resume their duties with the resumption of operations.“More jobs would be restored if the operation of the malls progresses smoothly. Even as malls complied with all standard operating procedures (SOP), the response of customers on the maiden day was moderate. Stating that it was the first day of the week which might have dithered office goers from visiting the malls, employees at the malls expected that things might improve further as people start gaining confidence. They feel the coming weekend would bring in rush.Raghav Kapoor, administering an eating joint, said the permission for dine-in facility would offer them an opportunity to properly earn and distribute salaries among the staff. He said take-aways and home deliveries were not economically viable.Happy Narula, associated with the wedding industry, said allowing a gathering of 100 people inside and 200 outside would bring back the liquidity in the wedding industry, which provide employment to about 150 persons with one party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-amritsar-city-unlocks%E2%80%A6-282165
13-07-2021||---||One succumbs to coronavirus, 6 +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 12The district Health Department reported one death due to Covid in the last 24 hours, with which the toll increased to 1,578. The deceased has been identified as Mohinder Singh (75) of Manawala.The district also reported six positive cases on Monday, with which the total count increased to 46,947. These include four influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 16 patients, the recovery count increased to 45,226. The district at present has a total of 143 active cases.The district authorities said 12,870 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of the total, only 43 were vaccinated at private hospitals, while the remaining were inoculated at government vaccination centres. The officials said 6,880 injections were given in the city, while 5,990 persons were vaccinated in rural areas.Tarn Taran reports one death, three +ve casesA Covid patient succumbed to the virus, while three persons tested positive in the district on Monday. The toll has reached 370 , while there are 43 active cases in the district of which 30 have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams collected 781 samples from different places on Monday. The administration vaccinated 6,338 persons on Monday. Total 2,30,839 persons have been vaccinated so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-succumbs-to-coronavirus-6-ve-in-amritsar-district-282166
13-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Rain brings much-needed respite from scorching heat||Harleen, a homemaker, said: “My 6-year-old son was attending his online class, when it started raining. He asked me if he can leave it and enjoy out in the rain. I did allow him as it does not rain every day.” She said children were extremely happy. The substantial drop in the temperature allowed residents to switch off their air-conditioners. “I am feeling comfortable without an AC after many days,” said Suresh, a shopkeeper on Lawrence Road. The farmers were even more elated, as they did not have to worry about irrigating their paddy fields. “For the last few days, even the tubewells had started pumping less water. Many people had lowered the submersible pump sets to match the water table,” said Joginder Singh. He said if it rains moderately, farmers won’t have to run tubewells for the next 24 hours. Even as people did not complain about the waterlogged roads and streets, the Monday showers surely have exposed the inefficiency of the storm sewers in the city. The Heritage Street lane leading to the Golden Temple was submerged. It took several hours for the water to drain out in many areas. — Manmeet Singh Gill||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rain-brings-much-needed-respite-from-scorching-heat-282167
13-07-2021||---||Seizure of 197-kg heroin: Interim bail of Anwar Masih rejected||Amritsar, July 12The Additional Sessions Judge, Pushpinder Singh, rejected the interim bail of former SAD leader and ex-SSB member Anwar Masih on Monday. He was arrested by the Special Task Force in February 2020 in connection with seizure of 197-kg heroin from a residential building in Sultanwind.The building belonged to Anwar Masih, who was booked by the STF under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises). The STF had seized 197-kg heroin and narcotic material and arrested around 20 persons, including an Afghan national in the case.He managed to get interim bail around eight months ago on the basis of health grounds.Deputy Superintendent of Police Vavinder Mahajan said the police have opposed the interim bail on the ground that he was trying to influence the court and cops by provoking and holding press conferences even as the court had granted him interim bail on health grounds.While cancelling the interim bail, the court asked Masih to report at Amritsar Central Jail within a week.Interestingly, on June 22, Masih’s son Joel Masih along with several Christian organisations had accused the STF of extorting Rs 9 lakhs from him. He had held a press conference in this connection. Nevertheless, the police had denied the allegations while terming the charges baseless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-197-kg-heroin-interim-bail-of-anwar-masih-rejected-282169
13-07-2021||---||Docs protest, patients bear the brunt||Amritsar, July 12Patients and their attendants faced inconvenience at the Government Medical College here on Monday owing to the doctors’ strike throughout the day. They are protesting against the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report.They boycotted the out-patient department (OPD) services, operation theatre services, teaching of the medical students apart from medico-legal cases and post-mortem.Services such as emergency, emergency medico-legal cases and Covid care remained unaffected. Visitors who had come from far-off areas, including those from other districts, had to return empty-handed, as they learnt about the protest.Many patients and their attendants said they were not aware of the ongoing protest. “The government should either ask employees to end the protest or accept their demands. The poor cannot afford going to private hospitals, which is the reason they come here,” said Satwinder Singh, who had come from Kahnuwan area in Gurdaspur.Caught unawaresAnother visitor, Sanjeev Kumar said he came to know about the protest after reaching the hospital. “I took an off from work to bring my ailing mother. Now, I will have to come again some other day,” he said, adding that the government and the hospital staff were indifferent towards the suffering of the poor people.“It is a lot of trouble for a sick person to travel and then go home without seeing a doctor,” said Gurmeet Kaur from Tarn Taran.Meanwhile, doctors staged a dharna outside the OPD complex and raised slogans against the state government. The leaders of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, which is spearheading the protest, threatened to intensify their protest if the government failed to act. Dr Mridu Grover, president, PSMDTA, Amritsar, said: “The association has already announced to intensify the protest after July 20 if the issue is not resolved till then.” She said the government had forced the employees to initiate the protest by harming their interests.The veterinary doctors also staged a protest at Verka on the issue and burnt the copies of the pay panel report. Veterinary Officers’ Association president Gagandeep Singh Dhillon said they demand that the NPA be restored and be part of the basic pay.Protests cripple work in Tarn Taran govt officesThe strike call by doctors, vets, BDPOs, MGNREGS staff, DC office employees crippled the state machinery on Monday.Doctors on the first day of the three-day pen-down strike abstained from work on Monday and held protests against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report.PCMSA state body had given the call in this regard. The veterinary doctors under the leadership of Dr Sukhraj Singh lodged a protest here on Monday.Patients, specially from the down-trodden sections, were a harried lot due to the strike of the doctors but the state government was quite unconcerned about it.Dr Jaspreet Singh, president PCMSA, while addressing the protesting doctors at the local district level Civil Hospital, said as per the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission, non-practising allowance (NPA) has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and moreover it has been delinked from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to doctors. The other doctors’ associations, too, are supporting the agitation. The BDPOs, too, staged a dharna in front of the local DDPO’s office and the employees of the MGNREGS, too, staged dharna in front of the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development).The employees of all other departments will protest in the district on Tuesday on a large scale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-protest-patients-bear-the-brunt-282174
13-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Curbs eased, tourists throng Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12After the lifting of lockdown and night curfew from Monday, tourists, especially from the National Capital Region (NCR), have started thronging holy city Amritsar.Vehicles with registration numbers of Delhi and surrounding areas could be spotted in the parking bays and on roads around the Golden Temple complex.Tejinder Singh, a tourist from Delhi, said: “My family used to visit the Golden Temple frequently. But travel restrictions were imposed following the second wave of Covid. They were waiting for the curbs to be relaxed to travel to Amritsar.”Hospitality experts are of the view that earlier, travellers of the golden triangle tourist circuit used to spend at least two nights in the city, while due to Covid, it had now reduced to a destination of day trippers. A hotelier, Surinder Singh, said national tourist sites such as Jallianwala Bagh and the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost should be re-opened at the earliest. Both sites have been closed for the past over a year.As the tourism season has begun and people are flocking to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, the tourism sector here will get a boost for being on the way to these hill states. This will infuse liquidity in the tour and travel segments which was severely battered during the past one year.Apart from NCR, a large number of people from Mumbai, Kolkata, Gujarat and southern states are visiting the town. A good number of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and international tourists, mainly from the UK, Australia, Canada and the US, who also visit here, are presently unable to come due to foreign travel restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curbs-eased-tourists-throng-amritsar-282234
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||4 cousins die in mishap on Amritsar–Khemkaran highway; SUV driver booked||Tarn Taran, July 12Four youths died on the spot in an accident on the Amritsar–Khemkaran highway late last night near Chhichhrewal village. The deceased, who were cousins, were between the age of 17 to 24.They were riding a bike when a speedy car hit them from the front. The impact was so dreadful that one of the bodies was found on Monday morning from fields far away.DSP Sucha Singh Bal reached the spot and sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital.The DSP said the deceased had been identified as Tasveer Singh Sonu (24), his brother Malkit Singh Keetu (22) of Thathgarh village, Ramandeep Singh (17) of Gohalwar and Lovepreet Singh (16) of Swaragapuri (Chabal).A case under Sections 279, 304A and 427 of the IPC had been registered by the Chabal police against the car driver who fled the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-cousins-die-in-mishap-on-amritsar%E2%80%93khemkaran-highway-suv-driver-booked-282235
