14-07-2021||Amritsar||28-year-old man commits suicide||Convict jumps parole, bookedAmritsar: A kidnapping and rape convict identified as Hardeep Singh of Shero Nigah village, who came out of Gurdaspur jail, jumped parole and failed to return. The Beas police have booked him following a complaint received from the Superintendent of Gurdaspur Jail. He was booked on February 18 this year for kidnapping, illegal detention and rape besides the Arms Act. He was convicted by the court for 10 years and released on bail when the government decided to decongest the jail as a precautionary measure in view of Covid-19. He was to return in May, but failed to do so. Efforts were on to nab him. TNSMissing child handed over to familyTarn Taran: Govind (16), who had gone missing from Barbapur village (UP), around 20 days ago, was handed over to his family by the District Child Welfare Committee on Tuesday. He reached Amritsar railway station from where Lovepreet Singh of Rakh Sheron, took him along. Lovepreet gave all details related to the child on 1098 child helpline and handed him over to District Child Protection Officer Rajesh Kumar on Monday. Dr Dinesh Gupta, chairman, District Child Welfare Committee, said they contacted his family through Hakim Singh, who is head of the village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/28-year-old-man-commits-suicide-282955
14-07-2021||Amritsar||Campus notes: DAV College and BBKDAV College, Amritsar, begin new session||Online Training for dairy farmersThe office of the Deputy Director, Amritsar, announced that the online admissions for rural unemployed youth for dairy training courses is now open till July 15, 2021. The courses have been specifically started to provide employment opportunities for rural youth. Disclosing this here today, Kashmir Singh Goraya , Deputy Director Dairy, Amritsar said that in order to diversify the agriculture and increase the income of the farmers, two weeks training would be imparted for adopting the profession of dairy as an ancillary occupation . Unemployed young boys / girls belonging to district, who are Class V pass between the age of 18 to 50 years, belonging to rural area and can guarantee land for sowing of green fodder, can participate in this training. He said that after the training the department would provide dairy loan facility from various banks to the concerned persons by setting up dairy units for keeping up to 20 cattle and providing 25% subsidy to general and 33% to non-ethnic. Interested boys / girls can fill up the form by July 15 , 2021 with their original qualification certificate and passport size photo with the office of the Deputy Director Dairy , Amritsar . For more details contact on telephone no: 01832263083.MBA 7th batch starts at IIM, AmritsarSeventh batch of MBA programme and first batches of MBA (human resources) and MBA (business analytics) programmes were inaugurated at IIM, Amritsar. The seventh batch comprises 274 students. Professor Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM, Amritsar, congratulated the students for securing a seat and extended his warm greetings to everyone. Acknowledging the newly-inducted batch of MBA (human resources) and MBA (business analytics), Prof Ramamoorthy said the institution was working on new initiatives to cater to the industry requirements. He said the IIM, Amritsar, ranked sixth among all the IIMs in terms of student interest in joining an MBA programme. The MBA chairperson informed the students that term – I classes would begin from July 15. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/campus-notes-dav-college-and-bbkdav-college-amritsar-begin-new-session-282952
14-07-2021||---||Improving teachers’ soft skills on her mind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13A sudden shift towards digital learning has forced teachers to undergo a series of infrastructural changes and upgrades to cope up with a changed scenario.In order to improve learning outcomes and amplify teaching skills of the government schoolteachers, Deepika Dean, headmistress, Government High School, Abdal, has come up with a pilot project to host workshops for teaching staff to improve their soft skills. The first workshop was attended by 20 teachers on Tuesday.The objective behind the project is to boost leadership qualities, communication skills, adaptability, time management and prepare teachers for sweeping education reforms. “Role of a teacher has changed over the years. It demands innovation, self-engagement and sustainable practices to create a comfortable learning environment for kids. Just like any other industry, where employees are encouraged for self-growth and expand their work-knowledge, we too aim to inculcate soft skills to teachers for better teaching experience,” said Dean.She said she would definitely pitch the idea for state-wide implementation. “A recent study conducted by a private agency revealed that soft skills contributes 85 per cent in an individual’s professional success. A teacher is someone who has to do public speaking, so communication skills need to be flawless. Similarly, since the governments schools cater to large section of students from marginalized section, teachers need to have core idea of life skills that they need to teach the students as well. It makes a teacher interact with students as well as their parents effectively,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/improving-teachers-soft-skills-on-her-mind-282948
14-07-2021||---||Mystery shrouds woman, daughter’s disappearance in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 13Mystery shrouds the disappearance of a woman and her daughter in Mohkampura area. While her family members accused her live-in partner of allegedly killing both of them, the police have registered a case of kidnapping against the suspect and his unidentified five accomplices in this connection.SHO Mohkampura police station Sukhdev Singh said on the complaint of woman’s mother on May 13, the police had booked Sandeep Singh of Guru Ki Wadali and started further probe. The case was registered on Monday following preliminary probe.Complainant Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident of Nangali village, told the police that her elder daughter Ramandeep Kaur (45) was married to Ranjit Singh of Ghanupur Kale village around 17 years ago. The couple had three children from the marriage. Four years ago, Ranjit constructed his own house in Guru Ki Wadali and shifted with his family. She said Ramandeep came in contact with one Sandeep Singh. In 2019, the accused made illicit relations with her and both of them started living in Faizpura locality.She said she along with her relative met Ramandeep and tried convincing her to return to her husband Ranjit Singh, but she refused. She said during this time, she gave birth to a baby girl. They later shifted to Jaura Fatak area. She said Ramandeep called her aunt and informed her about this. But this did not go down well with Sandeep, who deleted all her contacts from her mobile and since then, she was not in touch with anyone. She alleged that she came to know that the accused killed Ramandeep and her daughter and disposed of their bodies.She said she along with some relatives went to their house, where the owner informed that they lived there for six months only after which he called his five companions in December last year and they took away all their stuff. A case of kidnapping under Sections 364 and 34 of the IPC was registered and further investigations were on to trace them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-woman-daughters-disappearance-in-amritsar-282946
14-07-2021||---||Cong takes out cycle rally against inflation in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 13On the call given by the Punjab Congress, president, Sunil Jakhar, the district unit of Congress today held a cycle rally to protest the rising fuel prices. Slamming the Centre on its ‘anti-people’ policies and burdening the public with inflation, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and the District Congress Committee (Urban), president, Jatinder Sonia, addressed a large gathering of Congress supporters and party workers.Sonia said the promise of ‘good days’ was only a jumla and its real purpose was to ‘rob the common man’. “The government has become blind to the public grievances. The inflation is at its peak and fuel prices are rising. This is the result of the wrong policies of the BJP government,” said Sonia.Aujla too held that the Centre was accountable for breaking the spine of the middle-class with the rising prices of edible oils, fuels and vegetables. “When everyone was questioning the farmers’ protest, they did not realise that they were fighting this battle on everyone’s behalf. Those in government are sitting comfortably in their air-conditioned homes, only focussed on keeping in power. They have failed the trust that their voters reposed in them. After the pandemic, the government is adamant to make the public suffer by not coming up with any relief measures,’ he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-takes-out-cycle-rally-against-inflation-in-amritsar-282931
14-07-2021||---||Chowk named after Er Jaswant Gill in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 13The Amritsar Municipal Corporation in its General House meet has named a chowk on Majitha Road after Er Jaswant Singh Gill, who is known for his role in rescuing miners trapped inside a flooded coal mine in Raniganj (West Bengal) in 1989.Gill’s son Sarvpreet Singh said, “We requested the Deputy Commissioner in this regard. We are thankful to Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal.” Gill, who died on November 26, 2019, after suffering a cardiac arrest had saved the lives of 65 miners with his intelligence and was recognised for his role across the globe for his efforts. After an illustrious career spanning over 33 years, he retired as Executive Director (safety and rescue) from BCCL (Bharat Coking Coal Limited) Dhanbad, a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd.After retiring in 1998, he returned to Amritsar and led a meaningful and an active life. Earlier, he was awarded the ‘Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak’ by the President of India in November 1991.He also reached East Jainta Hills (in Meghalaya) to take part in rescue operations to save 14 miners trapped in the coal mine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chowk-named-after-er-jaswant-gill-in-amritsar-282916
14-07-2021||Amritsar||Drainage Department’s team shot at||A team of the Drainage Department was assaulted and shot at by several persons involved in illegal irrigation of fields from a canal. The victims saved themselves by running away from the spot. The incident occurred on late Sunday evening at Thatha village. However, a case was registered on Monday following the complaint by Charanjit Singh, Executive Engineer, Drainage Department.Charanjit told the police that the department had received numerous complaints of illegal irrigation during transplantation of paddy. He said he along with junior engineers Narotam Sharma and Manjit Kumar and security guard Raghubir Singh was patrolling near Manjh minor (canal). He said when they reached near Thatha village, they noticed a plastic pipe of 1-ft diameter used for draining out water from canal to irrigate fields.He said when they stopped the suspects, they entered in a brawl and shot at the team. He said they ran away from the spot in order to save themselves. Charanjit said two of the suspects have been identified as Duni and Pappu, who were accompanied by around 15 unknown persons.The police said a case of murder bid, obstructing government servant from discharging his duty and the Arms Act has been registered against the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drainage-departments-team-shot-at-282907
14-07-2021||---||Setting trends: Changing lives through her motivational talks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13As a young Kathak dancer, who aspired for something big in life, Shruti Chandel had always believed in taking the lead and not waiting for a chance.A gold medallist in MA (Classical Dance) from GNDU and a theatre artiste, who had worked with national and international artistes, Shruti was destined for a career in creative arts, until she decided otherwise.“I moved to Mumbai with hopes of working with artistes of national repute, but soon realised that it wasn’t my calling,” she said. She now works as a full-time motivational speaker, focusing on improving the lives of kids from marginalised sections.“I was doing my bit in the field of dance and theatre, when the pandemic struck and I realised that there were so many among us, who lost more than just their social contact. There were kids, who lost an opportunity to educate themselves, people’s livelihood was affected. Something in me was triggered and I started going out to neighbourhoods that had poor families, just talking to them about their struggles. Later, I was approached by some NGOs that were doing relief work and wanted me to talk to kids, especially the underprivileged ones,” she says.She mostly talks about mental health, menstrual health among women, personality development and takes music and dance therapy sessions. Since early this year, she has had sessions at government schools, Pingalwara-run institutions, GNDU and has been invited at Government Medical College, special schools and NGOs including Missiondeep.But life as a motivational speaker, she says, is not easy. “It is a profession that is yet to get its due. Most people do not take it seriously and do not know that motivational speakers are professionals, who work on power of persuasion. So, you do not get paid most of the times. But then, the only thing that drives me is the fact that I have the ability to inspire others and bring out their best version through my communication and creative abilities. That’s enough for now,” she says. Her inspiration comes from people in the field including Sandeep Maheswari, one of the first ones to use the concept of motivational speaking to change lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/setting-trends-changing-lives-through-her-motivational-talks-282906
14-07-2021||Amritsar||Acting tough on violators Amritsar Municipal Corporation removes encroachments||The estate wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation removed encroachments in several areas. A team of estate wing led by Estate Officer Dharminderjeet Singh removed an illegal gate installed in Rani Ka Bagh. Some residents had filed a complaint in this regard. The team reached the spot with an earth mover to remove the illegal gate and concrete structure. A kiosk being constructed by a hotelier on the footpath outside his hotel near railway station was removed. Another team of the estate wing removed encroachment from the Heritage Street as well. Dharminderjeet Singh, Estate Officer, MC, said, “We will not tolerate any encroachment in the city. Stern action will be taken against violators. The anti-encroachment drive will continue in coming days as well.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/acting-tough-on-violators-amritsar-municipal-corporation-removes-encroachments-282905
14-07-2021||---||Amritsar MC gears up to achieve recovery targets||Amritsar, July 13A review meeting of property tax was conducted with zonal superintendents on the directions of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA), Malwinder Singh Jaggi, on Tuesday. It was headed by Additional Commissioner Sandip Rishi.In the meeting, the authorities found a major difference between the actual tax figure and amount deposited as property tax by the owners of several commercial buildings after self-assessment during the last fiscal.“We have fixed the recovery target of superintendents. They have to collect Rs42.50 crore. They were asked to approach the building owners and press them to deposit the property tax. They were instructed to issue the recovery notices and seal the property of defaulters. The review meeting would be conducted every fortnight,” said Rishi.In the last few months, the MC served around 75 notices to various commercial buildings after scrutinising their property tax record and visiting the buildings physically.Though, there has been no recovery of actual tax so far, the hearing of these cases is still going on.Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner of MC said: “Earlier, the superintendents were sending notices after scrutiny, but now, I have collected all files and we are pursuing all these cases. Generally, when we send notice to some building owner about incorrect assessment of tax, he often contests the case. We are conducting hearings of these building owners, who are challenging the notices. The actual amount of the tax would be recovered after satisfying them.”According to information, a few major shopping malls in the city are under scanner as the MC found major anomalies with self-assessment of property tax.Property owners paying less taxDuring the scrutiny of property tax paid for the period of 2020-21, the MC found a difference of Rs12.33 lakh between the tax paid by a private hospital at Ranjit Avenue and the actual tax amount. The hospital had to pay Rs3,18,087 as property tax for 2021, but it paid only Rs71,307 for this period. The MC officials said the hospital made incorrect self-assessment in the last five years. Similarly, a three storey building owner at Ajnala Road paid Rs7,371 for 2020-21. The actual amount to be paid was Rs90,125. The MC asked the building owner to pay Rs82,754 for this year and also the pending amount from 2014-15. Sealing drive mere eyewash?The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation has failed to achieve the recovery targets for the last several years. A large number of property owners are not paying tax. Not only residential, commercial buildings and shops in the main markets of the city are also not paying the property tax. The sealing drive of the MC always proves an eyewash, as their recovery targets are never fulfilled. The MC General House had set Rs42.5 crore as recovery target of property tax for 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-gears-up-to-achieve-recovery-targets-282904
14-07-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 10 new Covid cases, no death||Amritsar, July 13The district reported 10 positive cases on Tuesday, with which the total count increased to 46,957. The district has reported no death due to the disease. The cases reported today include six influenza-like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 10 patients, the recovery count has improved to 45,238. The district at present has a total of 141 active cases.Meanwhile, 3,836 persons were given the jab for Covid-19 during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of the total, 3,744 were inoculated in urban areas, while only 92 were given the vaccination in rural areas.No death in Tarn TaranTwo cases of Covid were reported on Tuesday in the district. With no death on Tuesday, the toll remains 370 so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said total 2,97,735 samples have been collected so far of which 2,90,159 were negative. There are 40 active cases of which 29 have been isolated at their respective homes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-10-new-covid-cases-no-death-282903
14-07-2021||---||Doctors protest, feel cheated; despair writ large on patients' faces||Amritsar, July 13As employees of the Health Department continue to boycott medical services at the Civil Hospital, patients suffered a lot of inconvenience for another day on Tuesday.While staff protested outside, a few patients with helplessness and despair writ large on their faces, stood outside registration counters hoping that someone would come and help them.During the last two weeks, employees have boycotted medical services on several occasions to protest against recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report.The Civil Hospital Employees’ Welfare Association chairman Rakesh Sharma said, “We continued with emergency and Covid care services.” He said the government was responsible for the inconvenience faced by general public.Prior to the protest, the hospital attended to around 1,000 patients at OPD. While numbers of daily visitors have dropped significantly, still a few patients visited the hospital and said they were unaware of the protest.The agitation is being supported by allopathy, ayurveda and homoeopathic doctors, besides paramedics (nurses, lab technicians and operation theatre technicians).Dr Madan Mohan, chief, PCMS Association, said, “The government is dilly dallying, but employees have decided not to call off the protest, until the issues are resolved.” He said apart from decrease and delinking of NPA from basic salary, other allowances given to employees were reduced.Sharma said, “Contractual employees should be regularised as they are being exploited by giving less salary.” He said all employees at the hospital have been at the forefront to tackle the pandemic and now they feel cheated as the government has harmed their interests.Staff protest in Tarn Taran, residents at receiving endEmployees of various government departments protested against recommendations of the 6th pay panel report and non-fulfillment of their demands on Tuesday.As a result, public has been facing a lot of inconvenience, for the last couple of weeks.Medical and Veterinary officers’ protest badly affected medical services. Paramedic staff, including medical lab technician , radio grapher , staff nurses and multiple-purpose health workers, presented a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon.Members of the Punjab Aids Control Employees’ Welfare Association held a march and submitted a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon for regularisation of their services.A delegation of the Revenue Patwar Union led by Sarabjit Singh Sandhu and Ramandeep Singh Pannu submitted a memorandum to the Sub Divsional Magistrate. Last month patwaris had stopped working for other than their own circles.The BDPO Association led by district chief Lal Singh staged a dharna outside the DDPO office. Members of the MGNREGA Karamchari Union under the leadership of Baljit Singh sought regularisation of their services and sat on dharna outside the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) today.The Safai Sewak Union led by Romesh Kumar Shergill marched in the town and submitted a memorandum to the SDM . Staff of the DC office, SDM and DTO, among others, also observed a pen-down strike today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-protest-feel-cheated-despair-writ-large-on-patients-faces-282902
14-07-2021||Amritsar||SAD ex-leader Anwar Masih attempts suicide||A day after a local court rejected his plea for an interim bail in a drugs seizure case, former SAD leader Anwar Masih attempted suicide while protesting outside the Special Task Force office here today.Masih alleged he had been implicated in the case by “corrupt” officials. “I have been serving my community whole heartedly for the past three decades and not a single DDR had been registered against me. I cannot bear this insult of registration of a case under the NDPS Act,” he said, before consuming a poisonous substance.Masih was taken to a private hospital where his condition was stated to be stable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-ex-leader-anwar-masih-attempts-suicide-282830
