15-07-2021||---||Amritsar police nabs two with illegal pistol||Amritsar: The city police nabbed two persons with an illegal pistol and cartridges here on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Jora, a resident of Kot Mit Singh, Chattiwind Canal, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Azaad Nagar on Sultanwind Road. Sub-Inspector Arjun Singh at E Division police station stated that the police had set up a routine checkpoint at Malka Chowk. The accused were coming on a motorcycle. While checking, cops recovered a pistol (32 bore; made in the US) along with a magazine from Jora and four cartridges of 32 bore were recovered from Gopi. The police have registered a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-nabs-two-with-illegal-pistol-283595
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Doctors offer olive branch to patients in Amritsar||In a respite for general public, which faced hardships, due to the protest by medical fraternity against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report, the joint action committee of doctors has announced to run parallel OPDs in government hospitals.The committee has decided that doctors would examine patients in corridors or tents and would not enter the OPDs.Dr Madan Mohan, district chief, PCMS Association, “The committee has decided that doctors will write prescription on normal paper and not on the hospital’s OPD slip.”The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association (PSMDTA), has resumed services as their meeting with the Finance Minister has been fixed.Dr Mridu Grover, president, PSMDTA-Amritsar, said, “A delegation of medical and dental colleges held a meeting with the Finance Minister today. Second round of meeting will be held tomorrow.” She said only a symbolic protest would be held for half an hour on Thursday.Meanwhile, employees of various wings of the Health Department and the Veterinary Department, burnt an effigy of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at the Civil Hospital today to protest against reduction in the NPA and other allowances.Gagandeep Singh Dhillon, chief, Veterinary Officers Association (Amritsar), said apart from decreasing the NPA and delinking it from basic pay, many other allowances paid to paramedic staff have either been decreased or scrapped. “It will have an adverse impact on employees,” he said.Ashok Sharma of the ESI Employees’ Federation said they would continue to support the cause and participate in the protests.The Employees’ Welfare Association, which has been seeking regular jobs for contractual employees, has been holding the protests. Rakesh Sharma of the association said, “Employees should unite and fight the injustice.”Docs strike work for third day in Tarn TaranThe Joint Punjab Government Coordination Committee, PCMS, homeopathic, veterinary, ayurvedic and dental doctors observed strike in the district on the third day on Wednesday. The striking doctors organised a joint rally at the local district Civil Hospital and also organised a protest march.Dr Jaspreet Singh, president, PCMSA, Dr Pankaj from dental association, Dr Harinder of homeopathic association, Dr Sukhraj Singh Bal representing the veterinary doctors, while addressing on the occasion, called the reducing of their NPA from 25 per cent to 20 per cent as a cruel joke. They also condemned the decision to delink it from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to doctors. The association emphasised that the genuine demands of doctors to increase the NPA to 33 per cent and to merge it with the basic pay should be accepted. Dr Karanveer Singh, Dr Surinder Bhagat, Dr GS Kalra, Dr Surinder, Dr Navpreet, Dr Ramandeep Padda, Dr Sumeet Singh, Dr Sahil Gupta, Dr Mandeep Singh, Dr Satwinder Singh, Dr Pankaj Arora were among those protesting. Other doctors’ associations and the para-medical staff organisations also joined the protest. The BDPOs in the district are on a pen-down strike for an indefinite period already.Meanwhile, patients are finding it difficult to get treatment due to the strike at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-offer-olive-branch-to-patients-in-amritsar-283439
15-07-2021||---||Fans, family mourn untimely demise of Sufi singer Manmeet Singh||A pall of gloom and despair descended over the family and friends of Sufi singer Manmeet Singh, who died in the cloudburst incident in Dharamsala. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed as his body was cremated on Wednesday evening at his native village. Amid the outpour of condolences, the family members of Manmeet grappled with his unfortunate death.A resident of Chheharta, Manmeet 31, was a Sufi singer who sang with his younger brother Kiranpal Singh, also known as KP. The duo, famous as Sain brothers, had gone to Dharamsala along with six others over the weekend. Now, as the tragedy befell, Manmeet is survived by his wife Manpreet Kaur and two children — Ranbir and Amijot.Manmeet and Kiranpal began their musical journey at a young age, singing in school festivals and later in college youth festivals. Learning music from Manmohan Kaur, a senior faculty from Khalsa College and a radio artiste, the two brothers started their professional music career four years ago by performing at deras and folk festivals. Sain brothers had released their first commercial song ‘Duniyadari’ in 2020 which got them global recognition. Their inspiration was the legendary Wadali brothers and they had met Padma Shri Puran Chand Wadali on several occasions.The family members, including Manmeet’s father Shankar Sukhdev Singh, mother Kuljit Kaur, sister Navjit Kaur were in a state of mourning and refused to talk to mediapersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fans-family-mourn-untimely-demise-of-sufi-singer-manmeet-singh-283441
15-07-2021||Amritsar||One dies, 10 +ve in Amritsar||With one death, the district toll reached 1,579 on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Mohinder Singh (75) of Ajnala.The district health authorities have also reported 10 new cases with which the total count has increased to 46,967. These cases include six influenza-like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 14 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 45,252. The district at present has 136 active cases.The district health authorities said a total of 2,134 residents were given the injections for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Those who were inoculated include 1,500 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who received the first dose of the vaccine. Additionally, 534 residents in the age group of 18 to 44 years were given the second dose of the vaccine.No casualty in Tarn Taran, two test positiveNo casualty was reported due to Covid in the district on Wednesday though two persons tested positive. The toll remains as 370. The teams of the Health Department collected 1,026 samples to be tested of Covid infection. The active number of covid cases had been reduced to 42 and out of these, 30 have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,615 citizens were given the jab against Covid on Wednesday, as a result, 2,33,852 persons have been vaccinated so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-10-ve-in-amritsar-283443
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Carjacking in Ranjit Avenue: 2 held||The city police claimed to have arrested two persons, who were involved in snatching a Ford Figo from a local resident from Ranjit Avenue on June 21.The accused have been identified as Vikramjeet Singh, alias Vicky, of <Pandori Sukha Singh village; and Amritpal Singh of Riar village.Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said the police had registered a case against unidentified carjackers on June 21 on the complaint of Sahibdeep Singh of Chheharta. The accused snatched his car from a parking lot in Ranjit Avenue’s B Block.Investigating Officer SI Kulwinder Singh traced the accused. The police claimed that four persons were involved in the carjacking and two accomplices were yet to be arrested. The police have recovered the victim’s car, but the car used by the accused was yet to be recovered.The police officials claimed that Vikramjeet Singh was already facing two separate criminal cases of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC at division A police station and a case of endangering life under Section 336 of the IPC at Ramdas police station.The SHO said they were hopeful of making the accused confess more crimes committed by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-in-ranjit-avenue-2-held-283445
15-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Plastic surgery giving people a new lease of life’||From being a tool to enhancing physical beauty for the rich to helping improve the quality of life of people with deformities, plastic surgery has become more affordable and within the reach of common masses.Dr Ravi Mahajan, plastic, microrvascular and reconstructive surgeon, said: “At present, besides cosmetic reasons, people are opting for plastic surgery on medical grounds.”Free consultation for three daysHe, however, added that awareness level was still poor and not many people know that plastic surgery can help in correcting physical deformities.Mahajan said procedures such as lower limb trauma, maxillofacial trauma and reconstructive surgery, hand surgery, cleft surgery, aesthetic surgery and surgery for healing injuries and injury marks caused by burns are being performed in routine to help people.“Many surgeries, including cleft lip surgery, help people in improving their self-esteem and live a full life,” he said.He said: “Plastic surgery goes a long way in encouraging patients to give themselves or their loved ones the much-deserved second chance in leading a normal life, besides instilling a hope of a better, happy and healthy future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plastic-surgery-giving-people-a-new-lease-of-life-283446
15-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||19-yr-old rapes aunt, booked||Two rape cases were registered at different places in the district on Wednesday.In the first case, a 19-year-old resident of Jawandpur village falling under Verowal police station was booked for raping the wife (24) of his uncle (father’s brother), while in another case, a resident of nearby Dhotian village raped his 19-year-old domestic help.The police said Sagar of Jawandpur village raped his aunt. The victim had gone to look after his mother as she was operated about six months ago. The victim alleged that the accused made her video while taking bath. He started blackmailing her on the pretext that in case she denies to get physical with him, he would post the video on social media. She said by threatening her, he established physical relations with her many times. On July 12 also, the accused came to her room at night and raped her. The victim told everything to her husband, who lodged a complaint with the police. The Verowal police have registered a case under Sections 354-C and 376 of the IPC.Man booked for raping domestic helpPargat Singh (24) of Dhotian village was booked under Sections 376 and 511 of the IPC by the Sarhali police for raping his domestic help. The victim said she had gone to the house of the accused about a week ago in connection with her work, where he raped her. Both accused are still at large and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-yr-old-rapes-aunt-booked-283447
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ warning letter to MP Gurjit Singh Aujla||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-warning-letter-to-mp-gurjit-singh-aujla-283448
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar-based hotel owner ends life||A hotelier committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in one of the hotel rooms on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Kulwant Singh of National City.The family of the deceased claimed that a woman and several others were blackmailing him. Kulwant Singh was upset as the woman was demanding Rs20 lakh from him and threatening to defame him.On Wednesday around 4 pm, Kulwant consumed some poisonous substance in room number 201. After consuming poison Kulwant called his family members and relatives. He was rushed to a local hospital, where he was declared dead.The bus stand police reached the spot, from where they recovered a suicide note. Several names along with that of the woman was mentioned in the note.The police are recording the statements to register a case against the accused who harassed and blackmailed him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-hotel-owner-ends-life-283450
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Classes resume at Thakar Singh Art Gallery in Amritsar; wait for live shows continues||Thakar Singh Art Gallery has resumed art classes after the state government relaxed Covid-19 norms and gave a go ahead.The gallery has allowed those above 15 years of age to attend the art classes apart from its usual established artistes. Classes are being conducted from 4 pm to 6 pm and other activities would commence after witnessing the response.“We have to be cautious while resuming activities in order to rule out infection. We are following all safety protocols and we hope to resume other activities, including art exhibits and demonstration workshops by senior artistes in different genre,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, Indian Academy Of Fine Arts.Meanwhile, the auditorium has also reopened, but live performances or events would not be organised under the current situation. The gallery has a huge space with three exhibit halls, two art workshop rooms and an auditorium.Other cultural hubs, including Virsa Vihar and Punjab Natshala have also reopened. Virsa Vihar society’s chief Kewal Dhaliwal said they have invited theatre groups to organise live shows to commence with theatre activity in the city. “There has been a very long gap due to the pandemic and it’s very important to get the audience back in auditoriums and artistes back on stage. We have only allowed 50 per cent seat occupancy keeping in mind safety of masses,” he said.Punjab Natshala, too, has opened its premises, but not for live performances and shows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/classes-resume-at-thakar-singh-art-gallery-in-amritsar-wait-for-live-shows-continues-283451
15-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Three arrested for running illegal  de-addiction centre||The CIA staff unearthed an illegal drug de-addiction centre running under the name of ‘Baba Zoravar Singh Nasha Mukti kender’ from Sheron village.Three persons running the de-addiction centre were arrested with four illegal pistols, a magazine, 110 intoxicating tablets and two cartridges.DSP (Investigation) Kawaljit Singh said the accused running the centre have been identified as Lovejit Singh of Gandiwind, Manpreet Singh Mannu of Kot Khalsa (Amritsar) and Gurpal Singh Pala of Shakri village in Tarn Taran.The accused had no qualification whatsoever to treat the addict, nor did they have any licence from the Health Department to run the centre. The accused took a room on rent in the village, where they had admitted as many as 24 patients. They were charging Rs8,000 to Rs15,000 from each patient for treatment.The Sarhali police have registered a case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-arrested-for-running-illegal-de-addiction-centre-283453
15-07-2021||Amritsar||World Population Week observed||IIT-Ropar to start course on AIUnder the state government’s door-to-door employment mission, a four month course on artificial intelligence (Level II and III) has been started in collaboration with IIT- Ropar. District Employment Bureau is offering registration for the course and the last date for registration is July 21. The registration is free and to help candidates, the Employment Bureau Amritsar has also encouraged students to make maximum use of book cafes and internet labs available in the bureau office for the preparation of this course. Candidates can also avail the assistance from the Employment Bureau for registration of this course.Faculty development programmeDr Arvind Ranade, chief scientist, Vigyan Prasar, today chaired the first webinar in faculty development programme started by DAV College. Dr Ranade briefed about mission ‘Aditya’, India’s attempt to reach the surface of sun. “Aditya L1 will be the first solar mission of the country. It will help scientists to study Sun’s aura. PSLV will be used to carry this spacecraft and work is going on it,” he said. The inaugural session of the programme was also addressed by Shiv Ram Gaur, director, DAV Higher Education. Chief spokesperson Dr Arvind Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala, emphasised on making science experiments easy and interesting. “We can get all the activities and projects done at zero cost or at least cost. Whether it is a class related to the principle of air pressure or on flowers and trees, it’s quite easy and accessible for everyone to get children out of the class and get them done. All the principles of science are part of our common life and it’s very important to have knowledge of them,” he said. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said continuous development is taking place in the field of science and technology.Students showcase creative sideDIPS School, Rayya, conducted an online art and craft activity to bring out the creativity of students (pre-wing). During this activity, students made use of colourful paper and with assistance of their parents made beautiful spiders, mini carry bags and toys. Teachers gave valuable information and tips on arts and crafts to students. Principal Jagbir Singh Randhawa highlighted the role and significance of arts and crafts along with academics. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra expressed that due to the pandemic students are unable to come to school and do not get a chance to move out of their houses to perform any activity. TNSVirtual summer camp organisedTarn Taran: Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, organised an online summer camp for its students, to impart creative knowledge. Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa, director, Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, and principal Manisha Sood said students were told about various types of texture painting, decorative items and cooking tutorials. Various classes are being conducted for the development of languages in students. Students got a chance to further hone their skills. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/world-population-week-observed-283454
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Virtual session on ‘voice of customers’||CII-Amritsar held a virtual session on “Voice of Customer and Quality Function Deployment”. Distinguished speaker Subrata Mitra Majumdar, management and operational excellence consultant, while disseminating his global experience in multiple executive roles in business management, profit and loss management, strategy, operations, quality, safety and environment management, supply chain, new product development, enterprise operating system deployment, operational and business excellence, diligently touched all segments involved in voice of customer and quality function deployment’s approach, ways, benefits and examples.Rajiv Sajdeh, Chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal Council, in his opening remarks pointed out that an unstable product definition leads to early and frequent product failures, extended product development time and time to market. If the voice of the customer has not been captured properly, the final product will also not be the one actually desired by the market place. Proactive product development is always better than reactive product development. Quality Function Deployment (QFD) can help a company move toward a more proactive approach.Karan Verma, vice-chairman, CII, Amritsar Zonal Council, delivered the closing remarks and thanked the CII members for participating in the session. Avneet Singh, Zonal Head , CII Amritsar was present from the CII secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virtual-session-on-voice-of-customers-283455
15-07-2021||Allegations levelled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against the Congress MLA and SAD (Sanyukt) leader of having relations with an international smuggler have put the spotlight back on drugs in the state. The leaders in question include Congress MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Jathedar Ranjiit Singh Brahmpura||Tarn Taran Diary: Politicians-peddlers nexus||State honours for dogVikram, a sniffer dog of the Police Department, was cremated with full state honours. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale expressed grief over the demise of Vikram. The SSP said the sniffer dog was trained at Phillaur PAP Academy and joined the Tarn Taran police in 2014. Vikram was an expert in detecting drugs and explosives and worked for eight years and six months for the police.Afforestation driveAn afforestation drive launched by environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh of Khadoor Sahib to revive decades-old heritage has received massive response from masses. Baba Sewa Singh, head, Kar Sewa Sect (Khadoor Sahib), had launched the drive in 2020 on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. The sect had a plan to convert pieces of land numbering 550 into jungels at different places to protect environment as in most parts of north India, trees have been axed. Even hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh have lost their natural beauty and have turned into a concrete jungle. In Khadoor Sahib and other parts of the state, a number of panchayats, had come forwards by giving common village land to plant saplings and increase green cover. The SGPC had given its consent to plant saplings on the land of as many as 40 gurdwaras. As the saplings have started to grow, general public has evinced much interest in taking the green drive further. Sukhpreet Singh Pannun has given his two kanals at his native Bahadurpur village (Khadoor Sahib) to plant saplings. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh launched the plantation drive on the land of Pannun. More than 500 saplings of 50 varieties have been planted on this plot. On 15 marlas of Bhai Phoola Singh of Safadarpur village (Kapurthala), a total number of 160 saplings of 50 varieties have been planted. One such jungle has come up at Mattewal in Faridkot district. Besides this noble cause, the Kar Sewa Sect initially started to plant saplings in 1999 . The drive was started from Khadoor Sahib and covered the roadsides. More than 5 lakh saplings have fully grown up. The sect preferres to plant medicinal saplings.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-politicians-peddlers-nexus-283456
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Zomato delivery boy mugged||Unidentified miscreants robbed a Zomato delivery boy on Mehta Road last evening. Victim Rajwant Sin in his complaint at Maqboolpura police station said he delivers food in Zomato.On Tuesday, around 11.30 pm, he went to Bhrawan Da Dhaba for an order and while he was heading towards Vallah side, two unidentified persons intercepted his bike at Bhai Lalo Ji Nagar, Mehta Road.They forcibly snatched Rs1,000 cash and his mobile phone from him and fled away. ASI Rajinder Singh, investigating officer, said a case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and they have initiated the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zomato-delivery-boy-mugged-283457
15-07-2021||---||MP-based illicit weapon module busted, 2 arrested||Amritsar, July 14The police claim to have busted another interstate module involved in manufacturing and supply of illegal weapons across the state with the arrest of its two members from MP.DGP Dinkar Gupta said: “In an interstate operation, a team of the State Counter Intelligence, Amritsar, have arrested Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village in MP and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani in MP, from the area of Sendhwan village in Barwani MP and recovered 39 pistols (.32 bore) along with magazines from their possession.The DGP said the Intelligence had arrested two persons identified as Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both of Tarn Taran, after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession on June 12 and during interrogation they revealed that they procured these weapons from Madhya Pradesh.Gupta said following these inputs, a special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the entire module. He said preliminary investigations revealed that these weapons were meant to be supplied to various criminal gangs and other anti-national elements in Punjab.Meanwhile, a case had been registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act.The development came just four days after the Kapurthala police busted an illicit weapon supply network with the arrest of its main supplier from Barwani in MP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-based-illicit-weapon-module-busted-2-arrested-283426
15-07-2021||---||Day after suicide bid, SAD ex-leader Anwar Masih stable||Amritsar, July 14Former Subordinate Staff Selection Board member and SAD leader Anwar Masih, who had attempted suicide outside the Special Task Force office here yesterday, is stated to be out of danger now as his condition is stable.Dr HP Singh, medical superintendent of the private hospital where he is admitted, said Masih had been shifted out of the intensive care unit.Masih was protesting against the alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP-rank officials of the STF. He was demanding quashing of a case against him in connection with the seizure of 194 kg heroin and other chemicals from a residential building at Akash Avenue in Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020.He managed to get interim bail around eight months ago on the basis of health grounds. On Monday, the court of Additional Sessions Judge had rejected his interim bail and asked him to report to the Amritsar Central Jail in a week.Before consuming the poison, he said: “I have announced that I will die by suicide if STF harasses me or registers a case against me. In the past three decades, I was serving my community whole heartedly and not even a single DDR was registered against me. But I cannot bear this humiliation.” He alleged that the AIG and the three DSPs demanded Rs 20 lakh and an SUV from him.As the building from where the heroin was seized belonged to Masih, the STF booked him under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises). The STF had arrested around 20 persons in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-suicide-bid-sad-ex-leader-anwar-masih-stable-283334
