16-07-2021||---||Dal Khalsa hails Supreme Court for questioning colonial era-sedition law||Amritsar: The Dal Khalsa has hailed the Supreme Court for questioning the validity of colonial era-sedition law. Spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said his party had expressed indiscriminate misuse of sedition law against lawyers, students, journalists, protesting farmers and rights defenders. The organisation urged the SC to go further and ask the Centre to remove law from the statute within a specific timeframe as its misuse has put ‘people’s freedom’ in peril. He said it was notable that the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, has questioned whether the sedition law was still necessary after 75 years of Independence and observed that the law is a serious threat to the functioning of institutions and holds “enormous power” for misuse with no accountability for the executive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-hails-supreme-court-for-questioning-colonial-era-sedition-law-284081
16-07-2021||---||Amritsar MC catches 16 stray cattle||Amritsar, July 15The Cattle Pond Wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today caught 16 head of cattle. The drive to catch the stray cattle was taken on the direction of the MC Commissioner, Malwinder Singh Jaggi, who had visited the cow shelter of the MC at Gumanpura village along with senior MC officials, yesterday.A team led by Dr Darshan Kyshap, Chief Sanitary Inspector JP Babar caught the stray cattle from the inner circular road of the walled city and sent them to gaushala.During his visit to the gaushala, Jaggi had instructed the MC officials and employees to take proper care of cows and provide them good fodder. There are 24 employees of the MC deployed at the gaushala. Currently, there are around 170 cows in the gaushala. The MC was planning to constitute a committee to supervise the functioning of the cow shelter.Notably, there are over 3,500 stray cattle in the city. The animals cause traffic jams, besides accidents. Some furious bulls also attack residents. Cows can be seen roaming in narrow streets in search of food and creating nuisance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-catches-16-stray-cattle-284049
16-07-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Preet Amritsaria booked for murder bid||Man booked for raping womanAmritsar: The Amritsar rural police have booked Sarwan Singh of Bhindisaida area for allegedly raping a married woman. Though the incident occurred on May 1, a complaint was lodged with the police yesterday. The 25-year-old victim told the police that she was sleeping along with her children at her residence when the accused raped her. Her husband had gone to Ajnala grain market for work. When he returned he told her husband about the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-preet-amritsaria-booked-for-murder-bid-284050
16-07-2021||---||SAD (S) protests against rising fuel prices||Amritsar, July 15Activists of SAD (Sanyukt) and SAD-BSP held separate protests against the rising inflation in the past few weeks. The protestors took out a rally and reached the new district administration building and handed over a memorandum to DC Gurpeet Khaira. Led by Jasbir Singh Ghuman, general secretary, SAD (Sanyukt), the agenda for the protests was rising fuel and edible oil prices. They also lent support to farmers against the three farm laws.“On a call given by our leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, each district unit of SAD (Sanyukt) today carried out a protest rally and handed over memorandums to the respective DCs. The rising inflation is coming down hard on common people, who have already lost enough to Covid-19. People from marginal families are being forced to go empty stomach due to high price of edible oil. The governments at the Centre and the state are playing blame game, with no respite to common man,” said Ghuman.Meanwhile, Ghuman also condemned the attitude of the Centre on the issue of farm laws. “People need to break out of their slumber and see that the farmers are taking on issues that directly impact the lives of every citizen.” He said in the upcoming elections, the farmers will decide who will take over the state’s governance. “We only want a competent CM,” he said. He also spoke on Anil Joshi’s ouster from the BJP. “If a leader who spoke in favour of farmers is being punished in such a way, it shows the intent of that political party. He is welcome to join our party,” said Ghuman.Similar stir in Tarn TaranWorkers of the SAD (Sanyukt) staged a protest outside the office of the district administrative complex (DAC) on Thursday against rising fuel prices and anti-people policies of the Centre and the state government. Former MLA and the SAD (Sanyukt) leader Ravinder Singh Brahampura alleged that the Centre was continuously grabbing powers of the state governments. He stressed on resolving issues related to farmers. He criticized the state government for not punishing those behind sacrilege incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-s-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-284051
16-07-2021||---||2 men robbed at gunpoint||Amritsar, July 15A garment trader, Surinderpal Singh, a resident of Wadala Kalan village, and his brother were robbed by armed persons in Rayya at gunpoint when they were returning home after closing their shop.The duo was robbed of Rs 30,000 and two mobile phones, said the police. A case has been registered and further investigation was under progress to identify the perpetrators.Surinderpal told the police that he had a readymade garment shop near Wadala Kalan village bus stop. He said around 8.45 pm on Tuesday, he along with his brother Nirmal Singh were returning home after closing their shop. He said as they were about to start their motorcycle, three youngsters with their faces covered pointed a pistol at them.He said the accused took out Rs 10,000 and a mobile phone from his pocket and Rs 20,000 and a mobile phone from the pocket of Nirmal. Later, they fled away from their spot, said the complainant.Assistant Sub-Inspector Shamsher Singh (Investigating Officer) said a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-men-robbed-at-gunpoint-284053
16-07-2021||---||Live-in partner killed Amritsar duo in Feb, say police||Amritsar, July 15Worsts fear of Ramandeep Kaur’s family have come true after the police have found in their investigation that she along with her 2-month-old daughter were strangled to death by her live-in partner. Cops said later their bodies were disposed of in a canal.Ramandeep (45) and her daughter had been missing from February. Family members of the victim had filed a complaint with the police on May 13 while a case of kidnapping was registered on July 12 following a preliminary probe.Now, the police have added sections of murder and disappearance of evidence against Ramandeep’s live-in partner Sandeep Singh (28), who was arrested by the police from Guru Ki Wadali.Mohkampura police station SHO Sukhdev Singh said Sandeep along with his father Mukhtar Singh had killed the duo. He said raids were on to nab Mukhtar.Complainant Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident of Nangali village, had told the police that the victim got separated from her husband Ranjit Singh, a resident of Ghanupur Kale village, after 17 years of marriage from which the couple had three children. Four years ago, Ranjit constructed his house in Guru Ki Wadali and shifted with his family. She said Ramandeep came in contact with Sandeep. In 2019, the accused made illicit relations with her and both of them started living in Faizpura.She said she along with her relative met Ramandeep and tried convincing her to return to her, but she refused. She said during this time, she gave a birth to a baby girl and shifted to Jaura Fatak area.The complainant said Ramandeep called her aunt and informed her about this, but this did not go down well with Sandeep, who deleted all her contacts from her mobile and since then, she was not in touch with anyone.The SHO said the accused killed the duo in February. Ramandeep had given birth to a baby girl in December 2020. She was insisting the accused to marry her and legalised their relationship, however, Sandeep was not ready for this and decided to kill them, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/live-in-partner-killed-amritsar-duo-in-feb-say-police-284055
16-07-2021||---||No casualty, 8 Covid positive cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 15The health authorities reported eight positive cases in the district on Thursday. With this, the total count has increased to 46,975. The authorities did not reported any Covid-19 related death in the last 24 hours in the district.Out of positive patients, five were influenza-like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients.With recovery of nine patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,261. At present, the district has a total of 135 active cases.The district health authorities said a total of 1,521 beneficiaries were administered vaccine on Thursday. Those inoculated include 1,266 residents in the age group of 18-44 years who received their first dose. Additionally, 255 residents in the age group of 18-44 years were administered the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-casualty-8-covid-positive-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-284056
16-07-2021||---||Docs run parallel OPDs, some abstain from work||Amritsar, July 15Patients visiting government hospitals heaved a sigh of relief as doctors ran parallel OPD to provide medical consultation to them on Thursday. However, the medical fraternity at some hospitals, including the Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Civil Hospital, continued to boycott OPD services.In the city, the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital, Majitha Road, and Satellite Hospital, Sakatri Bagh, were among the institutes where a parallel OPD was organised. At the ESI hospital, doctors were seen sitting under the shade of trees and providing consultation to patients.A visit to the Civil Hospital revealed that most of the OPD cabins were locked and no arrangements were made to provide consultation to patients as decided by the PCMS Association. Most of the doctors were not even available at the hospital. However, a few of them were seen sitting in their OPD cabins.With frequent disruptions in medical services for the last two weeks, the numbers of patients visiting government hospitals have dropped to negligible.The PCMS Association on Wednesday had decided to run parallel OPDs while continuing with their protest. Insiders at the Civil Hospital stated that parallel OPD could not be organised as employees were divided on the issue.Meanwhile, doctors, pharmacy officers and other employees deputed at the Central Jail here abstained from work and held a protest march. Leading the protest, Dr Gurkirpal Singh Verka said, “We empathise with the patients, but we had no option but to strike work.”The coordination committee of employees at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital also held a protest and took out a march demanding the regularisation of the services of contractual workers. The employees demanded the restoration of the old pension scheme and revision of the pay commission report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-run-parallel-opds-some-abstain-from-work-284057
16-07-2021||---||Watch out for Amritsar-based players at Tokyo Olympics!||Amritsar, July 15Residents of Butala village are in a celebratory mood as the news of Dilpreet Singh and Shamsher Singh being part of the Indian men hockey team that will compete in Tokyo Olympics was announced. The two young hockey players from Amritsar are currently in Bangalore and will leave for Tokyo in a day’s time.They have been a part of the Indian men hockey team in several international tournaments. Dilpreet was a part of the U-18 Asia Cup team that won gold in 2016 and also played at the Commonwealth Games in 2018. Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh, who is a hockey coach and runs a hockey club in Butala, said it was an extremely ideal time for Dilpreet to make his mark as the medal hopes are high this time from the men’s hockey team. “It’s a proud moment for us as a family and as a community that Dilpreet’s hard work has paid off. We have high hopes from him and from team India as they have a good chance of winning a medal,” he said. Dilpreet started playing hockey at the age of 5 and initially trained with Balwinder before he got into the training academy at the age of 11.“He has always been passionate about hockey and committed himself to the game completely. We really hope he makes the country proud,” he said. Both Dilpreet and Shamsher are alumni of Spring Dales School and their alma mater too shared their excitement over their Tokyo participation. Rajiv Kumar Sharma, principal, Springdales School, said the two were a part of a number of batches of the budding hockey players, who brought laurels to the school in the CBSE National Junior and Senior championships and other various tournaments at the national and international level.In a joint initiative by Spring Dales Senior School and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy, Amritsar, the school had facilitated sports training to the potential hockey players without compromising on their academics. The school took the responsibility of providing education, books, stationary and sports kits to these budding sportsmen coming from different border belt villages, including Dilpreet and Shamsher.Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy is run by Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi and the motive of the association was to identify and nurture the talented sportspersons in the border belt side by side promoting the national game. Spring Dales Educational Society’s Director, Dr Kirat Sandhu Cheema said the two like- minded associations have produced many ace hockey players in the recent past, including Olympian Ramandeep Singh, who represented India in Rio Olympics 2016 and was the highest priced player in Indian Hockey Premier league.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watch-out-for-amritsar-based-players-at-tokyo-olympics-284059
16-07-2021||Amritsar||Job racket busted by Vigilance Bureau, sarpanch among four held||With the arrest of four persons, including a health worker and a sarpanch, the Vigilance Bureau today claimed to have busted a recruitment racket that duped a number of persons for getting recruited in the Powercom as helper.The preliminary investigation has unearthed their links with a notorious fraudster, Dominic Sahota, who was the kingpin of a gang of kidnappers and robbers busted by Mohali police in January. According to the Vigilance, he used to pose as an official of security agencies like NIA and BSF. He would be brought on production warrant for questioning in the case.Jailed fraudster to be questionedThose arrested were identified as Pirthipal Singh, who was posted at the Primary Health Centre at Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Kad Gill village in Tarn Taran, Malkiat Singh and Sukhwant Singh.One Barinderpal Singh of Jaswant Nagar complained to the Vigilance that Pirthipal offered to get him recruited in the powercom. However, he asked Pirthipal to get his relative recruited for which the latter allegedly demanded Rs 3.5 lakh. Barinderpal initially gave Rs 10,000 to Pirthipal to initiate the process. But Barinderpal, however, changed his mind and approached the Vigilance, which laid a trap and nabbed Pirthipal and Malkiat red-handed accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe.SSP, Vigilance, Parampal Singh said during the interrogation, the duo informed about the kingpin, Sukhwant Singh, who was operating from Ludhiana and had duped a number of persons for getting recruited in government departments. He used to charge Rs 3.5 lakh. A Vigilance team raided the residence of Sukhwant and found six more such cases of fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/job-racket-busted-by-vigilance-bureau-sarpanch-among-four-held-283763
16-07-2021||Amritsar||300 guns ‘supplied’ to gangs in Punjab in four months||The Madhya Pradesh-based illegal weapon module busted by the counter-intelligence wing yesterday had supplied over 300 country-made weapons to prominent gangsters in Punjab. This has set the alarm bells ringing for the Punjab Police with Assembly elections round the corner.This came to light during preliminary interrogation of two MP residents arrested by the police in this regard. With the arrest of Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani from Sendhwan village in Barwani, MP, the Punjab Police claimed to have busted the fourth interstate module involved in the manufacture and supply of illicit weapons across the state.“The two had supplied weapons to Jaipal Bhullar, who was recently killed in an encounter in Kolkata, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, Lawrence Bishnoi, Billa Mandiala gangs, among others, in the past four to five months,” said Investigating Officer Inderdeep Singh, who was part of the raiding team that was camping in MP since Sunday to bust the module. The police had confiscated as many as 39 illicit weapons from there.The police have also identified several of their accomplices who used to book orders from their ‘clients’ for their MP-based handlers. On June 12, the counter-intelligence wing had arrested two persons — Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both from Tarn Taran, — after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession. During interrogation, they revealed they had procured these weapons from MP.A special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the module. Preliminary investigations revealed the weapons were meant to be supplied to gangs and other anti-national elements in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/300-guns-supplied-to-gangs-in-punjab-in-four-months-283771
16-07-2021||Tarn Taran||8 held for killing Harike contractor||The district police have arrested eight persons, including four absconders, in connection with the murder of a Harike-based fish contractor.One of the suspects, Gursewak Singh, a former terrorist belonging to the Khalistan Commando Force (KCF), has been arrested for sheltering the suspects. Mukhtiar Singh was murdered last October and the Harike police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale today said those arrested included Amritpreet Singh, Jagpreet Singh Jagga, Jobanjit Singh and Sandeep Singh Shishu, who allegedly carried out the killing.Further, Gursewak was arrested from his native Mari Kamboke village, while Jagjit Singh and Sandeep Singh were nabbed from Panchkula for giving shelter to the suspects. Another suspect, Jaswant Singh, was arrested. The SSP said 1.550 kg heroin, a rifle, four country-made pistols, Rs 22 lakh in cash and 27 cartridges were recovered from the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-held-for-killing-harike-contractor-283773
16-07-2021||Amritsar||KZF operative brought on production warrant||The State Special Operation Cell has brought alleged operative of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), Maan Singh Nihang, on a production warrant in connection with the seizure of 48 foreign-made automatic weapons. The investigations carried out so far revealed that the weapons were smuggled from across the international border with the help of unmanned aerial vehicles.According to the operation cell officials, the weapons were dropped in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur areas. The police were also working on the suspected smuggling of heroin along with the arms consignment which was yet to be recovered. The officials, preferring anonymity, said arms droppings were made in the Dera Baba Nanak and Khemkaran areas. Drones have been a challenge for the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police as repeated incidents of smuggling of weapons and narcotic substances are being reported. Operation cell AIG Opinderjit Ghuman said investigations in the case were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kzf-operative-brought-on-production-warrant-283774
