17-07-2021||To||Gurdaspur diary: An open letter to MC chief to check stray dog menace||The President,Municipal Committee,GurdaspurSir,We, the residents of Gurdaspur, know well that it has been ages ever since you walked down the alleys of the city or even drove a two-wheeler. Otherwise you would have known for yourself the gigantic proportions to which the stray dog menace has reached. Dogs seldom bite people travelling in cars. Probably, that must be the other reason why you are unaware of reality. It took the death of a labourer early this week to remind you that the threat is real and alive. Men, women and children continue to get bitten by wild dogs. The poor labourer was sleeping on a pavement on Geeta Bhawan road when canines inflicted serious injuries. We understand you have now called for tenders to engage a body, which will check the scourge. Yes, it took a poor man’s death to unnerve you. In any case, officials claim that calling for tenders is a case of too little, too late. Barking dogs seldom bite, but the problem is this proverb is not known to dogs. Actually, barking dogs do bite. Ask the labourer’s grieving family back home in UP. As they say, bite us once, shame on the dog but bite us repeatedly, shame on us for allowing it to happen. The situation is such that hordes of stray dogs are lined up near shops selling meat and fish ready to prey upon us. Agreed, there is this nouveau riche class which is all too happy to feed dogs with bones. When will the rich learn that never bite the hand that feeds you and never feed the mouth that bites you? The sooner they do, the better it will be. Dogs being fed by the city’s elite are common sights particularly in the evenings in posh areas like the Civil Lines. When the labourer’s death occurred, the Municipal Committee’s vehicle gathering stray dogs did arrive but a good 8 hours late. And then there remains the curious case of dog lovers Samiksha Kaushal and her friend Ritica Salhotra. These two young girls arrived at the scene within no time and tried to clear the mess. Rather unfortunately your officials never allowed them the freedom to work. Samiksha actually runs a social organisation called ‘Humans for Animals’. She claims she tried to reason with the officials to earmark a vacant piece of land where stray dogs can be shifted just like we have ‘gaushalas’. Young Samiksha perhaps does not know that she is not living in an idealistic world. She lives in a country where the cow is revered and where ‘gaushalas’ are established at the drop of a hat. Like it or lump it but that is a fact. Nobody is willing to take responsibility for canines which bite. These days Ritica is busy writing letters to officials to provide land on the outskirts of the city where a ‘dog shelter’ can be established. “It should be on the lines of the ‘cattle pound’ set up in nearby Kalanaur,” she says. It is here where dogs can live in peace without disturbing the peace of others. It will be good if we heed to Mahatma Gandhi’s words- The greatness of a nation can be judged by the way it treats its animals. Killing dogs will not curb the bite. Sterilisation can. That is the most effective way to reduce the dog population. But the problem is that who will bell the cat what with your MC being a cash-starved body? Scores of pedestrians are bitten everyday, but seldom do they report these because they know it will lead them nowhere. There have been cases of morning walkers giving the stick to the dogs. But these creatures are indeed wise. They crawl away into a tight corner, lick their wounds and do not rejoin the world till they are whole again. Mr President, may we request you to take a walk on Geeta Bhawan road and the Behrampur road at night without the aid of a stick. We are sure the very next day funds will be made available to take care of the danger. And please do involve the youngsters’ like Samiksha and Ritica in the drive to eradicate stray dogs. Also request your brother, who is the sitting MLA, to accompany you on your walk.Yours faithfullyVox PopuliNPA cut: ‘Bloody protest’ by Pathankot doctorsGovernment doctors of Pathankot are not willing to give up their fight as far as the findings of the 6th Pay Commission are concerned. This time they took out a novel protest. They took out blood from their bodies with syringes and later stained their aprons with it. Dr Sakshi, district epidemiologist, who is one of the leading lights of the fight against the pay commission’s recommendations, said “aprons are their uniforms and stethoscopes are their weapons.” The docs marched to the office of MLA Amit Vij and placed their stethoscopes on his table. “We request the state government to provide a remedy after diagnosing the problem. As any doctor can tell you the most crucial step towards healing is having the right diagnosis. If the disease is precisely identified, a good solution is more likely to be arrived at. Conversely, a bad diagnosis usually means a bad outcome, no matter how skilled the physician is,” opined Dr Sakshi. Hopefully, the government diagnoses the problem correctly otherwise the agitation has the potential to snowball into a major confrontation between both the parties. Prominent among others who took part in the ‘bloody protest’ were Dr Madhur Mattu, President of Pathankot unit of PCMS Doctors Association, Dr Sharin, Joint Secretary, Dr Punit Gill, Finance Secretary and Dr Deep Singh, a senior member.Protesting fuel price hikeThe Pathankot district president of the NSUI Abhyam Sharma (pic) and his team conjured up the weird idea of protesting against rising fuel prices by trying to burn PM Narendra Modi’s effigy at the local cremation ground. However, as they were taking the effigy in a mortuary van, it ran out of fuel. Sharma and his colleagues decided to do the next best thing. They pulled the mortuary van to a nearby petrol pump with ropes. It was at the pump where they registered their protest.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-an-open-letter-to-mc-chief-to-check-stray-dog-menace-284434
17-07-2021||Amritsar||World Youth Skills Day celebrated||GNDU declares resultsThe results of B. Design (Multimedia), (Sem– III), Bachelor of Tourism and Hotel Management, (Sem- I), MA English (Sem-I & III) and B. Design (Multimedia), (Sem- I) of session December 2020 have been declared by Guru Nanak Dev University. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/world-youth-skills-day-celebrated-284431
17-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Sharanjit is new Executive Officer||Farmer returns from Delhi, diesAmritsar: A 76-year old farmer, who came back from Delhi Kisan Morcha, died on Friday morning at his village. The victim has been identified as Mahinder Singh, a resident of Dadupura village in Majitha. The farmer was associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He came back on Thursday. Sawarn Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “Mahinder was not feeling well, so he preferred returning from the protest site. After reaching home, his health deteriorated further and he died today morning.” Activists demanded compensation for all farmers who died while protesting against the three agri laws. TNSAAP women wing holds meetingTarn Taran : Rajwinder Kaur Thiara, chief, AAP (women wing) asked women to come forward and play an active role in the 2022 Assembly polls. Thiara was in the town on Friday. She said decision of the AAP to give 300 units free (electricity) to each household would directly be beneficial for women as they run houses. She said women units should be formed in villages and at ward level in the towns. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-sharanjit-is-new-executive-officer-284433
17-07-2021||---||Potholed roads give residents bumpy ride||Amritsar, July 16 Despite tall claims made by the Municipal Corporation (MC) regarding maintenance of roads, roads in several areas of the city are in bad shape. Residents are forced to bear the brunt of this laxity, especially during the monsoon, as they face inconvenience while commuting on waterlogged roads. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed to have spend 	Rs60 crore on the roads during the past two years. However, a number of roads are still crying for attention. Some major roads have been recarpeted during the past few months but internal roads in various localities are crying for attention. Residents of various localities on the Daburji-Sultanwind link road demonstrated against the government on Tuesday. They have transplanted paddy on the road where rainwater had accumulated. A major portion of a road near the overbridge is badly damaged. It had witnessed several accidents in the past. Daljit Kaur, a resident of Daburji, said, “Representatives of our area have met several politicians and officials of the MC demanding recarpeting of roads, but to no avail. The residents of over 10 localities are facing hell-like conditions in monsoon”. The circular road of Malanwali village in Ward No 5 is also being ignored for a long time. The village residents have been demanding from the authorities to recarpet it.  In a recently held General House meeting of the MC, recarpeting of several roads have been sanctioned. “The Municipal Corporation does patchwork on Sultanwind Road and Sau Futi Road before the monsoon. The road needs to recarpet as its major commercial hub in the city”, said Davinder Singh.  Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said all major roads of the city have been recarpeted and remaining work would be completed within next few months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/potholed-roads-give-residents-bumpy-ride-284421
17-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC chief inspects cleanliness work||MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi on Friday conducted an inspection of the cleanliness drive initiated by the health wing of the MC.  On Wednesday, Jaggi had visited several roads and expressed his dissatisfaction over the levels of cleanliness in the city. He had also convened a meeting of senior health officials and prepared a roster to clean all major roads under a special cleanliness drive. Employees of the health wing in the north zone conducted the drive from Kacheri Chowk to Celebration Mall. Employees of the central zone cleaned the GT Road from Rigo Bridge to Khalsa College for Women and Sheran Wala Gate to Darbar Sahib.  East zone employees cleaned the area from Husainpura Chowk to Alpha One. Sanitation workers in the west zone swept clean the road from Canal Office Chowk to Puranni Chungi at Chheharta. Similarly, MC employees were deployed in the south zone where the area from Chatiwind gate to Sultanwind gate was given to them. The Commissioner inspected the team working at the Mall Road and gave instructions to remove all the garbage lying on footpaths and roadsides. This time, the MC has prepared the roaster for 15 days. The zonal teams would clean one or two roads in their respective areas. Senior health officials and sanitary inspectors would supervise the cleanliness drive. After cleaning all major roads, a new roaster would be prepared for the next 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-chief-inspects-cleanliness-work-284422
17-07-2021||Amritsar||GNDU gets 41st spot in ‘ethical values’ category||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has been ranked among the top 50 universities in the world in the ‘ethical values’ category in the World’s Universities with Real Impact (WURI)-2021 rankings. Contesting for innovative programmes in the ‘social responsibility, ethics, and integrity’ category’, it is awarded the 41st rank in the category. Overall, the university is placed among 101-200 ranking category in the rankings.The key innovative initiatives submitted for the WURI included society-oriented research centres under RUSA 02 programme; water treatment and harvesting, biogas, vermicomposting, and green campus initiatives; adopting colleges in remote and rural areas; adoption of villages for development; establishing students’ clubs and science club, etc.The university’s participatory dialogue with society in order to promote sustainable development; supporting role in higher education in the urban and rural communities; pursuance for environmental excellence; practicing resource conservation to promote and improve the health of the community: performing community services through skill generation and up-scaling of the local manpower were some of the highlights mentioned to WURI.Vice-Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu appreciated the faculty and administrative departments for the achievement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-gets-41st-spot-in-ethical-values-category-284423
17-07-2021||Amritsar||Employees to gherao ministers on July 18||Intensifying their stir against the recommendations of the 6th pay panel and the government’s anti-staff attitude, employees and pensioners unions of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Kapurthala, on Friday announced to hold dharnas outside the houses of 12 Cabinet ministers, including OP Soni on July 18.Teachers would be participating in a ‘Halla Bol’ rally to be held under the Employees and Pensioners Joint Front in Patiala on July 29.Jarmanjit Singh Chhajalwadi, convener, Joint Teachers’ Front, said on July 18 residences of Vijayinder Singla in Sangrur, Bharat Bhushan Ashu in Ludhiana, Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali, OP Soni in Amritsar, Manpreet Singh Badal in Bathinda, Tripat Bajwa in Qadian (Gurdaspur), Rana Gurmeet Sodhi in Ferozepur, Sham Sundar Arora in Hoshiarpur, Brahm Mohindra in Patiala, Sadhu Singh Dharmsot in Nabha and Sunil Kumar Jakhar in Abohar (Fazilka) will be gheraoed.Protesters have been demanding regularisation of services of contractual teachers, uniform high coefficient (3.74) to all, restoring old pension scheme, full allowances from 2015, annual increments, reinstatement of arrears and salaries to music teachers, among others. The demands also includes that teachers suffering from Covid-19 should be assured of paid leave and ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-to-gherao-ministers-on-july-18-284424
17-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Vehicle owners unable to install high-security registration plates||Amritsar, July 16As many as 24 persons who purchased vehicles between 2017 and 2018 have been unable to get high-security number plates and renew insurance of their vehicles.Reason: The owners cannot find any registration record related to their vehicles on ‘Vahan’ portal of the ministry of road transport and highways.Vikas Khanna, who had purchased a car in 2018, said there was negligence on the part of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) in Amritsar, which probably did not register his vehicle on ‘Vahan’ portal.“I had submitted all the required documents on November 24, 2020 and till date the status of my application to register my car on ‘Vahan’ portal is pending. Even after sending seven reminders to the State Transport Commissioner, Punjab Transport Department, Technical Director, National Informatics Centre and meeting Joyti Bala, RTA, Amritsar, nothing has materialised so far,” said Khanna.According to information, due to some technical glitch, registration record of around 83 vehicles was not updated on ‘Vahan’ portal. “We cannot get the high-security number plates as data is not available on the portal. Vehicle owners are always under constant fear of getting in trouble with the traffic police. Even renewal of insurance of such vehicles will not be done if their details are not available on ‘Vahan’ portal as insurance firms cross check the details.”State Transport Commissioner Dr Amarpal Singh said, “We have issued several public notices to check details of vehicles on the ‘Vahan’ portal and in case data is found missing , one must inform us. These people did not respond on time. Now, we have pursued the matter with national authorities and the data will be updated on ‘Vahan’ portal within two weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-vehicle-owners-unable-to-install-high-security-registration-plates-284415
17-07-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Taps run dry in Tarn Taran, officials pass the buck||Tarn Taran, July 16More than 95 per cent population of the town failed to get even a drop of drinking water on Friday. Residents had to face difficulties in getting ready for workplaces due to non-availability of the water supply. Housewives also were a disturbed lot who found it hard to do domestic chores. In hot and humid weather conditions, most residents had to go without bath.Officials of the department concerned did not even care to answer frantic calls of the hassled residents.Residents of the local Noordi Road, Mohalla Tonk-kasharti, Valmiki Colony, Noordi Bazar, Guru-Ka-Khooh, Bugha Road, Dhora Chaunki locality, Sach Khand Road, Sarhali Road, Muhalla Bhag Shah, localities of the SDM office have not received water supply for the last more than a week. About 60 per cent of the affected population is residing in these localities.The officials said the crisis arose since the day the tubewell (No.6) situated in the ground of the local SGAD Government College developed a fault. Though a week has passed since it ceased to function, the authorities have failed to repair it till date. Satnam Singh Malhia, Vikramjit Singh, Amritpal Singh, Resham Singh, Billa Mistri and other residents said they had brought the matter to the notice of Rajnish Arora, SDM-cum-administrator of the nagar council, but he failed to solve the problem much to their distress.Residents of some localities along the Amritsar Road, including Kajikot Road, Nanaksar Mohalla, Deep Avenue, Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Golden Avenue and a number of other areas could not even get a drop of water. They had to move about their areas for a bucket of water for a bath and domestic chores. The rest 25 per cent affected families consist of these localities.Though the SDM was contacted for his comments, he did not answer the phone calls of this correspondent.Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer of the council, said as she had assumed charge just on Thursday, she instructed the employees concerned to make sure that water was supplied to all the affected localities without delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/taps-run-dry-in-tarn-taran-officials-pass-the-buck-284416
17-07-2021||---||Green dreams: Following footprints of carbon -ve Bhutan||Amritsar, July 16Phulkari - Women of Amritsar on Friday organised a webinar on the environment with Dasho Paljor J Dorji, godfather of conservation in Bhutan, and his son Kelly Dorji, who is also a known Bollywood actor. The Dorjis talked about the environment policy of Bhutan, which makes it the only carbon negative country in the world and how India can implement sustainable development on the same ground.A celebrated environmentalist and diplomat, Paljor Dorji is currently the special permanent adviser to the Bhutan government. He was the Chief Justice of Bhutan, the Deputy Minister of Social Services, the Deputy Minister of National Environment Commission and the Ambassador to UN and many European capitals. He talked about how he took inspiration from India in the early 60s that motivated him to work towards nature conservation in his country.“I grew up in India, I consider myself a Calcutta boy. On our visits here, we used to go to the Jaldapara Game Sanctuary in West Bengal that was one of the world’s best nature and wildlife sanctuaries. Later, somewhere in 1966, when I revisited the sanctuary, it was just a skeleton of its former glory and that taught me a lesson and I went back to Bhutan and asked my king to never let what happened in Jaldapara to Bhutan,” he said.Working towards creating awareness of nature conservation, Dorji founded the first NGO of Bhutan in 1987 to facilitate eco-conservation. He also helped draft The Middle Path - Bhutan environment protection policy.Being a cousin of the fourth king of Bhutan helped him propose ideas to conserve the country’s natural resources and wildlife. “I faced many challenges but I never let my country look towards its forests for wealth. Instead, we created a development pace that was in sync with nature. I discouraged the idea of letting foreign scientists come to Bhutan to carry out research on forests, wildlife or birds as I wanted to build a scientific temperament in our youth and encourage them to carry research and make discoveries before anyone else,” he shared. He said, “Every generation has the responsibility to take care of the environment for future generations.”Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari, informed about the environment initiatives undertaken by them. Launching several drives on World Environment Day, including an environment project competition for children, Phulkari has launched a drive to recycle old clothes into bags to replace plastic bags and make eco-bricks from plastic waste. Phulkari founder Praneet Bubber and audience from Brazil too joined in for this international webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-dreams-following-footprints-of-carbon-ve-bhutan-284417
17-07-2021||---||5.6-kg heroin seized; 4 peddlers held in Tarn Taran||Amritsar, July 16The Tarn Taran police have arrested four drug peddlers and confiscated 5.6 kg of heroin from their possession. The police have recovered drug proceeds to the tune of Rs 2 lakh, besides an SUV (Hyundai Creta) from two of the suspects.Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against them and further investigations were under progress.Acting on a tip-off, the Tarn Taran police have arrested Kabal Singh and Surta Singh, both residents of Dal village, who were allegedly found to be involved in cross border smuggling. Preliminary probe revealed that this was their first assignment from across the border near Dal border outpost. Cops identified the spot and shared information with the Border Security Force, said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale. Immediately, a search operation was launched and the police and the BSF recovered recovered 4.6 kg of heroin concealed in two plastic bottles near a stone, he said.The SSP said Kabal lured Surta, a labourer, for retrieving the contraband and promised the latter Rs 50,000 per bottle.He said further investigation was under way to identify their accomplices on this side of the border.Nimbale said during their interrogation, the police got a tip-off about two other drug peddlers, Manjinder Singh alias Mani of Bugga village, and Amritpal Singh alias Amirt of Joneke village. They informed that the duo had received consignment of 1-kg recently. Following which the Narcotic Cell laid a checkpoint on Tarn Taran – Harike road and a car was intercepted. On seeing the police, the duo tried to flee away, but were arrested.During search, the police confiscated 850-gm heroin from Manjinder and 170 gm of heroin from Amritpal Singh, along with Rs 2 lakh of drug money and an SUV from their possession.The SSP said Amritpal had two cases of similar nature registered against him while Manjinder also had a case of murder bid and the Arms Act registered against him.Nimbale said two separate cases were registered against them and more recoveries and arrests were likely to be made in near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-6-kg-heroin-seized-4-peddlers-held-in-tarn-taran-284418
17-07-2021||---||Arms racket: MP-based two suppliers to be produced in court||Amritsar, July 16Two Madhya Pradesh-based illegal weapon suppliers will be produced in a local court on Saturday.While busting yet another module of illegal weapon supplier from MP, the Punjab Police have nabbed Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village in MP, and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani in MP, from Sendhwan village, MP.The police confiscated as many as 39 weapons from their possession. They were brought here on a transit remand.The preliminary interrogation of the suspects revealed that they had been regular supplier to criminal elements based in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, besides NCR. Earlier, they had admitted to have supplied over 300 illegal weapons to gangsters and other criminal elements in the last several months.Sources in the counter intelligence pointed out that local links of the duo was being looked into. The police also identified several persons who used to take orders of weapons from Amritsar and other parts of the state and different police teams have been formed to nab them.This was the fourth such module busted involved in supplying of illegal weapons from MP by the Punjab Police. The Amritsar (rural) police had busted two such modules while another module was busted by Kapurthala police.The counter intelligence had arrested two persons identified as Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran, after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession on June 12. During interrogation, the duo had revealed that they procured these weapons from MP.A special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the entire module. Preliminary investigations revealed that these weapons were meant to be supplied to various gangs and anti-national elements in Punjab. A case had been registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arms-racket-mp-based-two-suppliers-to-be-produced-in-court-284419
17-07-2021||Amritsar||Nine Covid +ve cases reported in Amritsar||The health authorities reported nine positive cases in the district on Friday. With this, the total count has increased to 46,984. The authorities did not report any Covid-19 related casualty in the last 24 hours in the district. Out of the nine positive patients, five were influenza-like illness cases and four were contacts of positive patients.With recovery of 21 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,282. At present, the district has a total of 123 active cases.The health authorities said a total of 9,982 beneficiaries, were administered vaccine today. Those inoculated fully include 4,631 people in the age group of 18-44 years, 51,901 people above 45 years, 15,299 healthcare workers and 17,562 frontline workers.2 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported two positive cases in the district on Friday. The authorities reported zero Covid-19 related death today. As a result, the toll stands at 370.The district has 32 active cases and 21 patients have been isolated at their homes.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the administration organised vaccination camps in 120 villages today and 7,383 beneficiaries were inoculated. A total of 2,41, 688 persons have been vaccinated to date in the district. The Health Department collected 1,257 samples today. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nine-covid-ve-cases-reported-in-amritsar-284420
17-07-2021||---||2-room structure found during excavation at Golden Temple complex||Amritsar, July 16The SGPC has approached heritage experts and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to ascertain the antiquity of a two-room structure found 12-ft beneath during excavation at the Golden Temple complex.Addressing mediapersons here today, Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC president, said the committee had approached the ASI through the office of the Deputy Commissioner. “In case its antiquity and association with the Sikh history is proved, it will be preserved,” she said.The Sikh Sadbhawna Dal, an organisation floated by Baldev Singh Wadala, a dismissed Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple, alleged there were attempts to destroy the Sikh heritage and carrying out of “unscientific” ‘kar sewa’ by volunteers inside the Golden Temple complex.He claimed when activists of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal reached the excavation site yesterday, Kar Sewa volunteers were engaged in digging a deep pit without taking care of the heritage structure beneath. This led to an altercation between the two groups and the activists of the Dal went live on social media to highlight the issue. They claimed that a tunnel and a heritage structure were lying beneath the site. They alleged the volunteers of Kar Sewa were working at the behest of the government to erase the symbols of the 1984 Operation Blue Star and other Sikh heritage.Maharaja connect?A spatial conservation planner and former head of GNDU’s Sri Guru Ram Das School of Planning says the site used to be known as Bunga Gianiya, where Giani Sant Singh, a prominent person in the court of legendary Sikh King Maharaja Ranjit Singh, resided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-room-structure-found-during-excavation-at-golden-temple-complex-284191
