18-07-2021||---||Army man loses Rs7.2L to fraudster||Amritsar, July 17An unidentified person fraudulently withdrew Rs 7.20 lakh from the account of an Army man identified as Sanjiv Kumar (38). Originally from Uttar Pradesh, he was currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir.The complainant was posted in the Khasa Cantonment area from 2014 to 2018 and had his service salary account in the State Bank of India’s branch in Khasa cantonment. He had another joint account with his wife with the same bank.Recently, he was shocked to learn that some one had withdrawn Rs 7.2 lakh from his both accounts. When he investigated, he found that Rs 29,000 was withdrawn on July 1 while Rs 6.65 lakh and Rs 26,000 was withdrawn fraudulently on July 2 and July 3.According to information, he came to Khasa cantonment branch and asked the bank officials about this. The bank authorities informed that a man posing as Sanjiv Kumar had come to the bank and got mobile numbers changed from both the accounts.The Gharinda police said a case under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against unknown person in the connection. The police authorities said that there appears some negligence on part of bank authorities who failed to check the credentials of the man who approached the bank for changing contact number.The police said further investigations were under progress to identify the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-man-loses-rs7-2l-to-fraudster-284881
18-07-2021||---||City student shines in nat’l talent exam||Amritsar, July 17 Hardik Sharma, a student of Bhavan SL Public School, stood out once again at the National Talent Search Examination- 2020 stage II as results were announced on July 15. Sharma scored 136 marks out of 200 in stage II of the exam that was held in February this year.  This is a scholarship programme to recognise students with high intellect and academic talent and helps them through monthly scholarships to pursue higher education. Hardik stood first in Punjab in NTSE 2020 stage I exams held last year, with a score of 190 out of 200.  The NTSE is one of the most prestigious national-level scholarship programmes in the country to identify and nurture talent. The exam is conducted for Class X students in two stages – I for state level and II Continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-student-shines-in-natl-talent-exam-284882
18-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Man held for killing drug-addict son||Tarn Taran, July 17The Goindwal Sahib police have arrested a man for killing his son, who was a drug addict.The accused has been identified as Harjinder Singh, who, too, was under the influence of drugs while committing the crime.Devinder Singh (35) of Khawaspur village, 20 km from here, was killed under mysterious circumstances on July 6. A case under Section 302 of the IPC was already registered on the statement of Rajbir Kaur, deceased’s mother. Ramandeep Singh DSP, Goindwal Sahib, on Saturday said the deceased, after having his dinner, went out and soon returned with blood stains. He was hit on his chest and died on the way to the hospital.The police after collecting the evidence from the spot were suspicious of it being a family matter.The DSP said the police detained Harjinder Singh, father of the deceased, who during probe revealed that both of them were under the influence of drugs. His son demanded money to have more drugs to which he denied. Both indulged in a verbal duel and in a fit of rage, Harjinder attacked his son on his chest with a knife.He ran back to his house to save himself, but died soon as he had lost too much blood.The DSP said the accused was arrested on Saturday.The CaseDevinder Singh (35) of Khawaspur village, 20 km from Tarn Taran, was killed under mysterious circumstances on July 6. A case under Section 302 of the IPC was already registered on the statement of Rajbir Kaur, deceased's mother. Ramandeep Singh, DSP, Goindwal Sahib, said the deceased, after having his dinner, went out and returned with blood stains. He was hit on his chest and died on the way to the hospital. The police after collecting the evidence from the spot were suspicious of it being a family conflict. The police detained Harjinder, who during probe revealed that both of them were under the influence of drugs. His son demanded money to have more drugs to which he denied. Both indulged in a verbal duel and in a fit of rage, Harjinder attacked his son with a knife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-killing-drug-addict-son-284883
18-07-2021||---||5 test positive in dist, no death reported in 3 days||Amritsar, July 17 With five persons testing positive in the district on Saturday, the total count increased to 46,989. The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.  The district has not reported any death due to the disease in the last three days. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 28 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,310. At present, the district has a total of 100 active cases.  The district has inoculated 2,246 residents during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. The health authorities said the first dose was given to 1,592 residents, while 654 residents have taken the second dose.  No death, case in Tarn Taran Neither any death, nor any positive case was reported in the district on Saturday. Since July 12, the toll remains 370. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said there are 28 active cases of which 17 have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams collected 1,022 samples from different places today for Covid infection. As many as 327 citizens were given the jabs on Saturday as a result of which 2,42,015 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-test-positive-in-dist-no-death-reported-in-3-days-284884
18-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Teen girl abducted||Tarn Taran, July 17  Sukha Singh of nearby Bachre village abducted his teenage relative on the pretext of marrying her.  Parents of the victim, in the complaint to the police, said the girl went missing from her house on Friday.  The father of the victim alleged that the accused had relations with the victim.   The Goindwal Sahib police registered a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the Indian Penal Code in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-girl-abducted-284885
18-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Murder case solved, 4 held||With the arrest of all four accused responsible for the murder of Harpal Singh (35) of Chhapari Sahib village, the Goindwal Sahib police have solved the murder case.The victim went missing from his home on July 14 and his body was recovered from the village pond on Friday. Four of the accused identified as Gurpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Gurwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh had been arrested for the murder of Harpal Singh.The accused had already been booked under Sections 302, 201, 379 and 34 of the IPC by Goindwal Sahib police on Friday.The victim’s father Sohan Singh said on July 14, he had seen all of them, including Harpal, at a corner of the village and he asked his son to accompany him to the house, but he refused to accompany him. DSP Ramandeep Singh said the accused had confessed to killing Harpal Singh and disposed of his body in the pond. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-case-solved-4-held-284886
18-07-2021||---||Of poetry so vivid & beautiful||Amritsar, July 17 Ranjit Hoskote, one of the most celebrated and read poets in India, who is the winner of the Sahitya Akademi Lifetime Achievement award, in conversation with Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, and noted author Maitreyee centred around his latest book of poetry titled Hunchprose, which is a collection of poems inspired by everyday encounters.  Hoskote said poetry for him was natural response to his surroundings. “For me, poetry is an automatic and natural response to any situation and in this context, ‘Hunchprose’ is no different. The poems in this collection talk about the daily travails that we encounter in our lives that shape us as human beings.”  Author Maitreyee introduced Ranjit’s poetry to audiences by terming these ‘beautiful and eloquent’. “There are political and cultural connections and connotations in Ranjit’s poems that add depth to these, and bring nuances of human dilemmas,” she said. Ranjit said poetry for him is an artistic vehicle for protest against human situations and anguish arising out of these. When asked about his choice of language for his poems, as he writes in English, Ranjit replied: “Although we have exalted notions of soil, country, language and culture, what makes a country our own is the sense of belonging to it. You may be born in one country and yet feel that you belong to some other country that feels like home. And where you feel at home, you also adopt the native language. But for me even more important than the language or the intellectual element in poetry is the presence of music and rhythm in poems. It is essential for me that my poems should sound musical to a reader and listener alike.”  He said although he does not usually play music while composing poems, strains of Kabir’s nirguni bhajans, various thumris and bhairavis run through the labyrinths of his mind, which add their own touch to the poems. Ranjit also delighted the audience by reciting some of his famous poems including ‘Marketplace, ‘I, Lalla’ and ‘Protest’ which are very vivid pictures of society along with being very hard hitting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-poetry-so-vivid-beautiful-284887
18-07-2021||---||A marginal farmer scripts his success story||Amritsar, July 17Balwinder Singh, a marginal farmer from Makowal village, had founded a farmer producer organisation (FPO) to provide marketing facility for value added agro-products such as jaggery, basmati and oilseeds. Owner of only three-acre land, he got training in “gur” making from the Amritsar Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in 2015. Later, he founded the organisation to generate employment and income. Inspired by him, some other farmers from his area also got training from the KVK. They started making value-added products and banked their agricultural tools and machines for cooperative hiring.“Due to involvement of middlemen and lack of knowledge about the supply chain, the farmers faced problems in marketing their produce. Experts from the KVK suggested the farmers to form an FPO. The members got training and guidance for the same from the KVK and funds from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development,” said Balwinder.A small selling-counter for their produce was established in the village and an implement shed was made with the help of government subsidy.“It is not an easy task for a small farmer to establish an FPO. Lack of business knowledge and skills is the main hindrance for them to establish a competitive organisation. The primary intention of the ‘Jagriti Farmer Producer Organisation’ is to provide machinery and generate more income for the members. A machinery bank was established for custom hiring. With the help of it, small farmers can get costly machines at genuine rates,” he said.The FPO got its own commission agents licence and the margin is being distributed to its members after deducting the costs of the FPO. As a result, more members are being attracted towards the FPO.Balwinder and his fellow farmers are earning a good amount from small land hoardings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-marginal-farmer-scripts-his-success-story-284889
18-07-2021||---||MP’s weapon supplier remanded in police custody||Amritsar, July 17The counter intelligence wing on Saturday got a two-day police remand of two MP weapon smugglers. They were produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class here.The police had nabbed Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani from Sendhwan village in Barwani district of Madhya Pradesh during a special operation. The police team confiscated as many as 39 illicit weapons from their possession.Preliminary interrogation of the suspects revealed that they had been regular supplier to criminal elements based in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, besides NCR region. Earlier, they had admitted to have supplied over 300 illegal weapons to gangsters and other criminals in the past several months.The counter intelligence had arrested two persons, identified as Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both of Tarn Taran, after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession on June 12 and during interrogation they revealed that they procured these weapons from MP. A special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the entire module.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mps-weapon-supplier-remanded-in-police-custody-284890
18-07-2021||Amritsar||MP Aujla told to raise farmers’ issues||A delegation of farmers under Sanyukt Kisan Morcha today presented a ‘warning letter’ to Congress MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and asked him to raise the issues related to farm laws in the Parliament during the coming Monsoon session. The farmers said all MPs are being asked to raise the issues of farmers in the Parliament. Aujla said all MPs would raise the issue as the three farm laws would affect the entire state. “We would raise the issue inside and outside the Parliament,” he said. The farmers’ delegation included Balwinder Singh Dudala, Dhanwant Singh Khatre Kalan, Baldev Singh Bal, Sawinder Singh, Surjit Singh and many others. While the Parliament session is scheduled to start from July 22, the farmer unions are also getting ready for the protest outside the Parliament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-aujla-told-to-raise-farmers-issues-284891
18-07-2021||---||MC to use infrared heating tech for road patchwork||Amritsar, July 17  The Municipal Corporation (MC) would spend Rs50 lakh on the patchwork to repair potholes on the city roads. Several roads in the city are dotted with potholes and residents face inconvenience while commuting. Earlier, the MC used to conduct patch work on roads only during dry weather conditions. Last year, the MC brought a machine which is able to do patch work even in monsoon and winters.    The Civil Wing officials of the MC stated that Indian companies are now manufacturing mobile infrared potholes repairing machines for the patchwork. Earlier, the technology was only available in foreign countries. “All ingredients required for the patchwork get mixed on the pothole with infrared thermal heating technology and machine conduct patch work by heating the surface. The machine uses the waste material with eco-friendly technology. Moreover it conduct patch work seamlessly and commuter not witness bumpy ride after patch work on the road”, stated executive engineer (civil) MC.  The patchwork done using infrared thermal heating technology lasts longer than conventional method.  Some months back a demonstration was also conducted on the circular road, where Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC officials check functioning of machine. In the recently held General House meeting, Rs 49.98 lakh were approved for patchwork using the infrared thermal heating technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-to-use-infrared-heating-tech-for-road-patchwork-284892
18-07-2021||---||‘Library Langar’: 2L books distributed||Amritsar, July 17Under the ‘Library Langar’ drive launched by the Education Department in district government schools, over two lakh books have been distributed among students and their parents by setting up book stalls at government schools as well as public places and gurdwaras.District Education Officer (Sec) Satinder Bir Singh toured several ‘Library Langars’ held at various government schools today.The aim of the initiative is to reach out to maximum number of students and their parents and ensure that reading is promoted and facilitated by providing books.In addition, the Department of Education’s campaign is more important now as students have moved away from books due to staying at home during the pandemic and being hooked to mobilephones and laptops,” he said.Education officials said in order to make the campaign a success, the department had installed posters at social media platforms and public places and home delivery of books was being done.Books were delivered to the homes of the students by putting up banners.As a part of the campaign, the district-level inauguration of ‘Library Langars’ at all upper primary government schools such as Jandiala Guru Government Senior Secondary School, Abdal Government Middle School, Nowshera Government Senior Secondary School and Nangli Government High School was done today.The books exhibited for students are in different languages, including Hindi, English and Punjabi, and most of them comprise of children’s books, fiction and general knowledge books.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/library-langar-2l-books-distributed-284893
18-07-2021||---||City girl makes it to global essay competition||Amritsar, July 17 Zyna Dhillon, a Class X student of Mount Litera School, has been shortlisted for the prestigious John Locke Institute Essay Competition that received over 4,000 submissions from 101 countries this year. The competition invites students to explore a wide range of challenging and interesting questions beyond the confines of the school curriculum, across various subjects. Zyna penned down an essay in the History Category, on the subject “Should we judge those from the past by the standards of today? How will historians in the future judge us?”, has been invited to the University of Oxford in September for an academic conference. The 15-year-old said she is looking forward to meet other shortlisted candidates and academicians. Passionate about writing, Zyna said she has made it a part of her routine. “I attended summer programmes on creative writing and language skills by John Hopkins Centre for talented Youth. It’s something I love and I wanted to explore my skills while also using it as a tool for expressing my opinions on matter I consider important,” she said. Apart from writing, Zyna finds debating as therapeutic. “All throughout the lockdown, I kept myself busy doing what I loved. I did a lot of research for my essay for the John Locke competition, reading about world history and the ethical and moral grounds that changed through over the years. In my essay, I have talked about how racism or casteism, that was considered acceptable in early 18th and 19 centuries, cannot be judged on the same parameters today. I have mentioned several recent incidents like 1984 riots to analyse how changing social structure, circumstances and human behaviour effect the sense of right and wrong in a given time period,” she explained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-girl-makes-it-to-global-essay-competition-284894
18-07-2021||Amritsar||3 mobile phones seized from Jail||Constable’s mobile stolenAmritsar: Diraj Singh, a constable of the Punjab Police, lodged a complaint with the Rambagh police station and said an unidentified person decamped with his expensive mobile phone from his room on Wednesday. Dilraj is deputed as a gunman with Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon, former Youth Akali Dal (Majha zone) president, after his duty he fell asleep in his room. In the morning, he gave the keys of a vehicle to ASI Sewa Singh and then went to sleep again. He said at around 7am when he woke up he found his mobile phone missing. The police have registered a case in this connection. TNSBus conductor, driver assaultedAmritsar: Three motorcycle-borne youths allegedly thrashed a bus conductor and driver of a Punjab Roadways bus here on Friday. Surinder Singh, a resident of Valtoha, told the police that he was a bus conductor with the Punjab Roadways, Patti depot, while Raj Singh was a driver. He said on Friday when they reached near Guruwali village three bike-borne youths came in front of the bus while driving rashly. He said when the driver questioned them about their rash driving, the accused got infuriated and started abusing them while intercepting the bus. The accused were later identified as Tarsem Singh, Makhan Singh and Gurbir Singh of Ibban Khurd village. No arrest has been made till now. TNSReopen Kartarpur Corridor: ActivistsAmritsar: BS Goraya, founder activist behind opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, pitched for reopening of the corridor. In an online communiqué to the PMO on Saturday, he appealed for early reopening of the corridor. He buttressed his point saying that the Covid-19 protocol can easily be complied with at the international corridor. “The corridor was closed for public on March 16. He said there was no point gathering in a large number on the international corridor. As entire process is quite systematic, only those securing online approval can reach the immigration office on the border. Moreover, the Sikh shrine at Kartarpur is situated at an isolated place where there is neither any market nor dwellings. He added that the Pakistan government had expressed its willingness to reopen the corridor. Goraya had campaigned for the opening of the corridor for nearly two decades. The corridor was opened in November 2019. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-284896
18-07-2021||Amritsar||GNDU inks MoU with FUEL||Vaccination camp organisedOver 100 staff members including senior teachers were vaccinated at the day-long- anti-Covid-19 vaccination camp, organised at Khalsa College campus here. The camp was organised by the management of the college in collaboration with the Department of Health. Principal Dr Mehal Singh said the camp was conducted by Dr Amanpreet from Primary Health Centre, Putlighar and her associate Dr Nisha Khalsa College’s Medical Officer Dr. Charanjit Singh gave all the supporting staff and infrastructure. Encouraging the staff members and students, he said that while it was imperative to follow the guidelines issued for the prevention of this disease, all should take advantage of the facilities being provided by the government for vaccination. He said as the college would open in the coming times from covid restrictions, they would continue to avail this facility of the government in collaboration with the department for the vaccination.Webinar on Malaria, its treatmentDr Vipan Kumar, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, conducted a webinar on topic of malaria and its treatment in India. The webinar webinar was organised by PC Ray Chemical Society of P.G. Department of Chemistry, DAV College, Amritsar.Dr Vipan informed about the treatment adopted globally to eradicate the disease. “The most virulent species of malarial protozoa, Plasmodium falciparum is responsible for 99.7% of malaria cases in the African region. Chloroquine (CQ) was an inexpensive and effective antimalarial drug used to combat the disease for decades and was considered as the Gold Standard. World Health Organization (WHO) has currently recommended the combination of artemisinin and quinoline based drugs, popularly known as Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy (ACT) for treatment of falciparum malaria. However, the appearance of drug-resistance along with adverse effects such as hepatotoxicity and agranulocytosis associated with this therapy has hampered the efforts to eradicate this disease,” he informed. Principal, Dr Rajesh Kumar said that malaria remains major health issue worldwide due to the lack of an effective vaccine and widespread resistance to the currently available drugs.Book released“Revision is the key Mantra to pass the examination with such a wide syllabus and I think, it is unique course for the preparation for UPSC examinations and would probably be a most sort after course in this field after few years”, said Kanwardeep Kaur SSP Malerkotla.She was addressing the function to inaugurate the ‘ Nishan-E-Sikhi preparatory centre for Civil Services, Khadoor Sahib ’ on Friday.Kanwardeep Kaur appreciated the efforts of leadership of Baba Sewa Singh International Environmentalist , patron of the Nishan-E-Sikhi for providing coaching to the rural area students to get themselves be ready for UPSC exams. Baba Sewa Singh in his address highlighted the facilities being given to the students through Nishan-E-Sikhi which was giving coaching to be recruited in official ranks of Military, Para-Military ,Police etc forces to the youth particularly from the rural areas. A book “Lock down dian yaadan de patre” edited by Principal Simarpreet Kaur has also been released on the occasion.Best College rankingsBBK DAV College for Women has secured a place among top colleges in the country in India Today’s Best College Ranking List of India 2021. Out of the list of 14 categories of subjects that were included in the rankings, the college applied in six categories and got ranks in all the six of them. College ranked 36 th in the stream of Bachelor of Design, 53 rd in BCA, 65 th in BCOM, 66 th in BBA, 88 th in Science and 116 th in Arts. It is pertinent to note that the college has been applying for this ranking for last four years and has been persistent in improving on its rankings with every passing year. This year’s rankings are also based on the strategic handling of crisis and challenges due to the pandemic, by the institutions of higher education. While expressing her delight, Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia said that though the last year posed some unprecedented challenges in front of the college, faculty members came up with several innovative ways to meet the digital challenges in education.36 students get certificates of meritCBSE has awarded certificates of merit to 36 students of Class X and XII, of Spring Dale Senior School, in various subjects for achieving excellence in the board exams held in 2020. The Board confers these certificates in different subjects to the top 0.1 percent successful candidates overall in order to recognise their merit and outstanding performance in its annual board exam. Rajiv Kumar Sharma, Principal, Spring Dale Senior School, shared that last year the board exams were disrupted midway due to the pandemic. “It is creditable that our students excelled under such unprecedented conditions. We are proud of them”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-inks-mou-with-fuel-284898
18-07-2021||'Do not panic||‘Don’t panic, isolate yourself in time’||A medical lab technician at Civil Hospital, Sawinder Singh Bhatti had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 26 this year. Bhatti is a part of the medical team responsible for receiving samples from the entire district, labeling them and dispatching these to Government Medical College for testing.Bhatti said, “Whenever you test positive, the first and foremost thing is not to panic. Panic directly affects the immune system and the body’s potential to recover from illness.” He said most of the staffers at the hospital had tested positive by the time he was infected.“Working in the Health Department helps when it comes to getting treatment or right consultation. Colleagues kept in touch and gave advice when it was needed,” said Bhatti, adding his family members, including wife and two children were also infected.He added, “In our case, the symptoms were mild. I had fever for five days. My son had fever for only a day.” He said one must take proper diet and stay positive. Bhatti added that he felt weakness for a few weeks after recovery.He said exercise and walk helped him stay calm and fit during the Covid infection. “I tried to follow the routine I had before I was infected. The only thing I could not do was to go to office. I spent the time talking to the family members,” he said.Bhatti added that one should follow all safety guidelines, especially wearing masks and sanitising or washing hands. “Once you get infected, make sure that you isolate yourself and do not spread the infection to others,” he said.(As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-panic-isolate-yourself-in-time-284900
18-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three days on, girl’s body not identified||Three days on, the identity of a girl, who was found dead at Raipur Ballan village, could not be identified.Panic gripped area of Raipur Ballan village, near Pathankot Chowk in the district, after the girl's body was found abandoned near a canal. The deceased in her early 20s was reportedly shot dead in broad daylight. There was a deep bullet injury inflicted on her forehead.SHO Maqsudan, Sub-Inspector Sukhwinder Singh said while the investigation was on, neither the girl could be identified nor there was any trace of the accused. As per sources, the girl was apparently a migrant from Nepal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-days-on-girls-body-not-identified-284901
