19-07-2021||Amritsar||Probe Aushadhi store’s working||Anti-people policies flayedTarn Taran: The Bhagwan Valmiki Shakti Saganthan organised a protest against the increasing prices of petroleum products and other essential commodities on Sunday. They burnt an effigy of the Central Government. Manjit Singh Mintoo and Singh Sindbad condemned the policies of the Centre. Mintoo said life of all sections of society a has become miserable. Sindbad said increasing prices of petroleum products has ruined agriculture, labourers, industry and other establishments. OC18,000 Sedative pills seizedAmritsar: The police seized 18,000 sedative pills from a house in Ganpati Vihar on Majitha Road on Saturday. The Verka police got a tip-off that Sonu, who lives in Ganpati Vihar, was involved in drug trafficking. A raid was conducted at his residence. The suspect was not present in the house. A case under the NDPS act was registered. In another case, the police have busted an illegal distillery in Verka and arrested Balwinder Singh. They recovered 200 litres of illicit liquor from the spot. A case under the Excise Act has been registered. TNSTeenage girl abductedTarn Taran: Manga Singh of Harike abducted a girl in her teens from the Patti city on Friday on the pretext of marrying her. The victim was a Class VIII student. Her parents were not at home then. Her father alleged that the accused also took seven tola gold and cash Rs50,000 from the locker. The police have registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A, 380 and 453 of the IPC. OC465 ventilators dispatchedAmritsar: ASR Charitable Trust dispatched 465 ventilators to various government and private hospitals in the state to provide better medical care to Covid patients. Harminder Kaur, trustee, said: “We had dispatched the machines to hospitals after receiving these from the Kent Foundation in the US.” He said the machines include 450 NIVs and 15 high-flow ventilators. Joint secretary Damanjit Singh said ventilators have also been sent to various hospitals in Uttarakhand, MP and Chandigarh. He said the aim is to help hospitals prepare for the anticipated third wave. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-aushadhi-stores-working-285304
19-07-2021||---||Holy cow! Rs 540 cr ‘collected’ for welfare, but where’s it?||Amritsar, July 18Seeking information regarding the collection of cow cess from different departments by the Municipal Corporation in the recent past, the Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association, an NGO, headed by Dr Rohan Mehra held a demonstration near the residence of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Majitha Road here on Sunday.The BJP government started cow tax in 2016 for opening around 512 cow shelters in Punjab. Rs15 crore is collected per month in the state in the form of cow cess. From 2017 to 2019, around Rs540 crore was collected in the name of cow cess, but it was not used for the welfare of animals. In Amritsar, the RTO deposited Rs1.5 crore to the MC, while the Excise Department failed to give Rs15 crore to the MC. Six months ago, when the association protested outside Verka's residence, the MC's then health officer and Senior Deputy Mayor had assured that they would provide the information within 50 days. If any department has not deposited the same, they would be asked to deposit it. However, even after 200 days, the MC failed to share the information.  -  Dr Rohan Mehra, NGO headDr Mehra said for the last six months, the MC authorities were dilly dallying over the matter. He said earlier, the association held a dharna outside the residence of Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka and he sought 50-days’ time. “It’s been six months now. The MC authorities have failed to provide us with the information which forced us to hold the agitation,” Dr Mehra said. He said a large number of stray animals could be seen on roads of Punjab, but not a penny was being spent for their welfare.He said the BJP government started cow tax in 2016 for opening around 512 cow shelters in Punjab. He claimed that Rs15 crore is collected per month in the entire state in the form of cow cess. He said from 2017 to 2019, the Punjab Government collected around Rs540 crore in the name of cow cess, but it was not used for the welfare of animals. He said in Amritsar, the RTO Department deposited Rs1.5 crore to the MC, while the Excise Department failed to give Rs15 crore of cow cess to the MC. He said six months ago, when the association protested outside Raj Kumar Verka’s residence, the MC’s then health officer Ajay Kanwar and Senior Deputy Mayor Ram Bakshi had assured that they would pass on the information to the association within 50 days. If any department has not deposited the same, they would be asked to deposit the same. However, even after 200 days, the MC failed to share the information. Therefore, the association decided to hold this protest.The protest ended after the MC authorities reached the spot and gave it in writing that the entire information on cow cess would be given within five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/holy-cow-rs-540-cr-collected-for-welfare-but-wheres-it-285106
19-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||‘Unearthed structure at Golden Temple built originally in 1773’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 18Burj Giania, demolished in 1988, to pave the way for galliara beautification, was actually built in 1773, seven years before the birth of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, claimed a Delhi-based Assistant Professor, SGTB Khalsa College, north campus, Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, here on Sunday. He said documented proofs available in literature during that period confirm the same.Also read: ASI team to inspect excavated structure at Golden Temple tomorrowTracing antecedentsFrom the Sikh Misl period (1773) to the foundation of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (1925), four generations of the Gianis witnessed every development associated with the Golden Temple. The Gianis contributed enormously in terms of scholarship, management, infrastructure development and the Sikh art. The heir in their family at present is Yadwinder Singh Giani (80), who had vacated the building after accepting money from the government. He identified the basement as part of the demolished Burj.There was no tunnel but a two-room basement of Burj Giania. The building is a relic from the pre-Ranjit Singh Sikh Misl period architecture. -  Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, Asst Prof, SGTB Khalsa College, North campusWhile excavating a site for new joda ghar on the Golden Temple complex, a basement of the heritage building was accidently unearthed at the depth of 12 ft, throwing spotlight on the contribution of Gianis.Producing literary reference of Bunga Giania, which was constructed during the Sikh Misl period, Dr Gill said there was no tunnel but a two-room basement of Burj Giania.“The building is a relic from the pre-Ranjit Singh Sikh Misl period architecture.” Citing SS Padam, a scholar, on the life and works of Surat Singh Giani, Dr Gill mentioned the 1930s Sri Darbar Sahib report. This text says that Burj Giania was built by Surat Singh Giani between 1778 to 1783. It even mentioned that the cost of the construction at that time was Rs4,500.Surat Singh Giani was the first chief priest and manager of Harmandir Sahib rebuilt in 1764 after the attack by Ahmad Shah Abdali. “He was responsible for reintroducing the daily ‘Maryada’ of Harmandir Sahib earlier authenticated by Bhai Mani Singh.”From the Sikh Misl period (1773) to the foundation of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (1925), four generations of the Gianis witnessed every development associated with the Golden Temple. Surat Singh, who died in 1804; Sant Singh, who died in 1832; Gurmukh Singh, who died in 1843; Praduman Singh and Gurbaksh Singh ran the management of the Golden Temple.The Gianis contributed enormously in terms of scholarship, management, infrastructure development and the Sikh art. The heir at present in their family is Yadwinder Singh Giani (80), who had vacated the building after accepting money from the government.He identified the basement as part of the demolished Burj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unearthed-structure-at-golden-temple-built-originally-in-1773-285107
19-07-2021||---||Youth shot dead in Azad Nagar, 2 held||Amritsar, July 18  A youth, identified as Karan (18), was shot dead when two groups scuffled over an issue in the New Azad Nagar area on Sultanwind Road here on late Saturday evening. The police have arrested two youths, identified as Balwinder Singh, alias Golu, of Partap Nagar, and Sunny Verma of Akali Colony in Gurnam Nagar. Three others, identified as Ankur, Maan and Bansi of Chamrang area, were booked for murder. Gurmeet Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said Karan was shot dead by Ankur who was armed with a pistol. But according to the family, Golu and Sunny had come to their house following a dispute and the victim left the house with them. Victim’s mother Aarti said her son was sleeping when Golu came to their house and he with him saying a dispute had occurred.  She said she had gone to the market to buy vegetables. She said a little later, she got a call that Karan suffered a bullet injury and that he was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he succumbed. The SHO said a case against 11 persons, including Golu, Sunny, Ankur, Maan and Bansi was registered. The remaining six were of Ekta Nagar on Chamrang Road. Probe is on to ascertain their identification. As per a preliminary probe, Golu and Sunny had a quarrel with Ankur and his accomplices which led to the incident. He said raids were being conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-dead-in-azad-nagar-2-held-285108
19-07-2021||---||No death, 6 test Covid positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 18 The district has reported six positive cases on Sunday with which the total count has increased to 46,995. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The health authorities reported zero Covid-19 related death today. With recovery of 16 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,326. At present, the district has a total of 90 active cases. A total of 481 persons were inoculated today. Of these, 317 were given the first dose, while 164 were administered the second dose. No fatality in Tarn Taran  The district reported no death due to Covid infection, nor any positive case came to light on Sunday. The number of death remains at 370, while there are 28 active cases of which 17 have been isolated at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 771 samples to be tested Covid infection on Sunday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-death-6-test-covid-positive-in-amritsar-district-285109
19-07-2021||---||Posters congratulating Navjot Sidhu already dot Amritsar city||Amritsar, July 18As the Congress high command formally announced former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as the PPCC chief on Sunday, display boards and buntings congratulating him were already put up in the city.Leaders and councillors in his ward showing allegiance to Sidhu had installed these display boards and buntings to gain attention. They were pretty sure that Sidhu would succeed Sunil Jakhar.Mithu Madan, who had organised Dasehra festival in which over 60 persons were mowed down by a speeding diesel multiple unit, congratulated the high command for appointing Sidhu as the PPCC chief in a board installed at Ram Talai Chowk.Adjoining this, was another display board installed by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claiming that there was only one Captain in the state — that is Capt Amarinder Singh.Undoubtedly the poster war has gone in favour of Sidhu like his elevation in the state Congress. His staunch supporters Damandeep Singh and Shalinder Singh Shally also expressed their pleasure at the elevation of their leader. They said young Turks of Congress — Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka — stood with Sidhu for a generation change in Punjab. They are of the view that a major proportion of the population is youth in the state and their aspirations can be gauged and met by a young leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/posters-congratulating-navjot-sidhu-already-dot-amritsar-city-285110
19-07-2021||---||Govt employees gherao residence of Cabinet minister OP Soni in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 18On a call of the Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front and the Joint Teachers’ Front, a large number of employees, especially teachers, staged a protest outside the residence of Cabinet minister Om Parkash Soni on Sunday. Protesters announced that thousands of employees would take mass leave and pariticipate in a ‘Hall Bol’ rally on July 29.Member of the association, Gurdeep Singh Bajwa, said instead of rationally increasing salaries and allowances through the 6th Pay Commission, the state government has imposed heavy cuts to inflict huge financial burden on employees.Members of the front had been demonstrating against non-regularisation of contractual employees in government departments, handing over of employees to corporate system through new pension system and implementation of the Modi government’s pro-privatisation plan under the New Education Policy 2020.Agitators staged dharna in front of 12 Cabinet ministers across the state today.Ashwani Awasthi, Balkar Valtoha, Jarmanjit Chhajalwadi, Sukhdev Pannu, Joginder Singh, Madangopal, Sukhwinder Mann, Sant Sevak Sarkaria, Aman Sharma and Narinder Pradhan addressed the rally.Protesting employees said all decisions taken by the Cabinet Sub- Committee with Sanjha Adhyiapak Morcha on March 5, 2019 and by the Chief Principal Secretary on June 25, 2021 should be implemented and cases registered during should be dismissed.The implementation of the Central Government’s New Education Policy 2020 should be stopped in Punjab. Resolve issues of open distance learning teachers and 180 ETT TET pass teachers. Employees affected by Covid-19 should be given paid leave and ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-employees-gherao-residence-of-cabinet-minister-op-soni-in-amritsar-285111
19-07-2021||---||Advt tax not paid, theme park gets civic body notice||Amritsar, July 18  The Municipal Corporation has issued a notice to a theme park and heritage tourist destination on the Attari-Bypass Road for not paying the advertisement tax for unipoles installed outside the site.  The advertisement wing officials of the MC has asked the firm operating the theme park to submit the details of the size of unipoles and date of opening of the theme park within three days, else action would be taken as per the Punjab Municipal Act, 1976.  Earlier, the MC had written to the firm operating the theme park to deposit the advertisement tax and user tax. The MC officials claimed that the firm responded that the site was not functional due to Covid-19 restrictions, so they need some time to check the record of tax and other details.  Meanwhile, the MC’s advertisement wing checked its own record and found that the firm has not deposited the tax.  Estate officer Sushant Bhatia said: “The theme park is functional for the last several years, but hasn’t paid any tax and user charges for advertisement unipoles. It is in violation of the advertisement policy, 2018. We will take action as per the bylaws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/advt-tax-not-paid-theme-park-gets-civic-body-notice-285112
19-07-2021||Tarn Taran||2 peddlers held with Rs 25-cr heroin||The district police on Sunday busted a gang of smugglers, including a Nigerian smuggler.  Carrying 5.200 kg of heroin, two of the gang members were arrested by the Patti Sadar police from a naka set up near Cheema Kalan village in the border area. The contraband was packed in a parcel-type cardboard box. The international market value of the seized contraband is estimated to be around Rs 25.4 crore. The accused were in an i-20 car (PB-02 DE-3384) which too had been taken into police custody. The police also seized Rs 1 lakh cash, which is alleged to be drug money collected from the sale of drugs. Two cell phones were seized from the accused. Addressing mediapersons, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the car-borne smugglers were identified as Naresh and Rahul of Dharampura near Jaura Fatak (Amritsar). In their preliminary interrogation, the accused told the police that the consignment was given to them by Parveen Kumar and Tarun Soori, alias Tannu, who had links with one international Nigerian smuggler who sent them such consignments. They were given Rs 10,000 per trip to supply the consignment to a specific destination. The accused were going to Ferozpore to deliver the consignment to some undisclosed destination. The SSP said the operation to arrest the smugglers was supervised by Patti DSP Kuljinder Singh.  A case under Sections 21-C, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered by Patti Sadar police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-peddlers-held-with-rs-25-cr-heroin-285113
19-07-2021||---||250 inoculated in Rani Ka Bagh area||Amritsar, July 18  To ensure immunisation and safety of residents against Covid-19, the Nari Shakti Jagran Samiti, Amritsar, today organised a vaccination camp at Old Sivala Mandir, Rani Ka Bagh here today. As many as 250 residents got the first and second doses of the vaccine in the camp. Kawaljit Kaur, general secretary of the society, said the members of the society visited various places during the Covid-19 outbreak to create awareness among the residents about the pandemic. “Now, we have been making the public aware of the benefits of vaccination and encouraging them to get the dose. The society would organise more vaccination camps as per the requirement.  Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, and his team of doctors made efforts to vaccinate people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/250-inoculated-in-rani-ka-bagh-area-285114
19-07-2021||Amritsar||Saplings planted at Amritsar Civil Hospital||The Rotary Club, Amritsar West, planted saplings at the Civil Hospital to remember Senior Medical Officer Dr Arun Sharma, who had lost his life to the virus. On this occasion, a permanent plaque was fixed in the herbal garden of the hospital to pay tributes to Dr Arun. Dr Chander Mohan, SMO, Civil Hospital, assured the club members that the saplings would be taken care of. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saplings-planted-at-amritsar-civil-hospital-285115
19-07-2021||What steps should be taken to ensure that residents don’t reel under long power cuts?||Rationalise power subsidy, promote alternate sources||Focus on real-time monitoring of supplyThe local administration should have made alternate arrangements to provide uninterrupted electricity to consumers. In the long-term, loss-making electricity distribution utilities should be revived under the UDAY (Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana) scheme. In order to achieve 24x7 power for all, we need to focus on real-time monitoring of supply at the end-user level as it will help track the ground reality of electricity supply. Improving maintenance services, estimation of adequate demand and respective power procurement will also go a long way in reducing load shedding. Last but not least, a significant improvement in customer service, which includes billing, metering and collection, is also crucial to maintain financial stability.Akash KumarBoost production capacityOur industries are already suffering due to the pandemic and farmers’ protest, which resulted into discontinuation of freight train services. Now, the PSPCL has imposed three-days off in a week for large industries. With fuel prices shooting up, it is no more viable to run the industries on gensets. Most of the industries in Amritsar and Ludhiana are seasonal catering to woollen products demand and this is the peak season for manufacturing the same. Further, export-oriented units have to supply goods as per strict delivery schedule. Farmers also need continuous power supply to run the pumping sets for the paddy crop. Surprisingly, the installed capacity of the PSPCL is 13,845 MW whereas total generation from all sources is only 9,000 MW. The state government must cope up with a plan to tackle the shortage of power supply.Naresh JoharPurchase power from surplus statesIn order to ensure that residents don’t reel under unscheduled power cuts, the state government should increase the production of thermal power stations to meet the demand. Secondly, it should purchase electricity from other states too. Last but not the least, contracts should be given to private operators so that there are no unscheduled power cuts in the state.Sanjay ChawlaComplete repair work during off seasonUnscheduled power cuts cripple both industry and agriculture sector. Since, we are dependent on hydroelectricity which in turn is dependent on monsoon we are always short of production in case of rainfall defcit. Alternate source should be looked into such as solar energy. Subsidy on solar power should be given to set up more plants. Thermal plants should be prepared, repaired and coal stock should be ensured before summers. In case, the demand exceeds supply, there should be agreement with neighbouring states having surplus electricity to get it during peak times. All repair work, including laying of wires, service of transformers should be done in winters. The areas which need high input should be marked. Special attention should be given on those areas from where cases of power theft are reported.Jaspreet GroverDistribution losses should be reducedThe rampant pilferage of electricity coupled with free and subsidised power supply to rural belts of Punjab has led to the uneven distribution of electricity to urban areas. Around 66 per cent of power thefts are from rural Punjab. This open loot of electricity via ‘kundi ‘connection has resulted in revenue losses to the exchequer. The present power crisis in the state is due to internal mismanagement of the PSPCL. To tackle the problem following measures can be taken. Distribution losses should be reduced for that focus should be on developing infrastructure. Electricity production should be ramped up by utilising the full capacity of plants. Make use of renewable alternative source of power to reduce dependency on hydro or thermal plants . Nuclear power plants are also a good option. Scrap the OTS (one time settlement policy) announced by various govts. as it is only an tool to benefit the big defaulters namely the political connect class to escape punishment clause.Anil VinayakHigh time to switch to renewable sourcesThe solution to the problem of power cuts lies in managing and controlling the production and distribution of electricity. Increasing transmission capacity, removal of glitches in the system and forecasting the snags during the peak season. Though increasing the capacity of thermal plants can provide a solution for the time being, there is a dire need to switch over to sustainable and affordable renewable energy resources such as natural and biogas, water, wind and solar energy. The government should give subsidy and promote small hydroelectric projects by involving individuals and private enterprises. There is an immediate need for wind mapping in the state to assess and exploit the wind potential. Storage type solar plants to harness energy be promoted. Solar plants on the roof tops not only meet the domestic demand but can also produce extra energy to be transferred to the main grid.ANIL KHANNAPurchase power from National GridIt’s unfortunate that residents of Punjab are getting their domestic power@Rs 10/unit and despite that the government failed to provide uninterrupted power supply to consumers. It is shocking that on the one hand the government claims to have surplus power and on the other hand power cuts are imposed on industries, domestic residents and farmers. Farmers have been compelled to use generators which will lead to higher consumption of diesel. The government should purchase the power from the National Grid at economical rate. The government should promote use of renewable sources of energy such as biogas, solar, wind, hydropower, geothermal energy, hydrogen energy, among others to meet the rising demand.Ankur GuptaFaulty power lines should be replacedIt is baffling that Punjab, which claims to be a power surplus state, is imposing unscheduled power cuts amid an intense heat wave which is playing havoc across the state. Every section of society should be charged @?5 per unit irrespective of their class or category. Power theft in villages should be prevented. Faulty power lines should be replaced and chinks in the infrastructure should be plugged to avert long power cuts . The government should plan in advance to generate the requisite amount of electricity to mitigate the woes of the residents. Power generation system ought to be overhauled and electricity should be purchased from power surplus states to save the residents from the agony of unscheduled power cuts . Negligent electricity officials should be taken to task for not managing the power affairs of their respective areas appropriately. Air-conditioners should be banned in government offices to curb the undue misuse of electricity. Strenuous efforts should be made to install solar panels and should be made compulsory for bigger mansions. Fresh surveys should be conducted to check an overall household electricity consumption. Besides worn out and dysfunctional transformers should be replaced with the new ones . The Electricity Department should be instructed not to ignore residents’ frantic calls. Power cut information should be provided well in advance. Residents should be impressed upon to make a judicious use of electricity.Tarsem S BumrahInstall smart meters in every householdThe world is moving towards renewable sources of energy, with Tesla being a great example that has revolutionised the autmobile industry. We should also switch from thermal power plants to sources such as solar, wind and hydopower. Thermal power plants (TPPs) produce cause water and air pollution. Many reports say that the theft of electricity is very rampant in Punjab, particularly in rural areas. Smart metres must be installed as soon as possible in every household. Recently, we have seen how many units of the TPPs malfunctioned causing a great distress to the people. Solar panels must be mandatory for every house so that these can be used as an additional source of power.Jatinderpal Singh BatthRaise awareness on saving powerDue to power cuts in Punjab, people had to take to the streets to protest. To deal with the power crisis, the government needs to increase the power transmission capacity so that there will be no difficulty in importing power from other states. The public should be educated about saving electricity and water through TV, radio, newspapers and social media. Farmers should be encouraged to plant other crops besides paddy as it consumes more water. Therefore, electricity consumption is higher. By revoking the agreements of private thermal plants in Punjab in the Vidhan Sabha, the money saved can be used to buy electricity and solve the power crisis. The government should appoint a regular CMD of the PSPCL so that he can easily find a solution to the problem like power crisis.Sucha SagarPSPCL should Appoint adequate staffTo tackle the situation, there are some ways which should be taken by the government. It is the foremost responsibility of the government to provide adequate amount of electricity power to the people. But, overdependence on private units, shortage of manpower and ignoring experts advices has led to the present situation. To cope up with it, it should install its own electricity units and increase manpower in this sector. In addition, most states have some financial incentives to support or subsidise the installation of renewable energy equipment. The government should encourage people to take benefits of these incentives by spreading awareness.Harsimrat KaurFreebies behind power shortage in stateLJ Singh, (retd) Chief Engineer (IMM) QUESTIONAmid fears of an impending third Covid wave, should the Punjab Government wait for some more time before opening of educational institutions in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 22).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rationalise-power-subsidy-promote-alternate-sources-285123
