20-07-2021||Amritsar||Navjot Singh Sidhu receives warm welcome in Amritsar; several senior leaders conspicuous by their absence||The newly-appointed president of Punjab Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu, was given an overwhelming welcome by the Amritsar unit of the party at the Golden Gate—the entrance of the holy city.However, a set of prominent Congress leaders, aligned to CM Capt. Amarinder Singh kept away from the reception.Sidhu’s supporters, the majority from the East constituency he represented as a lawmaker, eagerly awaited his arrival at 1 pm despite the inclement weather conditions till he finally arrived at around 3 pm.Also read: New PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu calls for ‘haq-sach di ladai’ at Khatkar KalanThe crowd surrounded his vehicle, raising slogans and danced on the dhol beats and burst firecrackers to celebrate his elevation. The scenes were reminiscent of 2004 when he arrived in the city from Lahore to kick start his maiden political innings for Parliament elections on a BJP ticket.Normal life was paralysed in the city for a while with a long traffic jam on the national highway as people stopped their vehicles to catch a glimpse of Sidhu. The BRTS route too remained disrupted for a few hours.Attired in a purple colour Pathani suit and supporting matching turban and scarf, Sidhu came out from the sunroof of his vehicle and waved at the crowd throughout his roadshow despite the fact that he injured his right foot thumbnail during a gathering at Khatkar Kalan. He got medical aid at Amandeep Hospital on the way only to continue his journey. He shook hands with supporters, accepting siropas, bouquets and garlands. Congress urban president Jatinder Sonia jumped over his car’s bonnet to greet him.Ironically, no local MLA was present at the Golden Gate to receive Sidhu. MLA South Inderbir Singh Bolaria and MLA Amritsar West Raj Kumar Verka joined Sidhu from Chandigarh to Amritsar. MLA North Sunil Dutti met Sidhu at his residence. too joined Sidhu’s journey but left midway.Before reaching Amritsar, Sidhu was welcomed by Jandiala Guru MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, who is among the four working presidents of the PPCC. Fatehgarh MLA Kuljeet Nagra and Congress Youth president Birinder Singh Dhillon also accompanied Sidhu till Jandiala from where they returned.Others who participated in the occasion included and MLA Nawanshehr Angad Singh, MLA Khem Karan Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and Sukhjinder Raj Singh (Lalli Majithia).However, Amritsar Improvement Trust chairperson Dinesh Bassi and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu missed the appointment for the day, yet senior deputy mayor Raman Bakshi had registered his presence for the occasion.Bassi and Rintu too were considered to be Capt. Amarinder’s loyalists. Ironically, their appointments were made without taking Sidhu, then holding Local Bodies charge, into confidence. Amidst a tiff between Capt and Sidhu, Rintu had also installed hoardings showing open solidarity in favour of Capt. Amarinder. Both could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Another prominent leader and Cabinet minister OP Soni were also conspicuous by his absence. Insiders said that friction between Sidhu and Soni still prevailed though they had reached a compromise after changed political equations.Congress rural president Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachchar said that the Majha leaders would join Sidhu while together they would pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath Asthan tomorrow.Nonetheless, Sidhu’s cavalcade culminated at his home located in the posh Holy City locality of Amritsar. Sidhu along with his wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu had shifted to their Patiala residence for the past several months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-receives-warm-welcome-in-amritsar-several-senior-leaders-conspicuous-by-their-absence-285909
20-07-2021||Amritsar||International passengers in a fix, changing Covid protocols to blame||Passengers intending to board international flights at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport are perturbed over different Covid-19 protocols being followed by various countries around the world.The operation of regular international flights is yet to resume but passengers are availing flights under Vande Bharat Mission and Air bubble agreement.Parminder Singh in late 60s has been preparing to travel to the UK. “I have to take assistance of a travel agency to ensure that I do not miss out on any document or test during the current phase guided by Covid-19 protocols.”Numbers increasingThere is a surge in the number of international passengers at the airport after the state government lifted the night curfew and started the unlocking process. A month ago, the strength of passengers, both arrival and departure, used to remain between 30 and 40 per cent. The strength has now reached between 60 and 70 per cent.Randhir Singh Bhullar, who arrived from the US on July 15, said he had given samples a day before boarding the flight and received a report hours before the flight took off. Back in Amritsar, he said the procedure was also simple and smooth, when he had left from here in April. He blamed agents for misleading the public outside the airport for getting them an RT-PCR report without explaining about the exact procedure.Officials of airlines at the local international airport said each international destination has a different set of rules regarding Covid-19 and these change so frequently that it gives them a tough time to intimate prospective passengers.The RT-PCR test should be conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey to the UK and the US and for those travelling to Doha, the test should be conducted 48 hours before boarding the flight. Similarly, the quarantine period of each country differs after one alights there.Ashwani Kumar Gupta, a travel agent, said travel expenses of passengers had increased manifold, as they have to quarantine in hotels. In case of UK, the quarantine period is of 10 days. He said a majority of passengers from the region heading abroad are students. On the way to Canada, they stop at Belgrade for a three-day quarantine. However, Canadian government recently increased the quarantine period to seven days.Travel agents are expecting a good season ahead as Air Canada will resume Delhi to Toronto flight from August 1 and Delhi-Vancouver from August 15. A majority of the international passengers from the local airport fly via Delhi, so with these flights they would have choices to make.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-passengers-in-a-fix-changing-covid-protocols-to-blame-285745
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Woman found dead  in Amritsar hotel room||A married woman, identified as Sumadeep Kaur, was found dead in a hotel room near the bus stand under mysterious circumstances here on Monday. The police are working on different theories to find whether it was a murder or suicide.Originally belonging to Gumtala area here, the deceased was married in Ferozepur. She took a joint room with three unidentified persons. The hotel authorities informed the police that she was accompanied by three men, when they checked in last evening. Though, the men left the room in the morning, she did not come out. When the hotel staff checked, she was lying on the bed and was dead.Harpal Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said the matter was being investigated. There was no injury marks on the body and the exact cause of death would be ascertained in the autopsy. The police took the body in their possession and sent it for post-mortem.From her mobile, the police called her family in Gumtala and informed about her death. The family members expressed their shock and said they did not know about her arrival in the city.The police said Sumandeep came from Ferozepur on the pretext of meeting her family. However, she checked in the hotel room along with three persons. The CCTV camera footage and details of the identity proofs submitted to the hotel is being analysed to identify the suspects, the ADCP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-found-dead-in-amritsar-hotel-room-285746
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Youth dies in road accident||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-dies-in-road-accident-285747
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Navjot Sidhu’s elevation brings cheers to his supporters in Amritsar||Supporters of cricketer-turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu are upbeat following his elevation as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief. They distributed sweets and danced to the beat of dhols at his residence located in the Holy City locality.District Congress Committee (rural) president Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar along with prominent Congress workers from rural areas also held celebrations while welcoming the move and senior leadership of the Indian National Congress.Sidhu’s elevation as the PPCC president has not only given rise to new equations in the holy city politics, but also instilled Congress workers with new enthusiasm. Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s loyalists were conspicuous by their absence from these celebrations. As Assembly poll were just round the corner, taking them along during these times would be a major challenge for him.During the tussle with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, many prominent Congress party leaders had maintained a distance from him.It would be interesting to see the presence of several local leaders, including Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi and Congress (urban) president Jatinder Sonia, who are directly associated with the Amarinder camp. Their appointments to the respective positions were made without taking Sidhu into confidence.Recently, amid Capt-Sidhu feud over their supremacy, it was Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu who got installed big hoardings in favour of Capt Amarinder with slogans such as ‘Punjab Da Ik hi Captain’. He pasted his pictures alongside on the hoarding declaring allegiance to Capt Amarinder Singh.A day prior to Sidhu’s visit, Rural Congress chief Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar conducted a meeting with prominent rural leaders on Monday and welcomed the move.Party workers were upbeat with Sidhu taking the command of Punjab Congress. “With Sidhu’s elevation, there is a new enthusiasm among party workers especially the youth. Sidhu in commanding position will garner unconditional win for the Congress in the ensuing 2022 poll,” he said. He said even the toughest seat of Majitha could be in Congress’ pocket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhus-elevation-brings-cheers-to-his-supporters-in-amritsar-285750
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Recruitment scam: Dominic Sahota to be brought  on production warrant||The Vigilance Bureau has got the production warrant of Dominic Sahota, a notorious fraudster, in connection with the recruitment scam in which it has arrested four persons for duping innocent people on the pretext of getting them government jobs.During preliminary probe, the gang was found connected with Sahota, who would be brought by the VB on Tuesday for further interrogation. He’s currently lodged in a Ropar jail.The probe revealed that as many as 50 innocent persons had been duped by the gang so far while many more victims were likely to come to light during further course of investigations.Those arrested included a multipurpose healthworker Pirthipal Singh, who is posted at primary health centre at Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, Malkiat Singh of Varpal, Sukhwant Singh of Jhita Kalan and Harpal Singh, who is a sarpanch of Kad Gill village in Tarn Taran.Investigations revealed that Sukhwant was the kingpin of the gang which had duped around 30 job aspirants in Mansa. They were defrauded to the tune of Rs 75 lakh on the pretext of getting them recruited in the different government departments, including the FCI and Indian Railways. The incident had occurred in November last year.The vigilance team also stumbled upon some identity cards of a fake firm ‘Special Defence Personnel Forum’ made by Dominic Sahota from Malkit. Dominic got recruited four persons in the Border Security Force by getting their written test and medical examinations cleared, informed the vigilance officials. He took Rs 2.80 lakh from each person and gave Rs 30,000 per head to Malkiat. During Harpal’s interrogation, cops found out that he duped around seven persons. The gang was busted following a complaint filed by Barinderpal Singh, a resident of Jaswant Nagar, who had told the VB, that the accused duped him for getting his relative recruited in the powercom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recruitment-scam-dominic-sahota-to-be-brought-on-production-warrant-285752
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Unsafe construction sites pose risk to commuters||Safety of commuters, while carrying out development works in the city, seems to be of least concern for the agencies as well as the government departments overseeing them.As is evident from the conditions at construction sites; warning signs, barricades, glow signs have not been put up or are missing. This not only causes inconvenience to commuters, but also poses a risk to their lives and vehicles.The work of laying underground sewerage lines on the outer ring road near Khazana Gate is going on for the past several months. Deep pits have been dug on the roadside. However, no barricading or warning signs to guide and help drivers, especially during night have been put up.“At least light reflecting strips should be tied along the length of the pits so that drivers can get a hint during the night,” said a resident.Another example is of pits dug on the sides of road from Amritsar to Ramdas. The pits around three feet in depth could prove lethal for the occupants of a vehicle if it accidently falls off the road.It is not that accidents have not taken place in the past due to such negligence. In February 2018, a resident had fallen into a 15-feet deep pit on the bypass road. The pit obviously was not barricaded.“Even during the day time, driving on the road is risky as there is no divider between the road and sometimes unruly drivers come straight towards your vehicle as they cross the one going ahead of them. With pits on side, you cannot even think of going on the kutcha path,” said a commuter, Harinder Kaur.The residents concerned stated that the administration must enforce the executing agencies to fulfil all safety guidelines as enlisted in the contract at the time of allotting any development work. They stated that the unnecessary inconvenience caused to the general public by contractors due to lack of planning should also be checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-unsafe-construction-sites-pose-risk-to-commuters-285753
20-07-2021||---||No fatality, 9 test Covid +ve in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 19The Health Department has reported nine positive cases on Monday. With this, the total count has increased to 47,004. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. The authorities reported no death today.With recovery of 16 patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,342. At present, the district has a total of 82 active cases. The health authorities said 450 beneficiaries were inoculated today. Of the total, 317 persons were administered their first dose, while 133 were jabbed for the second time.One new case reported in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported no Covid-19 related casualty in the district on Monday. The toll stands at 370 in the district. The authorities reported one positive case in the district. At present, active cases stand at 18 and eight people have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department collected 1,081 samples from different places today. The authorities were yet to receive test reports of 620 samples. — OCTarn Taran runs out of Covishield stock Covishield vaccine has gone out of stock in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said on Monday that beneficiaries would be informed whenever they receive fresh stock. Though Covaxin was available in the district, those heading abroad prefer Covishield as it is approved by foreign countries. The Civil Surgeon said Covishield would be available after July 21. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-fatality-9-test-covid-ve-in-amritsar-285755
20-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Labourer dies in road mishap||9-year-old boy goes missingTarn Taran: A 9-year-old boy has gone missing from gurdwara Chhauni Sahib, Sursingh, on July15. Bikram Singh, a resident of Bathinda and father of the missing boy, told the Bhikhiwind police that he had gone to gurdwara Chhauni Sahib to pay his obeisance. He said he went inside the gurdwara and when he came outside, he found his son missing from the spot. The Bhikhiwind police have registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC. OCThree held with 834-gram heroinTarn Taran: The city and Sarhali police have arrested three persons from two different places and recovered 834-gram heroin from them. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale on Monday said the city police under the supervision of SHO Varinder Singh Khosa arrested one Harpal Singh of the local town from near the Holy City locality and recovered 274-gram heroin from him. The Sarhali police arrested two persons with 560-gram heroin from Chohla Sahib Road on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Akashdeep Singh Kasha of Rangarh and Gurwinder Singh of Kot Khalsa. The recovered consignment was worth Rs4.17 crore in the international market. The accused have been booked under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act by the police station concerned. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/labourer-dies-in-road-mishap-285756
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Lessons, nature go hand in hand||Taking a leap towards learning with nature, the Education Department, has launched a pilot project to create herbal and botanical parks in government schools.Launching the project today, District Education Officer (Elementary) Sushil Tuli, said, “The idea is to utilise open grounds in schools and impart practical knowledge related to plants and their health benefits to students. This project is being undertaken in four schools in the district and a nursery with herbs and medicinal plants has been set up at Government Senior Secondary Smart School Karampura.”Dharminder Singh Gill, who is curating these botanical parks, said “It was being felt that schools should impart constant knowledge on environment as the focus has shifted to sustainable learning in the past few years. We have created a nursery with varieties of snake palms, neem, fruit and flower bearing plants of native varieties. These saplings will be planted in various institutes.”One of the first botanical park has been created at Government Elementary Smart School, Meerakot, with help of the department and schoolteacher Davinder Kaur. She has been instrumental in giving a creative touch to the botanical park that has a separate section for cacti, a rose garden and a herb garden with super plants, including lemongrass, aloe vera, neem and basil.Making the garden a learning space for children, she has created geometrical shapes around the boundaries, used painted colourful stones for practical learning purposes.“We have been working to create a green space in sync with outdoor-learning concept for kids in schools from 2018. Apart from the botanical park, we also have a lot of fruit-bearing trees at our school premises, each tree bearing its name plate so that children learn about their botanical names,” said Davinder.Tuli said all these activities would give a push towards more inclusive and wholesome learning environment in primary schools.He said, “When kids will come back to school after reopening, learning in close proximity with nature will build an affinity towards nurturing for environment and it’s also proven to be beneficial for overall health and development of children. Especially, in case of special children at our school in Karampura, creating nursery and introducing concept of vermicomposting to kids will also help in skill development courses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lessons-nature-go-hand-in-hand-285757
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Protest by health staff enters Day 12||The protest by the Health Department employees against the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report completed 12 days with the employees protesting at Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospital, Majitha Road, on Monday.Leading the protest, Ashok Sharma, president ESI Employees’ Federation, criticised the lathicharge on protesting employees in Hoshiarpur on Sunday.“The government is trying to silence theprotesting employees using violence,” he said, adding that such tactics would only strengthen the unity of employees.Dr Kashmir Singh, chairman ESI Employees’ Federation, said the protest would continue till the demands of the medical employees were accepted. Raising slogans against the state government, the employees said the new pay panel report is against the interests of employees and would not be accepted at any cost.They said it is for the first time that the implementation of a new pay commission report would result in decrease in salaries instead of an increase. Ashok Sharma said: “Every time a pay commission report is announced, employees expect a raise, but this time, it has gone the other way.” The protesting employees said the protest would be intensified in the coming days if the government failed to respond to their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-by-health-staff-enters-day-12-285758
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Virsa Vihar to host live shows soon||Announcing revival of live performances and activities after a gap of more than a year, Virsa Vihar Society, in association with all its members and art lovers, will conduct literary and cultural functions at Virsa Vihar in the coming days. Disclosing this here today, president of the society, Shiromani Natakkar Kewal Dhaliwal, and general secretary Ramesh Yadav, said after the necessary repairs of the equipment and sanitising the venue, the live performances will reopen from July 31, with a cultural event dedicated to Mohd Rafi that will be presented by music composer and singer Harinder Sohal.Apart from this, Virsa Vihar will also kick start theatre activity in city by hosting a weekend theatre festival, with a play based on the famous author Waryam Singh Sandhu’s story, ‘I will not cry once’. Shahid Nadeem’s play ‘Dukh Daryaan’, directed by Daljit Sona will be performed on August 7, followed by Teeyan festival celebrations.Dhaliwal, said, “We are relieved to be able to revive live cultural and art activities. All Covid-19 safety precautions will be in place while organising the events. We have only allowed weekend performances and events as to see how the audience response will be. Similarly, in the month of August, a classical theatre workshop under the guidance of Rajinder Raju in association with National School of Drama would also be conducted.” He called upon the audiences and art lovers to come and encourage artistes in their efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-virsa-vihar-to-host-live-shows-soon-285759
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar-based students clear NTSE exam||As many as five students from the city cleared the NTSE (Stage II) exam held in February. Two students of Shri Ram Ashram Public School, Shivansh Mangal and Harpreet Singh, were enlisted as NTSE scholars with top score in the city. Shivansh Mangal scored 144/200 and Harpreet scored 143/200 in the exam.Other successful students are Anmoldeep Singh of The Millennium School, who scored 138/195. He is currently pursuing science in Class XII and aspires to be a physicist. Japnoor Singh, a Class XII student (medical) of Senior Study II, too qualified for the NTSE scholarship by clearing the exam. He had previously secured 9th rank in Punjab in NTSE (Stage I).Apart from these four, Hardik Sharma of Bhavans SL School had also cleared NTSE (Stage II). Every year thousands of students take the exam but only 50,000 this year qualified to take NTSE (Stage II). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-students-clear-ntse-exam-285760
20-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Cops’ rob trader||A trader identified as Ashwani Kumar was robbed by armed persons posing as cops at the Golden Temple parking flyover in broad daylight here on Monday.The victim said the accused first assaulted him and then snatched Rs1.70 lakh, which he was going to deposit in the bank. The police have started probe and a case was being registered. Ashwani told the police that two persons signalled him to stop his car. They said they were from the CIA staff and had information that he was involved in some wrong acts. He said they asked him to meet their ‘saab’ while pointing towards a car. He said they bundled him in the car and slapped him. They snatched his money, pushed him out of the car and sped away. ADCP Harpal Singh said the police were verifying the claims and further probe was on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-rob-trader-285761
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Now, SSP (rural) to probe case of contesting panchayat election fraudulently||The Punjab State SC Commission has earmarked the probe to SSP (rural) regarding a person belonging to the Christian community who had allegedly contested panchayat election at Sohian Kalan village on fraudulent Majhbi caste certificate.Punjab State SC Commission member Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka said the investigation has been handed over to SSP Amritsar (rural) Gurneet Singh Khurana. Besides, the status report of the matter has been asked to be submitted by August 16.The complainant in the case is one Surinder Kaur, a resident of the same village.In a written complaint to the commission, she claimed that Tarsem Masih, belonging to a Christian family, contested the village panchayat elections by submitting a forged certificate of Majhbi Sikh caste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-ssp-rural-to-probe-case-of-contesting-panchayat-election-fraudulently-285762
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Miri Piri Diwas of Patshahi Chhevin celebrated in Amritsar||The SGPC on Monday held a religious congregation to celebrate the occasion of Miri Piri Diwas of Patshahi Chhevin, Guru Hargobind Sahib, at Akal Takht.The event was attended by head granthi of the Golden Temple Giani Jagtar Singh, officiating jathedar Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, jathedar Sri Kesgarh Sahib Giani Raghbir Singh, SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and other prominent personalities.After the culmination of bhog of Sri Akhand Path, the hazuri raagi group of Bhai Harbhinder Singh of Golden Temple connected the sangat (devotees) with Gurbani Kirtan and Bhai Sultan Singh offered prayer (ardas). After reciting the holy hukamnama, Giani Jagtar Singh shared the history of Miri Piri Diwas and encouraged the sangat to follow the path shown by the Guru.Giani Harpreet Singh apprised the gathering about the doctrine of Miri Piri (Sikh doctrine of close relationship between temporal power and spirituality) which is a combination of spirituality and temporal power in the Sikh community, having great importance in the Sikh religious history.“The path through Miri Piri shown by the sixth Guru connects the community with spirituality as well as to protect the oppressed. The voice of Miri Piri from Akal Takht resisted the tyranny of the oppressive government. Akal Takht has always been challenged by the rulers/governments,” he said.The jathedar appealed to the Sikh community to adhere to this honourable doctrine of the Guru and adopt Bani and Baana (Gurbani and traditional Sikh attire) and to uphold Gurmat (teachings of Sikh gurus) traditions and customs.During the function, the historical Miri and Piri kirpans (swords) adorned by Guru Hargobind Sahib at Akal Takht were also shown to the sangat.Prominent personalities were honoured with siropas (robe of honours).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miri-piri-diwas-of-patshahi-chhevin-celebrated-in-amritsar-285763
20-07-2021||Amritsar||Weapon seizure case: Another suspect held||The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) has arrested Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukh, of Jaintipur area in connection with the seizure of 48 automatic foreign-made weapons here on Sunday. This is the ninth arrest in the case so far.He was produced in court, which sent remanded him in police custody for four days. According to the police, he was linked with a US-based notorious gangster Darmanjot Singh, alias Darman Kahlon, who got these weapons smuggled from Pakistan through drones in different areas in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran.Besides Jagjit Singh Jagga, who was arrested with the weapon consignment from Kathunangal area on June 11, Pargat Singh, Lovedeep Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Joginder Singh, Diljan Singh, Jobanpreet Singh and alleged KZF operative Maan Singh Nihang in this case.Seeking police remand, the SSOC told the court that Sukh had connections with US-based gangster Darmanjot Singh and Batala resident Lovedeep Singh, alias Lala. He was allegedly involved in many crimes on the instructions of Darman Kahlon.SSOC sources said arms droppings were made in Dera Baba Nanak and Khemkaran areas. Besides around 80kg heroin was also slipped into Indian Territory on the instance of Darman Kahlon. Nevertheless, the same was yet to be recovered.Drones have been a challenge for the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police as repeated incidents of smuggling of weapons and narcotics substances were being reported.The investigations carried out by the SSOC had pointed out that Darman Kahlon had links with banned terrorist organisations in the US, UK, Canada and Pakistan. Jagjit was working at the behest of Kahlon. The police said open-ended warrants of Darman, a proclaimed offender in Punjab, had been obtained.Weapons in the cache included 19 pistols of 9 mm (zigana, made in Turkey), 37 magazines and 45 rounds; nine pistols of .30 bore (made in China) and 22 magazines; 19 pistols of .30 bore (star mark), 38 magazines and 148 rounds; and one pistol of 9 mm (Baretta-Italian) and two magazines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weapon-seizure-case-another-suspect-held-285764
20-07-2021||---||Youth booked for remark against Punjab women’s panel head Manisha Gulati||Amritsar, July 19The Civil Lines police have booked a youth, Nishan Gill, for allegedly making indecent remarks against Punjab Women Commission’s Chairperson Manisha Gulati here.The police said the accused used objectionable remarks against her on social media platform following which the commission lodged a complaint with the Civil Lines police, which have registered a case under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act and Section 509 of the IPC against him.Shivdarshan Singh, SHO, Civil Lines police station said though a case had been registered, investigations were on to verify the credential of the accused. “Indecent remarks against the commission chairperson have been made on Facebook by Nishan Gill. His antecedents are being verified,” he said, adding that he would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-remark-against-punjab-womens-panel-head-manisha-gulati-285639
