21-07-2021||---||Roof collapse: 4 of family buried under debris, rescued||Amritsar, July 20Four members of a family had a narrow escape after the roof of their house collapsed in Mullechak village due to heavy rain that lashed the city from early morning to afternoon on Tuesday. The victims were identified as Sukhwinder Kaur (45), Situ (20), Komal (13) and Akashdeep Singh (15), who got buried under the debris. They were pulled out by the residents of the village.According to information, Shamsher Singh, a sewerman with the MC, was residing with his family in a rented accommodation at Bhai Veer Singh Colony, near Mulechak village. The house was in poor condition and the roof was built of wooden logs, which collapsed due to rain.All four family members, who were inside the room, were buried under the debris. After the loud bang, people of the village gathered around the house and started with the rescue operation. According to eyewitness Harjeet Singh, all four family members who were trapped under the debris were pulled out within half an hour. They have received minor injuries and been admitted to a nearby hospital.Baljit Singh, a resident of Mullechak, said Beera Singh of the village had given his house on rent to Shamsher. Singh is a daily wager in the Sewerage Department of the Municipal Corporation.On Tuesday morning, Shamsher had gone to work and his house collapsed around 12 o’clock. Area residents informed the fire brigade and police about the incident.Village residents have appealed to the government to provide financial assistance to the victim’s family.Meanwhile, heavy rain lashed the city. The rainwater accumulated on roads exposing MC’s preparedness for the monsoon. The sewer lines remained choked in several low lying areas of the city till the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roof-collapse-4-of-family-buried-under-debris-rescued-286090
21-07-2021||---||Audit panel seeks recovery of excess amount spent by Amritsar MC auto workshop||Amritsar, July 20The Punjab Vidhan Sabha Audit Committee has found that the auto workshop of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation spent more on the fuel and maintenance of vehicles than the government instructions. There are two separate cases of audit — first from 1999 to 2005 and second from December 2006 to 2009.In the past, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Audit Committee conducted its three separate meetings on May 5, 2016; September 6, 2016; and July 5, 2017 and discussed the excess expenditure by the auto workshop of the MC. The committee asked the civic body to get approval from the government for excess expenditure or in case the government did not approve, recover the amount from officials and employees concerned. The audit committee has also asked to submit the name of officials and the list of vehicles.Now, the MC has found that most of the officials and employees, who were serving during 1999 to 2009, retired from jobs, settled abroad or have died.The auto workshop officials found that the recovery was not possible. The MC officials in the recent General House meeting proposed to waive off the amount. There is an audit para objection from 2003 to 2008 for Rs12.28 lakh and Rs78.760 for 2006-2009. The General House meeting on July 9 approved the proposal for waiving the amount. Now, it would be sent to the audit committee for approval.Dapinder Sandhu, Superintending Engineer, auto workshop, said: “The audit cases are too old and officials concerned have retired. Some of them have even died. So, the amount is not recoverable. We have sent the proposal. Now, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Audit Committee will decide on it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/audit-panel-seeks-recovery-of-excess-amount-spent-by-amritsar-mc-auto-workshop-286091
21-07-2021||---||Woman found dead: 3 persons booked for culpable homicide||Amritsar, July 20A day after the mysterious death of a married woman, Sumanpreet Kaur, who was found dead in a hotel room near the bus stand here, the police have booked three persons on the charge of culpable homicide.A preliminary probe revealed that she had died of drug overdose. Those booked have been identified as Sukhdev Singh, alias Sabhu, Ajaib Bir Singh, alias Aju, and Harjit Singh, all residents of Ughar Aulakh village falling in Ajnala tehsil here. No arrest has been made till now.The complainant said his wife Sumanpreet Kaur, alias Roop, came to his mother’s house in Amritsar. Her mother informed that she did not reach home. Later, her body was found from a hotel room. He said the three accused administered her an excessive amount of drugs, which led to her death.Sub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh, investigating officer, said the accused were identified with the help of footage of CCTV cameras installed in the hotel. Though raids were conducted at their residences, all of them were not present or had run away. As per the initial probe, Sumanpreet had been married in March 2020. It was yet to be ascertained how she came in contact with the accused. He said this would be clear after the arrest of the suspects.Originally hailing from Gumtala area here, the victim was married in Ferozepur. She, along with three suspects, had hired a joint room in the hotel. Though the accused left the room on Monday morning, the victim did not come out. When hotel staff members checked the room, she was lying dead on the bed.The police were informed of the incident, but no injury marks were found on the body and the exact cause of death could not be ascertained. After the police contacted the victim’s parents by calling from her mobile phone, they rushed to the hotel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-found-dead-3-persons-booked-for-culpable-homicide-286092
21-07-2021||---||Three nabbed with illegal weapons in separate cases||Amritsar, July 20  The Tarsikka police have arrested two alleged drug peddlers with contraband and two country-made weapons. Cops also recovered Rs 10,000 suspected to be drug money from their possession. The accused have been identified as Jagatpreet Singh of Khalchian and Gurbaz Singh, a resident of Warring Suba village, falling under the jurisdiction of Goindwal police station in Tarn Taran. Sub-Inspector Ajaypal Singh told that he had set up a naka at Kat Muchhal village and signalled a motorcycle (PB-02-DZ-1957) to stop. On seeing the police party, the do tried to slip away, but were held by cops.  During their search, the policemen seized 78-gm heroin, two country-made weapons (.32 bore) and cash from their possession. The duo was produced before the court, which sent them to police custody. Gurbaz has around four cases of the NDPS Act registered against him.  In another incident, the Kamboh police have arrested Jaswant Singh of Nangali village and recovered a .32 bore country-made pistol and three live bullets from him. His two accomplices identified as Pawandeep Singh and Palwinder Singh, both residents of Valtoha, managed to slip away from the spot.  According to the police, they were on a motorcycle (PB-14-B-8273), when they were intercepted at Nangli village. Sub-Inspector Charanjit Singh (Investigating Officer) said Jaswant told the police that several persons had attacked his son around three months ago and a case was registered in this connection with the Kamboh police. He said the weapon was procured by his son. He said a case under the Arms Act was registered and further probe was on. Raids were carried out to arrest Pawandeep and Palwinder, who were absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-nabbed-with-illegal-weapons-in-separate-cases-286093
21-07-2021||---||Rs 5.11 cr collected as cow cess, Rs 1.01 cr spent so far, reveals Amritsar MC||Amritsar, July 20The Municipal Corporation has so far collected Rs5.11 crore as cow cess, of which it spent Rs1.01 crore on cow shelters.MC authorities said this while providing information sought by the Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association, an NGO, here on Tuesday. Activists led by Dr Rohan Mehra had held a demonstration near the residence of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Sunday.A delegation led by Dr Mehra met the MC authorities on Tuesday. As per the information, the Excise Department had deposited over Rs3.23 crore as cow cess under different heads to the MC, while cow cess worth Rs1.87 crore was collected from the sale of four-wheelers and two-wheelers.The MC authorities said of total cess collected, the MC spent Rs1.01 crore for the welfare of stray cows. They said Rs3.92 lakh was spent as electricity bills at cow shelter, while Rs77.44 lakh was given to the contractors for the construction of cow shed being built by the MC in Chheharta area. Similarly, Rs19.98 lakh was given to four different cow shelters for fodder.Dr Mehra said they would pursue the issue of why several departments, including Food and Civil Supplies Department, were not depositing the cow cess.Deputy Controller Finance and Accounts Manu Sharma said around Rs4.09 crore was still in the account meant for this purpose and would be spent for the welfare of stray cows. “The MC cannot adjust or spend the amount collected as cow cess for other means. It can be spent on the welfare of stray cows only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-5-11-cr-collected-as-cow-cess-rs-1-01-cr-spent-so-far-reveals-amritsar-mc-286094
21-07-2021||---||Declared PO in 5-yr-old murder, gangster held||Amritsar, July 20The city police have arrested notorious gangster Arun Kumar, alias Lalli Chhurimar, after bringing him from jail in connection with two cases including a broad daylight murder of rival gangster Hariya in November 2016 besides a robbery case.According to the police, he was declared a proclaimed offender in January 2019. However, he was yet to be arrested.Chhurimar, who was wanted in many criminal cases, including murder of sitting Congress councillor Gurdeep Pehalwan in June 2018, was arrested by the Gujarat police in February last year. He was a member of the Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Bobby Malhotra gang.Chhurimar had around a dozen cases, including that of murder, attempt to murder and robberies, against him. According to the police, besides Gurdeep Pehalwan murder, he was also involved in the broad daylight killing of members of the rival Hariya gang in May 2016. He was yet to be arrested in this case. As per the police, he was declared a PO in 2019 in this case.In May 2018, his gang had robbed a jeweller Partap Maratha in the Guru Bazaar area after shooting his employee Mukesh Kumar. Similarly, he was also a part of the mid-September 2018 robbery, in which a jeweller Prem Kumar was robbed of gold ornaments and diamond jewellery worth Rs2 to Rs3 crore.Other proclaimed offenders arrested by the police include a ‘drug peddler’ Rohit, alias Chiniya; Avtar Singh, alias Sonu; and Suraj, alias Chucha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/declared-po-in-5-yr-old-murder-gangster-held-286095
21-07-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran court complex turns into island||Tarn Taran , July 20After rain lashed the district on Tuesday, faulty drainage system at the court complex caused inconvenience to visitors and employees, the entire day.As the district witnessed heavy rain in the morning, rainwater accumulated at the court complex. However, situation was a bit better in colonies as rainwater was drained out.Iqbal Singh, a document writer, who has been working at the complex since 1985, said as the road outside the court complex has higher level, water gets accumulated here.He said it was a technical problem as the building was constructed in 1972 and nobody has cared to increase the level of the complex to date. He said rainwater would remain stagnant for almost a week.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Rajnish Arora said, “Storm water pipes are small in diameter. As a result, rainwater cannot discharge from the complex easily.” He said he has instructed officials of the municipal council to drain out rainwater immediately. He said officials concerned should make arrangements in advance to deal with such situations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-court-complex-turns-into-island-286096
21-07-2021||---||If Covid situation improves, events to be reorganised: SGPC chief||Amritsar, July 20The executive committee (EC) of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday decided to organise special gurmat samagams (religious congregations) dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Teg Bahadur.The events would be organised in Punjab as well as other states of the country.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said due to the pandemic, the events related to the 400th Parkash Purb of the ninth Sikh Guru were conducted with limitations and it has been decided that if the situation becomes favourable, the deferred events would be organised again.She said the EC has decided to open stores of generic medicines along with laboratories at historic gurdwaras under the management of SGPC. She said earlier it was decided to open such a store and laboratory at Darbar Sahib and preparations of the same were being done.In a boost to provide free education (higher) along with hostel facility to Amritdhari (initiated) Sikh girls at Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College and Collegiate Senior Secondary School, Talwandi Sabo, Damdama Sahib, the SGPC has decided increase the number of students from 200 to 400.“These girls will be provided hostel facility along with food. The SGPC will also give a scholarship of Rs 30,000 to Amritdhari students taking admission in engineering colleges,” said Bibi Jagir.“So far, the SGPC has spent around Rs1.75 crore to combat the pandemic,” she said.Talking about the aid provided to families of farmers who got martyred during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three agri laws, Bibi Jagir said, “The SGPC has provided aid of nearly Rs3 crore to the families of the farmers who got martyred during kisan andolan and those who got injured in accidents while participating in protests.”She said the SGPC would soon construct new Sarais to extend the accommodation facility for pilgrims.“New rooms will be constructed at Guru Ramdas Sarai, but exterior will stay intact. Many Sikhs were martyred in Guru Ramdas Sarai during the June 1984 holocaust and their names will be inscribed to commemorate them. Moreover, rooms of all the other sarais in the complex, including Mata Ganga Niwas, Guru Hargobind Niwas and Guru Arjan Dev Niwas will also be renovated,” she said.The EC also approved display of portraits of former Jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, former head granthi Giani Bhagwan Singh and former vice-president Dalip Singh Malunangal at Central Sikh Museum. A resolution to thank Giani Mohan Singh, former head granthi of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib was also passed for naming his house to Sri Darbar Sahib.The SGPC paid tributes to the departed souls, including Sikh scholar Dr Jodh Singh and Flying Sikh Milkha Singh. SGPC’s senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/if-covid-situation-improves-events-to-be-reorganised-sgpc-chief-286097
21-07-2021||---||Snatchers on the prowl in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 20Snatchers are on the prowl in the city. A medicine supplier was robbed of Rs1.32 lakh by two unidentified persons when he was going from Ramdiwali village to Kathunangal after collecting payment of medicines here on Saturday.Vikram Kumar, the complainant, said he is supplying medicines for the last two decades to chemists after taking orders. He said he was making collection from different medical stores from Ramdiwali village to Kathunangal side on bike, when two bike-borne persons came from behind and intercepted him. He said the accused took out the keys of his bike and forcibly snatched is bag containing payments worth Rs1.32 lakh.Investigating Officer ASI Rajwant Singh said the police were still clueless about the perpetrators and further investigations were on. He said the CCTV cameras were being analysed.Meanwhile, four unidentified armed persons snatched Rs11,400 from petrol pump staff at gunpoint in Lashkari Nangal village, falling under Jhander police station, here. Dilbagh Singh, the manager of the petrol pump, said on Saturday, around 5.35 pm, his salesman Sanjiv Kumar was filling petrol, when four youths came on two scooters. A youth asked them to fill petrol worth Rs80 and gave Rs100. He said when the salesman was returning Rs20, the accused took out a pistol and pointed it at him. They snatched the daily sale of Rs11,400 from him and fled. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons and launched further probe. Sub-Inspector Kuldeep Singh, Investigating Officer, said the police were analysing the CCTV cameras to find clues about the robbers.In a yet another incident, a devotee from New Delhi was looted by snatchers on Friday night, when they were returning to Guru Teg Bahadur Sarai on Lawrence Road, here. Victim Bhupinder Kaur, a resident of New Janakpuri, told the police that she, along with her family, came to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. She said on Friday, they were returning to the sarai after paying obeisance at Gurudwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh on an e-rickshaw. She said when they reached near Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital railway crossing, a person came on a bike and snatched her purse containing mobile phone, ear rings and cash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-on-the-prowl-in-amritsar-286098
21-07-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor: Will address matters related to property tax||Amritsar, July 20Trade organisations, including the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), Punjab Pardesh Beopar Mandal, Hotel and Restaurant Association and Nehru Shopping Complex Association, organised a camp for registration of trade licences for the ease of traders at Nehru Shopping Complex on Tuesday.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated the camp and assured traders that civic body was always available for help.He also assured traders to look into the issues of property tax and try to get it resolved at the earliest.Gaurav Gupta, north head, FIEO, thanked Mayor and superintendent Loveleen Sharma, who reached with his team for supporting traders. The registration of trade licences has been done by the MC team and renewed licences were issued on the spot.Sushant Bhatia, secretary, MC, assured that matter related to property tax would be addressed soon.Piara lal Seth, Sameer Jain, Vikas Narang and Jagmohan Kapoor, thanked the Mayor for facilitating the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-will-address-matters-related-to-property-tax-286099
21-07-2021||Amritsar||Oral hygiene must to prevent black fungus, say experts||The Asian Society of Oral an Maxillofacial Pathology (ASOMP) organised a webinar titled ‘COVID-19 and Oral & Systemic Mycoses’ for creating awareness regarding different types of fungal infections spread by the virus.Eminent scholar and clinical expert Prof Lakhsman Samaranayake, the foremost authority on oral fungal infections, was a keynote speaker. Dr Simarpreet Sandhu, general secretary of ASOMP, along with Dr Ranganath K, chief, ASOMP, moderated the session.Over 300 doctors across different countries, including Argentina, Indonesia, the UK and others attended the webinar. The lecture highlighted on the possibility of outbreaks of severe fungal infections in the healthcare facilities managing patients. The doctors opined that symptoms of mucormycosis or black fungus can range from bad breath to loose teeth. It’s necessary that doctors advise patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, to go for regular oral check-ups.Dr Samaranayake said more has to be done for those patients who have diabetes. He stressed on the importance of personal and oral hygiene for prevention of mucormycosis or black fungus infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/oral-hygiene-must-to-prevent-black-fungus-say-experts-286100
21-07-2021||Amritsar||Senior Congress leaders skip Navjot Sidhu event in Amrtisar||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu was given a rousing welcome by Congress workers upon his arrival in the holy city. However, prominent Congress leaders, considered loyal to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, stayed away from the reception.Sidhu’s supporters eagerly awaited his arrival despite the inclement weather. The crowd raised slogans and danced to the beats of dhol and burst firecrackers to celebrate his elevation. The scenes were reminiscent of 2004 when he arrived in the city from Lahore to kick-start his maiden political innings in Parliament on a BJP ticket.The national highway got choked as people stopped to catch a glimpse of Sidhu, who waved at the crowd throughout his roadshow. Ironically, no local MLA was present at the Golden Gate to receive him. Amritsar South MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka joined Sidhu from Chandigarh to Amritsar. North MLA Sunil Dutti met Sidhu at his residence.Sidhu was welcomed by Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, who is among the four working presidents of the PCC. However, Amritsar Improvement Trust chairperson Dinesh Bassi and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu missed the appointment for the day.Bassi and Rintu too are considered to be Capt Amarinder’s loyalists. Rintu had installed hoardings showing open solidarity with Capt Amarinder. Both could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Another prominent leader and Cabinet Minister OP Soni was also conspicuous by his absence. Insiders said friction between Sidhu and Soni still prevailed, though they had reached a compromise after changed political equations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/senior-congress-leaders-skip-navjot-sidhu-event-in-amrtisar-285920
21-07-2021||Amritsar||ASI team inspects excavated structure in Golden Temple complex||A four-member team of the Archaeological Survey of India today inspected the tunnel-like structure discovered during excavation while building a new ‘joda ghar’ in the Golden Temple complex.The ASI was approached to ascertain the antiquity of the Nanakshahi brick-made structure found during the excavation near Akal Takht secretariat. The team of archaeologists, led by AK Mishra, inspected the structure, took its pictures and measurements. Some specimens of the structure have also been taken to check its heritage status. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said if the site was found to be related to the Sikh history, it would be preserved. Though there was no proof to authenticate its historic or religious significance, it is learnt to be a private property, ‘Gianian Da Bunga’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-team-inspects-excavated-structure-in-golden-temple-complex-285979
