22-07-2021||The announcement of Sarwan Singh Dhunn as the halqa in-charge of Khemkaran Vidhan Sabha constituency by the AAP has created a storm in the party circles not only in Khemkaran area but also in the district. The halqa in-charges are considered to be the possible candidates for the forthcoming election.||AAP Storm in Khemkaran||About nine years back, Dhunn was in the SAD and was ousted from the party for one or the other reason. He joined the Congress about six years back and had applied for ticket for the 2017 Vidhan Sabha election but it was denied to him. He joined the AAP just two months back and was among the two halqa in-charges declared by the party high command recently for Tarn Taran district.The second name is of Laljit Singh Bhullar for Patti. The party was yet to declare the names of the rest two constituencies that include Tarn Taran and Khadoor Sahib.In Khemkeran Vidhan Sabha constituency, more than eight candidates are active, who aspire to contest the 2022 election. These include Jasbir Singh Sursing, Surjit Singh Bhura, Gurdev Singh Lakhna former district president, Gurwinder Singh Beharwal district President , Dilbag Singh Kale and others. After declaring the name of Sarwan Singh Dhunn as the halqa in-charge, other leaders organised a meeting and condemned the party decision and decided to apprise the party leadership of their resentment. All is not well in the Patti constituency too, where eligible leaders tore the posters of each other.Still Udta Punjab?About two weeks back, Kulchhinader Singh (38), a resident of Patti town, Ward No. 11, died of drug overdose. His body was recovered from the Patti grain market in morning. He was married and had two kids. The injected syringe was seen left in his pulse as intoxicated injection reacted the very moment and he died on the spot. Gurinder Singh, father of the deceased, openly alleged that there was no truth in claims by officials and the ruling party leaders that the drug menace was under control. He said many drugs were easily available in the town and the area, despite tall claims by the state machinery. He said not only this; even impure drugs such as spurious liquor too were being sold on a very large scale in the market. He also said some of the top leaders were sheltering drug peddlers and even the police were well aware of this but were helpless to act as per the law. DSP Kuljinder Singh said the police were doing their best to act against the drug peddlers and the move would be intensified against the drug peddlers in the coming days. He claimed that many drug peddlers had been arrested by the Patti police in the last few days. In Khawaspur village, where an addict man killed his addict son, too was a worrying aspect. Father Harjinder Singh told the police that his son Devinder Singh (35), who was killed in the incident, was also under the influence of drugs as was his son. He said Devinder demanded more money from his father for drugs and when he denied to oblige him, the man attacked his son, who later died in the attack. In Chhapri Sahib village, death of Harpal Singh (35) of Chhapri Sahib, too compounded the situation of drug menace. His body was recovered floating in the village pond a few days back. Gurpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Gurwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh have been booked in this regard by the police. Sohan Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that his son and others were habitual addicts.Who cares?Despite tall claims by Tarn Taran MLA Darambeer Agnihotri that grants worth crores have been spent on the development of Tarn Taran town, the condition of a stretch of the road at Jandiala Guru Crossing has not been revamped over a period of more than four-and-a-half years. It is the entry point of the town from different stations. In the rainy season, this portion gets filled with knee-deep water and during the dry days, dust clouds are seen blurring the vision of the passers-by here the whole day. The work on this stretch might be completed with just lakhs of rupees rather than crores.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-storm-in-khemkaran-286396
22-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Komalpreet Kaur 3rd in divinity exams conducted by Dharam Parchar committee of SGPC||Covid vaccination camp organisedA Covid vaccination camp was organised at the local Majha College for women here on Wednesday in which 75 members of the teaching, non-teaching staff and the students were given jabs. Dr Harpreet Kaur, Principal of the College said that camp was organised on the instructions issued by the DPI (Colleges).Dr Swaranjit Dhawan SMO of the local Civil Hospital while addressing on the occasion stressed to be vaccinated everyone to be safe from the pandemic. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/komalpreet-kaur-3rd-in-divinity-exams-conducted-by-dharam-parchar-committee-of-sgpc-286398
22-07-2021||Amritsar||Tarksheel Society releases July-August magazine edition||Members of the Tarksheel Society released the July-August edition of its magazine after holding a meeting at the Company Bagh here on Monday.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Balwinder Dudhala. Addressing members of the society, he flayed the dictatorial attitude of the Narendra Modi government and its recalcitrant approach towards three laws on farming. He said the government must shed its pro-corporate approach by immediately repealing these laws.Jaspal Baserke and Ashwani Kumar said these three laws had inherently favoured the corporate houses whose prime objective is profiteering. These laws will drive the farmers and labourers towards insolvency. They demanded cancellation of the case registered against 100 protesting farmers at Sirsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarksheel-society-releases-july-august-magazine-edition-286393
22-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Booh KVK best among 22 from state||Tarn Taran, July 21The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, in Tarn Taran, bagged Best KVK award among 22 KVKs of Punjab in zonal workshop of KVKs Zone-1 organised by ICAR-ATARI, Zone-1, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, in virtual mode from July18 to 20.Dr Balwinder Kumar, associate director, KVK, Booh, said total 70 KVKs from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh (UT), Uttarakhand and Punjab participated in the workshop and presented their progress report.The workshop was attended by Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, secretary (DARE) and director general, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, Dr AK Singh, DDG (agricultural extension) and ADGs (agricultural extension) ICAR among others with heads of KVKs and their staff. KVK Booh received the award on the basis of its performance and working during the recent years.Dr Balwinder Kumar said the KVK successfully organised several extension activities during the pandemic and played a pivotal role in helping farmers affected by the lockdown. To facilitate livestock farmers of Tarn Taran and adjoining districts, KVK, also established animal science lab, where farmers can procure improved buffalo bull semen and test cattle milk and faecal sample for early diagnosis of diseases.A mega loan fair in collaboration with the State Bank of India was organised by the KVK, where a loan of Rs4 crore was sanctioned by the bank to 100 KVK-trained farmers to initiate various livestock ventures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-booh-kvk-best-among-22-from-state-286394
22-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Goindwal Sahib Police take half-cremated body of newly-wed woman into custody||Tarn Taran, July 21The Goindwal Sahib police took in their custody the half- cremated body of a newly-wedded woman from the Goindwal Sahib cremation ground on Wednesday.Deceased has been identified as Kulbeer Kaur (29), who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday morning, in her house. She was married to Gurpreet Singh of Sultanpur Road, Amritsar, just five months back. The women had come to visit her parents’ home on the first ‘sawan’ month after marriage.Inspector Navdeep Singh SHO, Goindwal Sahib, said parents of the deceased had been cremating the body without informing her in-laws and they objected to it.The police immediately rushed to the cremation ground and took the body in its custody. The body has been deposited at the of the local Civil Hospital mortuary.The SHO said the husband of the deceased had been called to inquire as he had come to see his wife Kulbeer Kaur on Tuesday. The couple was not in good terms with each other, suspected the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goindwal-sahib-police-take-half-cremated-body-of-newly-wed-woman-into-custody-286392
22-07-2021||---||Property of drug smuggler frozen in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 21The city police on Friday freezed the property of Tehal Singh, a smuggler, here. The police claimed that the property was worth Rs 1.27 crore. Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said smuggler Tehal Singh of Bagga village had amassed assets worth crores of rupees by smuggling drugs.“In the past, the police had registered around 11 cases against him under the NDPS Act and a large quantity of heroin was recovered from him. The State Special Operation Cell, Amritsar, had recovered one kg of heroin from him. In this case, Tehal Singh was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment and fined Rs 1 lakh by the court of Additional Sessions Judge.In another case of the NDPS Act at the police station B division 265-gm heroin, 300-gm of opium, a pistol .32 bore and Rs2 lakh drug money were recovered from Tehal Singh and his son Ranbir Singh alias Rana. The case is currently pending in the court.During this time, Tehal Singh had amassed assets worth crores from drug trafficking, the police claimed. A case of freezing the property was sent to competent authority and administrator NDPS act at New Delhi. The NDPS authority asked the District Revenue Officer, to take further action and freeze the property worth Rs 1.27 crore under Section 68 F (2) of NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-of-drug-smuggler-frozen-in-amritsar-286397
22-07-2021||---||Amritsar MC begins pruning of roadside trees||Amritsar, July 21On the directions of the MC Commissioner, the horticulture wing of the MC on Wednesday started pruning of roadside trees and shrubs in central verges in the city. Employees of the horticulture wing conducted pruning of trees standing along the MM Malviya Road. MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi stated all the roads and roundabouts would be beautified.The MC has been holding road cleanliness drives in the city. A roaster is being followed to clean city roads one by one. Similarly, on the directions of the Commissioner, employees of the cattle pond are catching stray animals from roads.According to information, the employees caught 30 stray animals from the circular road of the walled city in the last four days. Now, the number of cows in Gumanpura Gaushala is 185. MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi had prepared the roster for 15 days and he stated that the progress of all these efforts would be reviewed on July 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-begins-pruning-of-roadside-trees-286399
22-07-2021||---||Hoteliers sync services with changing habits of customers||Amritsar, July 21Struggling to revive business in the aftermath of the pandemic, the luxury hotel chains in city are looking to diversify their revenue streams by offering services in sync with the changing habits. Catering to the new normal defined by the SOPs and changed eating habits of their customers, these hotel chains that earlier relied on the fine-dining experiences, are now offering services such as home deliveries, setting up cloud kitchens and even customising the menu to ensure that business resumes to a normal pace.While the pandemic has put service and hospitality industry in a tight spot, luxury hotel chains are showing flexibility as the best defense. “Of course, the luxury hotel business has changed forever with the pandemic, but innovation and re-invention is the best way to cope. We have re-conceptualised our niche Italian restaurant into a fusion food dine-in, where we offer limited but exclusive fusion of popular Italian and Amritsari recipes. We have also allowed all day footfall and we come with a new theme-based menu every week,” said Manisha Singh Gupta, assistant marketing manager, Holiday Inn.Executive Chef Binay Kumar, of Holiday Inn has also shifted focus in kitchen towards providing therapeutic food.“We are now offering specific immunity-boosting recipes including a breakfast special of all types of herbal teas and kadas. We are growing herbs in our organic garden, using these in our recipes,” Taj, one of the biggest luxury hospitality chains in the country, too, launched their home delivery app Qmin for gourmet food recently. Taj Swarna, in city, has been getting a good response to the home delivery service.“Keeping in mind social distancing and practicing SOPs discouraging many to come for fine-dining at the hotel, offering the same food experience in the comfort of their homes have got a favourable response from most of our guests,” said Paramveer Singh, general manager, Taj Swarna.While the weekday footfall is relatively absent, the weekend footfall for fine-dining restaurant at the hotel is picking up slowly.Hyatt, too, had cut down on its menu options to offer fusion and customised food for their guests and reduce wastage in the kitchen. To reduce the exposure and maintain social distancing, it also opened an open-air deck for fine-dining to guests who prefer to be particular about health safety while eating out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-sync-services-with-changing-habits-of-customers-286400
22-07-2021||---||Artistes celebrate saavan with literary mehfil in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 21The Janwadi Lekhak Sangh on Wednesday organised a literary mehfil on the arrival of the first rains in the month of saavan. The month of saavan is considered significant in artistic fraternity as it symbolises fertility of ideas and rejuvenation of soul. Also, teeyan, a prominent monsoon festival, too, is celebrated during the season.Conducting the event, storyteller and writer Deep Devinder Singh said such literary events give a sense of comfort, especially after a tumultuous year of death and destruction. “Just like the cool and soothing calmness that first shower of saavan brings after a hard, dry spell of summers.”During the course of the compositions, poet Dev Dard and other eminent poets from the city Naseem Hurran, Hira Randhawa, playwright Narendra Sanghi from Canada, Suhail Macchiwara, Mohit Sachdev and others presented their kalaams and ghazals.Popular actor couple, Anita Devgan and Hardeep Gill, too attended the event. From theatre background, both Devgan and Gill, who also run a theatre group, The Theatre Persons, said as soon as live events will be encouraged and organised, keeping in mind health safety, it will be good for revival of livelihood of those associated with the industry. It was also the first live literary event after lockdown and encouraged other artistes to organise more events to get the pace of cultural activities going.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artistes-celebrate-saavan-with-literary-mehfil-in-amritsar-286388
22-07-2021||Amritsar||Woman booked for attacking AFSO in Amritsar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-booked-for-attacking-afso-in-amritsar-286395
22-07-2021||Neha Saini||Covid snapped our connect with readers: Amritsar District Librarian||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21Her efforts to transform the district library in Rani Ka Bagh from a sleepy, public space to a lively centre of community interaction had been commendable. District Librarian Prabhjot Sandhu always strived to make the library an epicentre for community engagement.Prabhjot Sandhu, District Librarian Walking into a public library never really was an everyday activity for many in city. But over the years, we had developed a connection between our readers, members of the library through upgraded services and increased activities. The lockdown and pandemic has broken that connect with masses again.When the lockdown was announced due to the pandemic, the district library in the city had just received the news of being given a grant of Rs1 crore for infrastructural development by the district administration.But the lockdown and long period of suspended activities have taken its toll on the pace of progress. “Walking into a public library never really was an everyday activity for many in city. But over the years, we had developed a connection between our readers, members of the library through upgraded services and increased activities. The lockdown and pandemic has broken that connect with masses again,” she said.Her routine as a librarian has not changed much with respect to her professional and administrative duties. “I start my day by ensuring that the sanitisation process is completed without any lapse. The tasks for the day include checking the stocks, cataloguing, documentation process as we had begun the process of digitisation of our archives. Most of the day passes by taking care of maintenance issues and writing official requests for service upgrades,” she informs. What she misses the most in her routine, though, is the people-to-people interaction that used to happen before pandemic.“We used to have a lot of senior citizens come to library to spend their day. Helping them with digital services, listen to their reading sessions and discussions later and even helping some students out with their queries used to make our day. We hosted several book launch ceremonies when we reopened in January. Recently, we also got a sanitary pad dispensing machine installed to upgrade our facility. But the activities have not been able to revive after the second lockdown. Even with all digital upgrade and infrastructure support, with no readers coming in, the purpose of a library remains unfulfilled,” she says. Public libraries in the city are yet to reopen for visitors and members, in absence of the any clear guidelines by the state government. She says that she has been writing to the authorities concerned including the DC, to issue formal guidelines in regard to allowing public libraries open for people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-snapped-our-connect-with-readers-amritsar-district-librarian-286385
22-07-2021||---||Covid-19: No death, 7 test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 21The district health authorities reported seven positive cases on Wednesday, with which the total count increased to 47,016. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.The health authorities did not report any death due to the disease on Wednesday. With the recovery of 15 patients, the recovery count also increased to 45,372. The district at present has a total of 64 active cases.The district health authorities said a total of 11,254 were given the injections for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Of total, 5,947 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 5,307 were given the second dose, health officials said.Tarn Taran reports one positive case, no deathA person tested positive for Covid in the district, while no death was reported on Wednesday. The number of deaths in the district remains at 370 since the last 10 days.The Health Department teams collected 767 samples to be tested of Covid infection on Wednesday.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said vaccination sessions were organised at 153 points in the district in which 8,136 citizens were given the jabs on Wednesday. The number of persons who have been vaccinated has reached 2,50,245 so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-no-death-7-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-286386
22-07-2021||---||Doctors to boycott work for 3 hours daily from tomorrow in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 21With the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association already on indefinite strike against the 6th Pay Commission, faculty at medical and dental colleges too have announced to boycott services for three-hour daily from July 23.Dr Mridu Grover, president, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, Amritsar, said, “We would boycott all medical services except emergency and Covid care. We would also suspend teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students for three-hours daily.”As per the announcement made by the association, the services would be boycotted from 8am to 11am daily. Apart from the OPD and operation theatre services, the protest would also impact medico-legal cases.The faculty at medical and dental colleges had earlier resumed services for the patients even as it had continued with the symbolic protest after assurance from the high-powered committee constituted by the state government. The association would again be meeting Chief Secretary on Thursday to discuss the demands.The association has already initiated full day indefinite protest. Dr Madan Mohan, district president, PCMS Association, said, “The association has given a call for state-level protest at Chandigarh on July 23.” He said the protest would continue till their demands are accepted. The doctors also staged a protest outside the Civil Surgeon office today demanding that the NPA should be restored at the previous level and it should not be delinked from the basic salary.The protest by the medical practitioners is affecting the poor patients as they have to visit private clinics for treatment. A resident said, “Most of the visitors at government facilities are poor people who cannot afford treatment at private hospitals. With the doctors at government hospitals on protest, the patients are solely dependent on private doctors.” He said that the government must find a solution to the problem at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-to-boycott-work-for-3-hours-daily-from-tomorrow-in-amritsar-286387
22-07-2021||---||Roof of house collapses in Shakti Nagar Chowk in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 21The roof of a house collapsed in the Shakti Nagar Chowk area after heavy rain in the wee hours here on Wednesday. The four family members of the house, including owner Monu Kumar, were trapped inside the room. The incident took place at around 6.15 am.Monu Kumar, House owner The roof outside the room was old and built with wooden logs. We are four family members and were sleeping inside the room. It was raining, when the roof on the stairs collapsed.The house owner said the roof outside the room was old and built with wooden logs. “We are four family members and were sleeping inside the room. It was raining when the roof on the stairs collapsed,” he said. Those trapped inside the room have been identified as house owner Monu (30), his wife Bhawana (28), daughter Manat (2) and uncle Bhagat Ram (70).Naresh Manchanda, a volunteer of the Sewa Society Fire Brigade, said, “We got a call at around 6.20am and we reached the spot within five minutes. One of our volunteers, Lalit Kumar Lovely, entered the room from a window and rescued the family members.”Monsoon can worsen asthmatic conditions, says expert Amritsar: While monsoon might be a period of great relief for most of the people as showers bring about the much-needed respite from intense heat, for those with asthma, it could be an ordeal, as it worsens their condition, said chest physician Dr Ravneet Grover. He said seasonal exacerbation of asthma is a well-known phenomenon. “Asthma is a disease that can be triggered with an allergic reaction from allergens such as mould or fungus, furry pet, dust mites and viral infection. Dr Ravneet Grover, Chest Physician Despite increasing prevalence, asthma remains one of the poorly controlled diseases. Inhalers have emerged as an effective treatment to manage it compared to oral therapy. With inhalers, drug reaches the lungs directly instead of flowing through the bloodstream and other organs of the body.Less sunlight during the rainy season may lead to vitamin-D deficiency which is one of the contributing factors in the aggravation of asthma attacks,” he said. He said dampness in the surroundings leads to fungus and can trigger allergies, which may further lead to an asthma attack. Additionally, the season also brings in higher chances of viral infections and can trigger allergens and cause the symptoms to become worse, he said. Dr Grover claimed that every monsoon, there was a significant increase in asthma admissions, especially in children. “In the current scenario, when patients are not visiting hospitals or consulting doctors regularly, keeping a check on asthma exacerbation becomes crucial,” he said. A physician at Medicaid Hospital, Dr Grover said wheezing, coughing and shortness of breath were all symptoms of asthma, which is a chronic respiratory disease, arising due to the inflammation of the air passages in the lungs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roof-of-house-collapses-in-shakti-nagar-chowk-in-amritsar-286383
22-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||6 years on, integrated township in Amritsar a distant dream||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21A decade after the concept of integrated township-cum-international trade and exhibition centre was mooted for the holy city, it still occupies space on drawing sheets it seems.Nearly six years after holding the draw of lots, its allottees have been paying EMIs of housing loans for the houses, whose possession of land has not been given to them till now. They are running from pillar to post from one leader of the ruling party to another to impress upon the PUDA to at least provide the basic amenities.The proposed residential area was named Sri Guru Ram Dass Urban Estate and allottees formed the Sri Guru Ram Dass Urban Estate Association to take up their cause with the authorities concerned. Surinder Pal Chauhan, one of the allottees, said the allotment letter categorically stated that the possession of plots would be given within 90 days from the date of issue of the allotment letter. The allotment letters to 389 allottees were given in 2016 after conducting the draw of lots on March 3, 2016. They were asked to deposit 25 per cent of the total cost in 90 days. Earlier, the scheme was floated in November 2015.Chauhan said he had deposited Rs54 lakh, which was the entire cost of the plot, in a go and after shelling out Rs6 lakh, secured its registry. In this process, he had taken a loan from the bank. “During the last five years, I have paid Rs14 lakh interest only,” he said.Saranpal Singh, another allottee, expressing his amazement at the dichotomy of norms, says: “Delay on the part of allottees in the deposit of plot’s cost attracts penalty of 15 per cent, which includes 12 per cent interest on the balance amount of the cost of plot and 3 per cent penalty for the first year. In case of two years, 16 per cent, which includes 12 per cent interest and 4 per cent penalty and in case of three years and above, 17 per cent, which includes 12 per cent interest and 5 per cent penalty.”However, there is no provision of penalty on PUDA for delay in providing possession to allottees, he rued.At the time of allotment of plots of varied sizes, which includes 83 plots of 200 square yard (sq y), 72 plots of 256 sq y, 74 plots of 300 sq y, 62 plots of 400 sq y, 98 plots of 500 sq y, the scheme was hailed as first integrated township with wide roads and state-of-the-art trade centre. The value of each square yard was then kept at Rs18,000 and the allottees were asked to pay the plot’s cost in six instalments.Amandeep Kaur, Additional Chief Administrative Officer, PUDA, said: "I joined here a week ago and as far as I am aware, the NOC from the PSPCL is yet to be secured to provide the power supply. Other basic amenities have been provided." On the work of convention centre, she said the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) was taking care of that and its tendering process was underway.No progress so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-years-on-integrated-township-in-amritsar-a-distant-dream-286384
