23-07-2021||The Tribune correspondent Neha Saini and photojournalist Sunil Kumar take you through an aesthetic journey by capturing art works that add to the visual beauty of the holy city. Here’s a sneak peek into the abstract world of creativity...||An art work on life of Guru Nanak Dev that captures the visual beauty of holy city Amritsar||Janamsakhi of Tera TeraThe art on life of Guru Nanak Dev has been displayed at the Vice-Chancellor’s office at GNDU. It’s 12 ft in height and based on ‘Janamsakhi of Tera Tera’, which is designed by city-based artist Sumeet Dua, and conceptualised in collaboration with Arvinder Chamak. It has been made in ‘Nanakshahi’ brick structure, with graphic representation of Tera (13) and jute bags of various grains displayed with a ‘takadi’ (scale). It was installed during Art Festival, which was organised on the eve of the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev at Dera Baba Nanak.Bloody PartitionOne of the striking art works at the Partition Museum, is a gigantic saw jutting out from a brick wall, showcasing India-Pakistan Partition in 1947. The art installation is among many other aesthetic reminders of one of the biggest mass migrations in the world history.A saga of loveThe famous Punjabi folklore of Sohni Mahiwal has been depicted beautifully by eminent artist OP Verma at Art Gallery in Amritsar. In a relief work, figures project from a supporting background. Titled Sohni Mahiwal, the art work was inaugurated in 2014, and since has been attracting art students.Women as foundation stoneTo commemorate the International Women’s Day in 2020, a brick art was created by several city-based artists in collaboration with the FICCI FLO on a roundabout near the airport. The brick art done in a ‘Nanakshahi’ style depicts women as a foundation stone of society. A champa tree planted in the middle is a metaphor for women.Universality mattersThe 500 kg and 13-foot tall sculpture greets passangers at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport’s entrance. It is designed by artist Sumeet Dua. The sculpture ‘Ball of Joy’ has two abstract human figures. It was set up in 2019 and was conceptualised to convey the message of universality and global travelling.Right to EducationThe pencil and book art is installed on one of the busiest routes in the city and is dedicated to the Right to Education Act. Installed in 2016, when the city was undergoing massive aesthetic makeover, this structure was donated by a city-based private education centre to the district administration.In memory of martyrs Considered as one of the oldest art installation in the city, this concrete structure was made by architect Mohinderjit Singh at Rose Avenue Park in 1995. It was designed on a pattern similar to a memorial inside Jallianwala Bagh.Tributes to freedom fightersA 16-ft high memorial of marble sculpted by Anoop Barlaria and Shashank Jain has sketches of freedom fighters etched on it. The 'White flame' has names of all Jallianwala Bagh martyrs embedded on it. It was inaugurated by former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal, when he dedicated Heritage Street to public in 2016.Message of sustainabilityColourful striking mural made out of acrylic and ceramic waste by Smiley Chaudhary was installed at the Police Lines on the International Earth Day this year. Giving a message of sustainability, this site will be turned into a mini-forest by the FICCI FLO.Broken bondsThe red-brick structure at the Partition Museum is a ‘Nanakshahi’ style of architecture, which depicts broken bonds of humanity during the 1947 Partition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-art-work-on-life-of-guru-nanak-dev-that-captures-the-visual-beauty-of-holy-city-amritsar-287119
23-07-2021||GS Paul||Navjot Sidhu visits colleagues before taking charge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22The newly appointed president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met the working president and MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala and president, District Congress Committee, Amritsar rural, Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar at their residences in Amritsar on Thursday.Accompanied by MLAs Inderbir Bolaria, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and Raj Kumar Verka, Sidhu held a meeting with the workers and deliberated over strengthening the party base at the block level and also invited all to join the customary ceremony of taking over the charge officially scheduled at the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh on Friday.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will attend the ceremony, in which Sidhu will formally take over the reins of the state Congress. The development comes following the intervention of the party high command. Earlier, an invitation signed by Sidhu and four working presidents — Danny Bandala, Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, Pawan Goel and former PPCC general secretary and Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian — was collectively handed over to the CM in the morning by Nagra and Gilzian on behalf of Sidhu and other party MLAs.The CM, too, has invited all state Congress MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries for tea before the installation ceremony.Sachar said Sidhu encouraged them to hold block-level meetings ahead of the ensuing Assembly elections in 2022. “With Sidhu’s elevation as PPCC chief, a new lease of life has been infused among workers, especially young leaders. We aim to get a convincing win in 2022 Assembly poll,” he said.Sachar said earlier, the Congress could not conquer Majitha seat, but in 2022, the Congress would grab that seat as well.Bolaria said if Capt Amarinder Singh could be considered the body of the Congress, Sidhu would be the soul.Raj Kumar Verka said every worker of the party from rural and urban areas would attend the installation ceremony of the new PPCC team. “We all have invited Capt Amarinder Singh to shower his blessings on us. The entire Congress is united on every issue and bound to obey the high command’s decision,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-visits-colleagues-before-taking-charge-287083
23-07-2021||Amritsar||Death in Amritsar hotel room: One suspect sent to 2-day police custody||The police nabbed a youth, who was booked on the charge of culpable homicide after a married woman, Sumanpreet Kaur, was found dead in a hotel room four days ago.Accused Sukhdev Singh of Ugar Aulakh village was produced in a local court on Thursday, which remanded him in two-day police custody.Besides Sukhdev, Ajaib Bir Singh, alias Aju, and Harjit Singh, both of the same village, were also booked.IOSub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh said Sukhdev was known to her before marriage. As per an initial probe, Sumanpreet was married in March 2020 in Sangrur area. The victim’s husband said she came to her mother’s house in Amritsar, but she informed that Sumanpreet did not reach home. Later, her body was found in a hotel room near the ISBT.The accused were identified with the help of CCTV footage in the hotel. Though the accused left the room on Monday morning, the victim did not come out. When hotel employees checked the room, she was lying dead on the bed. There was no injury marks on the body. The police said drug overdose was the cause behind her death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/death-in-amritsar-hotel-room-one-suspect-sent-to-2-day-police-custody-287084
23-07-2021||---||Amritsar logs 5 +ve cases, no deaths||Amritsar, July 22The district health authorities reported five positive cases on Thursday with which the total count has increased to 47,021. These cases include four influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The district has not reported any deaths due to the disease in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, with recovery of six patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,378. The district at present has a total of 63 active cases.As many as 7,851 residents have been inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. The health authorities stated that the first dose was given to 4,376 residents, while the second dose was given to 3,475 residents.Tarn Taran district reports no death, caseNeither any death nor any positive case was reported in the district on Thursday. As many as 370 persons have lost their lives to the pandemic in the district so far. There are 20 active cases so far of which nine have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 1,289 samples to be tested for Covid infection and the report of 819 samples was still awaited. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-logs-5-ve-cases-no-deaths-287085
23-07-2021||---||Amritsar MC fails to remove illegal kiosk set up by city police||Amritsar, July 22 The Amritsar Municipal Corporation seems to be helpless in front of the city police in removing illegal kiosks set up by cops on city roads. Despite the orders of the High Court, the MC is unable to remove the kiosks on footpaths. Last week, the police reportedly installed an illegal kiosk on the footpath near the bus stand. On July 19, when a team led by Dharminderjeet Singh, Estate Officer of MC reached the spot to remove the kiosk along with a ditch machine, the cops from the bus stand police post didn’t allow him to take action. The MC team returned without removing the illegal kiosk.  There are several locations where the police established kiosks or occupied the MC property, claimed officials. A police post near Sun City on Verka Road is being operationalised from an illegal kiosk, set under the BRTS over Bridge. The MC officials claimed that a shop of the MC is also occupied by police at Hall Gate. Several police posts illegally constructed the rooms on government property during the past a few years, claimed MC officials.  Dharminder Jeet Singh, Estate officer of the MC, said, “The illegal kiosk has been established by the police near bus stand and it is encroaching the footpath. The High Court orders are clear over the illegal encroachments and we don’t allow anyone to encroach footpaths or roads. The matter is in view of senior officials of MC. The kiosks would definitely be removed. We expect the police to act strict against violations, but in this case, the police only are responsible for violations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-fails-to-remove-illegal-kiosk-set-up-by-city-police-287086
23-07-2021||---||Pak prisoner hurt in brawl at Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, July 22A Pakistani prisoner was injured when two fellow inmates, also from Pakistan, attacked him.The injured has been identified as Mohammad Shakeel, alias Nazam Ali.The police have booked Razeef Mohammad and Mohammad Aqkab Khan.Jaswinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Jail, said the accused started quarrelling with the victim leaving him injured, thereby violating the jail manual.Meanwhile, another prisoner Yaqub Ali was injured, when three other inmates identified as Lovedeep Singh, Sukhmanpreet Singh or Sukh Bhullar and Sukhwinder Singh attacked him during a quarrel. The accused injured him with a weapon made out of a spoon and an iron ‘kada’.The police have registered two separate cases under Section 52 of the Prisons Act against them for violating the jail manual.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-prisoner-hurt-in-brawl-at-amritsar-central-jail-287087
23-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Constable hurt in encounter with drug smugglers||Tarn Taran, July 22 A police constable was injured in the crossfire between drug smugglers and a police party (Patti Sadar) at Cheema Kalan village here on late Wednesday evening. The injured constable has been identified as Gursahib Singh (in pic), who received bullet injuries in the thigh and was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Patti, where his condition is stated to be stable. The drug smugglers managed to escape leaving behind their car (PB-05 AN-4444) and on searching the car, the police recovered 960 gram of heroin. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the car-borne accused managed to escape, but as per the document recovered from the car, they were identified as Danial, alias Sanjoo, of Ferozpur and Phylips, alias Fillly of Jalla Chaunki Makhu (Ferozpur). The SSP said on a tip-off, the Patti Sadar police led by SHO Inspector Jaswant Singh had set up a naka near Cheema Kalan village and the police party signalled the car to stop but car occupants fired at the police in which Gursahib Singh was injured. The police party, too, fired at the smugglers who managed to escape. The police party chased the smuggler and they ran away leaving behind their car near the Soma Company godown near Patti. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 307, 332, 333, 353, 186 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/constable-hurt-in-encounter-with-drug-smugglers-287088
23-07-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu visit leaves behind a trail of defacement of roads in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 22The visit of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu led to heavy defacement of city roundabouts and roads. A large number of hoardings, flexes and boards were displayed by supporters of Sidhu at different places ahead of his visit.The hoardings greeting Sidhu were seen displayed on every pole of LED light on GT Road. Large hoardings were also seen in all major roundabouts and roads leading to Sidhu’s residence and the Golden Temple. Not only local councillors or supporters, Congress leaders from all over Punjab displayed the hoardings in the holy city to greet Sidhu.The Assembly election is due next year but the defacement of the city has started too early this time. The advertisement wing of the MC, which was earlier proactive against defacements, seems reluctant in removing hoardings, as no one wants to mess with Sidhu supporters.“The Municipal Corporation is quite strict on defacement and illegal hoardings and even collecting third party tax from private firms who display hoarding on their own establishments. But when it comes to political leaders of the ruling party, they don’t bother it seems,” said Advocate Kuljit Singh.MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi said: “I was busy in the meetings and spent the entire day in office. We will remove the hoardings soon. No one will be allowed to deface the roads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-visit-leaves-behind-a-trail-of-defacement-of-roads-in-amritsar-287089
23-07-2021||---||Blind murder, snatching case solved, 1 held||Amritsar, July 22  With the arrest of one person, the Chatiwind police claimed to have solved the blind murder case of a migrant, Ajit Kumar, who was hacked to death by unidentified persons in a snatching incident. The accused had decamped with his mobile and cash. The police nabbed Navinder Singh of Chabba village while his accomplice Sukhchain Singh, alias Chandu, of the same village,  was yet to be arrested. Raids were on to nab him, said Manmeetpal Singh, SHO, Chatiwind police station. The complainant, Anil Kumar, manager of Supplitec industry Pvt Ltd, located at Chabba village on the Tarn Taran road, said Ajit Kumar, who originally belonged to Gonda district in UP, used to work as a driver at the factory. He used to live in the colony of the factory. Around 9.30pm on Tuesday, he was going to his residence when two unidentified bike-borne persons came and snatched his mobile. When he resisted, they left him seriously injured. He was taken to Guru Ram Das Hospital at Vallah where he died. Manmeetpal Singh, SHO, said a case under Sections 302 and 379-B of the IPC was registered and the probe led to the identification of the two accused. He said Navinder was held while raids were on to nab Sukhchain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blind-murder-snatching-case-solved-1-held-287090
23-07-2021||Amritsar||2 suppliers sent to judicial remand||The two alleged MP-based weapon suppliers were send to judicial remand after expiry of their police custody on Thursday. The police had nabbed Jeevan (19), of Jamli Gaytri Dham village, and Vijay Thakur (25), of Umrypani, in Badwani, MP, during a special operation and confiscated 39 illegal weapons from them.A counter intelligence official said the duo used to work for Kartar Singh, who has a couple of illegal weapon manufacturing units in MP. He said they had earlier supplied six weapons in Fazilka and four in Kharar. It was found that the module had supplied over 300 illegal weapons to gangsters and criminal elements in Punjab and Haryana, besides Rajasthan and NCR. It was also learnt that the anti-national elements were also procuring weapons from illegal weapon manufacturing units in Badwani. Following the lead, the counter intelligence had arrested Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga of Ferozepur and Jagroop Singh of Tarn Taran in February. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-suppliers-sent-to-judicial-remand-287091
23-07-2021||Amritsar||Man hacked to death, 4 booked||Agri SIs protest disparityAmritsar: Agriculture Sub-Inspectors staged a protest against the alleged disparity in pay scales and promotions here on Thursday. The employees said till January 1978, agriculture sub-inspectors had a pay scale equal to veterinary inspectors. Association leader Prabhjot Singh Chahal said: “With time, agricultural sub-inspectors were ignored and now, they get a salary which is less than Class IV workers.” He said agriculture sub-inspectors are field workers of the department, who are in direct contact with farmers and responsible for implementing all policies of the government. Another leader Gurpreet Singh Sran said the cadre was even ignored in the 6th Pay Commission report. He said promotion cases of the cadre were also pending for long. The association also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner regarding their demands. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-hacked-to-death-4-booked-287113
23-07-2021|| Amritsar||Bibi Jagir Kaur miffed at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘show’ at Golden Temple||The ‘show of strength’ by new PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu with his supporters at the Golden Temple complex yesterday has not gone down well with the SGPC.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur alleged that after becoming the PCC president, Sidhu had come to the Golden Temple to show his political strength, which had hurt sentiments of Sikhs.Speaking on the social media platform of the SGPC, she said it was against the Sikh etiquette for the leaders of political parties to show off their political strength in the holiest place.“Sidhu’s visit with his supporters has caused inconvenience to the common devotees. He should have avoided it and come like a humble human being, not as a celebrity,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bibi-jagir-kaur-miffed-at-navjot-singh-sidhus-show-at-golden-temple-286917
23-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Farmers’ protest forces Navjot Singh Sidhu to take detour to reach function||Newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday had to change his route in the wake of the farmers’ protest to reach Mehmoodpur village. As a result, Congress workers, who had lined up on roads for hours to welcome him here, had to return disappointed.Sidhu had to attend a function organised by Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at his native Mehmoodpur village. As per the programme, he was to reach Mehmoodpur via Tarn Taran, Chabal, Sursingh, Bhikhwind, Algon Kothi, Amarkot, etc. However, his cavalcade took a detour through Patti, Valtoha and Amarkot to reach the village to avoid the farmers’ protest in the area. He reached there by about three hours late.Cong still holding events despite appealFarmers have already appealed to all political parties not to organise events till farm laws are repealed, but the Congress is celebrating the appointment of the new chief. Sahib Singh, farmer leaderAt Mehmoodpur, the new PCC chief remained seated on the stage but did not address the gathering. He was accompanied by Amritsar MLA Raminder Singh Bularia. Bhullar welcomed the elevation of Sidhu.Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) protested at different places. They staged dharna in Bhikhiwind and Sursingh and gathered at Chabal to show Sidhu black flags.Farmers in Sursingh village, too, remained on the road for more than nine hours to show black flags to Sidhu. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-farmers-protest-forces-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-take-detour-to-reach-function-286914
