24-07-2021||Amritsar||Vaccination drive organised||Teej celebratedGuru Nanak Dev University Non-Teaching Employees Association on Friday organised ‘Teej’ for women employees, in which around 250-300 women employees working in different departments of the University participated. Harvinder Kaur, president, Non-Teaching Employees Association, said that due to the recent pandemic, such activities have taken a back seat and the association is proud to host this programme to boost morale of the employees. She said that such programmes also keep us connected with our traditions and roots.GNDU faculty invited by PLOSPLOS Water (Est. 2021) by Public Library of Science. USA, has invited Dr M S Bhatti, Professor, Department of Botanical & Environmental Sciences of Guru Nanak Dev University to join as Academic Editor. The journal is headed by Professors of Stanford University USA & Edith Cowan University, Western Australia.Dr Bhatti’s expertise is in water and waste water treatment and has published more than 60 articles cited in 40 countries. As an academic duty, reviewing more than 400 research publications helped him in joining one of the open access journals in the domain of water, climate, sustainability, global public health & digital health.Vanshika Mehra 1st in B VocGNDU declared results of B.Voc. Entertainment & Technology (Sem I) and BBKDAV students have bagged top three positions in the university examination. Vanshika Mehra stood 1st in the university by securing 85.5%. Diksha Khanna stood 2 nd by securing 85%. Ananya Malhotra stood 3rd by securing 84%. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia congratulated the students and faculty members for their brilliant performance in the university exams and encouraged them to uphold their performances in future as well. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vaccination-drive-organised-287587
24-07-2021||Anybody who knows Navjot Singh Sidhu even a little would have definitely vouched for the fact that his political comeback was a foregone conclusion despite all the noises being made by his detractors. Such is his resilience and tenacity that during his cricket playing days||Navjot Sidhu: Cometh the hour, cometh the man||Pathankot MLA Vij roots for new ppcc presidentAmid speculation that Pathankot MLA Amit Vij would take some time to decide which way he would move in the present political scenario, he took everyone by surprise by deciding to back Sidhu. On Friday, he and his supporters left for Chandigarh in a cavalcade comprising 210 cars and buses. The groundwork, including the hiring of private buses, was done by his brother Ashish Vij who of late has become the MLA’s go-to man. The other day Ashish could be seen supervising works related to laying of sewerage and water supply pipes across the length and breadth of the city. He has also been tasked with ensuring the project related to the proposed elevated narrow gauge rail line is given practical shape. Today, he made certain the cavalcade did not get stuck in the city’s morning traffic which is chaotic, to say the least, by getting some cops to ensure the smooth flow of vehicles till they reached the national highway leading to Chandigarh. The MLA says that the newly appointed PPCC Chief will be paying a visit to the city at the end of this month. “Preparations have already commenced for Sidhu’s proposed visit. We are just waiting for the dates to be finalised,” remarked Ashish.Driver’s nestGurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq is an officer known to take decisions after a lot of planning. For the last six months, he had been pondering about the not so good facilities being provided by the administration to government drivers. He then came up with the idea of establishing the ‘driver’s nest’ which is a big room just as one enters the District Administrative Complex (DAC). Tired drivers now take rest here instead of making use of officers’ restrooms. “This was necessary. We all need rest after a difficult outing. This room is an absolute delight. Hopefully, we get an air-conditioner by the time next summer arrives,” said one of them. As things stand, these drivers have got a room to relax but sans an AC. They are having a mixed bag as finally they have got an independent room but without an AC. After all, the sweltering heat does get to their nerves particularly after a long drive what with their boss shouting instructions down their throats.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-cometh-the-hour-cometh-the-man-287588
24-07-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Major haul: Lahan, illicit liquor seized from Tarn Taran villages||Tarn Taran, July 23 The Excise Department and the district police under Operation Red Rose, launched on the instructions of Rajat Aggarwal, Excise Commissioner, Punjab, conducted a special search operation  against the manufacturing of illicit liquor at Cheema Kalan and Shakri villages here on Friday. Around 11,290 kg of lahan, 1,10,750 ml of illicit liquor and a working still were recovered from the spot. Excise Officer Navjot Bharti and DSP Iqbal Singh led the teams which consisted of 70 police personnel. Excise inspectors Amrik Singh, Parshotam Pathania and Jatinder Singh supervised the search operation. Navjot Bharti said one working still, 600 kg of lahan and 42,000 ml of illicit liquor were recovered from the house of Sahib Singh of Cheema Kalan. Besides, 630 kg of lahan and 5,250 ml of illicit liquor were seized from the houses of Mukhtiar Singh and Balwinder Singh of Cheema Kalan village. The accused managed to flee from the spot. Around 560 kg of lahan and 15,000 ml of illicit liquor were seized from the houses of Harbhinder Singh, Sewa Singh and Gurjit Singh of Shakri village. During searches in the village pond and the road along the canal, 9,500 kg of lahan and 48,500 ml of illicit liquor, both unclaimed, were recovered from Shakri village, said the Excise Officer. All the culprits managed to escape from the spot. Excise Officer Navjot Bharti said from Monday to Friday, joint parties of the Excise Department and the district police also conducted search operations at Kot Dharam Chand Kalan, Dhand, Brahampura and Sarali Manda villages. He said 20,240 kg of lahan and 1,67,750 ml of illicit liquor were recovered. Gurpreet Singh of Kot Dharam Chand Kalan village, Jaspal Singh of Dhand village and Gurpreet Singh of Sarali Manda village were arrested. The accused had been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act by the police station concerned, said the excise officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/major-haul-lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-from-tarn-taran-villages-287375
24-07-2021||---||Property tax: Amritsar MC officials told to focus on commercial buildings||Amritsar, July 23Municipal Corporation Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi conducted a review meeting with officials and superintendents of property tax and instructed them to focus on commercial buildings and assure 100% tax recovery.The MC Commissioner asked to issue notices to all industrial units, banks/ATMs, corporate offices multinational company offices, brand stores, hotels/guest house, hospital/nursing homes, private educational institutes, marriage palaces, automobile agencies, mobile towers, shopping malls, and boards/corporation offices till August 15. Jaggi asked the officials and employees to pull up the shocks to achieve the recovery targets otherwise face the music. Taking strict action on dishonored cheques, Jaggi asked superintendents concerned to recover the amount or seal the buildings.“The recovery of tax is very low and I assure that the targets must be achieved. We will seal the building and take strict actions”, said Jaggi.The commissioner also instructed to conduct scrutiny of all the commercial properties and assured the recovery of pending tax.A large number of major commercial firms, mills and marriage palaces are taking advantage of location as they lies on the boundary of the MC jurisdiction. The MC Commissioner asked to monitor all the industrial units, firms and marriage palaces and assure the recovery of tax.Notably, the MC has set the target to collect Rs42.5 crore as property tax this year. The Property Tax Wing of the MC never achieved the recovery targets during past years. The notices and sealing of a few buildings proved eyewash. It is the first time in the past several years, when MC officials are making efforts in July for recovery of tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-tax-amritsar-mc-officials-told-to-focus-on-commercial-buildings-287376
24-07-2021||---||Amritsar Health Dept tells food joint owners to vaccinate staffers||Amritsar, July 23The Health Department has asked food joint owners to get their workers vaccinated at the earliest. The authorities said after lifting of the lockdown restrictions, eating joints, including restaurants, have started witnessing rush. One dies, four test positive in districtDistrict Health Officer Dr Bharti Dhawan said due to Covid-19, all businesses associated with food, including restaurants, bakeries, sweet shops, hotels, milk and milk product sellers, have been asked to get their staff jabbed.She said a total of 442 workers in this category were vaccinated on Wednesday.“It’s necessary that those involved in cooking at eating joints are vaccinated,” said Dr Dhawan adding that during the rountinue inspections by the department, they would also check vaccination records of workers.She said food business operators were required to follow health guidelines, including wearing of masks and proper sanitisation of dining and cooking areas.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “Residents have started visiting eating joints. It’s necessary that they stay safe.”He said any laxity on the part of food business operators can prove costly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-health-dept-tells-food-joint-owners-to-vaccinate-staffers-287377
24-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Failing to get athletes on right track||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23Athletes hailing from the border district have invariably brought laurels for the country at international sports since Independence but their dream to prepare on a synthetic athletics track continues to remain elusive.Many attempts to lay a synthetic track on nearly eight acres of the university’s athletic ground did not materialise for one reason or another.Together, Amritsar and Tarn Taran are known as the powerhouse for producing quality players in track and field events. The array of prominent players who earned medals for the country at international events and national level is exhaustive. Names of some prominent players are Gurbachan Singh Randhawa (Decathlon), Praveen Kumar (Discuss and Hammer throw), Khushbir Kaur (20 km walk), Mandeep Kaur (400 meters relay), Navjit Kaur Dhillon (discus) and others.Lack of infrastructure has been costing dearly to athletes, especially those preparing for national and international events in their career. A budding discus thrower, on the condition of anonymity, divulged that their practice remained far from the national and international standard. Participating in competitions on the synthetic athletic turf after preparing on ordinary ground left several gaps. Lack of exposure and practice on the synthetic track fritter away their points which eventually cost their rankings at the national level.Over seven years ago, the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had sanctioned an amount of Rs 5.5 crore to lay a synthetic athletics track at the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) but the grant was shifted to the North East due to some technical reasons.Harjap Singh Aujla, a hockey lover, said non-utilisation of the grant for a long prompted the Union Ministry to transfer it to a state in the North East in 2015.He said ample funds were being released for Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Sports University at Patiala and the work has been going on in full swing. However, the GNDU, which clinched the coveted Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) trophy for a record 23 times, and produced 35 Arjuna awardees, was not being given synthetic athletic track.Dr Kanwar Mandeep Singh, Assistant Director Sports, GNDU, said continuous efforts were being put in to bring in the synthetic track for track and field events but it did not elicit a positive response. He recalled that the project under the Union Sports Ministry’s Khelo India scheme was sanctioned about two years ago and a grant of Rs 2.5 crore also arrived. E-tender for laying the track was called and two firms expressed interest to lay it. Since it did not comply with the norm of at least three participants in the bidding process, the tender was abrogated.Later, without citing any reason, the grant was also recalled, dashing their hopes of a state-of-the-art track. The proposed track was the one recommended by the Amateur International Athletics Federation. Had it been installed here, it would have made the city fifth in the country to have such a track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/failing-to-get-athletes-on-right-track-287378
24-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Employees strike work, burn effigy of Manpreet Badal||Tarn Taran, July 23Agitating employees of the state government, under the joint banner of local unit, the District DC Office Employees Association, Punjab State Ministerial Services Union and Sanjha Mulazam Manch, stressing on their demands, organised a protest against the state government in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC) on Friday.The protesting employees burnt the effigy of Finance Minister Punjab Manpreet Singh Badal.The employees were on an indefinite strike for the past more than two months. The strike had been causing a great inconvenience to the public whose official works related to different departments had been stopped.Karwinder Cheema, Sukhpreet Pannu, Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, Iqbal Singh were among the others who addressed on the occasion.The leaders condemned the lapses in the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission Report. The leaders took a serious note of merging three branches of each Deputy Commissioner office as a results the services of the Senior Assistants would be reverted and the future of many other employees too would be darkened.The revenue patwaris and the kanoogos, under the joint call of the state bodies of Revenue Patwar Union, and Kannoogo Association, staged dharnas at tehsil level in the district. Sarabjit Singh Sandhu, district president and Ramandeep Singh Pannu, Tehsil president of the Patwar Union were among the others who addressed on the occasion. The organisations, besides removing the anomalies of the pay commission recommendations, had been demanding for the filling all vacant pots of the patwaris, restoration of the Old Pension Scheme and other demands.The doctors of the Civil Hospitals and the animal husbandry departments, BDPO’s, MGNREGA employees too have been observing the strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-strike-work-burn-effigy-of-manpreet-badal-287379
24-07-2021||---||Alleging police inaction, SAD holds agitation at Hall Gate||Amritsar, July 23  Alleging police inaction, SAD leaders headed by Talbir Singh Gill, along with party workers, today held a demonstration at the Hall Gate area. They alleged that the Sultanwind police were dithering on registering an FIR in the case in which a youth brought pistol to kill 14-year-old son of their SC wing leader Jagjit Singh Judge. They alleged that they had handed over the CCTV footage of the youth carrying pistol and other evidence in this regard. SAD leaders threatened to hold a protest outside the Police Commissioner’s office if the police failed to take appropriate action in this regard.  However, the police denied the allegation, while adding that the SAD leaders were using pressure tactics for registering an FIR, which is ‘totally wrong’ as there was no evidence that the youth was carrying a weapon. “It was an air pistol which does come under the purview of the Arms Act while preliminary probe revealed that it was a minor dispute between children playing in an open ground nearby their residences,” said Perneet Dhillon, SHO Sultanwind police station.  Gill, party in-charge of the Amritsar South Constituency alleged that the police were not taking action under the influence of Congress MLA. “We will hold an agitation outside Police Commissioner’s office where the CCTV footage of the accused would be played if the police failed to take appropriate action. Dhillon said Judge and his brother had several criminal cases against them. He said few days ago, his son had a dispute with Thulli while playing ‘Gillidanda’. Judge, who is in-charge of the SC wing of the constituency threatened Thulli at that time and enraged over this, he brought air pistol from his house which he had bought from a village fair.  “We took preventive action against the boy  for this as carrying air pistol does not invite action under the Arms Act,” SHO pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/alleging-police-inaction-sad-holds-agitation-at-hall-gate-287380
24-07-2021||Amritsar||AAP burns Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi’s effigy||Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party held a protest and burnt an effigy of Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi for her remarks against the protesting farmers. The AAP workers assembled at Bhandari Bridge and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government. Protesters demanded that the Centre should repeal all the three agri laws and asked Lekhi to step down. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-burns-union-minister-meenakshi-lekhis-effigy-287381
24-07-2021||Amritsar||Seven prisoners booked for clash||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-prisoners-booked-for-clash-287394
24-07-2021||---||Nurse duped of gold ornaments||Amritsar, July 23 A man posing as a saint duped a staff nurse and decamped with her gold jewellery worth lakhs. The complainant, Gurpreet Kaur, told the police that after ending her shift at a government hospital in Sarhali Kalan in Tarn Taran, she headed back home. She said when she reached near Shivala temple, a sadhu asked her a way to a dargah.She said in the meantime, another person came on the spot, and said the saint had cured eyes of his mother. The complainant said she got lured and asked the saint to pray for her son who was ill. She said the sadhu asked to give some gold to perform a prayer. The complainant said she went to her house and brought gold ornaments worth lakhs. She said the saint packed the same in a handkerchief and after reciting the prayer asked her to take it home. She said when she reached home, she found stones in the handkerchief. The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 34 of the IPC in this connection and have initiated a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurse-duped-of-gold-ornaments-287395
24-07-2021||Neha Saini||Parents divided over sending their kids to school||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23With the Punjab Government announcing the reopening of schools for Classes X, XI and XII from July 26, the decision has evoked mixed reactions, especially from parents, due to the fear of an impending third wave of Covid as predicted by the health experts.As academicians give a thumbs up to the decision of reopening of schools, parents still have their concerns regarding safety, despite clear guidelines issued to schools by the government. The government has also mentioned that the decision to send children to school depends on parents, as schools will have to get consent forms from parents, willing to send their child to school. Schools will continue in both — online and offline mode of learning — till further orders.“The reopening of schools has become imperative now. Otherwise, it will be too late. Despite best efforts to continue learning through online mode, the school learning system has been hit and students, too, are feeling the pressure of online education. Vaccination in most schools have been done and schools have health safety protocols in place to continue with safe, offline classes,” said Dr Anjana Gupta, Principal, DAV International School.Meanwhile, parents are divided over the decision as a looming possibility of third wave raises concerns. “Look what happened when the lockdown was lifted in the state and how tourists thronged everywhere, throwing caution to the wind. Despite the protocol, it’s still a risky move as kids and even the elder ones need monitoring,” said Alka Sharma, a mother of two. Her 15-year-old daughter is a student of Class X at DAV Public School.Satpal Singh, father of Ramneek Singh, a student of Class X, said: “Last year, when schools reopened after the lockdown, only 20 per cent students returned to classes before the second wave hit. This time, we will have to wait and see if adequate caution is being exercised or not. One can understand the urgency of schools and students to get back to conventional mode of education as online mode has been tough for some children.”Manisha Behl, an assistant professor at Khalsa College, and a mother of two, shares the same concern. “For elder kids, may be the risk is less as they understand the situation and know how to follow safety protocols. But for younger kids, it is difficult to follow instructions. With schools reopening for senior classes, reports suggest that remaining classes will be allowed to function offline from August 2 onwards. But it’s still too soon for younger kids to be attending offline classes. It’s good that parents have been given an option of continuing with online and offline mode of education as per choice.” she said.As for students, many have already been demanding for blended mode of learning. Private schools to meet parents today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parents-divided-over-sending-their-kids-to-school-287400
24-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Parallel jathedar’ Dhian Singh Mand summons two ministers, three MLAs||‘Parallel’ acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand has summoned two Punjab Cabinet ministers and three MLAs on August 2 for clarifying their stance on misguiding organisers leading to the end of the Bargari morcha (stir) over the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents.Mand, who was appointed during the controversial 2015 Sarbat Khalsa, paid obeisance at Akal Takht here today. He condemned the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government for not fulfilling the assurances on the basis of which the morcha was lifted. The morcha lasted for nearly six months between June 1 and December 10 in 2018.He directed ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa besides MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon to appear before the Takht on August 2 at 11 am for a clarification in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parallel-jathedar-dhian-singh-mand-summons-two-ministers-three-mlas-287508
24-07-2021||Amritsar||Punish culprits of Kanpur Sikh genocide: SGPC||Welcoming the special investigation team’s (SIT) move to collect the evidence after reopening the files pertaining to the cases of Kanpur Sikh genocide in November 1984, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today demanded that the accused be strictly punished.In November 1984, Sikhs were massacred in Delhi, Kanpur, Bokaro and other cities. “Although with the convictions and punishments to some accused, there is a glimmer of hope, but even after 37 years, all the accused have not been put behind bars. Now that action is being taken against the culprits of the Kanpur Sikh genocide, we hope the culprits are punished soon,” she said.The SGPC had continuously worked to get the culprits of the genocide punished but they had been escaping the law with the patronage of the Congress, she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punish-culprits-of-kanpur-sikh-genocide-sgpc-287272
