25-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Teej celebrated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teej-celebrated-288012
25-07-2021||Tarn Taran||One arrested with 2-kg opium||Dowry death: Husband heldAmritsar: Two days after a newly-wed woman (Rubina) committed suicide following alleged harassment from her husband and in-laws, the Mohkampura police have nabbed the suspects on Saturday evening. Those arrested included her husband Rajesh Kumar, his father Kedar Nath and mother Chandrawati, all residents of Virse De Haveli in Mohkampura. Rubina had ended her life by consuming some poisonous substance. The victim was two month pregnant. Tribhuvan Yadav, father of the victim, told the police that his daughter was married to Rajesh on May 7. He said he gave dowry as per his capacity to her in-laws, however, her family was harassing her and demanding dowry. He said Rubina called and told him that her in- laws were harassing her. She was pregnant and her husband wanted her to opt for abortion. TNSMan killed, wife hurt in accidentTarn Taran: A man died while his wife suffered injuries in a road accident, which took place near Khabbe Dogran village, on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Sukha (40), a resident of Sarchoo village, Gurdaspur. His wife Raji has been admitted to a Civil Hospital where her condition is stable. The victim alongwith his wife was heading towards Patti on his motorcycle. Their bike rammed into a make-shift motorcycle (rehri). Sukha died on the spot. The Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC against the driver of the make-shift motorcycle. The accused fled from the spot leaving his vehicle behind. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-with-2-kg-opium-288011
25-07-2021||---||Farmers’ unions threaten to gherao Tarn Taran SDM||Amritsar, July 24The farmers’ unions have decided to gherao the office of sub-divisional magistrate at Tarn Taran for not clearing the file for compensation to the family of Surjit Singh, who fell ill while attending the ongoing farmers’ protest at Singhu border and later died at a hospital in Amritsar.In a meeting of the representatives of different farmer unions they alleged that the district administration has not cleared the file despite the efforts made by them.They said Surjit Singh, a 32-year old marginal farmer from Cheema Khurd village, under Serai Amanant Khan police station, had died after remaining admitted at the hospital for treatment.Hardeep Singh Rasoolpur, Tehsil president of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said: “The wife of the deceased has been running from pillar to post to get the compensation, which the state government had announced for farmers, who had sacrificed their lives during the protest.”He said the government had announced a monetary compensation of Rs5 lakh along with job for a family member and waiving the loans of these farmers.Baldev Singh Pandoori, Punjab president, Central Trade Union (CTU), said: “We will continue the gherao the SDM office for an indefinite period till the administration clears the file and the wife of the deceased gets the compensation.” He said the unions had earlier approached the Deputy Commissioner, who had assured that the compensation would be released but the local officials have not cleared the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-unions-threaten-to-gherao-tarn-taran-sdm-287977
25-07-2021||---||Students celebrate Teej at mental health institute||Amritsar, July 24  In a novel gesture, a group of students celebrated the festival of Teej with female inmates at Dr Vidya Sagar Institute of Mental Health here. The students of Sri Guru Ram Das College of Nursing associated with Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health sciences applied mehndi on the hands of the inmates and shared sweets with them.  As many as 50 inmates at the mental health institute have been living here for the last over a decade. With most of them from the poor families and with no visitors or family members, it indeed was a nostalgic moment for them.  Nursing tutor at the institute, Charanjit Kaur said, “Apart from a celebration, it was a kind of building of a bond between the nursing students and the patients. We always teach our students that nursing is not a career but a way of life. Being a nurse means caring for the sick and destitute.”  Dr Sawinder Singh, director, Dr Vidya Sagar Institute of Mental Health, said, “We try to provide a homely atmosphere to the inmates. Apart from providing them medical care on daily basis we also help them by organising such events.” Dr Singh said mental health was still a taboo for our society. “The society is slowly becoming sensitive towards patients with mental health issues but we still need to go a long way,” he said, adding that compassion and love are the foremost requirements of a person with mental health issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-celebrate-teej-at-mental-health-institute-287978
25-07-2021||---||Raise voice against demolition of Guru Ram Dass inn: Wadala||Amritsar, July 24 The Sikh Sadbhawna Dal led by Baldev Singh Wadala appealed to the Sikhs to raise their voice against proposed demolition of Guru Ram Dass inn at the Golden Temple complex and force the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee to preserve the heritage and historical buildings.  Wadala strongly opposed the resolution passed by the SGPC to demolish the historic Guru Ram Dass inn. “The Sikhs must oppose demolition of historic buildings, so that we can make our future generations aware of our invaluable history,” said Wadala. He said termed the resolution passed by the SGPC to demolish the historic Guru Ram Dass inn as a direct attack on the Sikh heritage. He said it was the last sign as proof of Rs1,000 crore compensation case filed by the SGPC against the Central Government while all other evidences of 1984 had been eliminated.  “The SGPC has almost reached an agreement with the Centre on Rs1,000 crore compensationcase,”he said.  He urged the Sikhs to gather at the Heritage Street on August 1 to discuss the issues being faced by community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raise-voice-against-demolition-of-guru-ram-dass-inn-wadala-287979
25-07-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Thieves decamp with Rs 27 lakh from ATM||Tarn Taran, July 24 Unidentified robbers took away cash worth Rs 27,83,500 on late Friday night by cutting the shutter of SBI’s ATM at Kasel village. The branch is situated quite at the heart of the village but nobody witnessed the incident. The police party deputed for night duty too failed to witness the incident. The bank had not deputed any security guard at the ATM. Sarpreet Singh, branch manager, came to know of the incident when he joined his duty in the morning today and informed the Sarai Amanat Khan police on Saturday. Sub-Inspector Deepak Kumar SHO said the robbers managed to reach till the cash tray using the cutter. SHO Deepak Kumar said a case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-decamp-with-rs-27-lakh-from-atm-287980
25-07-2021||---||‘Attack’ on press freedom condemned||Amritsar, July 24In a special meeting held on Friday by members of the Folklore Research Academy, Ramesh Yadav, president of the organisation, condemned the attack on media houses by the government. Calling out the government and political leaders on deteriorating political climate of the country, Yadav said the Centre needed to come clean on Pegasus issue.Describing spying as a covert attack on the right to privacy and freedom of the press and that of the people of the country, he said the recent IT raids on Dainik Bhaskar in several states was an attack on transparent discourse of news.“We strongly condemn the raids carried out on charges of alleged tax evasion. This was a step taken by the government out of fear of independent journalism and this raid was carried out to deter and intimidate journalists from speaking out truth,” he said.Meanwhile, he also slammed Union Minister and BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi for the anti-farmer statements made by her recently, in which she termed the protesting farmers on the Delhi border as “mawali”. “Such meaningless statements from those sitting in power show the conspiracy to discredit the farmer agitation,” he said.Snooping row||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-press-freedom-condemned-287981
25-07-2021||Amritsar||Man thrashed; eight booked for murder bid||The Lopoke police have booked eight persons on charges of attempt to murder and firing as they allegedly attacked Subhpreet Singh and his friend Gurbhej Singh, both residents of Manwal village. The incident occurred five days ago, but a complaint was lodged with the police on Friday. A land dispute is stated to be the reason behind this. Those booked were identified as Jatinder Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Ranjit Singh, Akashdeep Singh of Manwala village, Sakatar Singh, Heera Singh, Manjit Singh and Ravinder Singh, all residents of Chak Kamal Khan village falling under the Bhindi Saida police station here. No arrest has been made so far as the accused absconded, said the police. Gurdyal Singh, father of victim Subhpreet Singh, told the police that Subhpreet and Gurbhej were sitting at a platform near the house on July 18, when the accused attacked them. The accused were equipped with pistols and traditional weapons. Subhpreet sustained injuries and he was rushed to the Civil Hospital at Lopoke for treatment. He said he had a dispute with Ranjit Singh over transferring of land. The mediators were trying to strike a compromise between them, but it did not happen.  The police said a case under Sections 307, 323, 324 and 336 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the suspects in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-thrashed-eight-booked-for-murder-bid-287982
25-07-2021||---||Collect pending tax: MC Commissioner to officials||Amritsar, July 24 Amritsar Municipal Corporation Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi in order to streamline municipal town planning wing held a meeting with the Municipal Town Planner (MTP), Assistant Town Planners (ATPs) and Building Inspectors.  The MC Commissioner said the MTP wing was one of the most important revenue generation department of civic body, but its performance was not satisfactory. “If a building is being constructed illegally in the city, then it will be the sole responsibility of the ATP and Building Inspector of the area. Else, be prepared to face the music,” said Jaggi. The MC Commissioner said the process of collecting tax should be commenced by issuing notices to illegal colonies, which come under the TP scheme and the Punjab Apartment and Property Regularisation Act (PAPRA).  According to information, around Rs 35 to Rs 40 crore has to be collected from these colonies. Apart from this, around Rs 8 crore arrears were to be collected from 22 colonisers, who have applied for regularisation of their colonies.  He told officials that strict action should be taken against colonisers if they do not pay pending tax. The MC Commissioner also asked to seal the buildings where showrooms are opened in parking space. Jaggi said there are a lot of complaints regarding the MTP wing and it should be addressed within one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/collect-pending-tax-mc-commissioner-to-officials-287983
25-07-2021||---||Rs16.44 lakh given under PM Awas Yojana||Amritsar, July 24 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu issued letters for transfer of Rs16.44 lakh financial assistance for the construction of new houses to 62 beneficiaries of Ward No. 12 and 13 under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana here on Friday.  The Mayor claimed that crores had been disbursed among beneficiaries under this scheme so far. Karamjit said 62 eligible beneficiaries of the two wards had been issued letters for the transfer of Rs16.44 lakh in their bank accounts. Out of this, 25 have got the amount to start the construction of their houses and 37 were given the aid to complete the ongoing work. He said the state government had formulated a number of schemes for economically weaker section to uplift their life standards. He conveyed the message to all councillors to visit their respective wards to make people aware of the policies/schemes formulated by the government in the public interest and to motivate them to avail the benefits of these schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs16-44-lakh-given-under-pm-awas-yojana-287984
25-07-2021||---||Kits distributed among students||Amritsar, July 24 Indian Radiology and Imaging Association (IRIA) donated stationary and hygiene kits to 50 students of Bal Ashram Vidhiya Kendra, a charitable school at Gumtala. The event was held under Raksha Project run by IRIA for the underprivileged girl children.  The event was coordinated by Dr Sonali Soni, Dr Ramesh Chander, Dr Amandeep Singh and Dr Poonam Ohri. Dr Ramesh Chander said IRIA is working to end the menace of female foeticide and sex selective abortions. He said the association was committed for the uplift of girl children from the underprivileged sections of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kits-distributed-among-students-287985
25-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Murder’ at hotel: Another suspect held||The police nabbed another suspect in the culpable homicide case in which a married woman was found dead in a hotel room a few days ago. He was identified as Harjit Singh of Ugar Aulakh village in Ajnala. This is the second arrest in the case. Earlier, Sukhdev Singh of the same village was nabbed by the police. Their third accomplice, Ajaib Bir Singh, was yet to be arrested. Sub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh said both Sukhdev Singh and Harjit Singh were in police remand till July 26. He said during investigation Harjit said he did not know the victim, Sumanpreet Kaur. He went there as Sukhdev invited him to accompany. He said it was Sukhdev who procured the drugs and the syringe. He said investigation was still under way and an autopsy report was awaited to ascertain what Sumanpreet had consumed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-at-hotel-another-suspect-held-287986
25-07-2021||---||Welder murdered, robbery suspected||Amritsar, July 24  Balwinder Singh (52), a resident of Dhardeo village, was found murdered near Bhalaipur Purba village falling under the Mehta police station here on Friday. The victim’s body had marks of deep injuries inflicted with some sharp-edged weapon. Balwinder Singh used to work as a welder and went missing on late Thursday evening. The victim’s son Karnbir Singh told the police that his father used to work as a welder in the Chowk Mehta area.  He said on Thursday, after his job he had gone to Dhulka village for seeing his cousin Gurmeet Singh, who was suffering from cancer. He said when he did not return home, they called him and found his phone was switched off. He called his cousin Gurpreet (Gurmeet’s son) who said that he had left at around 9pm. He said he then took his cousin Gurdyal Singh and started a search for him but could not locate. On Friday, he got a call from Gurdyal that Balwinder’s body was lying near Bhalaipur Purba village canal bridge. His body was lying in a pool of blood and there were injury marks on his body. Balwinder Singh, SHO, Mehta police station, said a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered while further investigation was under progress. He said the robbery was being suspected to be the reason behind the killing as his purse and mobile were missing though his bike was near the spot. “At the same time when he was murdered, a snatching incident was reported in an electrician’s shop located at Sudhar village falling under the Khalchian police station. Both the spots are located around 2-3 km away from the periphery,” said the SHO. Electrician Manjit Singh told the Khalchian police that three bike-borne persons came to him when he was downing the shutters of his shop. He said the accused, who were armed with a pistol, snatched Rs 10,000 and a mobile phone from him. A separate case was registered in this regard. The police have registered a case in this connection while further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/welder-murdered-robbery-suspected-287972
25-07-2021||---||A story of love & hope set in the backdrop of undivided Punjab||Amritsar, July 24A story of love and hope set in the backdrop of undivided Punjab, Dusk over the Mustard Fields, was the centre of discussion at the Majha House’s digital forum.Author Ranjit Powar explained the inspiration and emotions that went into writing the story of a 16-year-old protagonist Nimmo. She also spoke about the real-life experiences of her own family that were used as research for the book that released last year.“Mustard fields have always been synonymous with Punjab and I had to use it in the title to convey an immediate and deep connect with the state and dusk of course is a metaphor for Partition that cast a pall of gloom over the people of the common Punjab, which continues even today after 74 years of the tragic event,” said Powar, who is a psychologist as well. In conversation with Dr Gurupdesh and Dr Gurpartap Khairah, she said her parents helped her with the details to bring authenticity to the book. “There is a lot of detail about the Army stationed at that time in Punjab. Segregation of the Army was an important issue those days and I have tried bringing that element out in the book. For this, I owe gratitude to my father, Lt Col Daljeet Singh, who served in the British Army. For the Punjabi touch, I turned to my mother Harsharan Kaur.”Her book is also about the strong depiction of feminism through the story of her protagonist. Women were exploited in a number of ways. They were not allowed education, were sexually exploited by men and considered inferior. To survive, they had to resort to wiles and cleverness,” Ranjit explained. She also spoke about the segregation of society by class, which she has also highlighted in the book. “Caste system in those days was very firmly entrenched in the minds of people. The upper caste people did not like to come in contact with those from the lower caste but such is the hypocrisy of these people that they had no qualms about maintaining sexual relationships with women from the lower caste. Gender preference was also very prominent then; everyone hankered for a male child. And sadly, all these discriminations continue in our society even today, which makes the book, a historical fiction, relevant in today’s times also,” she concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-story-of-love-hope-set-in-the-backdrop-of-undivided-punjab-287973
25-07-2021||---||Cops clueless in Amritsar hostage, robbery case||Amritsar, July 24Even after 24 hours, cops are groping in the dark in a dacoity case wherein three armed persons held a woman hostage and decamped with Rs 2 lakh in Pawan Nagar on Friday.Jatinderpal, a plywood trader, was at his shop when the accused entered his house by posing as courier men.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said they were working on different theories and pointed out that role of an insider cannot be ruled out. He said the accused had their faces covered, thus CCTV cameras were of little help.As per details, the three bike-borne persons came outside Jatinderpal’s house and asked him to come out.Mother of Jatinderpal went out and asked about their identity, the trio said there was a parcel for Jatinderpal.When his mother opened the gate, the accused demanded water. As the woman went inside for bringing water, robbers followed her and took her hostage by pointing a pistol at her. They took the woman to a room and took out Rs 2 lakh from almirah.In the meantime, Jatinderpal reached home for lunch and rang the doorbell. The accused opened the gate and pointed a weapon at him. They later bolted the gate from outside and fled away on their motorcycle.Sandhu said the police have scrutinised CCTV footage. He said the accused knew name of the victim and number of family members present in the house. He said role of an insider cannot be ruled out. “The police is working on different theories to crack the case and nab the suspects,” he added. A case under Sections 379- B (2) and 419 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-clueless-in-amritsar-hostage-robbery-case-287974
25-07-2021||---||Amritsar reports 2 deaths, seven positive cases||Amritsar, July 24With two deaths, the district Covid toll increased to 1,582 on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Buta Singh, a 53-year-old from Tangra village, near Beas. The Health Department has not revealed the identity of the second deceased so far as reportedly it had occurred outside the district.The health authorities have also reported seven positive cases, with which the tally of positive cases has increased to 47,032. The positive cases include five influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 10 patients, the total recovery count has also increased to 45,398. The district at present has a total of 52 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 7,900 residents were inoculated for Covid-19 on Saturday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of the total, 4,076 were given the first dose of the vaccine, while 3,824 were given the second dose.No death in Tarn TaranNeither any death nor any positive case was reported in the district on Saturday. The toll remains at 370 for the last 12 days. There are 18 active cases in the district so far and six of them have been isolated at their respective homes.DC Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department collected 857 sample to be tested for Covid infection from different places on Saturday. The district administration organised 96 vaccination camps in the district at different places and 5,706 citizens were vaccinated on Saturday with which the total 2,56,347 jabs have been administered to people so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-2-deaths-seven-positive-cases-287975
25-07-2021||Neha Saini||ICSE, ISC schools in Amritsar report 100% results||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 24The results for the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) Boards were announced on Saturday putting an end to a period of anxiety for students. Several students in the city managed to pass with 90% mark as this year no merit list was announced. The results were evaluated on the basis of an alternative system of assessment as board examinations were cancelled due to the second wave of Covid-19.In the ISC results for the medical stream, Armanpreet Kaur bagged top score with 97.75 per cent marks, closely followed by Sukhraj Singh and Rishita Cholia with 97.5 per cent and 97.25 per cent, respectively. Three of them belong to Holy Heart Presidency School. In the non-medical stream, Kartik Sharma of Holy Heart Presidency School got 96.75 per cent while Rabia Gill and Tejroop Kaur from Sacred Heart School got 96.25 per cent. Arashdeep Singh from Holy Heart Presidency School scored 96.5 per cent in non-medical.In the commerce stream, Payal Sharma from Holy Heart presidency school scored 96 per cent. All schools reported 100 per cent successful results, with many crossings 90 per cent and above mark.Sacred Heart School had 46 students from Class XII getting 90% marks out of 127 total students. Alexandra School had six students getting 90 per cent and above while 129 students had first division. In the ICSE results (Class 10), Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, scored 98.6 per cent and out of 187 students from school, 87 cleared the 90 per cent and above mark.Mehakpreet Kaur from Model study School scored 97.4 per cent followed by Shubham Gupta and Gurarpit Kaur of same school, scoring 97 per cent. Out of 99 students appearing for Class X from Model Study, 25 got above 90 per cent marks and 30 got above 80 per cent.Navroop Kaur of St Francis School, Jandiala Guru, scored 95. 8% while Gurveen Kaur of same school got 95.6%. 126 students from St Francis school appeared for the exam and more than 30 crossed the 90% and above marks.Ayush Sinha of Holy heart Presidency scored 95% as out of 303 students of the school, 150 students scored above 90% marks and 229 students scored above 85% marks. Alexandria School reported highest percentage of 96.2% in school in class X results as 27 students from school managed to score above 90% and 117 got first division. In Class 12 results, Alexandria School reported 93% as highest score.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/icse-isc-schools-in-amritsar-report-100-results-287976
25-07-2021||---||Why didn’t Punjab CM buy cheaper power from Centre, asks BJP||Amritsar, July 24The BJP today accused the Capt Amarinder government of not procuring power from the Centre despite availability at Rs 2.50 per unit during the recent electricity crisis in the state.Addressing mediapersons here, BJP national spokesperson Gopal Krishan Aggarwal said the Ministry of Power had even been providing daily data on the availability of power and other relevant details on a WhatsApp group.Gopal Krishan Aggarwal, BJP SpokesmanFarm GDP share lessAs many as 57% of Indians are associated with farming, but their share in the GDP is 13 per cent, which needs to go up.He said Punjab was lagging behind in agriculture reforms, commerce and industry as the state government was not properly utilising the central schemes.The Centre had to strive hard with the state government to procure accounts of farmers under the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme for release of cash benefits, he said.Aggarwal, a chartered accountant, said remittances formed an important part of the state income but it was not a sustainable model as the global trend was protectionist.The Centre was set to introduce five new policies for industry, logistics, retail trade, e-commerce besides import and export, he said.Defending the three farm laws, he said: “As many as 57 per cent of Indians were associated with farming, but their share in the GDP is 13 per cent, which needs to go up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/why-didnt-punjab-cm-buy-cheaper-power-from-centre-asks-bjp-287750
25-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||In saddle, Navjot Singh Sidhu has ‘some promises to keep’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 24With Navjot Singh Sidhu being handed over the reins of the Congress in the state, people now expect him to fulfil the promises he made in the past.Moved by the plight of firemen carrying out rescue operations with wet sacks and clothes during a fire breakout in Ludhiana in 2017, Sidhu as the Local Government Minister had announced overhaul of the department.Barring rechristening of the department as the Directorate of Fire Services, nothing has been done as it continues to function under the Municipal Corporation. Sidhu’s other promises of raising firemen’s pay scale, offering them insurance besides other benefits still remain unmet.In 2018, Sidhu had announced that the blueprint of the first-of-its-kind multipurpose sports complex to be set up in the holy city would be completed in the next one-and-a-half years. Paramjit Singh, a hockey player, says: “My dream of practising in a world-class stadium is not likely to be met during my career as the civil work on it is yet to commence.”The brainchild of Sidhu, former CM Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Badal, had laid its foundation stone on November 12, 2011. He had alleged the complex was deliberately scuttled during the SAD-BJP government by the Badals.Piyush Kapoor, manager of a hotel, said the multi-crore “urban haat” project, proposed to be developed on the lines of Lahore’s food street to attract tourists during the SAD-BJP regime, was yet to be opened for public. “Sidhu in his capacity as the Local Bodies Minister had promised a review of the projects, including urban haat, initiated by the previous SAD-BJP government, but nothing has been done so far,” he says.Prof Mohan Singh (retd) recalled that projects to upgrade Challih Khoo Park, which fell in Sidhu’s constituency, into an environmental park and another environmental park along the UBDC Canal here were yet to see the light of day.The solid waste management plant at Bhagtanwala garbage dump, which was planned in 2004, was rechristened garbage bioremediation and made operational. However, its service remained unsatisfactory.Balram Sharma, a local resident, recalled that Sidhu as the Amritsar MP had even threatened to sit on a fast-unto-death against the Badal government for not completing his pet projects. “Now, it is to be seen whether he will once again keenly work to complete his pet projects,” he added.Residents list unfinished worksCalls on Ludhiana MLAs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-saddle-navjot-singh-sidhu-has-some-promises-to-keep-287748
