26-07-2021||Amritsar||Pak Sikh body greets PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, hopes it will help re-open Kartarpur corridor||Foreseeing it as an opportunity to help reopen the Kartarpur corridor, PSGPC general secretary Amir Singh said ‘lehnda Punjab’ (West Punjab, now in Pakistan) expressed happiness at Sidhu’s elevation.Stressing Sidhu was instrumental in opening of the gurdwara in 2019, he said, “The corridor has been closed from the Indian side due to Covid-19. We appeal to Sidhu to take up the matter of reopening the corridor with the Government of India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-sikh-body-greets-pcc-chief-navjot-sidhu-hopes-it-will-help-re-open-kartarpur-corridor-288466
26-07-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||When a ragi decided to marry a visually challenged girl||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25Hardeep Singh (26) immediately fell in love with Amandeep Kaur, a visually challenged girl, when he saw her during an interview with vlogger Giani Sukchain Singh, while reciting the Gurbani and kirtan in her melodious voice.Though, it is quite uncommon in society to choose a visually challenged partner, Hardeep didn’t think twice and decided to marry Amandeep. Not only this, he married her two weeks ago without any dowry and thanked the almighty for giving him a dream soul mate.The marriage was appreciated by one and all, including several Sikh bodies, especially Gurmat Ragi Parcharak Sabha.I was born in Banaras and left my house in childhood. I came to Amritsar, where my Ustad (music teacher) Charanjeet Singh provided me shelter, food and gave me training in music. Ustad ji was visually challenged and everything for me. He died in 2017. I am fortunate that I got Amandeep. She is not dependent on anyone. Every morning she recites Gurbani in her melodious voice. I have no words to thank the almighty. —Hardeep Singh, Hazoori Ragi at Gurdwara Guru Harkrishan, Majitha RoadRagi Hardeep Singh has huge regards and respect for the visually challenged. While sharing his love for special people, he said: “I was born in Banaras and left my house in childhood. I came to Amritsar, where my Ustad (music teacher) Charanjeet Singh provided me shelter, food and gave me training in music. Ustad ji was visually challenged and everything for me. He left for his heavenly abode in 2017. I am well-settled in my life and serving as Hazoori Ragi at Gurdwara Guru Harkrishan Majitha Road.”After watching an interview of Amandeep, Hardeep expressed his desire to marry the girl with Bhai Jaswinder Singh, who is Hazoori Ragi at the Darbar Sahib. He contacted Amandeep’s parents and made the marriage possible.Hardeep claimed that he lived his entire life with a visually challenged person and found that God created them with a special heart.“I am fortunate that I got Amandeep. She is not dependent on anyone. Every morning she recites Gurbani in her melodious voice. I have no words to thank the almighty,” he said.Amandeep is pursuing MA Punjabi and wants to be a teacher. Hardeep, on the other hand doesn’t want to be in the limelight as he feels he hasn’t done anything extraordinary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-a-ragi-decided-to-marry-a-visually-challenged-girl-288373
26-07-2021||---||2 succumb to virus in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 25With two more deaths in the district due to Covid-19, the toll increased to 1,584 on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Baldev Singh, a 48-year-old resident of Sathiala village near Baba Bakala and Sharanjit Singh (25) of Wadala Johal village.With eight more cases reported by the health authorities, the total count increased to 47,040. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients.The district has reported the recovery of eight patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,406. The district at present has a total of 50 active cases.The health officials said 3,039 residents were given vaccinations during the ongoing drive on Sunday. Of these, 1,805 residents received the first dose, while 1,234 were given the second dose of the vaccine.No death, case in Tarn TaranThe district did not witness any fresh case or death due to Covid on Sunday. As many as 370 persons have lost their lives to the deadly virus in the district so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the number of active cases in the district had reduced to 13 and one of these was under home isolation. Teams of the Health Department collected 622 samples to be tested the infection today and the report of 276 samples was awaited. — OCHelpline for Covid patientsControl Room: 0183-2500398, 0183-2500498, 0183-2500598, 0183-2500698, 0183-2500798 (Open 24*7)Health Dept helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline: 104Contact a doctor: 1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-288374
26-07-2021||---||BSF Havildar dies in accident in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 25BSF Havildar Kulbinder Singh (38), a resident of Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir, died in a road accident while he was waiting to cross the road on his bike near Khasa here.He was currently posted at Khasa headquarters. According to police, an unidentified goods carrier hit his bike. He was immediately rushed to the Military Hospital, where he succumbed. The police have registered a case against an unidentified goods carrier driver and launched further probe.Havildar Sukhwant Singh of Ropar told the police that he was posted with Light Regiment of the BSF at Khasa. On Friday around 9.35 pm, he was going to his duty on his bike and as soon as he came out of the Khasa Army Cantonment gate number 6, Kulbinder was ahead of him on his bike.He said when Kulbinder was waiting for the road to be cleared of traffic, a rashly driven Bolero camper came from Khasa side and hit his bike.Kulbinder got seriously injured in the incident and was immediately rushed to the Military Hospital, where he died. The Bolero camper driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.A case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered and further investigations were on to identify and nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-havildar-dies-in-accident-in-amritsar-288375
26-07-2021||---||Parking blues: Man shot at, 8 booked in Amritsar village||Amritsar, July 25A minor dispute over parking vehicle in a street turned ugly when a group of persons equipped with pistols and weapons barged into a house and thrashed a family in Rorawala Khurd village here. The accused shot at a man who sustained bullet injury on his leg.Rajinder Singh was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment. The Gharinda police have booked eight persons for attempt to murder and firing while no arrest has been made so far. The accused are still at large, Gharinda police station SHO Harsandeep said.Those booked have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, Harpreet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Paramjit Kaur. Rajinder in his complaint said Gurpreet and his brother Harpreet were armed with a revolver, while their parents Sukhwinder and Paramjit were carrying sharp weapons. He said they barged into his house and threatened to kill them. He said following this, Harpreet opened fire and shot at him, leaving him injured, and other accused thrashed his family. In the meantime, four of their unknown accomplices came in an SUV and also thrashed them. He said on hearing their cries, people started gathering and the accused fled the spot.The police have registered a case under various Sections of the IPC and the Arms Act against the accused. The police said the accused and the victims were neighbourers and had a dispute over parking of vehicles in a street. Earlier too, they had a quarrel over the issue, but a compromise was reached at that time. He said raids were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parking-blues-man-shot-at-8-booked-in-amritsar-village-288376
26-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Hour-long rain exposes preparedness||Amritsar, July 25Rain lashed the walled city area this morning for around an hour exposing the inadequate drainage system of the internal city.Waterlogging was seen in areas such as Katra Jaimal Singh, Katra Ahluwalia, Heritage Street and the bus stand area. The Municipal Corporation had conducted desilting of the main sewer lines in the walled city areas as the city had been facing the problem of waterlogging over the years. Rainwater drained out within an hour from most of the areas due to desilting of sewer lines, but waterlogging is yet to addressed in Katra Jaimal Singh and Katra Ahluwalia areas.Varun Kumar, a shopkeeper in Katra Jaimal Singh area, said: “The issue of waterlogging has been addressed in some of the areas as water drains out a few minutes after the rain but some lines are still witnessed choking and roads get waterlogged due to rain.” The MC has conducted desilting of several major sewer lines to address the waterlogging problem in the tenure of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu.“Water accumulated on the Heritage Street and some other streets around the Golden Temple. It is difficult to commute on roads and streets after rain. Waterlogging issue should be addressed on this multi-crore lane,” said Malkeet Singh, a visitor.Mahesh Khanna, chairman, sub-committee on water and sewer lines of MC, said: “The visitors throw packing material, polythene and plastic bottles haphazardly leading to choking of storm sewer chambers on Heritage Street. As soon as the rain starts in the area, we send workers to clean the chambers and drain out water within a few minutes. Visitors should use bins. There is some issue at Katra Jaimal Singh as the 102-inch sewer line from Durgiana Basti to PNB School is yet to be cleaned. The tender has been floated under Smart City and it would address the problem.”Khanna claimed that all disposal points are functional in the city and there is no such location, where water accumulates for more than two hours in the city.Besides, residents got some respite during rain but the humidity level increased soon after.Meanwhile, several localities in the outer areas were deprived of rain today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-hour-long-rain-exposes-preparedness-288377
26-07-2021||---||Commercial units pay no heed to Amritsar MC notices on advt tax||Amritsar, July 25A number of major commercial units, including shopping malls, hospitals and brand stores, are not paying any heed to the notices issued by the advertisement wing of the MC.Implementing the advertisement policy of the state, the MC had issued notices to several major commercial establishments which had displayed advertisements of various brands on their buildings and rooftops. The MC asked the owners of establishments to provide details of the advertisements being displayed on the buildings.MC secretary Sushant Bhatia said: “Commercial establishments are flouting the advertisement policy in the city. We allow them to display ads of their own brand with proper recommended measurements. But they are displaying third party advertisements on buildings and rooftops. Ironically, no one is paying tax to the MC for third party advertisements.”Commercial establishments are flouting the advertisement policy in the city. We allow them to display ads of their own brand with proper recommended measurements. But they are displaying third party advertisements on buildings and rooftops. Ironically, no one is paying tax to the MC for third party advertisements. There are several units which have not responded to our notices till date. We are preparing a report and it would be submitted to the MC Commissioner for further course of action. —Sushant Bhatia, MC SecretaryInitially, the MC had issued more than 20 notices to various shopping malls, hospitals and brand stores to provide details of the advertisements being displayed on their premises. Some of the malls and building owners responded to the notices and a few of them even paid the tax.“There are several units which have not responded to our notices till date. We are preparing a report and it would be submitted to the MC Commissioner for further course of action. We will not tolerate any violation and tax would be collected from them,” he said.Besides, several other firms which are using MC’s space for advertisements are also not paying taxes. A notice has also been served to the private firm which installed an LED on the Heritage Street here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commercial-units-pay-no-heed-to-amritsar-mc-notices-on-advt-tax-288378
26-07-2021||---||5 cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, July 25The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated five mobile phones during a search operation from the jail complex here on Saturday.While four mobiles were recovered from as many inmates, a cell phone was found hidden in the bathroom.The mobile phones were recovered from prisoners Gurjit Singh, Juraj Singh, Raj Sandeep and Gurtej Singh. Gurjit Singh was lodged in room number 5 of barrack number 2, while the remaining accused were lodged in room number 4 of barrack number 1. Two separate cases were registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-288379
26-07-2021||Open House||Ensure vaccination before students return to classrooms||For the time being, Wait and watchThe third wave of Covid is bound to come, as the experts say, but it seems that the people are taking it easy. Children above 18 are being vaccinated in Punjab but at a tardy pace. We can avoid the third wave only by adopting self-discipline in following the guidelines of safety from the virus. Opening the schools after a long time after social isolation will encourage the students to socialise more with their peers and it will be difficult for them to follow social distancing norms and wear masks while interacting with each other. Experts have warned to keep away from the crowded places. But when the schools open, they would make the students crowd. Students’ life is the top most priority. We should adopt the policy of wait and watch for the time being and act smart by completing the vaccination of all students, teachers and staff before thinking of opening the schools.Anil KhannaDon’t rush to open schoolsAlthough Covid-19 cases have started declining, the Punjab government should be in no hurry to reopen educational institutions as the move is fraught with several implications for students, parents and society. Going by the experience of the past year-and-a-half, the impact of the third wave could be disastrous. Hence, it is much better to wait for a while to see how the Covid-19 pandemic pans out before taking a decision on reopening schools and colleges. Till the vaccination process is not completed, we should not take any such risk with our children even though the new normal of online learning could never replicate the real school interactions.Akash KumarVaccinate people on a war footingNever take things casually when danger is lurking around, and, you know of it. The state government must ensure availability of basic medical infrastructures such as beds, oxygen, vaccines, etc. Vaccines have given good results and therefore vaccinating must continue on war footing.BM SinghVaccination drive must be ramped upRecently, there had been a big jump in Covid-19 cases in UK, South Africa and other countries. WHO had also warned about the spike in cases. PM Narendra Modi, during a meeting with CMs of different states, urged people to take preventive measures and gave the formula of 4Ts i.e. Test, Track, Treat and Tikka (vaccination). Though the formula is good but priority wise vaccination should be done first. Punjab is fourth lowest state in the whole country in vaccination. So under the above scenario it is not advisable to take the risk of opening the educational institutions. Above all, according to the medical experts third wave of Covid is inevitable. Therefore, all out efforts should be made to vaccinate the people and after completing this, educational institutions should be opened.Naresh JoharEnsure norms are followed in schoolsCovid has played havoc not only with the health of the people but also on the education system. It is time to resume offline classes in all schools, colleges and other educational institutions. Fears of third wave of Covid-19 have to be overcome by taking all required precautions. Covid-appropriate behaviour will have to be adopted strictly not only by the students but by the entire staff of the educational institutions. Heads of the institution must take upon themselves the responsibility of ensuring that masks wearing and other preventive measures are being strictly followed by all, and without any exception. The teaching and administrative staff of every educational institution must have been inoculated against Covid infection before resuming their duties. All students have to be made aware of the urgency and benefits of wearing mask right after leaving their home till back home from their institutions. Any further delay in opening of educational instructions will result in an adverse impact on the educational system.PL SinghStudents might not follow guidelinesThe opening of educational institutes in Punjab should wait until the situation is back to normal. Let us consider the situations which might arise with the opening of the above-mentioned institutes; there will be no social distancing at all, students might not follow the proper guidelines to wear mask and keep sanitising frequently, even if all precautions are taken care of and all guidelines are followed, there is still room left for cases to peak. Therefore, educational institutes in Punjab should wait for a while till the situation gets better.MANVIStrict adherence to norms need of hourIf Covid cases are actually showing a declining trend along with low fatality, as being projected by the media and electronic media, the possibility of opening the educational institutions for senior classes can be experimented on a trial basis. It should be ensured that all persons who will come in contact with students such as family, teachers, non-teaching staff, auto/ van drivers should be fully vaccinated. So far a few people have been vaccinated due to shortage of vaccine and reluctance. With the possibility of third wave of Covid around the corner, extra precaution for prevention such as wearing of masks, social distancing, hand washing etc should be done more aggressively and strictly. A negative Covid test should be mandatory with a repeat every fifteen days for all studentsDr KS ManchandaRisky to open schools, colleges at this hourI feel it’s risky to open schools even if Covid cases have decreased. After all, prevention is better than cure. We have seen in the past too that when lockdowns were eased cases went up again. Hence, shouldn’t we draw our lessons? It will be better to consider opening schools next year only, hopefully in April.Rameshinder Singh SandhuBe prepared for third wave of pandemicWith the exception of the states of Kerala and Maharashtra, the second wave of Covid-19 in India is almost over. According to some medical experts, the third wave of Covid-19 is expected to arrive in India by the end of August. It’s predicted that the third wave would affect children. It has been announced that the schools will be opening from July 26 for the children of Punjab and at the same time it has been said that if the situation remains under control then the rest of the classes will be resumed from August 2. Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said it would be necessary to follow the rules of Covid-19 while opening the school, both the school staff and teachers should be vaccinated.Sucha SagarVaccinate youngsters as soon as possibleYears 2020 and 2021 have been quite unprecedented and it is necessary to be vigilant in actions as well as responsibilities. The government has decided to reopen schools for the senior secondary classes. On the one hand, it is appropriate in the sense that education should be a priority. On the other hand, the health of students couldn’t be compromised too and nothing could be put above their lives. Thus, the government should take a strong step by waiting for this wave to cross and by vaccinating the youngsters as soon as possible. It is the need of the hour to segregate wisdom of mind in the correct steps and initiatives via the representative form of government.ANUSHA SHARMAWait for some more time before openingDespite the provisions made by various educational institutions for conducting online classes, studies have taken a beating on account of various challenges associated with online teaching. Hence, there is a need to reopen the educational institutions at the earliest, but not at the cost of students’ health and safety. Amidst fears of an impending third wave of Covid-19, it is recommended that the Punjab should wait for some more time before opening educational institutions as the matter concerns students’ health and well-being. In the meantime, the government should devise some effective strategies for ensuring that students do not lag behind in studies till normal classes are resumed.Shaheen P ParshadNews of third wave creating fearThe question of reopening of schools is causing apprehension among families today. The fact that children are not vaccinated increases the risk of contracting Covid. Parents fear risk of infection by children to schools. Elderly at home are also apprehensive about sending children to schools. Strength of students in schools, lack sanitisation measures, social distancing also cause doubt in minds of parents. The news of third wave of Covid is circulating which is also a major reason for parents not giving consent.NANDINI JAINFall in cases is just silence before stormI believe that Punjab government should wait before opening the educational institution. With the impending third wave, this risk is not worth taking. Although the necessary actions will be taken by the educational institution but the same cannot be said about the student coming to the school. The fall in the cases is just the silence before the storm. Precautions are better than cure so the educational institutions should not be opened any soon.Puneet KaurStudents tired of online classesThe Punjab government has recently ordered to reopen schools for Classes X to XII. Students are also in favour of reopening of schools as they are tired of studying virtually and want to get back to their schools. If the situation remains under control, even the parents are ready to send their children to schools. The news of third wave has created fear in the minds of parents. But the studies should not be compromised at any cost and government should reopen the educational institutions in staggered manner with all possible precautions as How long schools will remain shut with the fear of another wave?Devika SharmaOpen edu institutions on trial basisAccording to me opening of educational institutions is a big step, especially because of an impending third Covid wave. But for higher classes such as Classes X, XI and XII, it is also necessary to make them practice for the upcoming offline boards. The government with all the appropriate precautions can start a test trial for two weeks and can see how things work out. The impending third Covid wave can be put into control if proper restrictions and instructions are followed. Sanitisation of campus every day, only 10 to 15 students per classroom, wearing of mask at times, thermal scanning of staff and students and short school hours are some of the necessary steps, educational institutions should follow. Everyone has been sitting in their houses for over a year now and it is essential to step out a little by little.Chaarvi AroraInstall CCTV cameras at institutionsEducational institutions need to be opened as the future of many people depends on it. It is believed that more than two-third of India’s population has developed antibodies against the virus which is a very positive sign. But still the safeguards need to followed strictly as the third Covid wave has slowly begun to fasten its pace. CCTV cameras must be installed at all institutions so that anyone not following the protocols can be traced and punished.Jatinderpal Singh BatthCarry on with online classesAmid fears of an impending third Covid wave, the state government should delay the opening of schools and colleges. The educational institutions and boards have had enough time to adapt to the online way of learning. Till the safety of children and teachers cannot be assured, educational instititions should not be allowed to open, except in cases where the classroom size is small and it’s possible to adhere to the health and safety guidelines. This can also be applied to classes that have external examinations for admissions into colleges and universities.Indu AuroraShun complacency, wait for sometimeTarsem S BumrahQUESTIONDespite Covid wreaking havoc across the world, youngsters in Punjab are hell-bent on moving abroad for higher studies or work. How do you think we can check this exodus?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 29).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensure-vaccination-before-students-return-to-classrooms-288380
26-07-2021||Tarn Taran||2 arrested with  430-gm Heroin||Teen abducted, one bookedTarn Taran: Gurdev Singh of Chela village has been accused of abducting a teenaged girl from Khemkanan. Victim’s father said the accused abducted her at midnight on July 20, when other family members were sleeping. SI Panna Lal, IO, said a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-arrested-with-430-gm-heroin-288381
26-07-2021||Amritsar||Pingalwara Society remembers Bhagat Puran Singh||She said environmentalist Sunder Lal Bahuguna (late) and his wife Vimla Bahuguna would be conferred the Bhagat Puran Singh Manav Sewa Award. Kaur said discussions on various aspects of environment conservation would also be organised to spread the message of Bhagat Puran Singh. Honorary Secretary Mukhtar Singh, vice-president Dr Jagdeepak Singh, Rajbir Singh, Col Darshan Singh Bawa, Jai Singh and other members of the society were also present on the occasion. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pingalwara-society-remembers-bhagat-puran-singh-288382
26-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Ramneek scores 97.2 pc in Class X||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-ramneek-scores-97-2-pc-in-class-x-288384
26-07-2021||---||SSA, mid-day meal staff seek regularisation of jobs||Amritsar, July 25Members of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Mid Day Meal Office Employees’ Union held a protest in front of the residence of Cabinet minister OP Soni for the failure of his government in regularising their jobs on Sunday.Raising slogans against the government, they reminded its leaders of the promises made to the youth during the last polls and the manifesto. They stated that for the state’s youth, there was no difference between the rules of the Congress and the Akali-BJP combine.Addressing agitating employees union leaders, Vikas Kumar, Ashish Julaha, Rajinder Singh Sandha, Harpreet Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Gaurav Sharma said the government was not acknowledging their protests and the service done in the department for a long period.Before coming to power, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to regularise all contractual employees in the first cabinet itself. Instead of giving jobs, the government formed five committees to make sure that contractual workers are engaged in a futile exercise. The committee members wasted the precious money of the exchequer by holding meetings and delivering nothing.They stated that they learnt that the government was deliberating upon to bring in an act to declare that no contractual employees could be confirmed. In that scenario, they warned that they would be forced to tread the path of agitation.On the behalf of the government, Cabinet Minister OP Soni came to the protest site and received the memorandum and said a cabinet sub-committee has been formed to make sure the contractual employees get their dues and he is one of its members. He assured that all employees recruited in a transparent manner will be regularised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ssa-mid-day-meal-staff-seek-regularisation-of-jobs-288386
26-07-2021||Amritsar||NIA to take over Amritsar heroin seizure case||Nearly one and a half years after the seizure of 194 kg heroin from Akash Avenue in Sultanwind village by the Special Task Force (STF), the probe has now been handed over to National Investigation Agency (NIA).The probe was handed over to the NIA by the Ministry of Home Affairs. A team of the NIA will be arriving in the city this week for taking over the case. The STF had nabbed Afghan national Arman Basharmal along with several others, including former Subordinate Service Selection Board member Anwar Masih and Pollywood actor Mantej Mann in the case.Kingpin in ItalyThe Gujarat and Punjab Police had zeroed in on the prime suspect Simarjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Amritsar, who is currently living in Italy. According to the police, he was the mastermind behind smuggling of heroin in IndiaVavinder Mahajan, DSP, STF, said the case was currently under trial in a local court. During the investigations, the STF officials believed that 194 kg heroin was a part of the 300-kg drug consignment that was smuggled into India through Mandvi coast in Gujarat in 2018. A Gujarat Police team had also visited Amritsar to join probe and question the suspect arrested by the Punjab Police. It was believed that around 200 kg of contraband was allegedly sold to Ankush Kapoor which was later smuggled to Punjab.The Gujarat Police as well as Punjab Police had zeroed in on the prime suspect Simarjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Amritsar, who is currently living in Italy. According to the police, he was the mastermind behind smuggling of heroin into India. STF officials said Sandhu was likely to be extradited soon though he had filed an appeal in an Italy court against it. The STF had also nabbed Ankush Kapur, Tamanna Gupta, Sahil Sharma and Sukhbir Singh Happy besides others in the seizure case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nia-to-take-over-amritsar-heroin-seizure-case-288189
26-07-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht to probe ‘violations’ at historic Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has taken note of the alleged violation of Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ at the historic Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand where Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was welcomed recently.Giani Harpreet Singh has constituted a three-member inquiry committee to probe the matter, which will visit there and submit its report after investigating the issue.This was disclosed by Jaspal Singh, personal assistant to the jathedar. He said the Uttarakhand CM had gone to the gurdwara and to welcome him, girls in traditional hill attire were made to dance inside the gurdwara campus and pro-BJP slogans were raised inside the shrine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-to-probe-violations-at-historic-gurdwara-sri-nanak-mata-in-uttarakhand-288192
26-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s ‘interest’ in Batala may prove Achilles’ heel for Congress||Tribune News ServiceBatala, July 25The Batala Assembly seat, considered to be a safe bet for the Congress, is witnessing a no-holds barred battle between Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three-time former legislator Ashwani Sekhri for political upmanship.A one-time Capt Amarinder Singh supporter, Bajwa has now joined the ranks of newly elected Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Bajwa has ushered in numerous developmental works, which are visible on ground, ever since he was made a Cabinet Minister.Sekhri holds swayIn April, Bajwa took an avid interest in appointing his supporter, Sukhdeep Singh Teja, to the mayoral post. This is being seen as an indicator that he would test the political waters from this city itself.Sources claim youth Shiromani Akali Dali (SAD) leader Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon has done a lot of ground work in the past few years in Fatehgarh Churian, forcing the minister to shift to Batala. The Akalis have already announced the candidature of Ravi from this seat.In the 2017 Assembly elections, Bajwa had won Fatehgarh Churian with a wafer-thin margin. “This time he knows it will be difficult for him to retain his seat,” said an MLA.However, the Cabinet Minister will face a tough challenge from three-time former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri, a leader who holds tremendous sway over the Hindu vote bank.A couple of weeks ago Sekhri had threatened to join the SAD because of the “continued interference of Bajwa into his domain”. Insiders say as part of the package formula worked out between the Chief Minister, state Congress unit and Sekhri, he will be allowed to retain the candidature from Batala seat.Sekhri’s candidature has been given a massive push following assertions made by the powerful Hindu industrial lobby that the seat should be given to a Hindu, keeping in view the fact that more than 50 per cent of the voters belong to this community.“Batala could turn out to be the last in the list of seats to be announced by the PCC,” said a senior leader. Observers say the squabbling between the two leaders is lowering the morale of the party rank and file.Meanwhile, residents are a happy lot, keeping in view the various development works that are underway in the city. “We know neither Sekhri nor Bajwa. All we know is that the civic amenities are improving,” said Jagjot Singh Sandhu, an RTI activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tript-rajinder-singh-bajwas-interest-in-batala-may-prove-achilles-heel-for-congress-288176
26-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Dussehra train tragedy: Punjab govt gives jobs to victims’ kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25Two years and nine months after the Dussehra train tragedy in Amritsar that claimed over 50 lives near Jaura Phatak railway crossing, the Punjab government has finally given jobs to 34 kin of the deceased.An order was issued by Chief Secretary, Personnel, on Sunday which has been forwarded to Deputy Commissioner, Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira and other authorities for further action and completing the formalities like police verification, medical and educational qualification.For past over a year, the kin of the deceased had been holding agitation seeking government jobs as promised by the state government at the time of the tragedy that had left many families devastated who lost their bread earners in the incident.The beneficiaries were offered jobs in Deputy Commissioner’s office, Civil Surgeon’s officer, Municipal Corporation, Education department and Improvement Trust.According to officials, the Punjab government approved provided jobs to undisputed cases while several cases were still pending with the government owing to some disputes. The Punjab cabinet had decided to provide government jobs to the victim’s families during a cabinet meeting in March this year. A ray of hope emerged among the victims’ families following the government’s approval.The victims had been agitating against the state government for non-fulfilment of its promise. Recently, they had shot a letter to the CM seeking jobs. They had alleged that even after over two months, they have received no communication from the government, while the district administration also failed to give any information regarding this.Earlier, the Centre and the state had given an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively, but the affected family members alleged that the amount could hardly secure their future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dussehra-train-tragedy-punjab-govt-gives-jobs-to-victims-kin-288154
