27-07-2021||---||Amritsar police nab notorious gangster Preet Sekhon from Ajnala village||Amritsar rural police on Tuesday nabbed notorious gangster Preet Sekhon from Chamiari village in Ajnala. Police recovered five country made pistols, a rifle and ammunition from his possession.He was surrounded by the police party, following which he surrendered before the police.He was wanted in a double murder case in Patti in Tarn Taran in which a gangster Amandeep Singh alias Aman Fauji and SAD worker Prabhjit Singh alias Pooran was gunned down by armed assailants on June 1.He was also the prime suspect in the killing of a bouncer in the Ranjit Avenue area in October last year.Sekhon was also accused of killing his sister and mother in law in 2011.Recently, he was booked for firing and demanding ransom from a Canada based Punjabi singer's family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-nab-notorious-gangster-preet-sekhon-from-ajnala-village-289022
27-07-2021||Amritsar||Dr Arun Chandan visits DAV college||IKGPTU to set up mini-forestIK Gujral Punjab Technical University’s regional campus in on Monday carried out plantation drive for creating a mini forest inside its campus. It also set up a vertical garden inside the campus to connect students with eco-conservation. The plantation drive today was carried out by prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma, VC of IKGPTU and Rohit Mehra, IRS officer who brought the concept of vertical garden to Punjab. “The forest will be created over a large part of the land inside the campus, with over 500 trees of different native varieties planted. VC Prof Sharma has also asked all the colleges and institutions under IKGPTU to carry out similar plantation and if need be, create mini forests inside their campuses. It’s a great initiative and bets way to plant the seed of sustainable living among our future generation,” said Rohit Mehra.GNDU invites applicationsGNDU invited online applications for various posts of Instructors for different courses/diplomas in the Department of Lifelong Learning of the Guru Nanak Dev University. This appointment will be purely part-time contract basis for the session 2021-22.Prof Saroj Bala, Director said that the candidates, who fulfil the prescribed qualifications can fill the online application form at the websitehttp://www.gndu.ac.in/lifelongptins/default.aspx before August 31, 2021. The applicant can visit the University website www.gndu.ac.in for the interview date, time, venue and qualifications/instructions etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-arun-chandan-visits-dav-college-288941
27-07-2021||Amritsar||Two minor girls raped||Awas Yojana: Rs90L to beneficiariesAmritsar: The MC handed over the documents for transfer of Rs90 lakh into the accounts of 196 beneficiaries for raising their new houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. MC officials, led by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, handed over the documents from the Amritsar Central Assembly constituency. He said the government approved the cases of 5,087 beneficiaries from the city. Of these 4,418 beneficiaries were given money for new construction and the remaining 669 beneficiaries for addition of rooms in their houses. Each of them is given Rs1.50 lakh in four instalments. TNSTwo snatchers arrestedAmritsar: The Beas police nabbed two snatchers — Ranjit Singh of Mehsampura and Mandeep Singh of Sathiala. They were held by the onlookers from near Baba Bakala sub-divisional court. Raman Kumar alleged that theBikers snatch woman’s earringsAmritsar: Two unknown motorcycle-borne persons snatched earrings of Jasbir Kaur (55), a resident of Chawinda Devi village, here on Sunday. She was standing outside her house when the accused snatched her earrings. The police have registered a case under Section 379B of the IPC against unidentified persons. TNS3 mobiles seized from inmatesAmritsar: The Central Jail authorities confiscated three mobile phones from three prisoners during a search operation on Sunday. The mobile phones were recovered from Sachin, Harwinder Singh Sandhu and Gurpartap Singh. They were lodged in room number 1 of barrack number 5. TNSMiscreants thrash manAmritsar: Three unidentified youth snatched a bike from Sunil Tiwari, a migrant from Uttar Pradesh, who was residing in Green Avenue area here. He said he was answering a phone call near the old Corporation office on Maqbool Road, when the accused thrashed him and snatched his bike. The city police have released the CCTV grab of the suspects in the case. TNSuo snatched his mobile phone on the pretext of giving him a lift on their bike on July 15. He said he came from Jalandhar and alighted near Beas. From there, he took lift from the accused for Batala. However, the accused snatched his mobile phone on the way and left him stranded. The police recovered a toy pistol, mobile and bike from them. TNSTwo booked for molestationAmritsar: A girl (15) was “sexually harassed” by two boys in Khasa area. They were identified as Amandeep Singh and Karandeep Singh. The victim’s father said he along with his wife had gone to work, when the accused entered the house and sexually harassed her. When she raised an alarm, they fled. She told her family who then lodged a complaint with Gharinda police. Case was registered. TNS\||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-minor-girls-raped-288942
27-07-2021||---||Euphoria at Amritsar's Khalsa College as Bhavani makes interesting debut at Olympics||Amritsar, July 26The atmosphere was euphoric at Khalsa College as it is not every day that an alumni gets global recognition and that, too, when it comes to representing the country in the Olympics.Khalsa College celebrated the historic debut of its student and Indian fencer Bhavani Devi at Tokyo Olympics by distributing sweets among sports faculty and under-training athletes.Bhavani Devi is a student of MA English at the college and had briefly trained at the college. She made history in Olympics as she not only became the first-ever fencer to represent India at the world games, but also the first to win a bout. Bhavani Devi’s Olympics outing lasted till second round, as she lost against world number three Manon Brunet in the individual event.“She made an impressive debut by making a winning start at Tokyo Olympics making the country and college proud. Even if her Olympics debut lasted two rounds, she paved the way for many others to take up the sport,” said Principal Dr Mehal Singh. She enrolled in the college in 2018-19.Bhavani Devi, 27, who originally hails from Chennai, Tamil Nadu, showcased an extra-ordinary performance during her Women’s Individual Table event in both her matches. Dr Mehal Singh said she had been playing the sport ever since her school days and qualifying for the Olympics was her biggest dream. “It is a memorable day for India and we all are proud of her performance. As a student of the college, she will be an inspiration for others,” he said. Bhavani has trained extensively in Italy prior to her Olympics participation. Khalsa College Governing Council honorary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina also congratulated Devi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/euphoria-at-amritsars-khalsa-college-as-bhavani-makes-interesting-debut-at-olympics-288736
27-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Dasehra train tragedy victims’ kin finally get job letters, express satisfaction||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 26Nearly three years after the Dasehra train tragedy, the kin of victims finally got offer letters from the district administration and other departments on Monday.“Our efforts have finally bore fruits and now we can hope of living a dignified life,” the beneficiaries said, while expressing satisfaction after getting jobs.Nearly three years after the Jaura Phatak (twin railway crossing) tragedy in Amritsar, which claimed over 50 lives in 2018, the state government have finally issued orders to give jobs to 34 family members of the deceased. The orders were issued by the Chief Secretary, Personnel Department, on Sunday, which have been forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner and other authorities for necessary action and completion of formalities such as police verification, medical examination and verification of educational qualification.The families were struggling for the same for over a year seeking government jobs as promised by the Punjab Government at the time of tragedy, which had snatched away the lives of several breadwinners.The beneficiaries will be accommodated at the Deputy Commissioner’s office (9), Civil Surgeon’s office (4), Municipal Corporation (10), Education Department (10) and Amritsar Improvement Trust (1).Deepak Kumar, a beneficiary who lost his father Gurinder Kumar, a fruit vendor, in the tragic rail mishap said we are happy to get this job after two years and nine months of struggle.“I have a mother, younger brother and sister to feed. It was very difficult time while Covid also aggravated our problems,” he said. Deepak also lost his paternal uncle Pawan Kumar in the incident. His aunt Seeta Devi got the job at Amritsar Improvement Trust.Aman Kaur, another beneficiary, said though she was happy to get the job, the accused responsible for the tragedy should also be punished. She lost her husband in the tragedy. “Nothing can compensate the loss of a family member, but getting a government job is satisfying,” said Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Phagwara. He had lost his wife and a young child in the unfortunate incident.Aarti Sharma, a resident of Bagh Ramanand, whose brother Rohit Sharma died in the incident, said she took tuitions at her house to support her father, who has meagre income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dasehra-train-tragedy-victims-kin-finally-get-job-letters-express-satisfaction-288737
27-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||De-congesting Amritsar police stations on Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill’s mind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 26The city police have sought land from the Municipal Corporation (MC) and Amritsar Improvement Trust to stash case property vehicles that are lying at police stations.The haphazardly parked case property vehicles not only gives a shabby look, but also remains a headache for the police station concerned.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill confirmed this while adding that they were hoping to get the land soon.“We have requested the MC to provide at least 2.5 acre land. Besides, Amritsar Improvement Trust has also been urged for the same,” said Gill. Once we get the land, all police stations would be de-cluttered by removing these vehicles.The city police had earlier made a committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, detective, for scrutinising all vehicles and disposing them accordingly.According to rough estimates, there are nearly 4,000 vehicles, a majority being two-wheelers, currently stashed at different police stations, said a police official. He said there were four categories — vehicles whose cases were decided by courts, those that were under investigations, or which were under trial at different courts and those impounded under Section 207 of the Motor Vehicle Act and Section 102 CrPC that were found abandoned by the police under suspicious circumstances — under which the vehicles have been stashed at the police stations. Besides, there were vehicles including school buses which were impounded by the Regional Transport Office and there cases were still pending. The Police Commissioner said they have also asked the RTO to shift these vehicles.DCP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said it is easy to dispose those vehicles whose cases were decided in the court, but the process of disposing vehicles under other categories is very time consuming. For the past one year, we have been in the process and on an average, 50 per cent vehicles have already been disposed.Gurmeet Singh Malhi, SHO Majitha police station, said they were already facing space crunch on the complex. There were around 10 such bikes that are lying on the premises for the past several years. Though they have informed the owners, they never bothered to take these vehicles back.“Even though we requested the courts to decrease the fines in many cases, the owners didn’t come to take these bikes,” he said. He said sometimes owners said they have already sold the bikes and they don’t know about the new owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/de-congesting-amritsar-police-stations-on-police-commissioner-dr-sukhchain-singh-gills-mind-288738
27-07-2021||---||5 +ve, no death in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 26 With five persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the total count in the district has risen to 47,045. The district health authorities have not reported any deaths due to the Covid.  The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of nine patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,415. The district at present has a total of 46 active cases.    In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 3,123 residents were inoculated on Monday. Of these 2,137 received the first dose while 986 received the second dose of the vaccine.   Three dead, one tests  positive in Tarn Taran The district reported three deaths due to Covid and one positive case on Monday. With fresh fatalities, the toll now stands at 373. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the number of active cases had been reduced to five and three patients had been home-isolated. The health teams collected 879 samples today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-ve-no-death-in-amritsar-district-288739
27-07-2021||---||Schools reopen, see 50% attendance in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 26Schools reopened to a decent student footfall in the district as the first day saw a number of students from senior classes in attendance. After studying in an online mode for quite some time, students were welcomed to their classrooms by teachers amid caution and full safety protocols.A few private schools, however, refrained from immediate reopening, as they are yet to receive consent from parents. But those schools which reopened today, reported almost 50 per cent attendance in Classes X, XI and XII. In government schools, a parent-teacher meet was held to get consent for offline classes. While government schools reportedly had overall around 40 per cent attendance today, most parents agreed to send their wards for offline classes amid concerns that education has suffered due to the absence of students from schools for months together.Students were seen wearing masks and sanitising stations were installed at various points at all government schools. They were being allowed after thermal screening at school gates.‘Hoping better attendance in the coming days’Anita Bhalla, secretary of the Sahodaya Schools and principal, Bhavans SL School, said they had 50 per cent attendance from all classes today.“Students seemed eager to come for offline classes and many feel that they can learn better and prepare for boards. We have so far received consent from 70 per cent parents and are hoping that attendance will increase in the coming days,” she said.DEO Satinderbir Singh said the first day attendance for government schools was encouraging in the district. “Students expressed willingness to come to school for offline classes. We held a PT meet to make parents aware about the safety measures and also know their consent. In the coming days, we will get a clear picture as to how many students come for physical classes consistently.”Students, too, felt that resumption of offline classes was a necessity. “Although online studies continued, sometimes connectivity or absence of mobile phones causes break in learning. Clearing of doubts and some conceptual problems will become easier in offline classes,” said Amandeep Kaur, a student of Class IX from Governemnt Senior Secondary School, Putlighar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-reopen-see-50-attendance-in-amritsar-district-288740
27-07-2021||---||Passenger occupancy on the rise in trains at Amritsar railway station||Amritsar, July 26After relaxation in the Covid-19 induced lockdown, flow of passengers has increased at the Amritsar railway station.The Indian Railways officials said occupancy in trains has increased to 70 per cent, which used to be around 40 per cent, a month ago.Release of general tickets in mail and express trains have been suspended to check overcrowding. This has been done to ensure that number of passengers in a compartment do not exceed the number of seats.Barring two passenger trains between Amritsar and Pathankot, general tickets were not being released for any other train originating from the Amritsar railway station.This can be gauged from the fact that less than 15 trains used to operate daily from this railway station around a month ago. Their number has now increased to 33, which include 10 daily trains.The 33 trains originating from the Amritsar railway station include twice a week Amritsar-Indore Express (09326), once a week Amritsar-Nagpur AC Express (02026), thrice a week SHC Garib Rath (04688), Amritsar-KOAA bi-weekly special (02318) runs between Amritsar and Kolkatta, another bi-weekly ASR-KOAA Super (02358), once a week ASR-BDTS Special Clone train (09026), which runs between Amritsar and Bandra terminus, thrice a week ASR-KIR Express (05734) between Amritsar and Katihar, once a week Karambhoomi (04654), thrice a week Humsafar Express (04652) between Amritsar and Jaynagar, once a week ASR-CNB (04146) operates between Amritsar and Kanpur, bi-weekly ASR-Tata (08104), thrice a week Saryu-Yamuna (04650), four days a week Shaheed Express Special (04674), once a week ASR-SDAH Special (02380), twice a week ASR Ajmer Special (09612), once a week ASR-NED Superfast Express (04692), once a week ASR-NTSK Express (05934), thrice a week ASR BSP festival special (08238), six days a week Swarna Shatabdi Express Special (02030), once a week Shatabdi special (04054), twice a week ASR ALL Special (09614) between Amritsar and Ajmer, once a week ASR SHC special (05532) amd thrice a week ASR-DBG Special (05212). Daily trains are Paschim Express, Sachkhand Express, Shatabdi Special, Super Express, Dadar Express, Shane Punjab Express, ASR-CDG Intercity, Amritsar Howrah Special, Golden Temple Mail and Amritsar Dehradun Passenger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passenger-occupancy-on-the-rise-in-trains-at-amritsar-railway-station-288741
27-07-2021||---||Pay panel report: Ministerial staff to participate in July 29 protest||Amritsar, July 26Punjab State Ministerial Services’ Union has decided to participate in the protest announced by the joint front of employees in Patiala on July 29. In a meeting of the executive body of the association on Monday, the leaders of the association from the Health Department, Deputy Commissioner’s office, Treasury, Water Resources, Education, PWD, Excise, ITI, Water Supply, Local Bodies, Agriculture, Soil Conservation, Roadways, Social Security, Technical Education and Cooperatives said they would participate in the ‘Halla Bol’ rally announced by the joint front.Docs block trafficSupported by students, the medical faculty at GMC here took out a march to protest against the 6th Pay Commission report. The protesting teachers marched from the GMC campus to Gala Mala Chowk and formed a human chain to block traffic. The drizzling on Monday did not prove a deterrent for the agitators. “If we can fight Covid for the past almost two years, we can fight for ourselves too,” said Dr Jaspreet Singh Kauldhar, secretary, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association. TNSThe employees’ leaders demanded that all employees be given a raise of 3.01 per cent instead of different percentage of raise for different ranks. They also demanded that a notification of the dearness allowance on the Central pattern be immediately issued.Association general secretary Jagdish Thakur said other demands include increase in allowances, old pension scheme for employees recruited after January 1, 2014, regularisation of contractual workers, abolition of development tax on employees and release of pending dues of DA.Manjinder Singh Sidhu, president, said: “Many demands of the employees are pending for a long time. Instead of addressing the old demands, the government has further harmed the interests of employees. The ministerial staff will participate in the July 29 protest with full strength.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-panel-report-ministerial-staff-to-participate-in-july-29-protest-288742
27-07-2021||---||Tracing the historic journey, pain & anguish of Amritsar residents||Amritsar, July 26Renowned conservationist Gurmeet Rai, who had carried out extensive conservation projects in the city, spoke about her association with the holy city, in an online session organised by the Majha House. She was accompanied by fellow panelist Urvashi Butalia and Jigna Desai as she spoke about the book, ‘Amritsar – A City in Remembrance’, a compilation of essays written on city’s heritage and history, edited by Gurmeet Rai and photographs by noted artist Raghu Rai.The book has an essay titled ‘Partition: Memory and Memorialising’ by author Urvashi Butalia. Talking about the story behind her heart-rending essay, Urvashi said, “It is difficult to imagine the mental anguish of a person, who had to murder 17 members of his own family to save them from the torture and humiliation and pain of the fanatics who saw ‘others’ as their worst enemies. With tears in his eyes, he told me that this soil contained blood of his family members and it is here that he has started a new life. My essay also talks about pain and anguish that brings people together and makes them one despite their enmity.”Jigna Desai, an Associate Professor and programme chair for Master’s in Conservation and Regeneration, CEPT University, and also the Executive Director of the Centre for heritage conservation, who has contributed the essay ‘The City that Doesn’t Forget’, said there are so many narratives related to the city which unfold the rich history of place and people.Talking about the architectural changes that are taking place in the city such as the Galiyara Project, the Heritage Street, Gurmeet said, ‘Modern changes in an architecturally-rich city like Amritsar can make conservationists like us very angry. But then you have to take it all with a pinch of salt where you cannot do anything.’ She said the locals and the conservationists feel deeply that the rich culture, a highlight of Amritsar, is being compromised. “Conserving buildings in a state such as Punjab can be doubly taxing due to the government’s apathy, lack of appreciation of culture and heritage and their ‘modern’ ideas. When I was given the charge of the restoration of the Gobindgarh Fort, it was given to me in a piecemeal manner. I simply could not do this so I had to rush to the government officials with files containing my ideas and arguments against this narrow outlook,” she shared.She said she strongly believes that people should be given a chance to come forward and contribute to the cause. She shared that when they were working on the restoration of the gates in Amritsar, they floated the idea of making libraries there so people could sit and enjoy and appreciate the heritage and beauty they are part of. “Everyone loved the idea and many volunteered with their help and resources. But sadly, it all got tangled in red tape.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tracing-the-historic-journey-pain-anguish-of-amritsar-residents-288743
27-07-2021||---||Amritsar: A bike rally dedicated to Kargil martyrs||Amritsar, July 26As many as 30 riders, under the Ministry Bike Riders, a group of riders, held a bike rally to pay tributes to the Kargil martyrs by driving bikes from Company Bagh to the Attari border here on Monday. Mounted on adventurous bikes, they headed towards the border in the evening. It was for the first time that they organised such an event. They decided to dabble in social service by holding this event. Next in the line will be plantation from August.Gagandeep Pandhi, a key member of the Ministry Bike Riders, said the group members have to comply with all traffic norms, including wearing of riding gears, helmets by riders and pillion and carrying all documents along. Besides, overtaking and rash driving are not allowed during any adventurous trip. Following the speed limit is also mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-a-bike-rally-dedicated-to-kargil-martyrs-288751
