28-07-2021||GMC suspends 12 students||Amritsar's Government Medical College suspends 12 students||Amritsar: The Government Medical College authorities suspended 12 students for creating indiscipline on campus and indulging in a brawl. The GMC management said those suspended included six students undergoing internship after completing MBBS, while the remaining were still pursuing their course. The incident took place around 10 days ago when two groups entered into a verbal spat. As things took an ugly turn, the two groups came to blows and a student was injured. The incident was thoroughly probed by a committee constituted by the principal after which the decision to suspend the students was taken. Dr JS Kular, Vice-Principal, GMC, said no indiscipline would be tolerated. He said it would send a stern message. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-government-medical-college-suspends-12-students-289450
28-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Man ‘kidnapped, thrashed and forced to drink urine’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27In a shocking incident, a man was kidnapped and brutally thrashed by five persons allegedly at the behest of a prominent SAD leader from Amritsar South constituency.His ordealThe victim said the accused bundled him up in an SUV and took him to a house, where they pointed a revolver at him and removed his clothes, while recording the video. He said he was forced to drink urine also. Later, they allowed him to go threatening to make the video viral on social media in case he told about the incident to anyone. He said, ashamed, he neither went to work nor outside. Nevertheless, they uploaded the video of him being slapped on social media. He started getting calls from people and therefore decided to lodge a complaint. Dilbagh Singh, the victim, alleged that he was also forced to drink urine by the accused. Though the incident took place on July 2, the victim lodged a complaint with the police on Monday after the accused uploaded the video of him being thrashed on social media, and he felt ashamed.On this complaint, the police have booked five persons — Bikramjit Singh, alias Happy; Sabha Mantri, Balwinder Singh, his elder son and Manpreet Bonny.As per the details, Dilbagh Singh had allegedly circulated some voice message around one-and-a-half months ago, in which he is heard abusing the SAD leader. Upset over this, his men were looking for him.Dilbagh, a resident of Patti Baba Jeevan Singh, Sultanwind village, said on July 2 around 7am, Bikramjit, Sabha and Balwinder Singh came to his house and started abusing him, while threatening to kill him. He said his wife made a video of the incident on her mobile phone. He said as people in the area started gathering, the accused fled, threatening to teach him a lesson.He said on the same day, around 5pm, when he was returning home from Patti Balol in Sultanwind village, the accused bundled him up in an SUV driven by Bikramjit Singh. He alleged that they thrashed him in the vehicle and took him to Bikramjit’s house. He said in the drawing room, they pointed a licenced revolver at him and Sabha Mantri forcibly removed his clothes, while Manpreet Bonny recorded the video. He said Bikramjit forced him to drink urine. Later, they gave him his clothes and started slapping him while abusing him continuously.He said they later let him go threatening to make the video viral on social media in case he told about the incident to anyone. He said he remained quiet and felt ashamed. He neither went to work nor outside.Nevertheless, the accused uploaded the video of him being slapped on social media. He started getting calls from known people and he felt ashamed and therefore decided to lodge a complaint.Perneet Singh Dhillon, SHO Sultanwind police station, said the police have registered a case of kidnapping, assaulting with intent to dishonour a person and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code besides the Arms Act and Information Technology Act following Dilbagh’s complaint and further investigations were on. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-kidnapped-thrashed-and-forced-to-drink-urine-289395
28-07-2021||---||Amritsar: Civil Surgeon urged to ensure safety of staff at vax centres||Amritsar, July 27The health employees at vaccination centres entrusted with the task of inoculating residents against Covid-19 have asked the higher-ups to ensure their safety during duty hours.Amritsar district reports 2 positive cases, no death Amritsar: With two positive cases, the district tally increased to 47,047 on Tuesday. The cases include one influenza-like illness case and one contact of a positive patient. The health authorities reported no death due to the disease on Tuesday. Meanwhile, with the recovery of five patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,420. The district at present has a total of 43 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive for Covid-19, a total of 1,212 residents were given the jab on Tuesday. Of these, 818 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 394 received the second dose. TNSTarn Taran reports one positive case, no deathNo death due to the coronavirus was reported in the district on Tuesday though a person tested positive. The toll remains at 373 so far and the number of active cases has been reduced to six, of which three have been isolated at their respective homes. The Health Department teams collected 928 samples to be tested for the virus, while the report of 524 samples was still awaited from the laboratories. OCThe demand came up after the recent incident at Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), Yodhnagar, where an MC councillor allegedly misbehaved with the nurses on duty.The health employees said local political leaders often interfere in the vaccination drive and ask them to vaccinate their supporters out of turn.“On the day of the incident, the councillor had reached the UPHC with a few persons and asked the employees to give injections to them on a priority. When the employees expressed their helpless as the said persons were not even registered, the councillor misbehaved with the female employees and used derogatory words,” said Ashok Sharma, a Health Department employees’ leader.Employees’ leaders Tripta Sharma, Amandeep Kaur, Kuljinder Kaur and others who submitted a letter with the Civil Surgeon’s office in this regard said they have demanded from the higher-ups to lodge a police case, so that action could be taken against those who disrupted a public service and misbehaved with the public servants. They said in case no action is taken against the accused, they would be forced to boycott their duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civil-surgeon-urged-to-ensure-safety-of-staff-at-vax-centres-289396
28-07-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rainwater harvesting in doldrums||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27Despite collecting security for installing rainwater harvesting system during approval of the building plans, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation doesn’t have any mechanism to check whether the building owners have set up the system or not after completion of the structure.According to building bylaws, the MC collects Rs 20,000 as a security fee from every non-commercial building owner and Rs 50,000 from commercial establishments before the commencement of construction. As per the rule, a building owner should set up a rainwater harvesting system and recharge well as only after that he/she can claim the refund.It’s a common practice among residents that they submit a security fee, but do not install the rainwater harvesting system. Moreover, a large number of residents don’t get their building plans approved.Officials of the municipal town planning wing claimed that people who apply for the refund were limited. The MC does not have a proper data of the previous years related to number of building owners who deposited the security and number of individuals who claimed the refund.As a result, the government’s effort to boost groundwater table, has failed to bring any change. A few years ago, the MC had planned to verify the existence of rainwater harvesting systems in the newly-constructed buildings, but there’s no development in this direction.Davinder Singh, a builder, said cost of constructing a rainwater well was similar to the security fee. Instead of constructing wells to save rainwater, people prefer to give up their security fee. As there’s no check by civic body on the rainwater harvesting system, owners do not bother at all.”Municipal Town Planner Narinder Sharma said, “We collect security from everyone and ask them to construct the rain harvesting system as it’s mandatory. There is no provision of penalty. A number of people have claimed refund of their security and we visit the building to check the system before refunding the amount. We don’t have a workforce to check every building, so people should install the rainwater harvesting system as it’s our collective responsibility to save and recharge groundwater.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rainwater-harvesting-in-doldrums-289397
28-07-2021||---||Drinking water crisis deepens in Tarn Taran||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, July 27Ensuring adequate supply of potable water to residents has become a severe headache for the Tarn Taran Municipal Council. Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer (EO), Municipal Council, said some tubewells were non-operational and a theft on Sunday night at a tubewell located on Jandiala Road has further worsened the situation. Thieves decamped with parts of the tubewell, including a starter and wire.We collect security from everyone and ask them to construct the rain harvesting system as it's mandatory. There is no provision of penalty. A number of people have claimed refund of their security and we visit the building to check the system before refunding the amount. We don't have a workforce to check every building, so people should install the rainwater harvesting system as it's our collective responsibility to save and recharge groundwater. -  Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner The Executive Officer said the residence and the SDM complex was supplied water through a tanker.Shopkeepers and residents have been facing severe water crisis for the last one week after a motor got burnt at tubewell number 1.Residents of Sarhali Road, Muradpur Road, Jandiala Road, Khalsapur Road and Sachkhand Road, among other areas were the worst affected.Parkash Singh, a resident, said the administration had failed to address the issue.Santokh Singh, another resident, said lack of potable water supply had become a routine affair and officials hardly cared to resolve genuine problems of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drinking-water-crisis-deepens-in-tarn-taran-289398
28-07-2021||---||Liquor store’s name draws public ire in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 27Writers and intellectuals of the city strongly objected to the name of a newly-opened liquor store in front of the Alpha One Mall on Tuesday. The store named ‘Scotch Library’ offended the literati, who feel such a move attaches a negative connotation to the concept of libraries.Members of Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, including president, Darshan Buterr, expressed their disappointment over the matter. Prominent writers including Deep Devinder Singh, Dev Darad, Shukarguzar Singh, Kewal Dhaliwal, and others, too, joined the protest against using the concept of library to promote liquor consumption.“We strongly condemned the move to call a liquor store a library, which otherwise is a place to acquire knowledge and is considered to be a sacred place for books and literature. In an already challenging situation, where the awareness regarding libraries is declining, such a move is completely commercial in intention and nature. Instead of promoting public libraries as places of knowledge and encouraging people to go there, such tactics would instead demean the word and the concept. All the Sahitya Sabhas have demanded the district administration to curb this trend,” said Buterr.The writer community appealed to the religious and social organisations as well as the Jathedar of Sri Akal Takht Sahib to take notice of this issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/liquor-stores-name-draws-public-ire-in-amritsar-289399
28-07-2021||---||Of women & their resilience||Amritsar, July 27Using Kintsugi — a famous Japanese art based on the concept of putting together broken pieces of pottery with gold dust or lacquer to create beautiful art work — as a metaphor, author and entrepreneur Ritu Sharma has come up with a book ‘The New Woman’ with 33 inspiring stories of women from across the world.Ritu, who is also the founder of UK-based non-profit organisation Kaushalya, hails from Amritsar.“These are no ordinary stories but stories which could change your life — 33 women spread across five continents, who have undergone transformation through adversity. We came across these stories through our organisation’s initiative for women empowerment and met women fighting mental health issues, domestic abuse, manipulation and drug abuse among other things,” she shared.Ritu had been collecting and collating stories from women around the world for this new book. She feels the book can become a support system for anyone, who needs help and has been facing similar situation.“I believe many women go through similar challenges and still feel that they are the only ones. In our cognitive isolation, we tend to treat these experiences as unique and novel and that is how gender-based discrimination becomes normalised in our society. By sharing these stories, we are not only exposing what is done to women on a regular basis, but also creating an awareness that we do not have to keep repeating the narrative. Change is possible and so is happiness.”She said the book also aims to remove any shame, guilt or embarrassment attached to any woman-related issue in this world. “We also intend to translate the book in different languages for women across the world with an objective to reach out to women everywhere in the world, especially because the authors are from across the world,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-women-their-resilience-289400
28-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Their aim — to raise 550 mini-forests||Tarn Taran, July 27The Khadoor Sahib Kar Sewa sect planted 420 saplings on 1 kanal land at two different villages of Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts on Tuesday.Simarjit Singh of the Kar Sewa sect said 210 saplings were planted on 1 kanal land of late Bhai Sukhwinder Singh (UK) of Dhunda village in Tarn Taran district by the followers. As many as 50 species of saplings were planted here.Meanwhile, in Shahpur village of Gurdaspur district, the same number of saplings were planted on 1 kanal land of Bhai Baldev Singh. Under the guidance of Baba Sewa Singh, international environmentalist and head of the Kar Sewa sect, the organisation is running plantation drives to establish 550 mini-forests to commemorate the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/their-aim-%E2%80%94-to-raise-550-mini-forests-289401
28-07-2021||Amritsar||SAD-BSP protest against  Centre’s three agri laws||Activists of the district unit of Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party held a protest and urged the Centre to repeal the three agri laws on Tuesday.After holding a protest march, protesters assembled outside the District Administrative Complex and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government.Gurbaksh Singh of the BSP said his party has been protesting against the three agri laws when they were introduced as ordinances in Parliament. He said a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind was submitted to the Deputy Commissioner.Gurpratap Singh Tikka, chief, SAD (urban), said MPs from Akali Dal and BSP have been protesting against the new agri laws in Parliament. He reiterated that the SAD would continue to protest against the three farm laws till they were not repealed.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-bsp-protest-against-centres-three-agri-laws-289402
28-07-2021||---||Hyatt Regency organises contest to promote local cuisine in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 27With the theme of Hyatt Loves Local, a programme initiated by the hotel to promote and collaborate with small, local businesses, a cook-off competition for chefs of Hyatt’s Regency Amritsar was organised on Tuesday.Six chefs competed against each other, wherein they were challenged with the concept of using local Amritsari ingredients in their master dishes. The prime objective was to promote and increase the use of local ingredients and create a unique dish with their sense of creativity. The event was judged by Chef Jyoti Arora, finalist of Master chef India; Col Mandeep and Kamaljit Singh, general manager of Hyatt Regency, Amritsar. Vishwajeet emerged as the winner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hyatt-regency-organises-contest-to-promote-local-cuisine-in-amritsar-289404
28-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Robbers’ gang busted, 3 held||The Valtoha police claimed to have busted a five-member gang of robbers by arresting three of them from Algon Kalan on Tuesday.Two of them managed to escape from the spot in Algon Kalan village, where they had gathered to plan a robbery in the area on Tuesday. A country made pistol with two cartridges, a datar and sword was also recovered from them.Sub-Inspector Charan Singh, who conducted the raid to arrest the gang members, said those arrested have been identified as Sarwan Singh Daman of Dibbipur, Angrej Singh of Wara Telian and Palwinder Singh of Algon Kalan, while Karam Singh of Algon Kalan and Narain Singh Shera of Dib.The accused have been booked under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-gang-busted-3-held-289409
28-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar-based textile industry grapples with increasing raw material costs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27The city-based textile industry is grappling with the twin challenge of high raw material cost and low demand in the current Covid-induced market.Cost of textile manufacturing has increased considerably after yarn spinners and manufacturers of dyes and chemicals increased the prices of their products from 50 to even 100 per cent. On the other hand, moderate demand for finished products in the market did not give them enough room to pass on the hike.Over 1,000 textile units in the district are engaged in manufacturing tweed, blazers, shawl, blankets, dress material, suiting and shirting. With a combined annual turnover of over Rs 10,000 crore, it offered employment to thousands of skilled and unskilled workers. Despite all this, local textile industry no longer occupies the sobriquet of the Manchester of India.Kamal Dalmia, running a yarn processing unit, said, during the past few years, China became a major exporter of almost all ingredients used in manufacturing final products of textile at a reasonable price.The hike in prices of yarn dyes and chemicals used in the textile industry prompted big domestic yarn spinners and manufacturers of these products to pass on the hike to textile manufacturers.For instance, polyester cotton blended yarn before the Covid-19 used to cost Rs 175 per kg and now it is Rs 250 per kg. Similarly, polyester filament yarn costs Rs 125 per kg which was priced at Rs 80.The Textile Industry, which is second after agriculture in providing employment, is already battling the crisis posed by demonetisation and GST. Currently, textile products are not the priority of the masses. Demand for textile products has been further affected by the rise in prices of the final product due to increase in prices of input cost on its basic raw materials - yarns, dyes and chemicals.Deepak Bajaj, operating a unit of dyeing and printing of textile, said prices of almost all variants of dyes and chemicals got increased between 25 to 30 per cent after the unlocking of lockdown. He said the processing industry was further battered by nearly 30 percent hike in petcock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-textile-industry-grapples-with-increasing-raw-material-costs-289412
28-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Anganwadi workers observe fast outside residence of Congress MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri||Tarn Taran, July 27Anganwadi workers and helpers across the district under a banner of the All Punjab Anganwari Mulazam Union sat on a daylong hunger strike outside the residence of Congress MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri on Tuesday.Protesters submitted a memorandum (written with blood) addressed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding their demands. Sandeep Agnihotri, son of the MLA, received the memorandum as the latter was not at his home.Rajwant Kaur, district chief of the union, said their demands include to take back kids upto the age of six years sent from anganwadi centres to primary schools, nursery teachers’ post for anganwadi workers, remuneration to workers and helpers on the pattern of Haryana.Protesters raised slogans against the state government and asked to address their demands at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwadi-workers-observe-fast-outside-residence-of-congress-mla-dr-dharambeer-agnihotri-289416
28-07-2021||---||Eat local, think global for fitness: Rujuta Diwekar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27Nutrition and wellness expert Rujuta Diwekar, who has helped celebrities such as Kareena Kapoor Khan, Alia Bhatt, Saif Ali Khan, Varun Dhawan and Shahid Kapoor achieve healthy body goals, says she managed to achieve this feat only by suggesting local, traditional food to them and not some fancy customised diet. A vocal supporter of eating traditional food, sourced locally, Rujuta shared some of her tips on how to get a healthy body, mind and soul, at FICCI FLO Amritsar chapter’s first live offline event — Counting Miles, Not Calories.“I have never believed in over-complicated diets, fancy foods that are sourced from thousands of miles away, processed and packed to lose weight. As a matter of fact, losing body weight is entirely a different concept than losing fat weight,” she said. Most of her sessions on social media platforms advise a blend of traditional, local food wisdom and modern nutritional science for a healthy body and mind, best reflected through the mantra — eat local, think global.“Confidence is not seeking external validation for your body,” said Diwekar. “Following the food advice at home by grannies and exercise is what helps one stay fit. “Good food is what our traditional proverbs and sayings boast about. There is a need to patronise local food,” she said.The one to ask people to bring ghee back into our diet, Rujuta said it helps in getting natural glow and exemplary physique. “Be grateful for you have on your plate,” she said. On being asked to name the ‘superfoods’ of Punjab, she said dal and rice, rose-flavoured water and lassi are the ‘superfoods’ that are undervalued by people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eat-local-think-global-for-fitness-rujuta-diwekar-289417
28-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Students of Mai Bhago International Public School, Tarn Taran, excel in exams||Parneet Kaur (non-medical) of local Mai Bhago International Public School set a landmark by scoring 94.75 per cent marks in Class XII exams, the results of which were declared by the Indian School Certificate Examination recently.Dr Jaswinder Kaur, director of the institution, said other students of the school who brought laurels are — Yaismeen Kaur, who scored 94.25 per cent marks; Navreet Kaur (92.2 5 per cent marks); Gagandeep Kaur (92 per cent marks); Inderbir Singh (91.7 5 per cent marks); Navkiran Kaur Randhawa (91.75 per cent marks); Lovepreet Kaur (91 per cent marks); Simarjeet Kaur (90.75 per cent marks); Noorpreet Kaur (90.5 per cent marks); Jasmeen Kaur (90.25 per cent) and Jashandeep Kaur (90 per cent) in Class XII. Principal Varinder Singh said 10 students of Class XII secured above 90 per cent marks, 19 students secured 85 to 90 per cent marks, and others secured above 80 per cent marks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-of-mai-bhago-international-public-school-tarn-taran-excel-in-exams-289421
28-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Sub-registrar appointed in District Revenue Department||In order to give boost to the District Revenue Department, the state government has appointed another sub-registrar. Already, there were two sub-registrars (one and two) in the two tehsils. The new sub-registrar (three) has jurisdiction over two kanungo circles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-sub-registrar-appointed-in-district-revenue-department-289423
28-07-2021||Amritsar||Seven books released||Mini Kahani Manch, that publishes Mini, a quarterly magazine, on Tuesday released 131 issues of the quarterly by Dr Shyam Sundar Deepti. The function was presided over by Dr Deepti, Harbhajan Khemkarni, Rajwant Bajwa and Jaswant Singh. The members released seven books , including Dr Shyam Sundar Deepti’s “Kudrat Da Hani Bhagat Puran Singh “, and “Guftagu Magazine”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-books-released-289425
28-07-2021||Amritsar||Manish Aggarwal is co-prez of AAP trade wing||Manish Aggarwal has been appointed as the co-president of the trade wing of the AAP. His appointment was made on the recommendations of the committee. He had unsuccessfully contested from the Amritsar North segment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manish-aggarwal-is-co-prez-of-aap-trade-wing-289428
28-07-2021||Amritsar||Cigarette sellers issued challans in Amritsar||Help for elderly? Call on 14567Amritsar: The district Health Department on Tuesday organised an event at Guru Ram Das Birdh Ashram to promote the elderly helpline 14567 for senior citizens launched by the government. Dr Jaspreet Sharma said the helpline launched by the Social Justice Department would ensure that the elderly get medical and legal help in case of any trouble. He said the elderly himself or any other person can report a problem at the helpline, after which the information would be passed on to local officials, who would ensure that all possible help is provided to them. Civil Surgeon Charanjit Singh said the helpline would be of help to the elderly living alone or facing any kind of abuse. He said medical help in case of need would also be provided by the government. TNSFour booked for culpable homicideAmritsar: The Rajasansi police have booked four persons for culpable homicide after they thrashed a drunk man, who later died on Monday. The deceased was identified as Rajesh Rawat, while the accused are Shallu and Mandeep Singh of Ward Number 13, Gandhi Nagar, Rajasansi. Krishna Devi, victim’s wife, told the police that her husband Rajesh was a habitual drunker. On July 25, around 10.30pm, he had a quarrel with the accused, who were on two bikes, over some issue. They thrashed him brutally and left him injured. He was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed. The police have registered a case under Sections 304, 323 and 34 of the IPC against the suspects, while no arrest has been made so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cigarette-sellers-issued-challans-in-amritsar-289429
28-07-2021||Amritsar||Notorious gangster, two aides arrested in Amritsar||In a joint operation, the Amritsar rural police and the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) have nabbed a notorious gangster, Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon Amritsaria, along with three accomplices from Chamiari village in Ajnala here on Tuesday.Sekhon was wanted in over a dozen criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder and ransom. He was hiding at the house of his relative Mahinder Singh in Chamiari village in Ajnala where he was surrounded by the police following a tip-off.The police recovered five country-made pistols and a double-barrel gun and ammunition besides three mobile phones from his possession. The police also held Nikku Khaduria from the spot while their accomplice Gurlal Singh was arrested from Tarn Taran. Even before his surrender and fearing his encounter, he uploaded a post on a social platform about his arrest.A joint team of the OCCU and police led by DSP Balbir Singh, DSP Gurinderpal Singh Nagra and ASP Abhimanyu Rana surrounded the house where Sekhon and his accomplices were hiding. The police teams repeatedly asked the gangster to surrender.Sekhon had become a headache for the Punjab Police due to his crime record. Recently, he along with his accomplices gunned down gangster Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, and SAD worker Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran, at Patti in Tarn Taran on June 1.Sekhon was also a prime suspect in the killing of a bouncer Jagroop, alias Jagga, of Nangli Batha village in the Ranjit Avenue area in October 10 last year. — TNSExtortion callsIn a statement, DGP Dinkar Gupta said Preet Sekhon and his accomplices had been involved in making a large number of extortion and threat calls to a number of prominent businessmen and professionals, especially in the Amritsar area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-gangster-two-aides-arrested-in-amritsar-289163
