29-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||65-year-old brutally murdered at his farmhouse in Tarn Taran||Malook Singh (65), a resident of Sohawa village near Sarhali, here, was found brutally murdered at his farmhouse on Tuesday. The victim was residing alone in the farmhouse as his wife and two sons had died years ago. He owned five acres of agricultural land.The incident came to the notice of Malkiat Singh of the same village, nephew of the victim, late on Tuesday evening. When Malkiat and his friend Satnam Singh reached the spot, they saw the arms of the victim were tied behind his back. His mouth was stuffed with a piece of cloth and the neck was strangled with a cloth.Inspector Navdeep Singh, SHO, Sarhali police station, said he immediately reached the spot and collected all relevant evidence from the spot. The Station House Officer said from the information collected from the spot it seemed to be a case of grabbing the victim’s property as he had no son.The victim had two daughters, but one of them died after her marriage and the second one is at her in-laws’ house.He had adopted a boy from his relative, but his relative took the boy back from him and there were some other conflicts regarding grabbing his property, the SHO said.Malkiat Singh said it was clear that there were more than one killers, as Malook Singh had a well-built body and he tried hard to save himself but the killers succeeded in killing him and escaped from the spot.The killers, before murdering Malook Singh, had tea with him. The killer took away the victim’s rifle from his farmhouse.The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC in this regard and further investigation had been initiated, the Station House Officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/65-year-old-brutally-murdered-at-his-farmhouse-in-tarn-taran-289875
29-07-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Bike lifters’ gang busted, 3 held||The Sadar police have arrested three persons, who are members of bike lifters’ gang, and recovered nine stolen motorcycles from them.Inspector Prabhjit Singh, SHO, on Wednesday, said the accused have been identified as Sahib Singh Saba of Manochahal Kalan, Angrej Singh of Shahabour Dial and Kuldeep Singh of Sabhra.The SHO said Sahib Singh and Angrej Singh were nabbed from a naka installed at the outskirts of Manochahal Kalan on Tuesday with a stolen bike with fake RC. The accused in the preliminary interrogation revealed that they got the motorcycle from Kuldeep Singh, who, too, was a member of their gang. The gang had lifted bikes from different places of the town. They used to sell these to innocent people with fake RCs.A case under Sections 379, 411 and 473 of the IPC was registered by the police. The SHO said the accused were produced in court, which sent them to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-bike-lifters-gang-busted-3-held-289876
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Woman thrashed, DTO abused, video goes viral||Surfacing of two videos on social media showing two persons calling the shots at the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office and one of them beating up a woman have once again raised a question mark on the working of the RTO.Old video?RTO says the video was shot at the local office but it seems to be old as the culprit is addressing the head as DTO and its nomenclature was changed to RTA in 2017The viral videos have sent shock waves among people who fear how unscrupulous people and muscle men have their say in the internal working of a government office and how such actions would lead to erosion of fear and respect for government departments.Regular working of the office has also come under scanner as both unscrupulous persons were seen sitting in the chair of officials and discharging the job. One of them was seen dragging a woman out of the chair and mercilessly beating her up while people rush to disengage him.One of them was seen sitting on one of the chairs at the RTA office and handling documents like a regular employee and using abusive language against a DTO and a retired employee.Sources in the RTA said both persons in the video are said to be agents and those women working in the office seemed employees of a private company, which was engaged by the government to install chips embedded in high security number plates.They said the face of the woman being attacked by the person was not visible properly. They said agents familiar with the internal working of the department and its employees do not give due respect to contractual and outsourced employees. In the video, they are seen raising their voice, calling out the employees’ names publicly and threatening them to get the work done. Not only this, they were also seen using expletives and slanderous tone against one DTO, who had discharged duty at the local office from 2016 and 2017 and another official who had retired three years ago.It may be recalled here that Amritpal Singh, a clerk at the District Transport Office, was arrested along with six others by the police in connection with the theft of luxury vehicles and their subsequent sale after forging documents in 2014. The tainted clerk used to forge documents of stolen vehicles.When contacted, RTO Jyoti Bala confirmed that the video was shot at the local office but it seemed to have been shot before 2017 as the culprit is addressing the head as DTO and its nomenclature was changed to the RTA in 2017, she said. She said officials of the department did not recognise both agents, said to be brothers working inside the office.She said track in-charge Gurdev Singh, who joined in 2018, has been assigned to carry out the preliminary investigation. She said at present only one woman, who is an employee of a private firm, was working with the RTA. The video shows two women officials, which used to be the case years ago.“I am writing to the Police Commissioner to conduct a probe into the viral video showing two agents exceeding their limit by using non-parliamentary language against the then DTO and another official, sitting on official chairs and assaulting a woman,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-woman-thrashed-dto-abused-video-goes-viral-289877
29-07-2021||Amritsar||5 catch Covid infection in Amritsar, no death reported||The district health authorities reported five positive cases on Wednesday with which the total count has increased to 47,052.These cases include four influenza like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death on today. With recovery of six patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,426. At present, the district has a total of 42 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 934 persons were inoculated today. Of these, 662 received their first dose, while 272 received their second jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-catch-covid-infection-in-amritsar-no-death-reported-289878
29-07-2021||---||Schooling will never be same again, feel students||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 28The schools in city have reopened to an encouraging response with almost consistent 50 per cent attendance in the past three days. While a handful private schools are still waiting for consent before resuming offline classes, students who are coming to school feel that caution is the way forward.“We do not have much option as studies have been affected due to the pandemic. Despite the best efforts to study through online mode, there is so much syllabus left to cover that self study is not helpful. It’s good to be back to school. However, we know the earlier way of learning might not be possible now,” said Amandeep Kaur, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Putlighar.Students also feel that compromising on physical classes fearing risk of infection might not be a good decision in the long term. “It’s been a long break from any social contact and on campus school learning. One thing is for sure that we might never really go back to normal schooling, at least for the next one-and-half-years. The only option that schools have is to continue with blended mode of learning. Our school has not reopened as they are still waiting for consent forms. The purpose of offline classes will be fulfilled only if a good number of students come to school,” said Ishaan Marwaha, a Class XII student from Spring Dales Public School.Even parents are pushing for a normalisation of offline classes. “I feel the best way to function under impending threat of third wave is for schools to allow only 50 per cent student attendance to ensure social distancing. Its become really a challenge for students who are merit holders to keep up with their studies like before through online mode,” said Dr Rajesh, Medical Officer, Manawala, who has been on Covid-19 duty in city ever since the pandemic hit. His younger son Sameer, who is a Class XI student, has been attending offline classes four days a week. “The only thing to take care is to ensure I follow safety measures. Studies are important and so schools must now be allowed to function without any glitch,” shares Sameer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schooling-will-never-be-same-again-feel-students-289879
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Expect no public dealing at government offices today as staff to protest in Patiala today||The employees of different state government departments are set to leave for Patiala to attend the state-level protest rally being held by the Punjab and Chandigarh employees in Patiala on Thursday.The employees have taken mass leaves to participate in the protest in support of their demands. The employees’ leaders said different departments have arranged buses apart from private vehicles to ferry protesters to Patiala.Jagdish Thakur, general secretary, Ministerial Staff Workers’ Union, said: “The work at all offices would be completely paralysed due to the protest.”He said ministerial staff employees from all state government departments are attending the protest.Ashok Sharma, president, Employees State Insurance (ESI) federation, said: “Our protest completed 21 days today. The government is still indifferent.” He said employees had been waiting for the pay panel report for the last six years, but when the same was released, the salaries of employees decreased instead of increasing.The employees’ leaders said public works at government offices would come to a standstill even as senior officials are not a part of the protest.“The files are usually handled by junior employees. So, even if senior officials would be present, the public dealing would totally stop,” an employee said.Meanwhile, employees at Government Medical College here also held a gate rally to protest against the state government. Narinder Singh, president, Employees’ Coordination Committee, said the response to the protest call for Patiala is phenomenal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-expect-no-public-dealing-at-government-offices-today-as-staff-to-protest-in-patiala-today-289880
29-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Sessions judge visits Patti jail||3 cell phones seized in jailAmritsar: Central Jail staff on Wednesday seized a cell phone from inmate Prem Jha, who was nabbed by the rural police in connection with the seizure of tramadol, here. Bahadur Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, said during a routine checking, jail staff recovered a mobile phone from prisoner Prem Jha, owner of Mansi Medicos Firm, Mayur Vihar, East Delhi, from room No.2 in barrack No.3. The prisoner, arrested in June, used to run a medical firm in the name of Mansi Medicos in Mayur Vihar in Delhi from where tramadol was smuggled into different parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. Meanwhile, jail staff seized another phone from prisoner Vijay Masih of Kalanaur in Gurdaspur, from Barrack No.5. While checking the 8 Chakkian guard room rooftop, an unclaimed power bank and a mobile phone were seized. Islamabad police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act. TNSMan held with six pistolsAmritsar: The rural police nabbed an arms smuggler and recovered six pistols from him here on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Beant Singh, alias Nika, a resident of Bathungarh of Tarsika area. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said Prabhjot Singh, SHO at Kamboa police station had set a checkpoint at Chowk Mirakot with the police team. Nika;s car was intercepted by the police and during search, they recovered a pistol from his trunk, 4 pistols of 32 bore and a country made pistol from the dashboard of his car. A case under Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at Kamboa police station against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sessions-judge-visits-patti-jail-289881
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Road near Rego Bridge turns into ugly sight again||Though the MC Commissioner has initiated a sanitation drive in the city and prepared a roaster to cover all the roads within 15 days, garbage dumps still dot at places along the stretch connecting the Islamabad area and the Rego railway overbridge (RoB).Earlier, there was a large dump on the site and after being highlighted in these columns, the dump was removed in January. However, garbage is again being dumped on the site.Residents have been demanding the clearing of the dump as, they fear, it would again form the shape of a big mound.The defence area, the railway station’s loading and unloading cargo facility, the railway’s residential B-block Colony and a historic gurdwara are based along the stretch.Naveen Kumar, a resident of the area, said, “The road is used by thousands of commuters. Earlier, there was a huge dump and after a long struggle it was removed. Now, garbage is being dumped along the roadside again, turning it into an ugly sight. Being a significant road for commuters, it should be clean like other main roads.”Garbage, debris and other refuse dot both the sides of the stretch. “It has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Foul smell also emanates from the area,” said Gurpreet Singh, another resident.MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi would conduct an inspection of these roads on July 30, the day the first phase of the cleanliness drive ends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-near-rego-bridge-turns-into-ugly-sight-again-289882
29-07-2021||Amritsar||‘A skilled worker never stays out of work’||Pawan Kumar, a native of Bihar, is working as a mason in the city for the past 10 years. After doing the same for years, he says his life has become a force of habit now. But he keeps facing new challenges each day.“I am an early bird who generally wakes up at 5.30 am. Not every day, but most of the time, I visit a nearby temple after taking shower. Then, I take food and leave for work around 8.30 am,” said Pawan.“A mason’s job is not a cakewalk. We have to constantly keep improving our skills. The building architecture changes with time. Nowadays, people watch something on social media and expect us to construct the same. I never feel shy to try new experiments,” he said.Pawan Kumar didn’t leave the city during the pandemic. He stayed here and continued his work. “The construction sites were closed for around two months in 2020. I spent all my savings on meeting my daily needs. I took up small works in our locality. Later, the police allowed cyclists and daily wagers to go on construction sites.He claimed that a skilled worker never stays unemployed. “Unemployment is for unskilled persons only. If you know your job well, people wait for you. I haven’’t had any problem even during the lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19,” he said.Pawan Kumar worked till late evening during the summer season. Sometimes, he does overtime if the building owner has some target to complete the construction. After completing his work, Pawan goes back home and spends time with his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-skilled-worker-never-stays-out-of-work-289884
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Delivery boy robbed of bike, Rs1,200 in city||Three miscreants snatched a motorcycle and cash from a Zomato delivery boy on Tuesday night.The victim, Gurjant Singh, told the police that after delivering the order at 12.15 am in Adrash Nagar he was intercepted by three bike-borne persons who asked him to stop near Guru Nanakpura. The victim said the accused asked to handover cash at gunpoint. He said he gave his wallet containing Rs 1,200 and Aadhaar Card. The victim said one of the miscreants fired at his feet and snatched his motorcycle. The police said a case under Sections 379-B, 336 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25/27/54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delivery-boy-robbed-of-bike-rs1-200-in-city-289885
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Pandemic forced him to buy hi-tech machines to tackle labour shortage||After being in the plywood industry for over a period of 30 years, Gurpreet Singh Kataria has now decided to upgrade his manufacturing unit.He is running three units which roll out plywood, plastic sheets, which is a substitute for ply, besides hydraulic and engineering works, which manufacture machines made up of iron and steel, which finds use in the plywood industry. All three locally manufactured products find their way to the pan-India market.For the plywood unit, he has zeroed in on state-of-the-art wood peeling machines being rolled out in China.“A unit will cost Rs50 lakh and just one person will be adequate to operate it. Previous edition of the same machine, imported from China, requires at least seven persons to operate it. Its Indian version requires 30 persons to operate it.” At present, he employs around 50 persons in the unit.About 10 years ago, he entered into manufacturing machines employed by the plywood industry to roll out ply sheets. His company now specialises in manufacturing core/veneer drying hydraulic hot presses for plywood. This unit employs about 20 persons.Gurpreet Singh Kataria said the Covid-19 not only pulled down shutters of their factories but also caused shortage of labour. As a majority of labourers are from other states and they fled to their native towns, they took time to return to the work even after everything was unlocked. This prompted industrialists to go for hi-tech machines. “It does not mean that we will cut down the strength of men at the units in near future. We are not phasing out previous machines which are in good condition.” The new machine will add to the number of machines besides increasing quality output.Sensing the need for the green industry about four years ago, he ventured into manufacturing plastic sheets which are costlier than plywood sheets. However, these are preferred in some segments for being hundred per cent waterproof, boro-free, termite proof and fire resistant. Upon coming in contact with fire, they melt but are not inflammable. Apart from substitutes of ply, these are also used in the interlocking tiles.His career began at the age of 18 as a plywood trader in 1992. Three years later, he switched to manufacturing.A well-known face in the plywood industry, he is president of the Amritsar Plywood Manufacturers’ Association, president of the Small Plywood Manufacturers’ Association, vice-president of the Punjab Plywood Manufacturers’ Association and the executive member of the All-India Plywood Manufacturers’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-forced-him-to-buy-hi-tech-machines-to-tackle-labour-shortage-289886
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, installs lift in administrative block||World Nature Conservation DayDAV Public School, Lawrence Road, observed World Nature Conservation Day on its premises. A special assembly was organised by the teachers. The assembly began by seeking the blessings of Almighty. Celebrating this year’s theme “Forests and Livelihoods : Sustaining people and planet’’, the teachers shared their views on how to protect the natural resources. They spoke on the measures which should be taken to save planet from pollution, deforestation, global warming, poaching etc. as they pose a major threat to nature. Anita Mehra , Principal of the school, in her message urged that we must promote efficient usage of resources.St Joseph School students shineSt Joseph Convent school in Khasa reported 100 per cent results in the recently announced ICSE results. Father Joseph, director of the school, informed that 61 students from the school appeared for Class X examinations. Amritjot Kaur stood first in school scoring 484 marks out of 500 followed by Manpreet Kaur, who scored 476 marks and Palak Meet and Akashdeep Kaur who jointly stood third in school with 473 marks. Principal of the school, Sister Venus Gill congratulated the meritorious students and said that the school is proud of their achievments. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-installs-lift-in-administrative-block-289888
29-07-2021||Kairon village in Tarn Taran district is known for political and legendary personalities. The village is a birth place of late Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon||Legends of Kairon||AAP leader in tight spotAAP leader Manjinder Singh Sidhu, who created a storm in the political circles, by levelling allegations against Congress MLA and top SAD (Sanyukt) leader for having links with international smugglers is finding himself in a tight spot within his own party. Earlier, he was state chief of the youth wing of the AAP for more than six years. Now, he went live on Facebook, and alleged that AAP state president Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema, were overlooking issues of volunteers and second-ring leaders. He had been considering himself to be the only possible and deserving AAP candidate from Khadoor Sahib constituency. As the 2022 Assembly elections are approaching, numerous ticket aspirants from AAP have started their political activities, thus creating tension for Sidhu.Saplings planted on NHThe Sarhali Sahib Kar Sewa Sect has come forward to protect the environment. The sect has been solemnising mass marriages from weaker section of society since decades. The sect has been organising blood donation camps with the association of the Health Department. Now, the sect has chalked out a strategy to plant saplings on both sides of the national highway 54 from Naushehra Pannuan to Harike Pattan (20-km stretch). The drive was launched by Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh in the presence of area residents. Baba Sukha Singh, head of the sect, and Baba Hakam Singh, said more than 1,000 saplings are planted on both sides of the national highway.Foul gameAdvocate Gurmeet Singh has raised objections with authorities concerned regarding the conversion of a hockey ground into a basketball court at the Sports Stadium in Patti. He wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner and Director Sports. He said Patti requires a hockey ground with enough space for spectators. He said some influential people have converted the hockey ground into the basket ball court. He urged the authorities concerned to immediately intervene in the matter.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/legends-of-kairon-289902
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata panel resigns over ‘violations’ while ‘welcoming’ newly elected Uttarakhand CM||The entire managing committee of Uttarakhand’s Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata has resigned following allegations of breach of Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ while ‘welcoming’ newly elected CM Pushkar Singh Dhami recently.A programme was organised by the managing committee on the gurdwara premises during which pro-BJP slogans were raised, young girls danced and ‘gurbani’ was interrupted to greet the dignitary. The guest was also presented with a silver crown along with a ‘siropa’ and ‘sri sahib’, the Sikh religious symbols.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “A panel investigated and recorded the statements of the management. As per the demand of the sangat, the management committee of the gurdwara has submitted its resignation.” She said after their resignations, a five-member executive committee was constituted to run the affairs temporarily. This included Jarnail Singh, Sukhdeep Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Jasbir Singh and Amarjeet Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdwara-sri-nanak-mata-panel-resigns-over-violations-while-welcoming-newly-elected-uttarakhand-cm-289645
29-07-2021||Amritsar||Gangsters Preet Sekhon, Nikka Khaduria in 5-day police remand||A court today sent gangsters Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, and Jarmanjit Singh, alias Nikka Khaduria, to five-day police remand.The duo was arrested during an intelligence-led operation carried out in Chamiari village in Ajnala, Amritsar, on Tuesday. The police had recovered a large quantity of arms and ammunition from them. They were wanted in the Patti double-murder case, Ludhiana gold dacoity and other heinous crimes, including car snatching and extortion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangsters-preet-sekhon-nikka-khaduria-in-5-day-police-remand-289635
29-07-2021||GS Paul||As Navjot Sidhu shifts base to Patiala, Congress leaders reach out to Amritsar East voters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 28Amritsar’s two constituencies — East and North — are likely to witness a keen contest in the next Assembly poll, owing to a change in political equations.While PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who represented the East constituency, has kept his cards close to his chest and shifted towards his hometown Patiala, Capt Amarinder’s turf.Local Congress leaders have started lobbying for the ticket. The frontrunners are Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi. Both have become active in the East as they are meeting residents and trying their bit to make their presence felt.Rintu said, “I have been regularly monitoring the works being done, especially in the ignored areas of the constituency. The outer periphery areas like Verka, Vallah and ward Nos. 20, 21, 22, 25, which were devoid of sewerage for long, have been revamped. Similarly, proper roads, street lights and safe drinking water supply have been ensured in these areas. Works worth Rs 50 crore were executed or are still under way in several pockets of the East constituency.”Bassi said, “I leave up to the party to decide, but I prefer to contest from the East constituency seat as I have been regularly associated with residents of the constituency and executed a number of civic projects.” Similarly, the contest will be interesting in the North, a Hindu-dominated seat and home turf of rebel BJP leader and two-time MLA Anil Joshi.Joshi, who was expelled from the party for the next six years, has announced to contest the elections independently from here. The contest gains significance as former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap from AAP also seems to start his political innings from here if regular meetings conducted by him are any indication. AAP’s Munish Aggarwal, who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 poll from here, said, “I will be happy to vacate the seat for Kunwar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-navjot-sidhu-shifts-base-to-patiala-congress-leaders-reach-out-to-amritsar-east-voters-289626
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Speed up process to employ kin of farm stir, Amritsar train tragedy victims: Punjab govt||With elections to the Vidhan Sabha round the corner, the Capt Amarinder Singh government has gone into an overdrive to woo various sections of voters by providing them the elusive “sarkari naukri”.From kin of farmers who have died in the ongoing farmers’ agitation to the kin of those killed in the Amritsar train accident in 2018, the past weekend has seen a flurry of activity in the state, with the government asking officials concerned to immediately provide them jobs in Group “C” and “D” on the basis of their educational qualification.Letters have been sent out from the state government headquarters to all Deputy Commissioners for immediate action on these compassionate appointments.Interestingly, the government letters issued to all Deputy Commissioners recently mentions that these “compassionate appointments” are to be made through a special relaxation in the state’s Scheme for Compassionate Appointments, 2002. This policy allows for appointments on compassionate grounds only for dependent member of the family of a person killed or physically disabled in terrorist action; dependent family member of a government servant who died in harness; disabled ex-servicemen; or, dependent members of defensive service personnel killed in service in line of duty or those who are severely handicapped.It may be noted that 546 farmers and farm labourers have died in the ongoing protest against the three farm laws. “Most of the kin of farmers will get jobs in Group D where minimum required qualification is primary school education. Very few will qualify for Group C posts (clerks), where minimum qualification is graduation. The employment will be provided mostly in education, health and irrigation departments,” a senior government official told The Tribune.It may be noted that while the Centre has said in Parliament that it has no record of farmers’ deaths, the Capt Amarinder Singh government has already given compensation of Rs 5 lakh to families of almost 500 farmers and labourers who have died during the stir. With farmers being one of the biggest vote bank, especially in the all- important Malwa region having 69 Assembly seats, the Congress government wants to woo them hard.The move to immediately give jobs follows a widespread criticism of the state government on employment generation and the inability of the government to provide jobs for all (Ghar Ghar Rozgar), as promised in the Congress’ 2017 election manifesto. — TNSRTI reply exposes tall claims on jobs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/speed-up-process-to-employ-kin-of-farm-stir-amritsar-train-tragedy-victims-punjab-govt-289632
