30-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran MC staff not paid salaries for five months||Safai sewaks and other employees of the local Municipal Council (MC), working on contractual basis, in a memorandum submitted to the Executive Officer (EO), sought their salaries which have been blocked for the past five months.Romesh Shergill, a state leader of the Safai Sewak Union, said on Thursday said nearly 150 employees, including safai sewaks, tubewell operators, sewerage men, electricians, malis and other Class IV employees have not been not paid their monthly salaries for the last five months. Romesh Shergill said the union had also submitted a memorandum to the DC regarding their issue. He said contractors were not giving them the detail of their EPF deduction to avail the ESI (free medical) facilities. The union had warned the administration that in case their salaries were not paid within a week, they would be forced to launch an agitation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-mc-staff-not-paid-salaries-for-five-months-290389
30-07-2021||---||Three test positive in Amritsar district, no death||Amritsar, July 29The district health authorities reported three positive cases on Thursday, with which the total count increased to 47,055. These cases include two influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The district has reported no death due to the disease on Thursday.The Health Department has reported the recovery of nine patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,435. The district at present has a total of 36 active cases. The health authorities said a total of 1,231 persons were given injections during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 608 were given the first dose, while 623 were given the second dose of the vaccine.Tarn Taran reports no death, +ve caseThere was no death due to Covid infection nor any fresh positive case was reported in the district on Thursday. The tally of the deaths due to the pandemic stands at 373 and the number of active cases had been reduced to seven of which six have been isolated at their respective homes. The teams of the Health Department collected 827 samples from different stations. The reports of 565 samples was still awaited.As many as 279 citizens were vaccinated on Thursday, as a result, total 2,68,067 jabs have been given to residents in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-no-death-290390
30-07-2021||---||Govt employees from Amritsa off to Patiala for rally||Amritsar, July 29Public services at government offices were crippled due to the protest by the employees of different state government departments on Thursday.The employees in large numbers left for Patiala to participate in the state-level protest rally.The corridors of most of the offices at different departments wore a deserted look due to the protest. The same situation was seen at offices associated with the Health Department, Deputy Commissioner’s office, Treasury, Water Resources, Education, PWD, Excise, ITI, Water Supply, Local Bodies, Agriculture, Soil Conservation, Roadways, Social Security, Technical Education and Cooperatives.Sukhdev Singh, resident who visited the DC office, said he was not aware of the protest and had gone to collect his marriage certificate. Another resident Baaj Singh said came to know about the status of his complaint, but the clerk concerned was not available. A few of the visitors were seen sitting in the waiting area hoping that they would be able to get their works done somehow.Meanwhile, Ashok Kumar, an employee leader, said the protest rally in Patiala was completely successful. Talking about inconvenience to the public he said: “The demands of employees are justified and rightful. It is the government that has failed the employees and general public by not accepting the demands on time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-employees-from-amritsa-off-to-patiala-for-rally-290391
30-07-2021||---||Man murdered in Guru Nanak Pura, 2 arrested||Amritsar, July 29  A 27-year-old man was stabbed to death by two persons in the Guru Nanak Pura area falling under the Kot Khalsa police station here on Monday. The victim, identified as Karamjit Singh, succumbed to his injuries in Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Wednesday. The police have registered a case and arrested the suspects from near the Golden Temple inns. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, aka Lucky, and Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, of Guru Nanak Pura. Avtar Singh, father of the victim, told the police that on Monday at around 11.30pm, his son Karamjit Singh was standing outside his house. Suddenly, he heard noises from outside the house and immediately rushed outside and saw Manpreet and Gurpreet quarrelling with his son. He said Manpreet shouted and said “would not let Karamjit go”. He said before he could understand what was happening, Gurpreet stabbed his son a couple of times while Manpreet hit him on the head with a ‘gandasi’. Karamjit fell on the ground while the duo fled from the spot. He said he, along with his nephew Satnam Singh, rushed him to the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital from where he was referred to GNDH. During treatment, he succumbed to his injuries. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjiv Sharma said the accused and the victim were good friends and the trio had a quarrel a few days ago. A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and under the Arms Act was registered against the two.  Besides, the police have also recovered the weapon used in the crime following their arrest from near the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-murdered-in-guru-nanak-pura-2-arrested-290392
30-07-2021||Amritsar||SGPC: Ensure security of Sikhs in Afghanistan||The SGPC has urged the governments of India and Afghanistan to ensure the safety of Sikhs in Afghanistan.SGPC, chief secretary, advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami said the declining number of Sikh families in Afghanistan was a matter of grave concern. He demanded the government to make efforts to ensure security and safety of life and property of the Sikhs living there.“Earlier, there were lakhs of Sikhs in Afghanistan, but now, their number is limited. The reason is a sense of insecurity. There have been two major racial attacks on Sikhs in the recent past. Many were killed, including leaders of the community, which is why the Sikhs of Afghanistan are terrified and the governments should ensure their safety,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-ensure-security-of-sikhs-in-afghanistan-290393
30-07-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||BRTS fare finally slashed in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29The Metro bus fare was finally revised by the state Transport Department. It was a long-pending demand of commuters and residents to make the bus fare rational. The Transport Department of the Punjab Government has issued a notification to reduce the bus fare of BRTS Amritsar and also give concession on fare being charged through smart cards issued by the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) authority.Disclosing this, Anil Kumar, CEO, Punjab Bus Metro Society, Amritsar, said the free bus service was being provided to students up to Class XII. Now, the government has further reduced the fare for other categories. The fare has been fixed in two slabs — Rs5 and Rs10.From locations such as Amritsar railway station to Purani Chungi, Alpha One Mall, Mustafabad; from bus stand to Khalsa Public School, Ram Bagh, New Preet Nagar; and from Putlighar Chowk to Vijay Nagar, Chheharta Chowk, bus stand, the fare of the Metro bus would be Rs5.Similarly, the fare from Amritsar railway station to India Gate, Golden Gate, Verka Canal; from bus stand to Naraingarh, Verka Canal, and from Putlighar Chowk to India Gate, Golden Gate, Verka Canal has been fixed at Rs10.He said the newly fixed fare for smart card holders has been reduced by 20 per cent, the fare for senior citizens and physically challenged persons by Rs50 per cent and for college students by 66 per cent. He said the cost of making a new smart card has been fixed at Rs50 and the minimum price for recharging it has also been fixed at Rs50.The BRTS was a dream project of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, which faced numerous challenges since its inauguration on December 16, 2016. Despite tall claims, the Congress government failed to make the project financially viable. Earlier, the fares were not rational and people preferred commuting on other modes of public transports such as e-rickshaws or auto-rickshaws instead of taking the Metro bus to save their money. Now, there are possibilities that the ridership of Metro buses may increase in the next few weeks.Revised fare — divided into two slabsRs 5 From locations such as Amritsar railway station to Purani Chungi, Alpha One Mall, Mustafabad; from bus stand to Khalsa Public School, Ram Bagh, New Preet Nagar; and from Putlighar Chowk to Vijay Nagar, Chheharta Chowk, bus stand.Rs10 From Amritsar railway station to India Gate, Golden Gate, Verka Canal; from bus stand to Naraingarh, Verka Canal, and from Putlighar Chowk to India Gate, Golden Gate, Verka CanalEarlier fare Distance Fare0-3 km Rs 53- 6 km Rs106-12 km Rs1512-18 km Rs 2018 above Rs 25||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-fare-finally-slashed-in-amritsar-290420
30-07-2021||---||When artistes lost their professional rhythm...||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29For upcoming musicians and artistes in the Punjabi music industry, the pandemic has been nothing short of a struggle for survival. With no live shows to bank upon, no music festivals and no commercial recordings happening, the forced break on professional as well as creative front has not turned out well for many.Aar Bee, a city-based music director and artiste, who has been a known name in the Punjabi music industry and has worked with famous Wadali family, too, feels that many artistes lost their professional rhythm during the lockdown.While commenting on the impact of Covid-19 on artistes and the music industry, said: “I consider myself lucky to have found work with the Wadalis. I was working throughout the pandemic. But not many have had that kind of luck or support. Live performing artistes find it difficult to connect to the audience in the same manner on digital platforms. I know many artistes, who were forced to take up other jobs to survive the financial stress of the pandemic.”“Covid-19 has not been good for the creative industry, especially artistes, who were looking to make a career through live performances. But the gradual revival of activity and events will definitely help in getting the industry back on track,” says the young music director. But he also feels that the adversity has opened up an alternative platform of digital media for a world of possibilities to explore.“What we need now is to solidify the virtual presence with stronger visibility for independent artistes,” he says. In the industry for last decade or so, Aar Bee started his career as a music director for the legendary Wadali brothers. I was fortunate to get noticed by Puran Chand Wadali ji and later worked with Lakhwinder Wadali on many of his recent songs,” he shares.Just like many who dream to make it big in the music industry, Aar Bee, too, started young, as a student of music at GNDU.“My father, Sudesh Noor headed a jaagran group and used to sing at jagratas. Despite being an artiste himself, he never really encouraged me to pursue the career of a professional singer, as he thought that it’s a very challenging career and one has to really go through a grind to accomplish success. I had really proved my talent to him to get his approval. I came across Wadali brothers at an event, where they saw me perform. But I really found my calling behind the camera, as a director,” he shared.Aar Bee has directed Lakhwinder Wadali’s recent string of hits including Ranjhanna, Nazara and Maula that have been hits on digital platforms.“People have re-traced their way back to the melodious, soulful music during lockdown. One can only hear to the noise being served as music for a limited duration. But melody is what remains forever. I believe in making good music rather than commercial gains,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-artistes-lost-their-professional-rhythm-290421
30-07-2021||Amritsar||Drug peddlers’ property freezed in Amritsar||Smuggler sent to police remandAmritsar: Beant Singh, who was nabbed with six illegal pistols on Wednesday, was lured into this trade out of his love for weapons. He even got an image of pistol inked (tattoo) on his arm. He was produced before the court on Thursday, which sent him to the police remand. He was arrested by the Kamboh police following a tip-off near Cambridge School on Loharaka Road. DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota said Beant used to procure weapons from UP. “We have identified three-illegal manufacturers of illegal weapons in Uttar Pradesh and further investigation is under progress,” he said. He has no previous criminal record. The accused used to procure a weapon for Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 and later sold them to his ‘clients’ at higher rates, said Sahota. The police had recovered with five pistols of .32 bore and a ‘katta’ from Beant’s possession. TNSPanchayat land tilled illegallyAmritsar: As many as 16 persons were booked for allegedly encroaching upon and illegally tilling the panchayat land belonging to Harsha Chhina Gram Panchayat in Ajnala. The case was registered following a complaint lodged by the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) here. According to the police, the DDPO has lodged a complaint on June 15 stating that the gram panchayat of Korotana village passed a resolution, which was forwarded to his office. The gram panchayat said they had called for auction of panchayat land twice in May and twice in June this year. However, no one, not even the alleged accused who were currently tilling the land, came up for auction. The gram panchayat said a notice was issued to them and announcements were also made from the village gurdwara urging them to file their reply. However, they did not bother to come and file an explanation. Therefore, a complaint was lodged for further necessary action. Police authorities said that a case under Section 13 of the Punjab Village Common Land Act was registered against them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddlers-property-freezed-in-amritsar-290423
30-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Minors thrashed by farm owner for 'stealing mangoes', Tarn Taran admn takes note||The district administration has taken a dim view of a video clip that has gone viral on the social media purportedly showing two minors being struck in the head with a shoe by a land owner for allegedly stealing mangoes from his horticulture farm at a nearby village. The village where the incident occurred is 4 km from Tarn Taran town.District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Rajesh Kumar said after the video surfaced, the boys’ parents were called to his office and their statements were recorded. He said the report would be sent to the DC and the SSP.He said the victims were 10 and 12 years old and belonged to the SC community. In the video, the boys are purportedly seen being brought to the fields of the land owner and thrashed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minors-thrashed-by-farm-owner-for-stealing-mangoes-tarn-taran-admn-takes-note-290314
30-07-2021||GS Paul||Excavated structure in Golden Temple complex part of heritage, preserve it: Archaeological Survey of India||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29The tunnel-like arc-shaped structure found during abrupt digging at the site of new ‘joda ghar’ being constructed in the Golden Temple complex is part of the heritage and should be preserved. This was observed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which has submitted its report to the Amritsar district administration.Also read:Constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricksThe ASI observed that the remains of the structure appeared to be a part of a residential complex of late medieval period, constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricks (size 20x10x5 cm) laid in lime mortar. Traces of lime plaster were also visible at some placesSite claimed to be ‘Gianian Da Bunga’The structure was termed as ‘Gianian Da Bunga’ by Amritsar-based descendants of legendary Sikh figure Giani Sant Singh, a former head granthi of the Golden TempleExperts invited from gnduWe have invited experts from the Department of Architecture, Guru Nanak Dev University, to review the matter. The Deputy Commissioner has referred the issue to the Punjab Tourism Department for further action. - Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC ChiefOn July 21, an ASI team, headed by deputy archaeologist AK Tiwari, had inspected the site situated near the Akal Takht secretariat and adjoining Gurdwara Thara Sahib.The ASI observed the remains of the structure appeared to be part of a residential complex of late medieval period, constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricks (size 20x10x5 cm) laid in lime mortar. Traces of lime plaster were also visible at some places. The Amritsar district administration has been conveyed to preserve the structure keeping in view its heritage significance. The ASI has also offered to provide technical guidance in the matter, as and when required.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Amritsar“Since the exposed structures are heritage remains and cannot therefore be allowed to be destroyed, the district administration may initiate necessary steps for their preservation under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964, or under the relevant provisions conferred on the Deputy Commissioner for the protection of unprotected heritagestructures and remains,” the report reads.The ASI experts viewed that since the area around the Golden Temple was culturally rich, there was a possibility of buried heritage structure in its surroundings. During inspection, the ASI had discovered that at the depth of 20-22 feet, a dual-arched structure covering an area of 15x15 feet was present. The exposed height and width of the outer arch was approximately 2 metres each.The main entrance led to three arched cells located in east, west and north directions. The experts observed that these were probably attached with each other from the inner side, but since a limited area was exposed, it was not possible to ascertain the exact nature, use or association of these structures with other existing ones in the surrounding area.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranNonetheless, the structure was termed as ‘Gianian Da Bunga’ by Amritsar-based descendants of a legendary Sikh figure Giani Sant Singh, a former head granthi of the Golden Temple. Yadwinder Singh, who represented the sixth generation, claimed the structures were a gift from Maharaja Ranjit Singh to their ancestor who supervised gold-plating of the Golden Temple.It was known as ‘Sarad Khana’, attached with Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga in the shrine complex. The family lived there till 1988 when this building was acquired in lieu of adequate compensation to pave way for the Galliara Beautification Scheme. The building was demolished then and the structure discovered now could be its underground portion.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said it was now clear the structure was not a historical building related to the Golden Temple.“Since it has heritage value, it will be preserved under the directions of the ASI and Amritsar administration. We have invited experts from the Department of Architecture, Guru Nanak Dev University, to review the matter. The Deputy Commissioner has referred the matter to the Punjab Tourism Department for further action in this regard,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/excavated-structure-in-golden-temple-complex-part-of-heritage-preserve-it-archaeological-survey-of-india-290320
30-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Nabbed gangster Preet Sekhon ‘extorted’ crores from 25 bizmen, docs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29Notorious gangster Preet Sekhon has been a troublemaker not only for the police department, but also for the trading community, colonisers and doctors owning hospitals in the city.He extorted huge amount of money from them, which was deposited in a foreign bank account of an international-level hawala operator.“They, along with their Canada-based accomplice Lakhbir Singh alias Landa Patti, had extorted amount to the tune of several crores from at least 25 persons, including prominent colonisers and doctors besides smugglers as ransom. They have heaved a sigh of relief following his arrest during a joint operation by Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) and Amritsar rural police on Tuesday,” said OCCU DSP Balbir Singh.Ironically, majority of the victims did not inform the police, he said, adding that they could have approached the OCCU. Singh said the money was deposited in a bank account in Surrey, England, which was in the name of Tarlochan Singh. The details of the bank account were being procured.Daya Singh alias Preet Sekhon Amritsariya, along with his aide Jarmanjit Singh alias Nikka Khaduria of Chamba Khurd village in Tarn Taran, was nabbed in Chamiari village of Ajnala. The police recovered five country-made pistols, double barrel rifle and three mobile phones and a car from their possession. The police also arrested Gurlal Singh of Kamalpur village in Tarn Taran for sheltering him. The accused were living at the residence of the in-laws of Gurlal Singh, who was out on parole and is also wanted in several cases of murder and attempt to murder.During the raid, the police exercised restraint as there was a woman and her minor child in the house. Though the accused fired around four shots at the raiding police party, the child was narrowly escaped.Besides Patti double murder case in which a gangster and a SAD worker were shot dead in June, the duo was also involved in 2.5kg gold decoity in Ludhiana last year. He was also involved in the killing of bouncer in Ranjit Avenue area last year while another man was beaten to death outside a restaurant the same year. He had also killed his sister and her mother-in-law. The police said Sekhon had confessed to around eight murders and snatching of luxury vehicles from different persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nabbed-gangster-preet-sekhon-extorted-crores-from-25-bizmen-docs-290329
