31-07-2021||AAP leaders in Gurdaspur have started campaigning in earnest. They know that SAD-BSP combine is yet to find its feat while Congress is busy setting its house in order. They also know that it is the early bird that catches the worm. In Sri Hargobindpur||Gurdaspur Diary: AAP in top gear||They are Amarpal Singh (Sri Hargobindpur) Sherry Kalsi (Batala) and Balbir Singh Pannu (Fatehgarh Churian).The first thing these candidates do while on a tour of their constituencies is to educate villagers that if voted to power AAP will provide 600 units of electricity free. “Kejriwal has said they will give 300 units free. Actually, the power billing cycle in Punjab is 2 months which is why we will provide 600 units free. Kejriwal’s statement is being misrepresented by the opposition parties. We want to make it clear that Kejriwal meant that 300 units will be given free per month. The word ‘per month’ got lost somewhere which added to the confusion,” said Amarpal Singh.Connoisseur of SufismIf you cannot fly, just sing. By singing you automatically fly. The famous Nooran sisters —Jyoti and Sultana — held the 8,000 strong audience in a thrall last week in Gurdaspur. A majority of their aficionados, which included the political class, police and civil administration officials, were riding high on cloud nine as they sat memorised on the floor throughout the three-hour long performance. The show was brought to the city by Sarkar Deep Sai a long time follower of the sisters. On their part, the siblings arrived with a 30 strong entourage. An aide of the sisters threw some enlightening words on Qawali, which has been adopted over the years by the sisters. “The Qawali form of music gained mainstream popularity after being originally performed at Sufi shrines throughout South Asia. By the late 20th century, it had an international audience. This type of music received international exposure through the works of Aziz Mian, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Sabri brothers and Nooran sisters. Connoisseurs of Sufi music were indeed in for a treat. However, there were some souls who failed to understand what Sufi and Sufism is all about. “Trying to please everybody is impossible and improbable too. If you did that you would end up in the middle of the road with nobody liking you. You have just got to decide what you think is your best and go ahead and just do it. Both Jyoti and Sultana do what comes naturally to them,” said a follower.A dash of colourThe Red Cross De-addiction Centre has now started painting classes for its inmates. Earlier, they were taught yoga. It’s really difficult to get away from drugs, but this centre has an impressive recovery rate. To top it, the relapse rate is on the lower side. Dolly Sharma, a former dancer and drug addict is a totally reformed woman after being treated for heroin addiction at the centre. She is the one who teaches the nuances of painting to 50 inmates. “I do not paint dreams or nightmares. I paint reality. And that is what I teach my students-to just paint what they feel is in their heart,” said Dolly. “The only time I feel I am alive is when I am painting,” quipped a former drug addict.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-aap-in-top-gear-290855
31-07-2021||Amritsar||DAV College Amritsar organises webinar on secure computing||Lecture at GNDUThe History Department of GNDU organised a lecture on “Punjab and its Narratives of Freedom Struggle” in a series devoted to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahaotsav. The lecture is fourth the series and invited speakers from Delhi university. Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, from Khalsa College, DU, said that the act of patriotism by freedom fighters were recorded as criminal activities in British official records. Historians like ML Ahluwalia and Prof He also spoke about the use of religious symbolism in national movement, which was a cultural tool for mass mobilisation, but it also acted as double edged sword, uniting some communities and alienating other communities at the same time.Faculty induction programmeUGC- HRDC of the GNDU started Faculty Induction Programme in online mode here on Thursday.Vice-Chancellor, Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, who is also the Chief Patron of HRDC conveyed his best wishes to Director HRDC Prof Sudha Jitender and her team for the programme. This is the first programme of the session 2021-2022 and the fifth induction programme for the newly recruited teachers in online mode. The centre had successfully organised 19 programmes last year and this year the University Grants Commission has allocated 21 programmes to HRDC, GNDU.Teej celebratedColourful dances and festivity marked the celebrations of tiyaan at Khalsa College for Women as the faculty members clad in traditional dresses resorted to musical presentations. They recited ‘Bolian’ and performed ‘Gidda’ to welcome monsoon or ‘Savan’, associated with the good times and festivity. “It is a festival for girls. They welcome the new season by dancing to the traditional music,” said KCW Principal Dr Surinder Kaur. Students were not involved this year due to the Covid-19 restrictions and only teachers took part in the festivity. She said that the festival is traditionally celebrated in Punjab during the month of Savan and hoped that festivals like these will connect our youth with our culture and traditions. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-amritsar-organises-webinar-on-secure-computing-290854
31-07-2021||Amritsar||SGPC appoints 74 granthis in historiacal gurdwaras||SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur handed over the appointment letters to newly-appointed granthis for rendering their services in different historical gurdwaras. Following a written test and interview, 74 granthis were selected, of which, 44 were issued the letters.Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The sewa of granthis is sacred and maintaining its sanctity is a great responsibility. In the present times, mischieves are being committed at gurdwaras and the incidents of sacrilege are also taking place. Hence, it is the responsibility of the granthi to work consciously.” SGPC member Bhai Ram Singh, Bhai Manjit Singh, Amrik Singh Vichhoa, Jarnail Singh Dogranwala, Gurmeet Singh Booh, Gurnam Singh Jassal, assistant secretary Tejinder Singh Padda, OSD to SGPCchief Dr Sukhbir Singh, superintendent Malkit Singh Beharwal, Gurnam Singh and others were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-appoints-74-granthis-in-historiacal-gurdwaras-290845
31-07-2021||Our Correspondent||2-year-old gets new lease of life in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, July 30The Health Department gave a new life to Akshdeep Singh, a 2-year-old boy from Bagrian village, by providing him with a free digital hearing aid. The hearing aid was implanted by Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta at his office here on Thursday. Akshdeep Singh had the impairment since birth.The Civil Surgeon said the facility was given under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) up to the age of 18. The mobile team of the RBSK came to know about the child and the team admitted him to the local Civil Hospital, where he was diagnosed thoroughly by the teams of expert doctors. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh appreciated the Health Department team for successfully giving a new lease of life to the child. The parents of Akshdeep Singh expressed their gratitude to the officials of the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-year-old-gets-new-lease-of-life-in-tarn-taran-290847
31-07-2021||Amritsar||Event marks World Hepatitis Day in Amritsar||An event to mark World Hepatitis Day was organised at the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Wednesday to raise awareness about the disease. Civil Surgeon, Dr Charanjit Singh, said the treatment of hepatitis-C is given free of cost at government hospitals. Posters and banners with information about the disease were also released. The health experts said early diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis helps in speedy recovery. The Civil Surgeon said hepatitis has been classified into five categories — A, B, C, D and E. He said for A and B types, a vaccine is available and C, D and E types can be cured with the help of medicines. District epidemiologist Dr Navdeep Kaur said sharing of injection needles, tooth brushes, shaving materials and unsafe intercourse with infected person can result in the spread of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/event-marks-world-hepatitis-day-in-amritsar-290848
31-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Saplings planted on Tarn Taran district courts complex||Tarn Taran, July 30Saplings were planted in the district courts complex on Friday, under the guidance of Priya Sood, District and Sessions Judge-cum District Chairperson Legal Service Authority.Priya Sood, in her address, said, to maintain a balance in the atmosphere, planting saplings was of utmost importance. She said only trees help to keep the environment neat and clean.The District and Sessions Judge said pollution was taking a toll on the environment.Gurbir Singh, Civil Judge-cum-District Secretary of the Legal Services Authority said other judicial officers too planted saplings on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saplings-planted-on-tarn-taran-district-courts-complex-290849
31-07-2021||---||Covid-19: No casualty, 5 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 30The health authorities reported five positive cases on Friday, with which the total count has increased to 47,060. The cases include four influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The district has reported no Covid-related death today.The Health Department reported the recovery of five patients, with which the recovery count has increased to 45,440. At present, the district has a total of 36 active cases.The health authorities said a total of 13,984 persons were inoculated on Friday.Of these, 13,719 were given jabs at the government-run centres and 265 at privately administered health facilities.As many as 300 people were jabbed at a vaccination camp held at Old Focal Point, which was organised by the Focal Point Industries Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-no-casualty-5-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-290850
31-07-2021||---||Tramadol seizure: ‘Kingpin’ Rajiv Bhagat gets regular bail from Amritsar court||Amritsar, July 30A local court on Friday granted regular bail to advocate Rajiv Bhagat in connection with the seizure of banned drug tramadol. Earlier, on July 8, the court has released him on interim bail.The rural police said they would oppose the bail and approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court in this regard, said Abhimanyu Rana, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Majitha, who is supervising the investigations in the case.Rajiv Bhagat is a former district Congress chief who shifted loyalties to the Aam Aadmi Party earlier this year. He was nominated following the investigations into the seizure of tramadol by the Mattewal police in May this year.Three alleged drug traffickers were nabbed by the police at that time. Their interrogation led to a raid at a firm in Paonta Sahib involved in alleged illegal manufacturing of tramadol and huge quantity of drugs were seized by the police. The police had booked Rajiv Bhagat under the NDPS Act on June 25.On the basis of the probe conducted so far, the police had named Bhagat as the main kingpin of the racket. He along with Amarpeet Singh, alias Sunny, and Manu Chohan used to supply tramadol, a banned drug, to other parts of the city, the police had claimed.On May 18, the police had nabbed three persons with 45,000 tramadol capsules. This further led to the seizure of the drug worth Rs 15 crore from a factory in Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district in HP on May 28. The police had nabbed the alleged owner of factory ‘Unique Formulations’ Munish Mohan. During the probe, the police booked a prominent political leader in Himachal Pradesh Chetan Parmar in the case.The police have so far arrested 10 persons in the case. Besides Mohan, those arrested included Prem Kumar Jha, who runs a medical store in Delhi and his employee Bablu; Ranu Bhargav of Mohali; Rajesh Wadera; Parmod Bisht; Amarpreet Singh, alias Sunny, a chemist from the Katra Sher Singh area, and Manu Chohan.The case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tramadol-seizure-kingpin-rajiv-bhagat-gets-regular-bail-from-amritsar-court-290851
31-07-2021||---||3 snatchers held in Amritsar, weapon used in crime recovered||Amritsar, July 30Five days after a migrant was robbed of his bike by armed snatchers near Green Avenue area, the police have arrested three accused and recovered the weapon used in the crime besides the bike snatched. With their arrest, the police claimed to have solved the snatching that occurred in March this year and recovered the snatched mobile in the incident.Those arrested were identified as Lal Singh of Gillwali Gate, Hardeep Singh of Bhagtanwala and Suraj Singh of Nagar Nigam Colony.Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police said the accused were identified with the help of the CCTV footage of the spot. They had snatched a bike from Sunil Tiwari, a migrant from Uttar Pradesh, who was now residing in Green Avenue area. Tiwari was answering a phone call near old the Corporation’s office on Maqbool Road, when the accused came on foot and started thrashing him and later snatched his bike away. The city police have released the CCTV grab of the suspects in the case.He said during interrogation, they also admitted to have snatched a purse from a woman on March 26 from the same area. They had snatched the purse that contained a mobile phone and some cash. The police recovered the mobile from them.Two snatchers arrested, three still at largeThe police have nabbed Vikasdeep Singh of Gate Hakima and Rohit Singh of Gate Khazana area for allegedly snatching a mobile phone at gunpoint from Phulla Wala Chowk. The incident came to light when the CCTV grab of the incident went viral.Three of their accomplices were yet to be arrested. Those absconding were identified as Nikhil, Nav Sandhu and Sahil Hans. The police said raids were on to nab them.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Harjit Dhaliwal said the five accused intercepted the victim on Wednesday evening and thrashed him while snatching his mobile. The police have recovered the mobile and the bike used in the crime. He said the police was yet to recover the weapon and scooter used in the crime. The duo were produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. Dhaliwal said their interrogation would help in cracking some other cases also.Four snatchers held, six mobiles recoveredThe Chatiwind police have also nabbed four robbers, identified as Harpreet Singh of Bale Chak village, Harjit Singh, Gurjinder Singh (s/o Kulwant Singh) and Gurjinder Singh (s/o of Major Singh), all residents of Varpal village. Hardeep Singh, investigating officer, said they were held following a tip-off. The police have recovered six mobile phones and an earring from them. They police brought them on police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-snatchers-held-in-amritsar-weapon-used-in-crime-recovered-290852
31-07-2021||---||2 killed in road accidents in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 30Two persons died in separate road accident in the district on Thursday.The vicitms have been identified as Gursahib Singh (21) of Bhindi Aulakh Khurd village and Harpal Singh (35) of Jalal Usma village.Paramjit Kaur, mother of Gursahib, told the police that she along with her son and son-in-law Harjinder Singh was going from Bhindi Aulakh Khurd village to Bhagupur village at 10 pm. While Gursahib was on his scooter, she was riding pillion with Harjinder. She said when they reached near Bhindi Saida village, a rashly driven truck came from the wrong side and rammed into the scooter of her son who died on the spot.In another incident, Mehtab Singh, elder brother of the vicimt, said Harpal worked with Samsung and was going to his office on his motorcycle along with Lovepreet Singh.He said when the duo reached near Mallia village, an overspeeding car (CH-01-AR-5495), rammed into their bike. He said both were seriously injured and the accused fled away from the spot with his vehicle. He said the injured were rushed to a private hospital where Harpal succumbed.The police have registered separate cases under Section 304-A and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-killed-in-road-accidents-in-amritsar-290853
31-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Three of family die as car hits their motorised rehri near Patti||Tarn Taran , July 30Three members of a family died in a fierce road accident near Patti town, 30 kilometre from here, on Friday. The deceased have been as identified as Resham Singh (60), his wife Darshan Kaur (55) and their grandson Princepal Singh (10) of Chuslewar village.The police said Resham Singh was going to Patti town with his family to take medicine for his grandson on their makeshift motorised rehri. They reached Chuslewar crossing, when their vehicle was hit from the front by a rashly-driven car (HR-24,A-0810) (in pic right). Resham Singh and his grandson died on the spot. Darshan Kaur was admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital. The doctors, keeping in view her serious condition, referred her to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, who succumbed to the injuries on the way to the hospital.DSP, Patti, Kuljinder Singh said the driver of the erring vehicle has been arrested, who has been identified as Tejinder Singh of Saidoke village (Patti). The accused has been booked under Sections 304, 279 and 427 of the IPC.Nearby residents helped in the rescue operation as the ambulance of the Health Department denied taking the bodies to Patti hospital and residents made arrangements to take them to the hospital. The deceased belonged to a poor family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-of-family-die-as-car-hits-their-motorised-rehri-near-patti-290856
31-07-2021||---||PSEB Class XII outcome: Amritsar district’s pass percentage soars to 94.46%||Amritsar, July 30The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Friday declared Class XII results. The border district has 94.46 pass percentage (92.22 per cent in 2020). A total of 26,229 students out of 27,768 cleared their exams.This year the PSEB did not conduct board exams due to the raging second Covid-19 wave. Thus, it compiled results on the basis of 30:30:40 formula (students’ performance in Classes X, XI and XII, respectively).The government schools outclassed private institutes by 4.75 per cent in the pass percentage. The government schools achieved 98.05 pass percentage while private schools had to content with 93.3 percentage. As regular classes could not be held throughout the last year, the Education Department had come up with ‘Educare app’ to provide e-content related to syllabus to students. The department also took assistance of DD Punjabi to cover coursework.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pseb-class-xii-outcome-amritsar-districts-pass-percentage-soars-to-94-46-290857
31-07-2021||Neha Saini||CBSE Class XII Results: Results finally out, students heave a sigh of relief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 30CBSE Class XII students celebrated their results with a sense of relief and smiles that finally washed off the uncertainty and stress of the past one-and-a-half years.“I feel relieved. I had a sleepless night in anticipation of the result. Now that it’s out, I feel like a burden has been lifted. We can finally move forward,” said Vanshika Aggarwal, a student of commerce stream from DAV Public School, who stood first in the district with 99.8 per cent.Gagandeep Kaur from Senior Study II stood second in the district with 99.6 per cent. A student of commerce stream, she scored a perfect 100 in economics, business studies. Shubhpreet Kaur (humanities) and Harmanpreet Kaur (commerce) of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, secured 99.2 per cent in the CBSE Class XII and shared the third position in the district.Overall, many students managed to cross the 99 per cent mark in the city schools affiliated to the CBSE. Spring Dale School’s Pranati Peshawaria from humanities and Maanit Pratap Singh from non-medical topped their school with 99 per cent.Priyanka Bhalla of humanities stream from DAV International School stood first in her school with 99 per cent. Muskaan from Bhavan’s SL Public School also topped her school with 99 per cent.Stream-wise toppers in the cityCommerceAll three district toppers were from the commerce stream. Vanshika Aggarwal scored 99.8 per cent, Gagandeep Kaur from Senior Study II scored 99.6 per cent and Harmandeep Kaur from Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School scored 99.2 per cent .HumanitiesShubhpreet Kaur of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School bagged the top position in the city in humanities stream by scoring 99.2 per cent marks, followed by Pranati Peshawaria from Spring Dale School with 99 per cent and Priyanka Bhalla of DAV International School also scoring 99 per cent.MedicalAs far as medical stream is concerned, the maximum score in the stream was 98.6 per cent marks by Anushka from Bhavan’s SL School followed by Karsh Verma of DAV Public School with 98.2 per cent and Vridhi Dua of DAV International School who scored 97.8 per cent marks.Non-medicalIn non-medical, the highest score was 99 per cent by Maanit Pratap Singh of Spring Dale School, followed by Pahul Arora of DAV International scoring 98.8 per cent and Khushi Singh of DAV International School who scored 98.4 per cent.GurbaxpuriThe Class XII results were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday. In Tarn Taran district, girls outshined boys in most of the schools affiliated to the CBSE.Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal SahibSahilpreet KaurMedical97%Sahilpreet Kaur (medical) and Tanya Sharma (commerce) emerged as school toppers by scoring 97 per cent. Smiledeep Kaur (non-medical) and Kirandeep Kaur (commerce) are the second school toppers (96 per cent).Tanya SharmaCommerce97%Sehajbir Kaur (medical) bagged the third position in the school by scoring 95.2 per cent. Total 21 students scored above 90 per cent marks. Director Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa and Principal Manisha Sood said 38 students of total 60 secured above 80 per cent.Mamta Niketan Convent SchoolMehakpreet KaurArts97.6%Gurcharan Kaur, Principal, said in arts stream, Mehakpreet Kaur secured 97.6 per cent; in science, Gurmeet Kaur secured 96.8 per cent and in commerce, Amritpal Singh secured 95.6 per cent and they were the toppers in school.Guru Nanak Dev Academy, Noordi RoadArashdeep KaurCommerce stream95.8%Principal Gurdeep Kaur said the first three positions in the school were bagged by Arashdeep Kaur (95.8 per cent), Jashanpreet Kaur 95.6 per cent and Simranpreet Kaur 95 per cent in commerce stream. Ekamjot Kaur (92.8 per cent), Prabhjit Singh (91.2 per cent) and Pawanpreet Kaur (90 per cent) remained toppers in the non-medical group in the school. The institution was run under local Kar Sewa sect of Baba Jagtar Singh.Majha Public SchoolManbeer KaurNon-medical stream95.6%Principal Dr Raman Dua said Manbeer Kaur secured 95.6 per cent and Ridham secured 93.8 per cent in the non-medical stream. In medical, Harnoor Mallhi got 95.2 per cent and Sanchi got 91.45 per cent. The Principal said Harleen Kaur by securing 93 per cent and Agyapal Singh with 91.4 per cent remained the toppers in the school in the commerce stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-class-xii-results-results-finally-out-students-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-290844
31-07-2021||Amritsar||Ex-SAD leader Anwar Masih told to surrender in drugs case||A local court today directed former SAD leader and former Punjab Subordinate Staff Selection Board member Anwar Masih to surrender in court on August 3 as it rejected his application seeking extension of period.Masih was arrested by the special task force in connection with the seizure of 194 kg heroin from a residential complex allegedly belonging to him last year. He was out on interim bail in the case over health grounds. The court had earlier rejected his application for regular bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-sad-leader-anwar-masih-told-to-surrender-in-drugs-case-290616
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||CBSE Class XII results: Ludhiana, Amritsar girls joint toppers||The results of Class XII, prepared on the basis of last three years’ performance due to the Covid pandemic, were declared by the CBSE today. Two students, namely Ishroop Kaur Brar, from Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, and Vanshika Aggarwal from DAV Public School, Amritsar, scored highest 99.8 per cent marks in humanities and commerce streams, respectively.A student of DAV Public School, Amritsar, Vanshika now plans to aim for SRCC and prepare for CA. “If examinations were held, I was confident of scoring above 95 per cent. But this result was unexpected. The fact that I had good academic performance in Class XI throughout helped me today.”Ishroop Kaur said she was confident of getting good marks because in Classes X, XI and XII, she had scored well consistently. She wants to become an IAS officer. She said despite hard times due to Covid, her schoolteachers motivated her and solved all queries.Besides, Gagandeep Kaur, from Senior Study II, Amritsar, scored big with 99.6 per cent marks in commerce stream. She stood second in the state. In the non-medical stream, Once Kaur from KVM, Ludhiana, scored the maximum 99.2 per cent marks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-class-xii-results-ludhiana-amritsar-girls-joint-toppers-290623
31-07-2021||Amritsar||India’s US envoy Taranjit Singh Sandhu, wife pay obeisance at Golden Temple||Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and his wife Reenat Sandhu, who is secretary (west) in the MEA, today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.On the occasion, SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur honoured the couple with ‘siropa’ (robe of honour) and gifted them some books related to the Sikh history at the Information Centre of Golden Temple. She discussed with Sandhu the issue of racial attacks on Sikhs in the US. On this, Sandhu said he was already working on it.Meanwhile, Sandhu thanked the SGPC president for the honour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indias-us-envoy-taranjit-singh-sandhu-wife-pay-obeisance-at-golden-temple-290629
