12-07-2020||Editorials||The roots of the Rajasthan battle | HT Editorial||The war between Rajasthan chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot, and deputy CM and state Congress chief, Sachin Pilot, is now out in the open, threatening the survival of the Congress government in the state. When the party won in 2017, Mr Pilot expected to be rewarded and made CM. But Mr Gehlot’s hold over the party organisation, and the desire of the party high command not to antagonise the “old guard” saw the CM post being awarded to Mr Gehlot. Since then — over the distribution of power in the government, appointments of bureaucrats, candidate selection in the Lok Sabha polls, and policy issues — both have been at loggerheads. But with a police summon to Mr Pilot for a case to do with destabilisation of the government (Mr Gehlot too has been summoned, but given that he is also home minister, this appears perfunctory); signs of rebellion by Mr Pilot and his loyalists; a public war of the words between the two factions; and speculation that the Mr Pilot is in touch with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the crisis within the Congress in Rajasthan has taken a new turn. While Mr Gehlot should have been more consultative in his approach, and Mr Pilot more patient about his ambitions, the issue is not specific to a personality clash between the two leaders. It is, yet again, evidence of the inability of the Congress leadership in Delhi to provide guidance, take decisions, manage conflicts, and accommodate aspirations. The party has not yet had a review of the reasons for its loss in two consecutive national elections. There remains an acute crisis of leadership at the top, with groups calling for the return of Rahul Gandhi as president, even as Mr Gandhi remains reluctant. Other voices calling for the democratisation of the organisation — through an independent electoral process to choose a new president and a new Congress Working Committee — are not being heard. In this backdrop, it is but natural that younger leaders will seek opportunities to sustain their political lives and grow, instead of merely waiting for the leadership to resolve its issues. What is happening in Jaipur is exactly what happened in Bhopal earlier this year. The party lost Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had been raising issues within internal forums for over a year but to no avail; the net impact — the Congress lost its government in Madhya Pradesh. Irrespective of whether the Rajasthan government survives, the Congress should be alarmed at its rapidly depleting political capital, its internal mismanagement, and the fury of some of its brightest, young political stars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-roots-of-the-rajasthan-battle/story-BBgg4QvazI5FQZhupB6q6I.html
12-07-2020||Editorials||A turning point for the financial sector | HT Editorial||In a speech on Saturday, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das pointed out that the pandemic could fritter away the gains made so far on the non-performing assets (NPA) front. The gross NPA ratio for scheduled commercial banks improved from 9.1% in March 2019 to 8.3% in March 2020. The economic disruption will impair the timely repayment of loans and therefore worsen the NPA crisis. While this is not surprising, the governor also said that it was uncertain when supply chains would be restored fully; when demand would get normalised; and “what kind of durable effects the pandemic will leave behind on our potential growth”. While the first two concern immediate economic recovery, durable effects on potential growth have policy implications. For example, RBI’s monetary policy framework, which must keep inflation within two percentage points of the mandated 4% level, uses an inflation targeting model. This requires a potential growth rate. Any significant change to this variable will render the present framework infructuous. The governor also pointed out how shocks to the financial system “dubbed as once in a lifetime events” seemed to be have become more frequent than even once in a decade. This, he said, means that the minimum capital requirement of banks may no longer be considered sufficient to absorb the losses. If the banks do not know about the rest of the economy, which is what uncertainty about potential growth means, and the economy does not know about the banks, which is what capital requirements becoming inadequate imply, it suggests India is entering into hitherto uncharted territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-turning-point-for-the-financial-sector/story-5B6yr0uZQeH2lyvaJ9sN5J.html
