17-07-2020||Editorials||A million cases, and counting| HT Editorial||Over a million Indians have now been infected by SARS-Cov-2. Over 25,000 of them have died. India is the third most-affected country in the world by caseload. And Covid-19 is only spreading, hitting a record number of cases almost on a daily basis. New regions are getting affected. Its impact may be different vis-a-vis different groups, but it has affected the old and young, men and women, the rich and the poor. And, notwithstanding the end of the lockdown, it has continued to affect everyday life, economic activity, income levels, social interactions, education, travel and mobility. India’s experience offers key lessons in how to manage the pandemic. The first lesson is that in the absence of a vaccine, there is no alternative to aggressive testing. India’s testing rate is 9,323 tests per million people, much lower than other affected countries. There is a simple, obvious logic here, recognised by the government too. Testing is the only way to identify those who may have Covid-19, isolate and treat them, and ensure that they don’t become carriers. But by instituting restrictive testing protocols and not using the available testing capacity, India has been slow to do this. It should be clear after a million cases that not testing will not make the problem disappear. The second lesson is recognising that India is at a community transmission stage. This means that old protocols of limited contact tracing will not be enough in finding the infected; it also means that, through chains and processes that cannot necessarily be traced, the infection has spread far and wide, possibly in rural areas. This, then, requires a far greater investment in district health infrastructure and personnel, medical equipment, especially in states with a weak public health care system. The third lesson is that as the virus continues to make its way through other parts and other demographic segments, better economic management is essential. The lockdown devastated an already fragile economy, and caused suffering. There may be some bright spots, but the government’s economic package did not go far enough in providing the stimulus needed to rev up the growth engine, and its welfare schemes may not be adequate in addressing the humanitarian distress. As India heads towards both more cases (a million more in less than a month is now a real likelihood) and its most severe economic contraction in history, it is essential to get the lives and livelihoods balance right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-million-cases-and-counting/story-DDbrR6iZbBWIIb81eZ3c0N.html
17-07-2020||Editorials||Looking at the big picture, finally | HT Editorial||India and the European Union (EU) have had a relationship based on common values — but not much else. The recent summit is the latest step in a 21st century reset. Common concerns about the United States’ (US) destructive unilateralism and China’s aggressive imperialism are forcing Brussels and New Delhi to look at the big picture. The new convergence is about working together on multilateral problems. The climate crisis tops the list but preserving international institutions and the security of the high seas and cyberspace also figure. The EU has put aside its tendency of preaching to India about human rights. Both sides have lowered ambitions regarding trade and investment negotiations. As the world order gets shakier, India and the EU have sensibly decided to worry about the big picture. Even here, moving forward will require a lot of concerted effort. The EU struggles to take common positions on sensitive geopolitical issues. Preference for Chinese profits over principles by Germany and other governments means Europe is all over the place when it comes to Beijing. The Europeans remain suspicious and ill-informed about the philosophy of the Narendra Modi government. New Delhi is more excited about future relations with Brexit Britain than it is with Brussels. The relationship needs a core focus, one that works at many different policy levels and has a good chance of generating results. The obvious answer to this is climate and that is where the two sides must concentrate their energies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/looking-at-the-big-picture-finally/story-9IX5U9r5qHifPd59aEQevK.html
