20-07-2020||Editorials||India’s regional challenge||Last week, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi offered his explanation on why the Chinese decided to be aggressive at the border at this juncture. Among other reasons, he attributed this to the failure of the Narendra Modi government’s foreign policy, in particular, when it comes to the neighbourhood. External affairs minister S Jaishankar countered Mr Gandhi — and on the neighbourhood, listed out India’s engagement with smaller countries, the development assistance being offered, and landmark deals.Between the political black-and-white worldview — where Mr Gandhi sees a failure in India’s handling of the neighbourhood, and Mr Jaishankar sees success — lies a complex truth. India is more invested in the neighbourhood than it has been, but it has also become more challenging for New Delhi to secure its interests in the region. This is due to two factors. The first reason is the increased presence of China. Beijing has decided to engage with political parties, official institutions, media, businesses, and societies in South Asia — with the objective of increasing its control, and eroding Indian influence. India has historic advantages of connectivity, people-to-people linkages, and cultural convergence. But it lacks the resources, single-minded determination, and is often caught between conflicting objectives and ad-hoc policymaking, which makes meeting the China challenge more difficult. The second reason is the nature of democratic contestation in the neighbourhood. Given India’s size and role in the domestic politics of Nepal, Bangladesh or Sri Lanka, there is a “nationalist” constituency in each of these countries that earns political advantage by being seen as adversarial to India. These domestic constituencies then become a natural, receptive partner for China.These twin challenges affect the policy matrix in Delhi. The government has sought to break out of this challenge by taking a firm position against hostile governments and encouraging friendly parties which have come to power (Maldives), working with supposedly antagonistic partners to neutralise their hostility (KP Oli in Nepal, the Rajapaksas in Sri Lanka), or backing its allies (the Awami League in Bangladesh). But these methods are not foolproof, and have thrown mixed results, and will be a challenge for New Delhi. As the neighbourhood gets more complex, India’s government and Opposition should develop a bipartisan approach. Mr Gandhi and Mr Jaishankar should go offline, and have a chat about these complexities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-regional-challenge/story-kzg9ACO70PiB32BzPFjVUL.html
20-07-2020||Editorials||Delhi’s annual infrastructure shock||On Sunday, heavy rainfall (between 64.5 mm and 124.4 mm) hit Delhi for three hours (5.30am-8.30 am), the season’s first major shower since monsoon arrived on June 24. The rains are an annual feature, but so is the collapse of Delhi’s infrastructure. This year too, the deluge led to the inundation of parts of the city, water-logging of main roads, traffic congestion, uprooting of trees, and damaged scores of hutments in the slum areas. Two deaths were reported. The sharp downpour and the collapse of the civic infrastructure sparked a blame-game between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led city government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-controlled municipal corporations. While the BJP blamed the government for not undertaking pre-monsoon works such as desilting, the AAP said there was need for better coordination between government departments and corporations since cleaning and desilting of the drains are a joint responsibility.However, the flooding problem cannot be solved by desilting the drains alone. The city will have to undo decades of bad developmental planning and overconcretisation, which has destroyed or built over the city’s natural drainage system. It will have to check construction on the Yamuna floodplains because they reduce the water-carrying capacity of the river. And it will have to restore wetlands, lakes and ponds which act as sponges to control flooding. A few years ago, experts recommended solutions, which included restoration of the intricate natural drainage network that work as waterways; removal of encroachment of storm water drains; stopping of construction and dumping of garbage inside storm water drains; separating sewage network from the drainage network; and covering the access points of drains so that de-silting of drains can be carried out regularly.The government must look into these recommendations, and consider setting up a single agency to tackle the drainage-flooding problem so that Delhi does not suffer every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-s-annual-infrastructure-shock/story-i6q8auSrajEX8Gqd9cPv4O.html
20-07-2020||Editorials||John Lewis: A champion of social justice||John Lewis is no more. He would have died a broken man — for the nature of the current United States (US) administration led by Donald Trump is, in so many ways, the opposite of all that Lewis stood for. But he would also have died a hopeful man — for the protests that have engulfed the US after George Floyd’s brutal killing by the police have brought back to centre-stage the issues of racial equality, non-discrimination, dignity, legal reforms, and political rights that Lewis fought for. Indeed, it was because men like him fought that today’s protests have even become possible.Lewis was a US civil rights hero, who in the 1950s and 60s led and participated in the movement against segregation and for equality. In the US South, he was among the original freedom riders who challenged segregated inter-state travel. In Selma, he marched for equal voting rights — and was brutally beaten by state authorities. In Washington, where Martin Luther King Jr delivered his historic address at the Lincoln Memorial, Lewis spoke out against racism. And in the US Congress, where he was a member for close to 25 years, he became a voice of conscience.It is men like Lewis who ensured that the US overcame one of its most shameful legacies of institutionalised racial discrimination. And in this, along with King, he was inspired by the Gandhian path of non-violent resistance. This courage of conviction — to challenge the most oppressive of structures through peaceful and democratic methods — is a lesson to all social justice movements across the world. This persistence — he said it was important not to be afraid of making noise and getting into good trouble, necessary trouble — is a lesson that speaking up against wrong and retaining an ethical core is integral to progress. For all those who want to fight for a better world, Lewis will be an inspiration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/john-lewis-a-champion-of-social-justice/story-1KY2jjOOtVQwkXrFOksD5J.html
