22-07-2020||Editorials||Undermining Sushant Rajput’s tragic death||Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide last month. This was tragic. Rajput — a young man from outside the world of cinema — had truly come into his own in the Mumbai film industry, with a range of critically-acclaimed and commercially-successful films. His death sparked an outpouring of grief in the film industry, in his home state of Bihar, and across urban and semi-urban India.But the tragedy has now taken a somewhat bizarre turn. His death should have triggered a conversation about mental health, and the insecurities that are driving young people to take extreme steps. It should have triggered a conversation about the structure of the film industry, and the pressures even stars — and Rajput was a star — work under. And yes, it should have triggered a debate about the power matrix in the industry.But what has happened is that, driven by social media, an entire narrative has been constructed about how Rajput was a victim of a nepotistic industry, which only favours its own. Nepotism is a real problem in Bollywood. And that debate must take place. But this narrative, and all kinds of conspiracy theories, have now found their way into the police investigation into Rajput’s case. A suicide merits an investigation. But in this case, film reviewers who may have rated Rajput’s films poorly are being called for questioning; producers who may not have done a project with Rajput are being held accountable; talk show hosts who may have joked about Rajput are being blamed; actors who had little to do with Rajput are using it as an opportunity to project themselves as the subaltern battling an entrenched elite. This is not the way structures of power can be interrogated. Instead, it smacks of mob justice. It ignores the complex factors that drive a person to the end. It appears driven by political motivations. And it undermines Rajput’s life, legacy, and tragic death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/undermining-sushant-rajput-s-tragic-death/story-CkxnynGXKITipH4DDeUhoM.html
22-07-2020||Editorials||A reality check of the health sector||As India confronts the worst health crisis of a century, the gross inadequacies in its health system have been exposed. It is clear that a radical overhaul of the health sector must be an important element of the post-pandemic policy framework. Any such effort has to first recognise ground realities. The latest National Statistical Office (NSO) report on the consumption of health services in India can be an importantreference point. The most important finding of the report is a bit counter-intuitive. It shows that both the share of Indians reporting themselves sick and getting hospitalised fell between 2014 and 2017-18. While this appears like good news, it is important to be cautious. Statistical and material reasons could have driven this change. The 2017-18 report is based on a full-year survey, unlike six-monthly surveys in the past two rounds. Seasonality can be a big factor in health outcomes. The year 2017-18 is also when the economy entered a deceleration phase. This was also the year when unemployment was at high levels. The poor in India tend to under-report illnesses. This is not surprising, as an overwhelming majority have to pay for health expenses from their own pockets. To be sure, the latest report does not account for coverage under Ayushman Bharat scheme which was launched in September 2018. But did worsening economic conditions force people to forego even necessary medical care? Hospitalisation can be expensive for most Indians. An average hospitalisation case cost Rs 16,676 and Rs 26,475 in rural and urban areas, respectively. The average monthly wage of a regular worker — the best employment category in India — was Rs 15,504.Affordability is not the only red flag in the report. Infections are the biggest reason for ailments and hospitalisations in India. A lack of personal and perhaps clinical hygiene — hospitals spread infections as well — makes citizens even more vulnerable to pandemics such as the current one. Critics rightly underline the importance of allocating more resources to ramp up the country’s health sector. Resources are needed, but so is behavioural change, show the latest NSO findings. India has to take this into account while planning a revamp of the health policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-reality-check-of-the-health-sector/story-KGUz9IQxD6Ir3Q0KdyOiOL.html
22-07-2020||Editorials||In Delhi, the good and bad news | HT Editorial||One-fourth of Delhi’s residents have possibly been infected by Covid-19. The outcome of an official serological study in the city’s 11 districts showed that 23.4% have IgG antibodies. With 21,387 samples, the study was conducted at the end of June, early July, the objective was to assess the spread of Covid-19, and a rigorous sampling method, according to an official release, was followed. The findings are deeply instructive. For one, it shows that Covid-19 has spread way beyond what official daily cases suggest. Two, the spread of the disease — and the knowledge about the spread — is not necessarily a negative thing, for the study also shows that a majority of these cases have been asymptomatic, and patients have recovered — without even perhaps knowing it. Three, it suggests that the fatality rate due to the disease is possibly lower than what is known so far. India has had, compared to other countries, lower deaths due to Covid-19 in any case, but this is measured against the number of known cases. If the cases are higher, and if deaths are not being under-reported, then the fatality figures will go down even more. But the study also shows the scale of the challenge. If this is the outcome in Delhi, one can assume that the disease has spread far and wide across the country — not measured by official statistics. Delhi has done well in recent weeks by ramping up testing, being transparent, instituting home isolation protocols, increasing hospital beds and care centres. Other states must follow the lead, and the Centre should assist them in conducting serological studies. This will help them respond better. There is also a lesson for citizens who may have turned complacent in recent weeks. You could be next, if you haven’t had it already. Follow basic protocols, wash your hands, wear masks, and restrict activities. You owe it to yourself and to society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-delhi-the-good-and-bad-news/story-8BW5Ids6GGUM207NuYefiO.html
