28-07-2020||Editorials||India needs a robust EIA process | HT Editorial||On Monday, former environment minister and senior Congress leader, Jairam Ramesh, reiterated that the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), 2020 notification was not based on research, reduced public participation, and represented an attitude which viewed environmental regulation as an “unnecessary...burden”, not as a means to ensure the welfare of people and sustainable development. Union minister of environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, termed Mr Ramesh’s comments “unfounded”. But Mr Ramesh is not the only one with concerns. On July 10, 100 environmental researchers, activists, ecologists, conservationists, and former members of government bodies sent a letter to Mr Javadekar, critiquing the notification.The critics claim that the draft EIA legitimises post-facto environment clearance; excludes major industries from the EIA process; subverts the public hearing process; reduces the scope of citizens to report violations, and fails to address a project’s impact on wildlife, and habitats. This is mostly true. They also claim the draft fails to address the conflict of interest that arises from the fact that a project proponent can choose a consultant to do impact assessment; and the quality of composition of the expert appraisal committee, which is often staffed by those with no technical expertise. These, too, are valid objections. Mr Javadekar has a critical role in protecting the environment and vulnerable communities. It is imperative that he patiently listens to the objections on the draft EIA, even if they are coming from Opposition party members. India deserves a robust EIA. This will be possible only if the consultative process is intense, rigorous and takes into account legitimate concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-needs-a-robust-eia-process/story-lpnpfhkIWnWOH1KATrteGK.html
28-07-2020||Editorials||Why the new climate centre for cities matters | HT Editorial||The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs recently set up the Climate Centre for Cities to strengthen responses of cities to the climate crisis. This focus on cities is prudent. India is urbanising fast; by 2030, the urban population is expected to be around 600 million, and cities will account for 70% of India’s GDP. With haphazard and unplanned growth though, cities have already become victims of the climate crisis. In the last few years, they have battled heat waves, floods, and droughts. These climate shocks have had a negative impact on the quality of life of the inhabitants and affected the revenue potential of cities. India’s cities fail to battle these old and new challenges because of several reasons. The decision-making power is still not decentralised; funds are inadequate; many decisions are politically motivated and do not take into account the negative environmental fallout; there isn’t a mechanism to learn from each other’s best practices; and, often, officials do not have the requisite expertise needed to tackle climate-related challenges.The climate centre, which will be housed at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, will hopefully bridge some of these gaps; create a synergy across climate actions undertaken by the 500 Class-I cities; help authorities apply a climate lens to policymaking; provide expertise to officials; enable access to funds; and take advantage of several innovative solutions available in the market. And in the process, the centre and cities will hopefully come up with replicable models, which can then act as “lighthouses” to other aspiring cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-the-new-climate-centre-for-cities-matters/story-HOQR0f2nxdhjRycSjEnCIO.html
28-07-2020||Editorials||Omar Abdullah opens the door | HT Editorial||For the first time since the momentous constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on August 5 last year, former chief minister of the erstwhile state, and National Conference (NC) leader, Omar Abdullah, who was detained for eight months, has spoken out. Writing in The Indian Express, he expressed his opposition to the effective nullification of Article 370, and the revocation of J&K’s special status.But the key takeaway from Mr Abdullah’s piece is not his opposition to the change in the special status of J&K — that is to be expected, and that point of view can be debated. The key takeaway is his more fierce opposition to the decision to convert the state into a Union Territory (UT) and a categorical declaration that “while J&K remains a UT”, he — and by extension, the NC — would not contest assembly elections. While this may sound extreme, Mr Abdullah has actually opened the door for a political understanding which can revive the political process in J&K. It is instructive that Mr Abdullah neither made the restoration of Article 370 or the re-merger of J&K and Ladakh his precondition. Both these would have been far more difficult to achieve. Article 370 is history and no government in New Delhi will bring back the constitutional provision effectively. A separate administrative unit of Ladakh is also, now, firmly etched on the map and the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control with China has only cemented New Delhi’s determination to have direct control over the region.By asking for the restoration of statehood, while opposing the other changes, Mr Abdullah has effectively given room to Delhi to begin a process of reconciliation. Do remember that both Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation, and home minister Amit Shah, on the floor of the House, said that the revocation of statehood is temporary, and when circumstances become conducive, it could be reversed. It is time for Delhi to begin a dialogue with Mr Abdullah, release Mehbooba Mufti and start a conversation with her too, and initiate a time-bound process for the restoration of statehood. Promising a more empowered assembly and chief minister, in line with other states of the Union, can possibly result in popular and legitimate elections, help win over the Kashmiri street, empower pro-India mainstream forces, deepen democracy in J&K, weaken Pakistan’s propaganda, and neutralise international concerns. Mr Abdullah has opened the door; the onus now lies on Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/omar-abdullah-opens-the-door/story-lhY8YJqcfwFlV2prlZg10N.html
