29-07-2020||Editorials||Convene the Rajasthan Assembly | HT Editorial||Rajasthan is witnessing not just a political crisis — which is an outcome of the power struggle between chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot and his now-dismissed deputy CM, Sachin Pilot. It is also staring at a constitutional crisis, with a deepening rift between two of the state’s most important institutions — the office of the governor and the office of the CM. Mr Gehlot wants an assembly session from July 31 to be able to prove that his government enjoys the confidence of a majority of the members of the House. Governor Kalraj Mishra has appeared reluctant in doing so, and asked for a set of clarifications on the agenda and Covid-19 protocols, besides hinting at a three-week notice period to convene the Assembly. On Tuesday, the government got back to the governor, telling him, quite bluntly, that imposing what can be construed as conditions is beyond his authority. On Wednesday, Mr Mishra once again rejected Mr Gehlot’s request. The government, on this issue, is right. It is important to go back to first principles here. The elected executive has a right to ask for a session of the legislature. This is an established constitutional principle, reiterated by successive Supreme Court judgments. The governor, in the case of assemblies, or the President of India, in the case of Parliament, has limited discretionary room in this regard. It is also both an established custom, and good form, for any government to seek to prove its majority in the House — when there are doubts about its stability. It is not in television studios or in hotel resorts that the longevity of a government is determined. It is on the floor of the House. And that is why Mr Mishra — a former political figure from the Bharatiya Janata Party — must do the right thing and convene the House. He owes it to both the letter and spirit of the Constitution and the dignity of his office. Not doing so is giving rise to the perception that the office of the governor is acting in a partisan way to allow the rebel legislators, and the Opposition, time to rally numbers to destabilise the government. This perception may or may not be true — but his inaction is creating a wrong precedent and undermining faith in institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/convene-the-rajasthan-assembly/story-bwonO2VOGmzUIL5gFfAqvL.html
29-07-2020||Editorials||The world waits for November | HT Editorial||No United States (US) presidential election will be watched as closely by non-Americans as the one that will take place just less than 100 days from now. In the past, US candidates argued about differences in domestic policy and had almost indistinguishable stances on foreign policy. The Republican incumbent, Donald Trump, and the Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, are almost polar opposites on almost every major issue whether at home or abroad. A second-term President Trump will feel even less shackled by the niceties and traditions of the past in pursing his domestic and international agenda. The multilateral system, whether in trade or security, will struggle to survive another five years of “America First”. His willingness to batter China economically and diplomatically will probably be enhanced, but may become even more unilateral and erratic than it has been so far. A Biden administration will resurrect much of the postwar consensus, especially in regards to the US alliance structure, and bring the US back into the climate fold. However, on China and even trade, the difference will be more in style than in substance.The real task of a President Biden — who has favourable poll numbers at the moment — would be to restore the legitimacy of the US establishment with its citizens because that, more than anything else, is what is undermining Washington and empowering Beijing today. And that continues to be Mr Trump’s biggest failure. Whatever his forceful responses towards China, and many of them are ones India has reason to be pleased about, he has done remarkable damage to the US internally. What Mr Trump is encouraging on the streets of Portland, Oregon, in a strange and unfortunate way has geopolitical consequences in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-world-waits-for-november/story-DmrejVsC9GyVYeMG5iDUWK.html
29-07-2020||Editorials||Rafale is a reminder | HT Editorial||The unusual fanfare surrounding the arrival of five Rafale fighters from France is a cautionary tale at many levels. The first is the context of the border confrontation with China. So long as Beijing refuses to restore status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control, India must retain a degree of military readiness as a bargaining chip or as a contingency for further violence. Two, the Rafales represent the first strategically significant upgrade in India’s air power in decades. While India is also fast-tracking the purchase of Russian MiGs and Sukhois, one has already been pensioned out of the arsenal and the other serves as a second stringer for the Chinese air force. Three, the importance attached to the Rafales and attempts to fast-track the subsequent batches is a reminder of the slowness of India’s procurement system and the question marks over its indigenisation drive.India had the luxury of putting defence procurement and reforms on the backburner. After all, it enjoyed military superiority against Pakistan, and had a military restraint understanding with China. The Balakot dogfights showed that, at best, India had technological parity with Pakistan. Galwan Valley has shown Beijing no longer feels the need to be constrained by the past 45 years. The Indian political system has been more concerned about accusations of scandals regarding arms purchases than what the weapons meant for national security. It is telling that the Rafales are the first tangible result of a fighter contract that was first unveiled in 2007. To its credit, the Narendra Modi government has implemented several defence reforms. But the gap has been its focus on weapons indigenisation, where the Make in India focus may not be adequate to address the quality needs of the armed forces. But with the changed security environment, the question has to be asked whether, in the case of offensive platforms, this priority makes sense.The new paradigm means the services also need to relook at their earlier convictions. Networking allows militaries to get more accurate bang for their buck but barely exists in even the most primitive form in the Indian military. A host of new technologies means older formulae need a rethink. The advent of the armed drone, for example, means the original 42-squadron air force goal of the Indian Air Force may be obsolete. The times they are a-changing in dangerous ways and mindsets need to be a-changing as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/rafale-is-a-reminder/story-nA2lWg8ULPjTGAE0UCtHVJ.html
