01-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Mayawati hits back at Amit Shah over jibe||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday hit back at Union home minister Amit Shah over his jibe wherein he had said “behenji chunav aa gaya hai, bahar nikaliye (behenji, elections are here, start campaigning)” in the context of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls’Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress of holding political rallies at public expense when in power, the BSP chief Mayawati claimed that funds contributed by the poor to the government exchequer was keeping the ruling party warm. She also advised “other parties” to not worry about the BSP. Addressing a public meeting in Moradabad on Thursday in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Amit Shah had said that Mayawati was “afraid” and also alleged that she was yet to shake off the cold. “Behenji ki toh abhi thand hi nahin udi hai ... woh bhaiybhit hain .. behenji chunaav aa gaya hai, thoda bahut bahar nikaliye, baad mein ye na kehna ki maine prachaar nahi kiya tha (behenji hasn’t shaken off the cold yet. She is afraid. Behenji elections are here, now step out a little else don’t say later that you didn’t campaign),” Shah had said in his first sharp, pointed attack on Mayawati during the UP assembly poll campaign. The Uttar Pradesh assembly polls are due to be held early this year. Mayawati said the crowd in the rallies organised by the BJP and Congress (wherever these parties are in power), mostly comprised government servants or ticket seekers. “Despite taunts directed at me by political parties, my party believes in doing things differently,” she said. Unlike these parties, her party’s campaigns are funded by poor voters of her party, she further said. “If I, too, like these parties, start holding mass campaigns close to the polls, the poor won’t be able to take the burden of holding rallies during the elections,” she said. When out of power, the BJP and the Congress, too, don’t hold rallies months ahead of the elections, Mayawati said. “The BJP and the Congress, too, when in power, start resorting to airy-fairy announcements, foundation stone laying functions and inaugurations, about two and half months ahead of elections. In these public meetings, government money is wasted,” she said.At its public meetings, the BJP has been targeting Mayawati referring her to as “bua” though the bulk of the attack is directed at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav whom the party leaders have been referring to as “babua”.
01-01-2022||Mumbai||CM: No property tax of residential properties up to 500 sq ft||Mumbai: Property tax on residential units of up to 500 square feet, located within the Mumbai municipal area limits, will be waived off, the Maharashtra government said on Saturday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the decision after a meeting with the state urban development department held earlier in the day.The announcement comes ahead of Mumbai municipal corporation elections expected to be held next month.There are over 1.6 million residential properties which will stand to benefit from the decision. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that this will come into force in the financial year of 2022-23.The BMC collects between ₹4,000 crore to ₹5,000 crore in property tax every year and the outstanding amount is usually around ₹1,500 crore. With this waiver, the civic body is likely to face an annual revenue loss of up to ₹500 crore.The Shiv Sena had promised the waiver in the run up to the BMC elections in 2017. The party has been heading the BMC for over two decades now.“I am giving you all the good news on the very first day of this year. We have tried to pay off the debt of the hardworking Mumbaikars by deciding to waive off property tax for homes up to 500 square feet,” CM Thackeray, who is also the Sena president, was quoted as saying in a release issued by the chief minister’s office.“We have fulfilled most of the promises made during 2017 and today another important promise has been fulfilled,” he said.To implement the decision, the Bharatiya Janata Party-Sena government led by Devendra Fadnavis amended the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act in 2019. The waiver would only be limited to the general component of the tax, which is 10-20% of the total amount.The CM chaired a virtual meeting on Saturday with Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde , Mumbai district guardian minister Aslam Shaikh, Mumbai suburban district guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, Mayor Kishori Pednekar and Chief Secretary Debashish Chakrabarty.Chakrabarty said that the BMC has been given the power to implement the decision.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday said: “Implementation of the waiver will kick off from the upcoming 2022-23 financial year, and property tax in entire (for all components) for flats below 500 sq ft will be waived off.”Last year, the government clarified that it would issue property-tax bills to owners of such structures with a partial waiver. The partial waiver only included the general tax component, which is one of seven components that also include sewage and drain charges, among others, that owners would still be required to be paid.In the current system, property tax is levied for a building. But since last year, the BMC has also started issuing property tax on individual flats. There are around 400,000 housing societies in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-no-property-tax-of-residential-properties-up-to-500-sq-ft-101641061621604.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Police team attacked while arresting drug dealer in Inderpuri||New Delhi: Four policemen, including an inspector, were injured on Saturday morning after a mob comprising of nearly 60 people and led by a wanted narcotic drugs supplier resorted to stone pelting and firing bullets at the police party from outer-north district that had gone to west Delhi’s Inderpuri to arrest the drug dealer. The police team responded to the violence and opened fired at the mob, injuring two alleged attackers, including a relative of the drug peddler, senior police officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said that on Saturday around 8.30 am, the district’s anti-narcotics team led by Inspector Brajpal had gone to Inderpuri to arrest Dharamvir alias Palla, a notorious drug supplier, in a case in which non-bailable warrant was issued against him by the concerned court. Dharamvir was not found present at his home but the raiding team continued the search operation.“As our team members came out of Dharamvir’s house, they saw him leading a mob of 50-60 people who were armed with sticks and stones. Suddenly, the mob launched an attack on the police team and started pelting stones. When our team members fired some rounds in the air in self-defence and to disperse the attackers, bullets were fired at them from the mob. Showing courage, Inspector Brijpal fired bullets aiming the legs of the attackers and saved his team members,” said DCP Yadav.The DCP further said that in the police firing, two men from the crowd, identified as Amit and Shoaib, suffered bullet injuries. Apart from the inspector, three other policemen were also injured in the attack. All the six injured persons were taken to a nearby hospital for medical attention. Taking advantage of the melee, Dharamvir fled the violence spot, said Yadav.“Amit has been identified as Dharamvir’s relative and is involved in six crimes including dacoity, robbery, and attempt to murder. A case has been registered in connection with Saturday’s violence and attack on the police party. Efforts were on to identify and nab all the attackers and Dharamvir as well,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-team-attacked-while-arresting-drug-dealer-in-inderpuri-101641061080795.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt readies 3,000 Covid beds of kids as cases surge||New Delhi: More than 3,000 beds exclusively for children have been prepared in several Delhi government hospitals in view of the surge in the fresh Covid-19 infections in the national capital, Delhi health ministers Satyendar Jain said on Saturday.Also Read | Set up makeshift hospitals: Centre to states as Covid cases surge“Keeping in view the ongoing situation, more than 3,000 beds have already been prepared for children. All health care workers are being trained and instructed for the treatment of the coronavirus. There is no separate treatment for the different variants of the virus,” Jain said at a press briefing, adding that so far all patients of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have showed milder symptoms or remained asymptomatic.
01-01-2022||Delhi||Govt orders inquiry in poor state of Rajan Babu TB hospital building||New Delhi: Delhi urban development minister minister Satyendar Jain has ordered an inquiry into allegations that the North MCD-run Rajan Babu TB hospital was running from a dilapidated building that the civic body had itself declared dangerous for use.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation, however, described the order as “politically biased”, and argued that only one “small section” of the building has been declared unfit which is already empty. It said that ten other wards of 700-bed hospital are in fully usable condition.On Thursday, AAP MLA from Kalkaji, Atishi, said that several blocks of the hospital building located in north Delhi’s Tagore Park extension, were dilapidated, yet facilities were being run from there.Jain has sought an action taken report from the North MCD on the matter. “...life of patients, attendants, staff and citizens is being put in danger. It seems the building may collapse any time. In view of above, for the safety of human lives, doctors and paramedics working in above said MCD hospital, immediate inquiry may be conducted for the vacation and sealing of the building,” Jain said in an order issued on Saturday.After Atishi live streamed the condition of the building during a visit on Thursday, the leader of opposition in North MCD Vikas Goel filed a complaint at the Mukherjee Nagar police station.North MCD mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is trying to malign the image of the hospital by highlighting a small section of the building which is in depleted state, and already declared dangerous. “The claim by AAP leaders that the entire hospital is unfit for human occupation is complete lie. Rajan Babu hospital is a huge 700-bed facility providing specialised treatment in chest diseases and it was this hospital, which, during the critical second Covid wave, provided 100 oxygen beds as an emergency measure when the Delhi government was failing in arranging beds. It is shocking that today the Delhi government is trying to malign the hospital,” Singh said.He added that on receiving a complaint the minister should have sought a administrative report from the administration or the commissioner North MCD on the status of the building, but he chose to bypass the legal way, and has directly passed the order of vacation and sealing of the hospital.Standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said only the municipal corporations have the power to survey and declare any building dangerous for human occupation, and in this case North MCD already passed necessary order declaring a small portion of the concerned building inhabitable. “One covered verandah has been declared unfit while 10 other wards are fully usable. A report from IIT Roorkee on building’s overall safety has already been sought,” he added.Jain said that the corporation is passing through financial crisis due to non-payment of dues by Delhi government due to which it has not been able to immediately start the repair and renovation of the concerned section of building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-orders-inquiry-in-poor-state-of-rajan-babu-tb-hospital-building-101641060540716.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh cross 1200-mark||LUCKNOW: With 383 new cases, the number of active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 1200-mark after a gap of five months. On Saturday, 383 more people from 38 districts tested positive, which was 132 more than Friday when there were 251 new cases. Uttar Pradesh now has 1211 active Covid cases under treatment, close to July 19 when there were 1188 active cases. “In all 1,93,549 Covid samples were tested and 383 new cases were reported,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. Thirty-one patients recovered in the past 24 hours. Till now, 16,87,859 patients had recovered, he said. “The 24-hour positivity rate in the state is 0.01 % and overall positivity rate is 1.84% while recovery rate is 98.6%,” said Prasad. “Collectively, in the past three days (December 30 to January 1) 827 new cases have been reported. The rising trend with 118 new Covid cases on December 29, followed by 193 on December 30 and 251 on December 31 continued with 383 new cases on January 1. This demands strict adherence to Covid protocol by all,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Ghaziabad reported maximum 85 new cases, Gautam Buddha Nagar 61, Lucknow 58, Meerut 48 and Prayagraj and Varanasi 16 each. Of the total 1211 active cases, maximum 244 are in Gautam Buddha Nagar, 206 in Lucknow, 198 in Ghaziabad, 106 in Meerut, 38 each in Mathura and Prayagraj, 36 in Varanasi, 32 in Moradabad and 29 in Agra. There are active Covid cases in 63 districts while in 12 districts, there are no cases. In all, 86.84% of the eligible population in the state has received at least the first dose of the vaccine and 49.80% their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/active-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-cross-1200mark-101641060302610.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj aims to inoculate 4.17 lakh teens against Covid||Registration on CoWin portal for children aged between 15 and 18 for getting Covid vaccines started in the district as in other parts of the country on Saturday. The mode of registration on the portal is the same as that adopted by adults. Their vaccination will start from January 3 (Monday).“The district medical and health department of Prayagraj has set a target to vaccinate 4.17 lakh children of the above-mentioned age group,” said district immunisation officer, Prayagraj, Dr Tirath Lal. He said these teenagers will be vaccinated on the basis of the list received from managers of all schools and madarsas of the district. “From Saturday onwards, teenagers in 15 to 18 years age group can register on the Covin portal,” Dr Lal added. He also said the teenagers will be administered Covaxin vaccine and a separate demand of the vaccines had been placed with the government for it. The district medical and health department has made special arrangements for the vaccination of children.“For the vaccination, 20 community and primary health centres (CHCs and PHCs) in the district and 10 hospitals have been selected in the city. These include MLN Medical College, SRN Hospital, TB Hospital, Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital, Daraganj PHC, MD Eye Hospital, Moti Lal Nehru (Colvin) Divisional Hospital, Dufferin Hospital, Railway Hospital, Homoeopathic Medical College, Naini and near Allahabad High Court,” Dr Lal said. “Separate booths will be made for eligible teenagers at all these vaccination centres,” he added.Officials said a target to vaccinate 6,000 individuals falling in 15 to 18 years of age per day had been set for the district. “Each of the 30 centres has been instructed to target vaccinating a minimum of 200 individuals per day as part of this exercise,” they added.Officials claim that count of centres depending upon the response could be further increased as per the need. They, however, said it would take at least two-and-a-half months to vaccinate all the targeted eligible teenagers of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-aims-to-inoculate-4-17-lakh-teens-against-covid-101641060180694.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi University to mark its centenary from May 1: VC Yogesh Singh||New Delhi: Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh on Saturday said that the university would mark its centenary celebrations starting from May 1 this year. The university was established in 1922 by an act of the then Central Legislative Assembly. Its notable alumni include Nobel laureates, heads of state, authors and activists among others.The varsity will be celebrating its centenary on 1 May, 2022 through observance of yearlong programmes culminating in the conclusion of the Ceremony on 1 May, 2023, Singh said on Monday. “While celebrating the Centenary year, we, at the University of Delhi and its constituent and affiliated Colleges, forming an integral part of the University community, may envisage programmes and constructive events which create ample memorable moments for all of us to rejoice not only during the Centenary year but also for the next century as well,” Singh wrote in a letter on Saturday. He said that the varsity had traversed a long journey and seen a steady progression of the University in terms of academic, co-curricular achievements as well as social outreach. “The pre-independence legacy of the University, involvement of the institution in the national movement, critical developments of the pre-independence era are all the facets of a rich historical legacy and every member of the University community must take pride in it,” Singh wrote. While outlining the progress of the university over the decades, Singh said that students from all across the country applied to the University for Admission. “The steady progression of the University in terms of academic, co-curricular achievements as well as social outreach has touched the imagination of our nation and it is largely reflected in the overwhelming pai1icipation of the high school pass outs and young graduates both, in the undergraduate and postgraduate admission processes,” said Singh. Beginning with three colleges and 750 students, the university is among the largest universities in India with 16 faculties, over 80 academic departments, 80 colleges and over seven lakh students. The university offers over 500, out of which 209 programmes are being considered for NAAC accreditation purpose. The rest being run in colleges are separately accredited. With the rapid expansion of the city, the university’s South Campus was established in 1973 to facilitate access for the residents of South Delhi. It moved to its present location on Benito Juarez Road, near Dhaula Kuan, in 1984.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-to-mark-its-centenary-from-may-1-vc-yogesh-singh-101641059940659.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Ram temple: Experts to take decision on placement of stones||As placement of stones will be of prime importance in the construction of main structure of Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Ram Mandir Construction Committee has decided to seek expert opinion in this regard.As no cement will be used in laying the temple’s structure, selection of proper stones will be a major task for engineers involved in the construction work. The construction committee is likely to start laying of stones for the main structure of the temple from February–March this year. According to members of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, construction work of the temple’s main structure involving only stones would be carried out under the watchful eyes of experts. These experts will decide on the utility of the stones depending on their durability, said a member of the Trust. “Stones of Rajasthan and Karnataka have different qualities. Experts have pointed out that stones from the southern Indian state have more capacity to bear load. Taking this into consideration, now experts will decide which stone will be placed where,” said a member of the Trust. The two-storey temple’s design has been conceived in such a manner that it will be constructed by using stone slabs while no cement and iron will be used. The 125-feet high temple will have 106 pillars on each of the two floors. According to Annu Bhai Sompura, incharge of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas Karyashaala, temple’s pillars on the ground floor will be 16.5 feet tall while those on the second floor will be 14.5 feet tall. The temple will have a magnificent ‘Shikhara’—a prominent feature of the Nagara style of architecture. During the meeting of the Ram Mandir Construction Committee on December 30 last year in Ayodhya, two experts, including Prof KS Rao from IIT Delhi and another from Pune, were present to brief the construction committee and Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust about the quality of stones found in Karnataka and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-experts-to-take-decision-on-placement-of-stones-101641059821481.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi teachers university to enrol 5,000 from this year: Sisodia||New Delhi: Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday visited the under-construction campus of the Delhi government’s Delhi Teachers University in Bakkarwala village and said 5,000 students will be able to apply for admission from this year.The Delhi Cabinet had approved the proposal for the setting up of the university last month. The university will offer four-year Integrated Teacher Education Programmes such as BA-BEd, BSc-BEd among others.Sisodia said that the university will cater to the professional needs of both pre-service and in-service teachers. He said that the government’s vision was to prepare professionally trained, highly educated, motivated and passionate teachers who could bring a change to the Indian education system.“What a great start to the new year! Visited the under-construction campus/ site of the upcoming Delhi Teachers’ University at Bakkarwala village. I wish this university becomes a landmark in teacher training and produces the best teachers in the world,” Sisodia tweeted.The university will be spread over 12 acres of land. The four-storey building will have lecture halls, digital labs, and a library. “As of now the main university block is ready to open and other blocks are near completion,” an official statement from the government mentioned. Aspirants at the university will be attached to Delhi government schools for the entire duration of their course and will get hands-on experience with a strong emphasis on research, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-teachers-university-to-enrol-5-000-from-this-year-sisodia-101641059647720.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||BSP expels four in Kheri for anti-party activities||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) expelled four of its senior leaders, including two former district unit presidents, on Saturday.Confirming the action, BSP Lakhimpur Kheri district unit president Ajay Chaudhary said, “Former district presidents Uma Shankar Gautam and Pramod Chaudhary, Dinesh Pradhan of Mitauli and senior leader Mohan Bajpai have been expelled from the party on charges of anti-party activities.”Chaudhary said the party leadership had received complaints of anti-party activities against these leaders. He added that after verifying the complaints, the party leadership decided to expel these leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-expels-four-in-kheri-for-anti-party-activities-101641059400807.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||18 booked for drunk driving on the New Year’s Eve in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed on new year celebrations in Mumbai has brought down considerably the drunk driving cases registered in the city on the New Year’s Eve. Mumbai traffic police on Friday night registered 1,375 cases of traffic violations, including 18 for drunk driving. On December 31, 2020, the traffic police had caught 35 drivers behind the wheel inebriated, whereas in 2019, the number was far greater. The Mumbai traffic police had caught 778 drunk drivers on the New Year’s Eve in 2019. Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the Mumbai police had imposed complete ban on New Year’s celebrations, both indoors and outdoors, Mumbai traffic police had on Friday night made elaborate plans to crack down on errant drivers, especially those driving under the influence of liquor or drugs and accordingly posted policemen at 100 nakabandi check-posts at strategically located points in the city. During the night, the traffic police in all booked 1,375 individuals for various traffic violations like drunk driving, riding motorcycles without helmet, riding triple seat etc. Like last year, traffic police on Friday did not make use of breath analysers – to prevent the possible spread of Covid-19 – the traffic police caught 18 drivers driving under influence of alcohol. According to the officers 408 two wheeler riders were caught without helmet with maximum in Ghatkopar area with 66 and 41 in Mahim. The other offences were rash driving where 12 drivers were caught and 16 riding triple seat. The police attributed the low number of drunk driving cases to low key celebration and Covid-19 pandemic induced restrictions, as people preferred to return home early and stay indoors during the night in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. Maximum number of drunk drivers were caught in Bhoiwada area (4) followed by Oshiwara (3). “Only 8 people were caught drunk driving in the west region. We also observed that there was no crowd on the streets due to the restrictions imposed on New Year’s celebrations and awareness about the enhanced traffic fines, which also acted as a deterrent,” said a traffic police officer. Nitin Pawar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) west region said that they had put up nakabandis at 35 locations in the west region from Bandra to Jogeshwari from 7pm on Friday to make sure that people drove responsibly. He said that during the nakabandis drivers who were found to be obeying traffic rules were rewarded with a key chain from the traffic police and a chance to click selfies the traffic police mascot. Due to the pandemic, the traffic police had decided not to use breath analysers, due to which blood tests of motorists and two-wheeler riders was conducted in the nearest hospital. First Information Reports have been registered against 18 drivers caught drunk driving under relevant provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.DCP Raj Tilak Roshan said that during the nakabandi traffic police constables used to stop vehicles randomly and observe the driver from a distance –at least four feet and take the driver for medical check-up if they suspected him or her to be under influence of alcohol. The suspected drivers were thus taken to the nearest hospitals, where doctor’s determined on the basis of their close observation whether the driver is drunk or not, Roshan added. Another police officer said, blood sample of the driver is taken and sent for analysis to determine blood alcohol content, if the doctors opined that the driver was under influence and an FIR was lodged against the driver. This officer added that the next day the driver is asked to remain present in the court concerned for further proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18-booked-for-drunk-driving-on-the-new-year-s-eve-in-mumbai-101641058862512.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||UP: Lucknow logs 58 new Covid cases||Uttar Pradesh capital reported 58 new Covid cases, including 28 men and 30 women, on Saturday which was nine more than Friday’s 49 cases. According to the data from the health department, 22 people who tested positive had a travel history while 24 tested positive during contact tracing of Covid patients. Besides, two were found Covid positive before a surgical procedure, three tested positive after they gave samples following mild symptoms, four tested positive at Cantonment hospital and three during random sampling.Further explaining the spread of infection, a health official said among the 58 new cases four are minors. One 8-year-old got himself tested before leaving for Kuwait and the report was positive while another one was a 7-year-old. A 16-year-old from Mahanagar and 17-year-old from Sadar area also tested positive.“In the past one week, at least a dozen Lucknowites tested positive when they gave their samples under mandatory rules for their travelling abroad. They were not aware about their Covid status earlier hence it becomes significant to adhere strictly to Covid protocol as such people can be spreader of infection. Also, don’t ignore mild symptom,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.The new cases were reported from Aliganj, Mahanagar, Gomti Nagar, Husainabad, Nirala Nagar and Ashiana areas of Lucknow.
01-01-2022||Delhi||New Year’s eve: 657 fined for breaking traffic rules, over 4K for Covid protocols||New Delhi: The Delhi Police penalised 36 people for drunk driving, 103 for dangerous driving, and 307 for riding two-wheelers without helmets, as they reported 657 traffic violations across the city amid subdued New Year celebrations in view of the restrictions imposed to curb cases of Covid-19.Also Read | Traffic police announce arrangements around India GateThe traffic violations were reported between 6pm and the midnight, during which the Delhi Traffic Police carried out a special drive to prosecute errant motorists, said senior officers, adding that the number of violations reported this New Year’s eve was nearly half of those reported last year. Last year, 1,336 challans were issued for traffic violations on New Year’s eve. Of them 26 were for drunk driving and 174 for dangerous driving, the traffic police data shows.The Delhi Police registered 294 cases of violations of Covid protocols, night curfew violations. According to official data, 870 challans were issued for mask and social distancing violations between 11pm on December 31 and 5am on January 1, 2022. Last year, the police issued 144 challans for mask and social distancing violations.The district authorities realised ₹97.2 lakh in fines after penalising 4,997 people who were found violating Covid protocols. The highest number of cases of violations were reported from North district (731) followed by central district which reported 705 cases of violations. Since Delhi started reporting a surge in Covid cases driven by Omicron variant, the authorities have increased enforcement action on the ground.Between December 26 and December 29, the 11 districts imposed fine of ₹3.4 crore for Covid appropriate behaviour violations.“Our (Delhi Police) maximum strength of the traffic unit and police districts was on streets to tackle traffic violators and New Year’s eve revelers. Special pickets were created at strategic locations to catch motorists involved in drunk and dangerous driving. Going by the numbers of traffic prosecutions registered last night (December 31), we must say that Delhiites abided by the night curfew guidelines and other restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in the city,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.According to the data shared by the city police, of the 657 traffic violations, a little over 50% of them (370) were for riding bikes and scooters without helmet while 48 were for triple riding and 100 challans were for other violations. Since the traffic police were not using alchometers to check alcohol in the driver’s body, those who were visually drunk were sent to hospitals for checking of alcohol in their blood.“We had [police] stations teams at hospitals for checking of alcohol in blood. Those found drunk were prosecuted and not allowed to drive further. A total of 36 drunk drivers were caught and prosecuted,” said a senior traffic police officer, who asked not to be named.
01-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka releases 2nd instalment of ₹1,007 cr under PM-Kisan for current year||The Karnataka government has released the second instalment of ₹1,007.18 crore for the financial year under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Karnataka scheme under which state government is paying ₹4,000 additional amount for the PM-KISAN beneficiaries in the state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released the 10th instalment under PM-KISAN. A sum of ₹685.28 crore was released benefiting 34.26 lakh farmers in Karnataka, the Cheif Minister's Office (CMO) said.Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai participated in the virtual event. So far, 54.52 lakh farmers in the state have received atleast one instalment of the cash transfer, as per CMO.So far, the union government has released ₹8022.69 crore and the state government has paid out ₹2850.54 crore."Union government wants the payments to be made through Aadhaar based Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Karnataka has topped among the states in this task of linking the Aadhaar of the beneficiaries and has bagged the award for this good performance," the statement read.A grant of ₹1.21 crore was also released for 30 Farmers' Producer Organisations in the state on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-releases-2nd-instalment-of-rs-1-007-cr-under-pm-kisan-for-current-year-101641058068014.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||UP: Amid rise in Covid cases, parents unwilling to send wards to school||In the wake of threat of new Covid variant Omicron and the recent rise in Covid cases, most of the parents in Uttar Pradesh capital are unsure about sending their wards to schools. “Children don’t follow Covid protocols properly in schools and the authorities won’t take any responsibility in case any problem crops up. I care about their education but safety comes first.” said Kaneez Fatima whose two daughters study at Lucknow Public School.“We are continuing with hybrid mode and parents are comfortable with it,” said Shaily Srivastava, vice-principal, SKD Academy, UP Board branch. “The situation is highly unpredictable. Some parents are hoping for physical classes to prevent learning gaps while others are reluctant and want their kids to stay home,” said Hema Tandon, student counsellor at City Montessori School, Rajendra Nagar 1 branch.“Parents feel that students get careless in schools and it gets difficult to follow Covid protocols there,” said a teacher of junior section Babita Konar. “Over the last few days, the attendance has dipped. Parents having children in 15-18 age group are eagerly waiting for the vaccination of their wards,” said Madhulika Agarwal, head, Kunskapsskolan School, Lucknow. She further said the school might have to resume online classes as safety of students was the top priority.Varsha Agarwal, mother of two children studying at City Montessori School, Rajendra Nagar 1 branch, said her elder daughter will get vaccinated soon and can continue with physical classes. However, she is not comfortable sending her son to school without vaccination.“Parents want their wards to attend physical classes. However, some parents have not sent their kids at all except for examinations,” said Shivani Pandiya, a primary section teacher at Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial School. While vaccination for teenagers in 15-18 age group is all set to start from January 3, the threat for younger children continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-parents-unwilling-to-send-wards-to-school-101641058382046.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid tally crosses 9,000-mark||Mumbai Reporting a surge in Covid cases for the sixth consecutive day, Maharashtra reported 9,170 fresh infections, taking the count to 6,687,991 on Saturday. The tally of active cases went further up to 32,224, as 1,445 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. The state also reported six Omicron cases- with four in Pune and two from Pimpri Chinchwad, taking the Omicron tally in the state to 460. So far, 180 cases have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, stated a release issued by the state health department.It also saw seven casualties and the total number of fatalities stood at 141,533.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that they will impose stringent restrictions if the situation does not get under control. However, they would wait for a few days before taking any such decision.“The chief minister is also of the view that stern action should be taken if required for the welfare of the people. We have come to the first step (of lockdown) by restricting the number of people attending marriages, funerals and social, religious and political gatherings. To see the impact, we will have to wait for a few days as they were imposed only from January 1 at midnight. If it doesn’t come under control, then the state can consider bringing restrictions on restaurants, cinema halls, schools and colleges as there are no restrictions on them as of now,” the health minister added.He said that Omicron cases can be detected by the RT-PCR laboratories if they start using S-gene kits. “In the Omicron variant, the S-Gene is absent in the RT-PCR tests. S-Gene kits will help in detecting Omicron cases. We have decided to procure these kits (for government laboratories) and private labs will be asked to use them by fixing their rates so that it will be affordable for the people,” he informed.The daily cases are also increasing in Mumbai, as it clocked 6,180 cases. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 1,26,490 samples and had a positivity rate of 7.24%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 9.67%, the statement said.The state also vaccinated 3,29,224 doses on Saturday and has administered a total of 1,34,036,246 doses to date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Doctors bank on new antiviral drug Molnupiravir and antibody cocktails for high-risk patients||Mumbai: With Mumbai emerging as the epicentre of a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases, doctors said that they will bank on two medications, the new antiviral drug molnupiravir and the monoclonal antibody cocktail drug, to treat patients who are at risk of developing severe disease. Doctors said the number of patients qualifying for these medicines has increased over the past 10 days since the city began experiencing a surge. Both molnupiravir and the antibody cocktail drug are indicated for patients with mild disease who are at the risk of progression to severe Covid-19. “In the past few days, we have been getting a lot of patients who are in the mild category and a large number of them are candidates for these medications,” said Dr Vasant Nagvekar from Lilavati Hospital in Bandra. With the highly mutated Omicron variant in circulation, a considerable number of the new cases are among people who have been fully vaccinated, many of them senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. Doctors also said that the more potent Delta variants of the virus is still in circulation and is also causing hospitalisations. Nagvekar said he has started prescribing molnupiravir to the patients soon as they report symptoms. If the symptoms don’t subside within a span of 48 to 72 hours but they have not progressed, he prescribes the antibody cocktail drug. “Molnupiravir allows some breathing space to observe the patient and his disease progression, before moving on to the more expensive cocktail drug,” he said adding that he administered molnupiravir to seven patients on Friday. Molnupiravir was granted emergency use approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in December. The Drug Controller General of India also allowed its emergency use last week. According to Nagvekar, a five-day course of molnupiravir costs ₹2,700. The monoclonal antibody cocktail drug is a combination of two or more monoclonal antibodies. In November 2020, the U.S. FDA issued an emergency use authorisation to REGEN-COV, which contains two monoclonal antibodies— casirivimab and imdevimab. It received emergency use authorisation in India in May 2021. REGEN-COV is available in India through a tie-up between Roche India and Cipla. While REGEN-COV is widely in use, India’s drug regulator has also approved American pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly’s antibody-drug combination. Early in December, a study by Frankfurt-based researchers found that the REGEN-COV’s cocktail failed to neutralise the Omicron variant in a laboratory setting. Eli Lilly has also announced that its cocktail has “reduced neutralisation activity” against Omicron. At the civic-run Seven Hills Hospital in Marol, 1660 patients have received the REGEN-COV cocktail since May 2021; 220 received it in December. “We have been admitting a lot of international travellers since the Omicron scare began and fitting candidates have received the cocktail therapy. We have observed beneficial results in almost all patients,” said Dr Smita Chavan, deputy dean at Seven Hills Hospital. “It’s hard to comment on the cocktail’s impact on Omicron patients as we have not done any specific study. But none of the patients who were administered the therapy in December has progressed to severe disease,” she said. While Seven Hills is administering the cocktail therapy free of cost, a pack of REGEN-COV costs 119,500 in the private sector. One pack can be used for two patients, thus the cost per patient comes to ₹59,750. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said that a combination of molnupiravir and antibody cocktail drugs is likely to become the mainstream treatment in the coming days. “Both the medications are targeted at the mild patient category that has increased now. The cocktail therapy definitely plays a role in shortening the recovery period,” he said adding that he had administered the cocktail drug to nearly 10 patients in the past week. Eom/js||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctors-bank-on-new-antiviral-drug-molnupiravir-and-antibody-cocktails-for-high-risk-patients-101641058260864.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Over 1.12 lakh devotees seek Ram Lalla’s blessings on New Year||More than 1.12 lakh devotees turned up at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) on the first day of 2022, said the temple administration. Since 7am, devotees in large numbers could be seen at main entrance of the Ram Janmabhoomi waiting for their turn to enter the campus. In first four hours from 7 am to 11am, 53,000 devotees turned up there. In the second half from 2pm to 6pm, more than 59000 devotees visited the Ram Janmabhoomi to seek blessings of the presiding deity. Security personnel had a tough time in screening devotees and thereafter permitting them to enter the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The narrow lane starting from Hanuman Garhi temple and leading to Ram Janmabhoomi was packed with devotees. “We did not expect such huge turnout of devotees on first day of the year,” said Champat Rai, general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. The Hanuman Garhi temple also witnessed huge turnout of devotees. Cops had a tough time in controlling crowd and ensuring there was no untoward incident. After the Vaishno Devi incident in Jammu and Kashmir in which 12 people were killed and 13 others injured in the stampede on Saturday morning, cops were on high alert in Ayodhya to regulate movement of devotees. But the Ayodhya administration was not prepared for such a huge turnout of devotees, said a senior official of the Ayodhya administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-over-1-12-lakh-devotees-seek-ram-lalla-s-blessings-on-new-year-101641057904893.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Daily covid cases grow by 50%, harsher curbs unlikely soon||New Delhi: Daily Covid-19 infections in the Capital jumped over 50% on Saturday as the latest surge of infections, fuelled by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, continued to spread its footprint in Delhi, with the test positivity rate shooting past 3% even as the Delhi government said it was closely monitoring the situation but did not plan to impose fresh economic and travel restrictions in view of the low rate of hospitalisations.Delhi added 2,716 cases of Covid-19, according to the state’s Saturday health bulletin, 51% more than the 1,796 infections the Capital saw on Friday. The spike on Saturday was the highest in a single-day since May 21, when the city recorded 3,009 infections.Also Read | Delhi govt readies 159 centres for vaccines to 15-18 year oldsOf nearly 75,000 samples collected on Saturday, 3.64% returned positive results as this statistic - the test positivity rate - also hit its highest mark in Delhi since May 21, when 4.76% samples returned positive results.The city also recorded one death of the infection, after adding no fatalities in the last three days of December.A senior government official said for the time being status quo will be maintained with regard to restrictions being enforced in the Capital, and added that government was closely monitoring the situation. “There is no need to panic because though the surge is sharp, the infection is mild,” said the official who asked not to be named,Currently Delhi is under yellow alert – the first level of restrictions under Graded Response Action Plan - triggered when positivity rate stayed above 0.5% for two consecutive days. It led to a night curfew, closing of schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms. Immediately after the restrictions were imposed business community and health experts said the government must readjust the restrictions to account for Omicron variant’s reduced virulence.Also Read | Delhi govt readies 3,000 Covid beds of kids as cases surgeOfficial aware of the matter on Saturday said even though the positivity rate breached 2% on Saturday, the government may not invoke the orange alert under which harsher curbs such as Metro, malls and non-essential offices are ordered shut along with imposition of full curfew on weekend.The city’s Covid-19 curve has spiked upwards sharply since mid-December, fuelled majorly by the Omicron variant, according to one study. In the first half of December, Delhi recorded a total of 740 fresh infections. In the second, this number grew nearly nine times to 6,361.Between December 21 and 28, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) analysed 125 samples, of which 67 (54%) were of the Omicron variant.Delhi has, over the past seven days, recorded an average of 1,124 fresh cases each day. This is the first time this number, known as the case trajectory, has crossed the 1,000 mark since end-May, when the fourth wave of the pandemic in Delhi began to level out.However, even after two weeks of consistent uptick in cases, Covid-19 hospitalisations continue to remain low in the city, with nearly 21,000 beds vacant in the city’s health care facilities, according to data from the state government’s Delhi Corona App.Also Read | New Year’s eve: 657 fined for breaking traffic rules, over 4K for Covid protocolsThe number of single-day recoveries also hit a nearly seven-month high on Saturday, according to the health bulletin, which showed that 765 people in Delhi recovered from Covid-19. This is the most in a day since 876 people recovered on June 7 last year.Deaths too have been at low levels in that time, with nine people succumbing to the infection throughout December. In comparison, seven people died of the infection in November, and four in October.These numbers underline global trends that the Omicron variant appears to be more transmissible but less virulent, and that the variant of concern (VOC) does not crowd hospitals like the Delta variant did.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “The positivity rate will witness a sharper increase in the weeks to come but the examples of other parts of the world shows that the cases will soon start coming down. So, there is no need to panic. There is possibility that more new positive cases will be found in the community which is still negligible as compared to UK, US, Canada, and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-daily-covid-cases-grow-by-50-harsher-curbs-unlikely-soon-101641057900615.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Varanasi’s KV Corridor reverberates with sound of 1051 conch shells||Conch blowing (shankhnaad) by 1051 people in unison at Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on Saturday marked the first day of New Year. Attired in traditional dresses, locals, students as well as a few people from West Bengal, Odisha and Manipur participated in the event that was organised by the department of culture. They prayed to Baba Kashi Vishwanath for freedom from the pandemic. UP religious affairs minister Neelkanth Tiwari inaugurated the programme.“Sankhvadaks from across the nation gathered in Kashi. Conch blowing by 1051 shankhvadaks in Kashi on the occasion of English New Year under the aegis of Department of Culture. World record so far,” UP principal secretary tourism and culture Mukesh Meshram later said in a Facebook post. Professor of Ayurveda Faculty of BHU Ajay Kumar Pandey said the sound of conch shell has a positive effect on nature and environment. “The sound of conch not only strengthens the lungs but also has a positive effect on the smallest unit of somatic development, the cells. Besides, while blowing the conch shell, a person focuses on self and surrenders everything to God.” Also in the day, PM Narendra Modi, who is an MP from Varanasi, extended greetings and expressed hope that the new year will bring an abundance of joy and good health to everyone. “Happy 2022! May this year bring abundance of joy and good health in everyone’s lives. May we keep scaling new heights of progress and prosperity, and work even harder to fulfill the dreams of our great freedom fighters,” PM Modi tweeted. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also extended new year greetings to the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasis-kv-corridor-reverberates-with-sound-of-1051-conch-shells-101641057785984.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Stringent curbs imposed in five districts of Haryana||Following an increase in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in state, the Haryana government on Saturday ordered the closure of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, and entertainment parks in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat districts till January 12.The order comes into effect on Sunday morning. The five districts have the maximum case load accounting for 88% of the total active cases in state.Restrictions for five districtsThe order issued by chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal said the restrictions were imposed in these five districts since they have the highest daily infection rate.The restrictions in five districts also entailed closure of sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools (except for training of sportspersons for participation in national or international sports events and for organising national and international sports events).No spectators or visitors will be allowed in the events. All business-to-business exhibitions have also been prohibited.Government and private offices, except for emergency or essential services, have been advised to function with 50% staff attendance.Malls and markets are allowed to open till 5pm, and bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity.Restrictions for rest of the stateFor the remaining 17 districts, gatherings of more than 100 persons will be allowed only with prior permission of the deputy commissioner. Cinema halls in malls as well as standalone ones, restaurants, bars including those in hotels and malls, gyms, spas and clubhouses, restaurants, and bars ofgolf courses have been allowed to open with 50% seating capacity with adherence to requisite social distancing, other Covid-appropriate safety norms and regular sanitisation of the premises.Swimming pools in the 17 districts will be allowed to open after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.All swimmers, practitioners and staff should get vaccinated with both doses. Sports complexes and stadia are also permitted to open for sports activities including for outdoor sports activities except contact sports.Sports authorities shall ensure adherence to requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation of the premises and Covid-appropriate behavioural norms.Uniform restrictions for all 22 districtsThe government has decided that school, colleges, polytechnics, ITIs, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes (government and private), anganwadi centres and creches under woman and child development department shall remain closed till further orders.Night movement restrictions shall continue to remain in place from 11pm to 5am. In funerals and marriages, gatherings shall not be more than 50 and 100 persons, respectively, subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed to enter public places and the onus of ensuring this will be on the owners and management of these institutions. Citizens who have received the first dose but the second dose is not due, shall not come under above mentioned restrictions for mandatory second dose.Violators of Covid-appropriate behaviour including wearing of masks, social distancing and adults who have not received Covid vaccination dose or are due for the second dose will be issued a challan of ₹500.Institutional violators shall be imposed a fine of ₹5,000. Non-payment of fine and major violations will attract proceedings under the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable.The orders said the earlier issued guidelines for conduct of entrance and recruitment examinations will remain in place. Universities, institutes, government departments and recruitment agencies in state are allowed to conduct entrance and recruitment examinations with strict implementation of the revised standard operating procedure issued by the Union health ministry on September 10, 2020 regarding preventive measures to contain the virus spread as well as guidelines issued from time to time.Religious places are allowed to open with 50 persons at a time with the condition that they shall follow requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.Corporate offices, production units, establishments, and industries are also permitted to function subject to following Covid-appropriate behaviour, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-stringent-curbs-imposed-in-five-districts-of-haryana-101641057784342.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Resident doctors demand recruitment of non-academic juniors||Mumbai: Maharashtra resident doctors continued the state-wide strike on Saturday protesting against the delay in the release of NEET PG counselling date, with doctors from three more Mumbai hospitals joining in support. According to Central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), nearly 6,000 resident doctors from more than 20 medical colleges across Maharashtra participated in the protest on Saturday. “We will request the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to issue one notification stating recruitment of non-academic Junior Residents (JRs) equal to the number of residents in that particular colleges. So that patient care would not get hampered amidst OMICRON Covid cases surge,” said the statement released by MARD. The resident doctors demanded that the prerequisites like form filling, document verification among other things should be asked to be completed as soon as possible and release of the schedule regarding the same to avoid further delay in the process. Mehak Agarwal, joint secretary of MARD said, “We need assurance that the state counselling will start as soon as the timetable for All India NEET PG counselling is out. At least the preliminary procedures like student verification should be handled,” Dr Avinash Dahiphale, president of Central MARD said that all the government and corporation medical colleges across Maharashtra are protesting. “We will continue the strike until our demands are fulfilled but considering the surge in the Covid cases we will continue working in the Covid wards and emergency services.” Hospital authorities said that some elective surgeries were postponed due to the strike, but a large impact has been avoided as other medical staff has been mobilised. “There was no impact on any medical services considering only half of the resident doctors in the hospital had joined the strike,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. The resident doctors from New Delhi who were protesting on the same issue called off their strike against the same on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-demand-recruitment-of-non-academic-juniors-101641057721516.html
01-01-2022||Noida||Illegal arms manufacturing operation busted in Ghaziabad||An illegal arms factory was busted with seizure of 20 fully-built and 16 semi-built country-made pistols, police here said on Saturday.The unit was busted with the joint action of Special Operation Group (SOG) and Bhojpur Police of the district.The illegal unit was set up in a long-abandoned semi-constructed building at a road which connects Machri chowk to Patti village, a senior police officer said.The raid was conducted on a tip-off on Friday-Saturday night at around 2.45 am, said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja, adding, a man, identified as Subhash Khateek, was also arrested from the premises.The accused confessed that he manufactured arms on the basis of orders he received.He said he would manufacture arms in abandoned buildings depending on the location of the buyer.“I sold more than 200 country-made pistols in Aligarh district. I came here to Ghaziabad to sell arms after receiving an order here,” he said, according to the police.Police have also recovered other equipment required in manufacturing of arms.When Khateek was arrested, he was assembling pistols, the officer said.During interrogation, he also revealed the names of the buyers who gave him the order for the arms, said Raja.Efforts are on to nab the buyer, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-arms-manufacturing-operation-busted-in-ghaziabad-101641057166480.html
01-01-2022||Pune||International flight operation from Pune airport may resume from January 7||Pune: Pune airport in Lohegaon is expected to start international flight from January 7 with flight for Sharjah. The international flight operations at Pune airport were completely shut since March 2020 due to the Covid outbreak. “Flight for Sharjah may take off from Pune International Airport on January 7, we are waiting for final confirmation. Airport is ready to resume international flight operations,” said an airport official on request of anonymity. Before the first lockdown, Pune airport had two international flights to Dubai which were operated by SpiceJet and Air India Express. “We are expecting more flights for gulf countries, however, now due to the Omicron threat many countries have altered travelling policies which has impacted the pre-planned schedule which we wanted to implement from January 2022. Now the plans will be delayed, but many airlines have shown interest to start international flights from Pune airport,” the official said. On the last day of 2020, 17,105 passengers took flight from Pune airport. 9,665 arrived while 7,440 departed from 68 flights. “The passenger movement reached up to 22,000 on few occasions during December. We were expecting higher footfall during the new year, but impact of Omicron has made the difference,” he said. Pune always had international flights for gulf countries and the airport is expecting the same once service resumes. Once the international flight service resumes, decision on whether Sharjah return passengers will have to take seven days quarantine will be decided in a few days. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has made seven days home quarantine compulsory for flyers coming from the United Arab Emirates and they have to go for compulsory RT-PCR test at the airport even if they are fully vaccinated on arrival. Atiq Shaik, regular flyer to Sharjah, said, “I have booked my ticket from Mumbai. If flight service restarts then I may book my return flight for February at Pune airport as it will be more convenient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/international-flight-operation-from-pune-airport-may-resume-from-january-7-101641056402329.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Dabholkar murder trial: Cross examination of rationalist’s son by defence concludes||PUNE: From earlier arrests to Naxal-links, the team of defence lawyers tried to display alternate theories for the murder of Dr Narendra Dabholkar on the concluding day of the cross-questioning of his son Dr Hamid Dabholkar on Saturday in Pune. The cross questioning was happening in the court of Judge SR Navander with special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi and defence lawyers Prakash Salsingikar and Suvarna Vast. Four of the five accused - Virendra Tawade, Sharad Kalaskar, Sachin Andure, and Vikram Bhave - were present in court while Sanjeev Punalekar was granted exemption. Salsingikar questioned Dr Hamid about the complaints that his late father was working on before he was gunned down near Omkareshwar bridge on the morning of August 20, 2013. The witness maintained a steady answer of not knowing anything about the workings of his father’s organisation before his murder. The lawyer questioned him about work and complaints by the slain rationalist regarding bogus doctors, traders of stones claimed to have magical powers and religious organisations. The lawyer questioned Dr Hamid about the differences between Dr Dabholkar and the warkari community. However, he said that he did not know. The lawyer read a section from a Writ Petition filed in the Bombay High Court that mentioned opposition by the warkari community to the Anti-Black Magic Bill that was the brainchild of Dr Dabholkar. To this, Dr Hamid said, “I had told the lawyers who wrote the writ petition that a section of warkari community had opposed to the bill and not the entire community.” Advocate Salsingikar questioned him about the split in the organisation. “The organisation was called Akhil Bharatiya Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti where he (Dr Narendra Dabholkar) used to work. Shyam Manav was the president of that organisation. Why did they split?” asked advocate Salsingikar. “It was 32 years ago. I was barely 7-8 years of age. I do not remember. But I do know that they had a difference of opinion. The difference was in relation to the procedure of work and not the work itself,” said Dr Hamid. The next hearing of the case is slated to be held on January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-trial-cross-examination-of-rationalist-s-son-by-defence-concludes-101641056220704.html
01-01-2022||Lucknow||Statewide mock drill on Monday, Tuesday to review Covid preparedness: Yogi||Amid rise in corona cases in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adiayanth on Saturday called for a statewide mock drill on Monday and Tuesday to review Covid preparedness.Discussing Covid situation at a review meeting, the CM also asked officers concerned to make preparations for vaccination drive for adolescents between the age group of 15 and 18 years from Monday and also for the precautionary dose for corona warriors, health workers, frontline workers and those above 60 years of age having co-morbidities from January 10.“Though Covid cases were rising in the state the situation was in control but even a little negligence could prove costly. In the last 24 hours, 383 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state while the active cases were 1,211. Experts say that the infection rate is now higher but the virus is weaker. Thus there is a need to follow Covid safety protocol. People should wear masks and follow social distancing, sanitisation and vaccination,” he said.The CM also said the system of relatives meeting inmates in jails will be suspended till the Covid situation normalises. “Keep a regular check on jail inmate found Covid positive in Barabanki jail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/statewide-mock-drill-on-monday-tuesday-to-review-covid-preparedness-yogi-101641056105187.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Lakhs visit ‘Jaystambh’ monument to mark 204th anniversary of Bhima Koregaon battle||Pune: Thousands of Dalits across the country offered their homage to the martyrs of the battle of Bhima Koregaon at the Dalit war memorial popularly known as “Jaystambh” at Perne hamlet in Bhima Koregaon village on Saturday despite Covid restrictions in place and Section 144 clamped by the district administration. According to the police, over a million Dalits paid tributes at the obelisk during the daylong event. Compared to the 203 anniversary celebrations last year which was a low-key affair due to the Covid 19 restrictions, the turnout for the event was fairly large despite pandemic curbs. The Bhima Koregaon obelisk was decorated with Indian army’s Mahar regiment insignia and the floral decoration was symbolic of the Indian tricolour this time to commemorate the 204th anniversary of the battle amidst police security and surveillance of intelligence agencies. The victory pillar was erected by the Britishers in 1821 to commemorate the memory of the historic battle which marked the defeat of Peshwa Bajirao II by British army, comprising mostly of Dalit Mahars. According to the Dalit narrative, the 500 Dalit Mahar soldiers defeated the 25,000 strong army of the Peshwas during the battle. The Dalits regard the battle as their war of freedom from the oppressive rules of casteist Peshwas. For the 204th anniversary celebrations, the ministry of social justice of the government of Maharashtra made elaborate arrangements for organising the event. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) authorities had made free bus service available from different embarkation points to the war memorial. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was the first state functionary to arrive at Bhima Koregaon where he placed a wreath at the memorial in the presence of top administrative and police officials of the government who offered their salute to the departed war heroes. Pawar said, “Maharashtra has a history of bravery and valour and this is seen when you turn the pages of state history. During the past, the brave warriors sacrificed their lives in the battle of Bhima Koregaon. This history of bravery must remain etched in the mind of the youngsters. Soon, under the guidance of the district collector, land acquisition of more area for beautification and development of the memorial will take place to accommodate lakhs of people visiting the victory pillar.” Besides Pawar, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, social welfare minister Dhananjay Munde, MP Amol Kolhe, Bahujan Vikas Aghadi president and great grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Prakash Ambedkar also visited Dalit war memorial early in the morning. The event came into national spotlight on January 1, 2018 when clashes broke out between the right-wing forces and Dalits near the victory pillar memorial located in Perne village on Pune-Ahmednagar highway. A day earlier, the Elgar Parishad conclave was held for the first time on December 31, 2017 at Pune’s historic Shaniwarwada which once was the seat of the Peshwa power, ahead of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, which was observed on January 1, 2018. According to the Pune police, inflammatory speeches delivered during the event triggered the violence next day at the historic memorial site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lakhs-visit-jaystambh-monument-to-mark-204th-anniversary-of-bhima-koregaon-battle-101641055980245.html
01-01-2022||Other||Leopard found dead in VTR||A leopard’s carcass was found in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district of Bihar on Friday evening, forest officials said. “Prima facie, it appears the death occurred due to the cold wave,” said Sunil Kumar, range officer, Goberdhana forest range of VTR. Forest officials came to know about the incident after some villagers spotted the dead leopard in a sugarcane field. “The male leopard was about two-and-a-half-years old. Viscera will be sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) at Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh and Wildlife Institute of India (WWI) at Dehradun for forensic testing,” said the range officer, ruling out the possibility of poaching as the cause of the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leopard-found-dead-in-vtr-101641054960352.html
01-01-2022||Other||6 labourers killed, 18 hurt in road mishap in J’khand||Six labourers, including three women, were killed and 18 others injured in a head-on collision between a pickup van and a truck in Hariharganj in Jharkhand’s Palamu district on Friday, an official said.The incident occurred late in the evening when the workers, who hailed from Panki in Palamu, were returning to their village after harvesting paddy in Sihudi village in neighbouring Bihar, the official said.Hariharganj Block Development Officer Jaiprakash Narayan, who reached the accident site, said three labourers died on the spot and three others, all women, died during treatment in Bihar’s Aurangabad.Hariharganj police station in-charge Sudama Kumar Das said 12 labourers are being treated at the Hariharganj Community Health Centre. Six other labourers who sustained serious injuries have been sent to Medinirai Medical College and Hospital for better treatment.The death toll may increase, he said, adding that the accident occurred on National Highway 98.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-labourers-killed-18-hurt-in-road-mishap-in-jkhand-101641054780812.html
01-01-2022||Patna||16 of Bihar’s 31 ministers have guns||Ministers in the Nitish Kumar cabinet are not only well off in terms of landed property and movable assets but they also have a fascination for guns, as per the latest update of assets declared by 31 ministers in the Bihar government. Altogether, 16 ministers, including state’s deputy chief minister Renu Devi, own rifles and pistols, their prices ranging from ₹50,000 to ₹4 lakh. As per the affidavits of assets declared by ministers on December 31, 2021, as part of annual exercise introduced in 2011 by chief minister Nitish Kumar to bring transparency in government, the CM himself does not own any arms and his net assets consist of a flat in New Delhi worth ₹58.85 lakh and movable assets worth ₹16.51 lakh. In 2021, Kumar’s cash in hand decreased by about ₹6,500. He has declared having only ₹29,385 in hand in 2021, as against ₹35,885 in 2020.Kumar’s son Nishant, however, is richer than him, having immovable assets, including inherited land, valued at ₹1.98 crore and movable assets valued at ₹1.63 crore. Kumar’s two deputies, Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi, are richer than him.Prasad has a net worth above ₹2 crore in the form of ancestral and self-acquired property but has become poorer in terms of cash in hand. Prasad, who holds the finance portfolio, had ₹56,000 in cash in 2020, which has now reduced to ₹10,000. Renu Devi’s cash in hand has increased substantially, from ₹48,504 in 2020 to ₹4.51 lakh in 2021.Among the top most ministers in terms of net worth includes fishery and animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahni, whose immovable assets is valued at ₹8.34 crore and movable assets at ₹1.31 crore, including ₹98 lakh investment in debentures/mutual funds. However, Sahni, who was the richest among his cabinet colleagues in 2020, has now become poorer by few crores. In his last affidavit in January 2021, the former Bollywood set designer had declared assets worth around ₹13 crore, including apartments and buildings in Mumbai. Other rich ministers include water resources minister Sanjay Jha, health minister Mangal Pandey, science and technology minister Sumit Singh, excise minister Sunil Kumar, labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar and panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary. Their net worth is between ₹2 crore to ₹5 crore. Fascination for guns is a striking aspect. A total of 16 ministers possess arms ranging from rifles, double barrel guns to pistols. Janak Ram, minister for mines and geology, has a 30.06 bore rifle valued at ₹1.25 lakh and a .32 bore pistol valued at ₹4.05 lakh. Similarly, panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary too has a rifle valued at ₹4 lakh. Among the three female ministers in the Nitish cabinet, deputy chief minister Renu Devi and food and consumer protection department minister Leshi Singh have arms. While Renu Devi has a pistol and rifle, Leshi Singh has a rifle and a double-barrel gun. The other ministers holding licensed arms include Jama Khan, Jayant Raj, Narayan Prasad, Sunil Kumar, Sumit Kumar Singh, Subhash Singh, Ashok Choudhary, Santosh Suman, Mangal Pandey, Ram Surat Kumar, Shravan Kumar and Pramod Kumar. “Possession of arms by people, including ministers, is more of a status symbol,” social scientist Rakesh Tiwary said, adding that such practice by ministers should be discouraged as it was not in sync with the good governance agenda of the Nitish Kumar government. Apart from guns, the ministers, as per their affidavits, also display an inclination for investing in jewellery and ornaments. Deputy CM Renu Devi has 510 grams of gold valued at ₹23.82 lakh while 1.95 kg of silver worth ₹1.19 lakh.Transport minister Sheela Kumar has jewellery worth ₹16.20 lakh. A few ministers are poorer than their spouses.For instance, road construction minister Nitin Nabin has a net worth of ₹63.84 lakh while his wife has assets (both movable and immovable ) worth ₹1.48 crore. Wives of other minister like Jibesh Kumar, Samrat Choudhary and Sumit Singh too are richer than spouses. Headline: Riches in the CabinetIntro: Ministers declared their assets on Dec 31, 2021, as part of annual exercise introduced in 2011 by CM Nitish Kumar to bring transparency CM’s assetsA flat in New Delhi worth ₹58.85 lakh Movable assets worth ₹16.51 lakhSahni poorer, but still richest Immovable assets worth ₹8.34 crore Movable assets worth ₹1.31 crore2 of 3 female ministers fully armedDy CM minister Renu Devi has a pistol and a rifleFood minister Leshi Singh has a rifle and a double-barrel gun 
01-01-2022||Pune||Bullock cart race in Ambegaon cancelled in wake of surge in Covid-19 cases||PUNE The district collectorate denied permission to the traditional bullock-cart races usually held on New Year’s Day in Maval and Ambegaon talukas, in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases. The denial of permission drew sharp reaction from former Shiv Sena MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil.Adhalrao said that this was the first race after Supreme Court’s decision and was to be held at Landewadi in Ambegaon Taluka on Saturday morning. He said that till Friday evening, they had no clue that the races would be cancelled. The race received a good response and farmers from various districts arrived to compete. Patil has also questioned district collectorates decision to cancel the bullock-cart race, where as other events in the city are being conducted.“We had sought permission for the races a few days ago. The administration gave us no clue that it would cancel the races at the last minute. Participants from various locations had started to arrive at the location. The district administration was satisfied with our preparations, however, they suddenly took the decision to cancel the event without taking us in confidence,” said Adhalrao.He along with local farmers held a sit-in agitation to protest against the administration’s move.“The Pune district cooperative bank carried an indoor campaign even on December 30, for the upcoming elections. If the Covid-19 cases have increased, the rules should be same for all,” added Adhalrao.The participants echoed Adhalroa’s comment and said that large number of people have gathered at Bhima Koregaon to pay tribute, if they can be allowed there, then the administration should consider this event too.Adhalrao said,”We promised the administration that the event is in an open space and will be conducted following all the Covid norms.”Many Adhallrao Patil supporters were agitated over cancelling the event and blamed the opposition parties mainly Nationalist Congers Party (NCP) for it. Patil’s supporters alleged that as the event received huge response, the opposition cancelled it by using the district administration as its means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bullock-cart-race-in-ambegaon-cancelled-in-wake-of-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101641054420697.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Pune district records 620 new cases, no deaths on Saturday||PUNE As of Saturday Pune district reported 620 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million out of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,179 deaths and 2,960 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 29,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 117 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 369,922 and the death toll was 7,039 as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 400 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 526,965 and the death toll was 9,264 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 103 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 271,431 and the death toll stood at 3,526. Pune district also saw 29,325 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Saturday and in total 15 million doses have been registered in the district. Out of which 8.71 million are first doses and 6.41 million are second doses. A total of 530 sites saw vaccination out of which 396 were government centres and 134 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-records-620-new-cases-no-deaths-on-saturday-101641054000374.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Safety concerns: Parents in Pune prefer online classes||PUNE Despite the schools assuring safety of the students on school campus, parents prefer online classes as the Covid-19 cases spike again in the city. However, citing learning loss, schools and principals said that offline schools will be helpful for the studies. Hairshchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said, “The teaching and non-teaching staff are geared up to start offline classes. Offline classes will help children bridge the learning loss. But in the light of the recent increase in cases, most schools will continue in hybrid mode of teaching. It is important to start offline lectures. Person to person interaction is important for children while learning and offline classes will ensure that.”However, parents feel that online education in this scenario will be safer. Prashant Khande, a parent said, “As the cases are increasing, parents are scared about the new variant. The immunity of young students is low. Also, only two months of the academic year are remaining. It is not going to make much difference for the students to attend offline cases. Higher classes can follow social distancing and other Covid appropriate behaviour but students from class 1 to Class 5 are likely not to follow.”He added that many parents are facing the issue of transport. “School transport is not functional. Many parents have to drop students to school. As offices are functional, this becomes a difficult task. With the increase in cases, the government may take the decision to close schools in the next couple of weeks. And hence, parents are choosing online education over offline classes as of now,” said Khande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/safety-concerns-parents-in-pune-prefer-online-classes-101641053341720.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Maharashtra sees 34% decline in Covid testing in six months: Centre to state||Pune: The central government has written to the state that the number of Covid tests carried out on residents has dropped by 34% in the past six months even as the administration is placing restrictions to check the spread of Omicron variant. A comparison on the number of tests made for the two weeks period between May 20 and June 2 post second wave peak period in April and between December 16 and December 29 make experts believe that the third wave could be round the corner. The central government also warned that in addition to the rise of cases, increased transmissibility of the Omicron variant and with most new cases reported as asymptomatic, initial testing will help to ensure that the infected individuals do not spread the virus. According to the Centre’s letter to Maharashtra, a copy of which is with HT, in the two weeks’ time period between May 20 and June 2, Maharashtra saw a total of 3,560,282 Covid tests which fell by over 34% to 2,339,002 for the period between December 16 and December 29. As the Omicron threat is looming, the central government has asked the state government to increase testing and most states have shown a drastic fall in the test numbers. In the past two weeks, multiple districts namely Mumbai, Mumbai suburban, Pune, Thane and Nagpur have shown a sudden and drastic rise in the number of new Covid cases which has further pushed the demand for increased testing as this has also lessened the doubling time of Covid cases. In addition to increased testing, the Centre has also asked the states to ensure that the logistics like stock of testing reagents and kits is maintained so that there are no stock outs or shortages. The states with the highest fall in testing percentage are Arunachal Pradesh with 68% decline for the same period mentioned above, Assam with 58% decline, Nagaland with 52%, Punjab with 39% and Daman and Diu with 34% decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-sees-34-decline-in-covid-testing-in-six-months-centre-to-state-101641053160628.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||EOW arrests Delhi-based CA in cheating case||Mumbai The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police arrested a 38-year-old chartered accountant (CA) from Delhi in a cheating case registered in Mumbai against the director of a Powai-based company that fraudulently availed business loan from ICICI Bank using forged documents. The arrested CA, identified as Kapil Mittal, is a resident of Delhi and is accused of helping the prime accused Sanjay Sinha in the alleged fraud. Sinha, a director of Leeve Logistics Ltd., was arrested by the EOW in August 2019. Investigations by EOW banking unit 1 official revealed that Sinha, in 2013-14, under the pretext of buying a forklift from Kamal Sales Corporation, availed a loan of ₹4.41 crore from ICICI Bank. The accused allegedly submitted bogus and forged invoices and other documents of Kamal Sales Corporation to the bank to avail the loan and later used the loan money for self-gain, said an EOW officer. After Sinha’s company defaulted in loan repayment, Ashok Upadhyay, chief regional officer (sales) of the bank in 2017 lodged FIR against Sinha, his accountant Shrikant Naik and others at Malad police station. The case was later transferred to the EOW. During EOW’s investigation, the police found that Sinha diverted funds into his account and later to other accounts to withdraw cash, said an EOW officer. EOW officers suspect that Mittal was aware of the unlawful acts and was also instrumental in the subsequent cash transactions. They alleged that he was part of the criminal conspiracy and helped the main accused in the case. “Once his role was ascertained, he was arrested in the case recently. He was produced in the court on Friday and was remanded to judicial custody,” said Datta Pable, senior inspector of EOW Banking unit-1. Sinha, Mittal and other accused have been booked under sections 420 (Cheating), 466 (forgery of record of Court or of public register, etc.), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eow-arrests-delhi-based-ca-in-cheating-case-101641052560116.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Bhiwandi resident completes walk to The Himalayas in 75 days||Siddharth Ganai, a 23-year-old Bhiwandi resident, has completed his walk from Raigad to the Himalayas in 75 days and returned to his hostel on the eve of the New Year.He reached Annapurna base camp and completed his motto of ‘One Plant for Humanity’ throughout his journey to the Himalayas.In the meantime, he gave his BSc semester exam. Ganai was abandoned by his parents as a child and was brought up by NGOs and social workers in Bhiwandi.Ganai’s work was not only applauded by residents of Maharashtra but also by people of other states and Nepal. Throughout his journey, he sowed seeds along the routes till the Himalayas besides planting at the places where he took shelter.Ganai said, “It was a wonderful experience for me. The journey was planned to be completed in 80 days but I completed it in 75 days and returned on December 31. I always dreamt of seeing Everest but did not have the finance for the same. Thus, I embarked on the journey surviving merely on one meal a day. Several people from UP, MP and also from Nepal helped me and guided me to reach the base camp of Annapurna.“I was also studying online for at least an hour a day during the journey and used to walk 35-40km a day and slept in a tent or shelters given in different hostels and schools. With the idea to plant trees, I happened to meet some social workers, hostel students, school students of different regions and planted trees too. I had carried some seeds that I sowed during the journey.”Ganai always wanted to explore the world. This is merely the beginning. He said he’s also a nature lover and active in environmental activities in his surroundings. He never wanted to use environmentally-unfriendly means of travelling and also due to lack of finance, he started his walking journey and successfully completed his dream and, in the process, encouraged other youngsters to live their dreams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-resident-completes-walk-to-the-himalayas-in-75-days-101641052020108.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Pune to get IGR Bhavan soon||PUNE As the stamp and registration department is giving maximum revenue to the state government, it has been decided to establish a separate IGR (Inspector-General of Stamp and Register) Bhavan in Pune.Maharashtra government had given nod for it and land has also been finalised for the same. The officer from the IGR office confirmed that soon work would start on the ground.Govind Karad, deputy general inspector, confirmed that the department has got the land near the new administrative building which is owned by the state government.After GST (Goods and Service Tax) second-highest revenue is coming from the stamp and registration department. Despite collecting maximum revenue from the department, this section did not have its own separate building like other departments. The existing office is a new administrative building and other offices are spread at various locations.Also, it has been decided to create a maximum registration facility in this office that will help citizens to get enough benefits. Existing stamp and registration offices do not have enough facilities.Maharashtra has a total of 517 stamp registration offices. Some of the offices are on higher floors in various cities. It is decided to shift the offices on the ground floor as it will help citizens in the registration process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-to-get-igr-bhavan-soon-101641051540066.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||18 booked for drunk driving on New Year’s Eve in Mumbai||The Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed on New Year celebrations in Mumbai has brought down considerably drunk driving cases registered in the city on New Year’s Eve. Mumbai traffic police on Friday night registered 1,375 cases of traffic violations, including 18 for drunk driving. On December 31, 2020, the traffic police had caught 35 drivers behind the wheel inebriated, whereas in 2019, the number was far greater. The Mumbai traffic police had caught 778 drunk drivers on New Year’s Eve in 2019. Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the Mumbai police had imposed a complete ban on New Year’s celebrations, both indoors and outdoors, Mumbai traffic police had on Friday night made elaborate plans to crack down on errant drivers, especially those driving under the influence of liquor or drugs and accordingly posted policemen at 100 nakabandi check-posts at strategically located points in the city. During the night, the traffic police in all booked 1,375 individuals for various traffic violations like drunk driving, riding motorcycles without helmets, riding triple seat etc. Like last year, traffic police on Friday did not make use of breath analysers – to prevent the possible spread of Covid-19 – the traffic police caught 18 drivers driving under the influence of alcohol. According to the officers, 408 two wheeler riders were caught without helmet with the maximum in Ghatkopar area with 66 and 41 in Mahim. The other offences were rash driving where 12 drivers were caught and 16 were riding triple seat. The police attributed the low number of drunk driving cases to low key celebration and Covid-19 pandemic induced restrictions, as people preferred to return home early and stay indoors during the night in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. The maximum number of drunk drivers were caught in Bhoiwada area (4) followed by Oshiwara (3). “Only 8 people were caught drunk driving in the west region. We also observed that there was no crowd on the streets due to the restrictions imposed on New Year’s celebrations and awareness about the enhanced traffic fines, which also acted as a deterrent,” said a traffic police officer. Nitin Pawar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) west region said that they had put up nakabandis at 35 locations in the west region from Bandra to Jogeshwari from 7pm on Friday to make sure that people drove responsibly. He said that during the nakabandis drivers who were found to be obeying traffic rules were rewarded with a key chain from the traffic police and a chance to click selfies with the traffic police mascot. Due to the pandemic, the traffic police had decided not to use breath analysers, due to which blood tests of motorists and two-wheeler riders was conducted in the nearest hospital. First Information Reports have been registered against 18 drivers caught driving under the influence of alcohol under relevant provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18-booked-for-drunk-driving-on-new-year-s-eve-in-mumbai-101641051368681.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to start vaccination for children in 15-18 year age group on Jan 3||As per the guidelines of the government, vaccination for children in the age group of 15-18 years would be starting on January 3 in Navi Mumbai.The 23 urban health primary centres of the corporation will conduct the drive at the schools in their respective areas. A total of 72,823 students born in 2007 or earlier can get vaccinated at 206 municipal and private schools.According to NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, the plan is to vaccinate 8,000 to 10,000 students daily in more than 25 schools. Trained manpower for vaccination has been provided to the civic health centres. All school managements have been urged to provide necessary space and other facilities for the special vaccination sessions taking place in the schools.Parents are also being advised by the schools to provide a mobile phone with them for registration process and OTP while coming for vaccination.Parents can also register the name of their child on the CoWIN portal.Meanwhile, around 40,000 students would be vaccinated by Panvel City Municipal Corporation in ten civic schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-to-start-vaccination-for-children-in-15-18-year-age-group-on-jan-3-101641050699999.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC fined 7,500 for flouting Covid norms on New Year’s eve||Mumbai While strict crowd control measures was taken during New Year’s eve, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said it penalised more than 7,500 violators in Mumbai for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and for flouting norms laid by the administration.With the steady rise in Covid cases and the emergence of the Omicron variant, which could be a possible third wave, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had banned all public gatherings in the city. The BMC had also mandated a 50 per cent capacity at all the eateries, pubs, bars and restaurants in Mumbai.However, on Saturday, BMC officials said that total 7,544 violators were fined on Friday across Mumbai by the BMC and Mumbai Police for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and rules laid out by the BMC. The BMC said that it has recovered around ₹15.08 lakh in fine amounts.Earlier this week, the BMC had ordered the assistant municipal commissioners of all the 24 municipal wards to form their own flying squads that will visit the restaurants, eateries and similar establishments to inspect if the rules are followed.The BMC also said that members of nearly 55 such establishments were fined on Saturday.“Most of the violators were the staffers and managers that were working in these establishments. In my area, we have fined a total of 31 establishments. Our officers visited these places and fined the violators individually,” said Vaqar Javeed, assistant municipal commissioner.Javeed said that earlier this week, he had also written to various associations of restaurant bodies to ensure that they follow all the norms strictly.Shivadas Gurav, the assistant municipal commissioner who is in charge of the A ward, that covers the Colaba, Churchgate and Cuffe Parade areas in South Mumbai, said that more than 20 of such establishments were fined in his areas and some of these establishments include the famous Leopold Cafe, Olympia Cafe, Delhi Darbar and Bademiya Restaurant.“We had collected around ₹10,400 by fining more than 120 individuals. Almost every one of them was inside these establishments and were not following the rules. Some of them included the staffers as well as in many places we found out that 50 per cent capacity were not followed,” said Gurav.A senior official from the Solid Waste Management (SWM) department, which looks after penalising people, said that considering police officers were stationed at the city beaches, promenades and public areas, the crowd over there were less.“We knew that not many people will visit the beaches on December 31, which is why we inspected the eateries thoroughly. In many places we also checked the CCTV footages to be double positive,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-fined-7-500-for-flouting-covid-norms-on-new-year-s-eve-101641050640049.html
01-01-2022||Kolkata||Calcutta HC proceedings to be ‘virtual only’ from Jan 3 amid Covid-19 fears||Amid rising concerns for COVID-19 and Omicron variant, Calcutta High Court and district courts will function in a virtual mode with certain exceptions from January 3.As per an official notice by Calcutta HC, "Calcutta High Court and district courts will function in virtual mode. Hybrid mode is allowed only in respect of bail matters where public prosecutors will be allowed to be physically present with case diary and in other matters where Government and other advocates are to produce or tender documents in court."The order read that the concerned stakeholders including Court-staff should get themselves fully vaccinated and should adhere to the norms of social distancing and COVID-19 protocols.Meanwhile, India reported 22,775 new COVID-19 cases and 406 deaths in the last 24 hours, informed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday.According to the ministry, the number of Omicron infections stands at 1,431 and it has spread to 23 states. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with 454 cases, followed by Delhi with 351.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-proceedings-to-be-virtual-only-from-jan-3-amid-covid-19-fears-101641043859526.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Minor grandson, friend arrested for robbing grandfather of gold worth Rs12L in Taloja||A grandson and his friend have been arrested for robbing his grandfather of jewellery worth ₹12 lakh.Devidas Haluram Patil (62), a businessman from Tondre village in Taloja, was attacked and robbed while he was alone in his office at around 6.30pm on December 15. Three persons broke into his office, closed the shutters and assaulted Patil with iron tools and sticks. After that, they robbed Patil of 27 tola gold worth about ₹12 lakh.Following the incident, Patil’s grandson who was present in the office shouted for help and got his grandfather admitted to hospital. Taloja police registered a case and a parallel investigation was being done by crime branch unit II police.During the investigation, senior police inspector Giridhar Gore visited the spot and through technical investigation and informers, they found that the robbery plan was hatched by his grandson himself who had asked his accomplices to commit the crime.Accordingly, the crime branch detained Patil’s minor grandson and two other minor accomplices and also arrested Shah Rukh Rashid Qureshi (21) and Zubair Qadir Khan (24) from Turbhe Naka. All the stolen gold was recovered by the police.“The grandson wanted money for splurging and hence planned the crime. He knew that his grandfather always wore a heavy gold chain while going to office and asked his accomplices to rob. He provided his accomplices with information and accordingly the crime was carried out,” Gore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-grandson-friend-arrested-for-robbing-grandfather-of-gold-worth-rs12l-in-taloja-101641049023648.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Two markets in northeast Delhi shut down for flouting Covid-19 protocols||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered closure of two markets in the northeast district of Delhi with effect from 4pm on Saturday till 10am on January 2 for violation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.The markets include Shani Market, in E-block, 4 1/2 Pushta in Sonia Vihar as well as Johripur's Shani Market.Meanwhile, two liquor shops in Seelampur area of northeast Delhi were slapped with fines of ₹10,000 and ₹20,000 for violation of Covid-19 norms.Earlier on Thursday, two markets in Seelampur were shutdown for flouting Covid-19 protocols. The Seelampur fruit market to police station road market; C, D & F Block markets and Nehru Market in Seelampur were closed till 10pm on December 31, according to the DDMA order.The closure orders were in connection to new restrictions announced by the Delhi government in the wake of soaring cases of Covid-19- in the national capital.All malls and commercial markets in Delhi, apart from standalone shops, have to function in an odd-even scheme, according to the government order.Delhi Metro, restaurants and bars are currently operating at 50 per cent seating capacity, while marriages and funerals have been allowed, but with attendance of 20 persons. Social, political, cultural, religious and festival events also have been banned.On the first day of the new year, Delhi recorded a huge surge of 2,716 fresh Covid-19 cases, as many as 920 more than yesterday's 1,796, health bulletin data showed.This is the biggest jump in single-day case count in the national capital since May 21 last year when the capital city logged 3,009 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-markets-in-northeast-delhi-shut-down-for-flouting-covid-19-protocols-101641045602633.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||53% of state’s mangrove area now legally a ‘forest’||MUMBAI: More than half of the state’s total mangrove cover was protected as a legal ‘forest’ at the end of 2021, up from 30% at the beginning of that year. This means that, to be diverted for any non-forestry purpose, project proponents must seek mandatory forest clearance (FC) from the forest department, in addition to the Bombay HC’s permission and CRZ clearance. Moreover, in case of any land use violation (such as illegal dumping, unauthorised clearing or landfilling of mangroves or hindrance to flow of tidal waters), the forest department will have the jurisdiction to take action against offenders and remediate the area. In effect, any kind of development will be practically impossible without being subjected to scrutiny by state and central authorities. On mangrove land that is not legally a forest, this responsibility lies with the land-owning agencies, either urban local bodies or special purpose vehicles. The increase of 23 percentage points from 30% to 53% in mangroves as forest follows a Bombay High Court order and subsequent litigation to ensure compliance with the direction. The state government in 2021 brought 2,427 hectares of mangroves under the purview of Section 4 of the Indian Forest Act (1927), and 9,785 hectares under purview of Section 20 of the Act (indicating that any third-party claims over the land have been settled after inquiries by appointed survey officers). Maharashtra’s total mangrove cover is approximately 32,000 hectares, of which 16,984 hectares are now legal forests, and require clearance under the Forest Clearance Act (1980) to be diverted for any non-forestry purpose. Of the remaining, close to 3,000 hectares of mangroves will be brought under the ambit of the act in 2022, officials said. This is because 13,000 hectares of mangroves have been identified as being on private land. “Any mangrove cover on privately owned land cannot be declared as a reserve forest. But they are nevertheless covered under the Environment Protection Act, as per the Coastal Regulatory Zone rules. So while it won’t require forest clearance to divert the land there is still a layer of protection. Besides, the Bombay High Court also has to give permission for diversion of mangroves as well,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell). Mangroves play an import role in coastal and intertidal ecosystems, fostering a range of biodiversity in addition to other ecosystem services including protection from flooding and storm surges, helping soil stabilisation, and being valuable carbon sinks. For metropolitan cities like Mumbai that are vulnerable to climate change, they are significant in mitigating its adverse impacts. In 2021, a total of 927 hectares of mangroves in Ratnagiri, 121.8 hectares in Palghar, and 1387 acres in Thane district were brought under Section 4 of the Forest Act, while 3,090.9 hectares in Mumbai’s suburbs, 2,302 hectares in Raigad, 2013.5 hectares in Thane, 2004 hectares in Palghar and 374.5 hectares in Sindhudurg district were brought under purview of Section 20. “This whole process starts by first declaring the mangrove site as a reserved forest under Section 4 of the Forest Act, which we had done even earlier, starting 2015. What follows, as per Sections 6 to 19 of the Forest Act, is the process of settlement of any rights that other parties may claim over the land. Following this, some portion of the land may be excluded from the final notification under Section 20,” Tiwari explained. A significant development in mangrove conservation in the past year also includes the transfer of mangrove land by government agencies to the forest department for safekeeping. In 2021, a total of 1,810 hectares of land were handed over to the mangrove department for safekeeping by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation, the Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation and the City Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO). “Just over 3,000 hectares of mangroves on government land are expected to be transferred to us in the new year, with a major chunk of about 1,400 hectares being in Vasai-Virar, 900 hectares at the Jawaharlal Nehru port in Uran and another 800 or so hectares scattered across other bodies,” Tiwari said. As per data shared by the state forest department, a total of 715,352 mangrove saplings were planted on 161.47 hectares of degraded land across Maharashtra’s coastal districts in 2021. This restoration drive is slated to continue between 2022 and 2026, with 3100 hectares of mangrove swamps slotted for plantation work in this period with the aid of the Green Climate Fund of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), of which the forest department has already received ₹4.7 crore. “Further tranches will be released once we have finished spending the initial installment,” said Tiwari. BN Kumar, a Navi Mumbai-based activist, who has been campaigning for better protection of mangroves in and around Uran, said that the area of pending takeover could be much more than 3,000 hectares. “The forest department is yet to consider mangroves under Navi Mumbai SEZ which are huge. They have not yet asked the consortium for information on mangrove cover, even though the land belongs to CIDCO, which has an ownership stake in the SEZ. So those lands are government lands, and the mangroves should rightly be brought under the ambit of the Forest Act. Our request to the chief minister has been referred to the environment and forest departments for action,” said Kumar, who runs the NGO NatConnect Foundation. BOX: Total mangrove cover in Maharashtra: 32,000 hectares Area under Section 4 of Indian Forest Act, 1927: 16,984 hectares Area brought under Section 4 of the IFA (1927) in 2021: 2,427 hectares Area under Section 20 of IFA (1927): 11,549 hectares Area brought under Section 20 of IFA (1927) in 2021: 9,785 hectares Area yet to be brought under IFA (1927): Estimated 3,000 hectares Mangrove area handed over to forest department by other government agencies in 2021: 1,810 hectares Mangrove area proposed to be restored in five years: 3,100 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/53-of-state-s-mangrove-area-now-legally-a-forest-101641048599993.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Vashi police arrest 2 transwomen for snatching purse with Rs42K cash||Vashi police have arrested two transwomen for robbing a woman in a SUV of ₹42,000 under the pretext of blessing her. The duo was arrested from Sion- Koliwada on Friday.Vaishali Shinde from Vashi was travelling to Nerul via Palm Beach Road on Thursday afternoon when the two transwomen at the CitiBank signal at Sector 17, Vashi, approached her SUV and knocked the window glass to offer their blessings. Shinde took her purse out to take out cash when the duo snatched the purse containing ₹42,000 cash and fled.“The complainant looked for the duo but couldn’t find them and then registered a case with us. We found CCTV footage of the duo getting into a taxi. We traced the taxi and interrogated the driver and found that the two were residents of Sion-Koliwada from where they were nabbed,” a police officer from Vashi police station said.The accused were identified as Rafiqa Allahbaksh Khan (22) and Meenakshi Maasagar (30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vashi-police-arrest-2-transwomen-for-snatching-purse-with-rs42k-cash-101641047699776.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi starts 2022 with over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases, one fresh death||Delhi started the new year by recording a huge surge of 2,716 fresh Covid-19 cases, as many as 920 more than yesterday's 1,796, health bulletin data showed. This is the biggest jump in single-day case count in the national capital since May 21 when 3,009 infections were logged amid the second wave of the pandemic. The cumulative tally of the city now stands at 14,50,927.The case positivity rate of Delhi has touched a worrying 3.44%, which is also the highest since May 21 when it was 4.76%. Notably, the case positivity rate has been consistently witnessing an increase with it being 2.44% on Friday and 1.73% on Thursday.The national capital also confirmed the first death due to coronavirus in 2022, thereby taking its death toll to 25,108, according to the health bulletin data. Delhi logged as many as nine deaths last month, which was the highest monthly toll in four months.The only good sign that remains is the rising daily recoveries. On Saturday, Delhi reported a total of 765 new recoveries as opposed to 467 on Friday and 423 on Thursday. The total number of patients recovered from the virus has climbed to 14,19,459.Also Read | 'Highest ever surge in world': Centre asks states to set up makeshift hospitalsOwing to rapid growth in single-day cases, containment zones in Delhi has also been seeing sharp rise. On Saturday, the numbers rose to 1,243 as against 914 on the preceding day. The number of occupied beds in hospitals also increased to 247 on the first day of the year from 226 on Friday and 189 on Thursday.The health bulletin specified that these beds also comprise patients, who are suspect cases of Covid-19. On Friday, the Centre and the ICMR asked all states and Union territories (UTs) to test every individual with fever with/without cough, bodyache, fatigue, recent loss of taste or smell, sore throat, headache and diarrhoea as symptoms. The government also stated that these people should be considered as a suspect case of Covid-19.Delhi is currently under a yellow alert as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in which all educational institutions, cinemas and gyms have been shut down. Furthermore, restaurants, bars, buses and metros have been directed to function at 50% seating capacity. There is also a night curfew between 10pm and 5am.The spike comes amid the Omicorn outbreak that has so far been detected in more than 20 states and UTs in India. Of the total 1,431 Omicron cases confirmed in the country, Delhi has the second spot with 351 infections, behind Maharashtra's 454.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-starts-2022-with-over-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-one-fresh-death-101641043296700.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Delta still the dominant strain in December samples||PUNE According to officials, out of the 435 samples that have been genome sequenced at various Pune labs, only 13 samples have tested positive for the Omicron variant while others have tested positive for the Delta variant or its sub-lineages. While hundreds of samples are still to be sequenced and are in process, experts say that if the doubling rate of the city goes at about two-and-a-half-days as it is happening in the UK and other countries, it would be evident that Omicron has become dominant. However, as of now, based on the genome sequencing results, it is clear that Delta still appears to be dominant in Pune. These samples are selected randomly of Covid-19 positive patients through community surveillance who do not necessarily have foreign travel history or have come in contact with any such person who has travelled to affected countries. A senior doctor at BJ Medical College requesting anonymity said, “Out of the 339 samples which IISER genome sequenced from Covid-19 positive patients from Pune, only seven tested positive for Omicron whereas of the 96 which BJ Medical College sequenced, only six tested positive for the new variant. Rest of the samples tested positive for either the delta variant or its sub-lineages. All these samples were selected randomly through community surveillance and date from December 1 to 31. We can safely say that even now the Delta variant is very much dominant and that Omicron, although present in the community, is not very widespread.”Pune has various centres which are involved in genome sequencing- Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Centre (IISER), BJ Medical College, National Institute of Virology (NIV) and National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS) which are also part of the PuneCOG initiative which focus on sequencing samples from Pune and INSACOG initiative which sequence samples from across the country.Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of Microbiology Department at BJ Government Medical College said, “Although Omicron is being reported, Delta continues to remain dominant as evident from the sequencing results. It is crucial to remember the Sars-CoV-2 continues to mutate and so each new variant of concern brings a new challenge, however, as far the new variant is only simmering and does not explode it is fine. Once the virus spreads and explodes in its distribution among the public no matter how mild it is seen today, the sheer rise in numbers will add load on the already exhausted health machinery. It will add pressure on the oxygen and drug requirements and the manpower at the hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delta-still-the-dominant-strain-in-december-samples-101641045006405.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Covid vax drive gains pace, 1.84 mn doses administered in Pune dist in December||PUNE As the Covid-19 cases is increasing, Pune district is reporting more vaccinations. After a drop in vaccinations in October and November, more doses were administered in December last year, as per data available on the Co-WIN dashboard.In December more than 1,844,000 doses were administered in the Pune district as per the data available on the Co-WIN dashboard. Almost 104% of the population is vaccinated with the first dose and 75% of the eligible population is now vaccinated with both doses.Currently, Pune district is in the second spot in the state in terms of vaccinating the eligible population, while Mumbai stands in the first place.“As the threat of Omicron is looming, the flow of people at the vaccination centres has increased. In the last two months (October-November) response had dropped, but now people have started taking their shots,” said additional district health officer Dr Abhay Tidke, Pune Zilla Parishad.As per the numbers available on the Co-WIN portal in August and September almost 1.75 million and 2.55 million doses were administered in the district respectively. But this response dropped in the subsequent months. In October and November, almost 1.6 million and 1.1 million doses were administered respectively. With more than 1.8 million doses being administered in December, vaccination again gained pace. One more contributing factor for the rise in the numbers is the targeted efforts by the administration to encourage people to get the jab and to remove vaccine hesitancy.“Now we are tracking those who are eligible for the second dose. As new beneficiaries are coming up the numbers are updated. Some beneficiaries hesitate in taking the second dose. So, in our blocks and in our health facilities, we have prepared the lists of beneficiaries who are due and they are distributed in the centres where they had taken the first dose. We have arranged call centres and daily one call is made to them to take a second dose. But some of these people have migrated or are now in different districts,” said Dr Tidke.The overall vaccination number in the state has also increased in December. As per Co-WIN 19,144,408, vaccine doses were administered in the state in December. And 87.16% eligible population in the state has received the first dose and 57% of the eligible population has received both of the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-vax-drive-gains-pace-1-84-mn-doses-administered-in-pune-dist-in-december-101641044759953.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||443 cases registered in Thane for traffic violations on New Year eve||Thane traffic police have registered 443 cases of traffic rule flouters on the New Year eve on Friday while no accidents were reported.Thirty six teams were formed to take action against those who violated the traffic rules.Police officials said on Saturday that 443 people fined on December 31 with the latest fine system were less compared to the last few years.Till Saturday morning, 297 challans were issued for drunk-driving, 131 for dangerous driving, 15 for riding triples. On the eve of 2021 New Year’s Day, Thane police had registered 623 cases of drunk-driving while in the preceding year, the corresponding number was 1,673.Last year, even though there was a strict lockdown, more cases were registered. Officials claimed that the reduction in the number of December 31 cases is due to strict action taken by police since December 1 and also an increase in the fine amount.Balasaheb Patil, DCP (traffic), Thane, said, “These cases are registered across all the five zones of Thane. We had 36 teams standing at every important point. Also, we had done an awareness campaign on December 30 about increased traffic fines and that one should follow rules. Continued vigilance and strict action across December helped reduce the cases.” Also, adequate security arrangements had been put in place on New Year eve to implement the guidelines issued by the government keeping in view the spread of Covid, police added.Meanwhile, in Navi Mumbai, no untoward incident was reported within the limits of Navi Mumbai police commissionerate on New Year eve.With tight police bandobast, 44 drunk drivers were caught while 1,691 motorists were penalised for flouting various traffic norms including driving without wearing seatbelt, riding without a helmet and rash driving.“Bandobast was there at all major checkpoints. We also had nakabandi at various places,” DCP (traffic), Purushottam Karad, said.Panvel municipal commissioner, Ganesh Deshmukh, and his staff had also got on to the road for penalising the Covid rule violators. Action was taken against establishments that were crowded and those that continued to operate even after the stipulated time. Citizens who crowded public places and did not wear masks were also penalised.On December 29, a fine of ₹95,000 was recovered by the police. The fine amounts on December 30 and 31 were ₹1.87 lakh and ₹2.52 lakh, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/443-cases-registered-in-thane-for-traffic-violations-on-new-year-eve-101641044699848.html
01-01-2022||Pune||5.33 lakh in 15-18 years group eligible for Covid vaccination in Pune district||PUNE Starting from January 3, the Pune district administration will start vaccinating children aged between 15-18 years who have been made eligible for the first time, exactly a year after the government began vaccinating the adult population in multiple phases. A total of 533,000 teenagers are eligible to get the Covaxin dose, of which, 169,000 are in Pune city. The administration claims to have enough stock of the Covaxin and can get more stocks if required as promised by the state government, However, private hospitals are yet to be permitted to get the stock to vaccinate the younger population.Dr Sanjay Deshmuh, deputy health officer, Pune said, “We estimate that there are about 5.33 lakh eligible beneficiaries in the district and as of now we have about 2.5 lakh doses of Covaxin. We can get more stock if required. Those wishing to take the vaccine can show either an Aadhar card or a school or college issued identity card at the vaccination centres. We have about 40 centres in Pune city, 12 in PCMC and 25 in Pune rural. Out of the 5.33 lakh eligible beneficiaries, 2.51 lakh are from Pune rural, 1.69 lakh are from Pune city and 1.12 lakh from PCMC. We have allowed both online registration through the Co-Win app and also walk-in registration to make it smoother. The second dose needs to be taken after 28 days, which is in the next month, so hopefully we will be able to vaccinate this age group much faster than the other age categories.”Pune city has about 169,228 kids who are eligible to take the vaccine and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be operating 40 centres which will be dedicated for this age group at each of the 15 wards in the city. All beneficiaries born before 2007 are eligible to get the shot. However private hospitals would not be able to start the vaccination as they are yet to get the permission for the same. Dr H K Sale, executive director at Noble Hospital said, “Private hospitals are yet to get the permission to start vaccination for beneficiaries and also only limited hospitals would have the Covaxin stock with them. So unless the government permits us and gives us enough stock we would not be able to vaccinate the younger population.” Dr Suryakant Deokar, Civic immunisation officer said, “We assume that there are close to two lakh beneficiaries aged 15-18 years, and also 50,000 and one lakh of the floating population as most students from other districts come to the city for education purposes. They only need to show their id cards issued by the college or school which would be enough for vaccination.” BOXHeadline: Shots for minorsStrapline: 15-18 age group to get Covaxin from January 3Pune district vaccination targetDistrict projected population 15yr to 18yr age (4.7%)Pune rural (47%) 5,348,881 251,397 PMC (32%) 3,600,594 169,228 PCMC (21%) 2,404,188 112,997PUNE district 11,353,663 533,622*Source: Pune circle health departmentNumber of vaccination centresPune city: 40PCMC: 12 Pune rural: 25What documents are needed?-All the beneficiaries can register themselves through existing Co-WIN or walk-in at vaccination centres-Beneficiaries can show either an Aadhar card or a school or college issued identity card at the vaccination centres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/533-lakh-in-15-18-years-group-eligible-for-covid-vaccination-in-pune-district-101641043745787.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body to revamp Sagar Vihar in Vashi as proper tourist spot||In an effort to make Sagar Vihar along the Vashi creek a proper tourist spot, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has undertaken a major revamp of the area.Once a happening place of the satellite city, this area has been lying neglected for the past two-and-a-half decades. The NMMC has now allocated a budget of ₹1.50Cr to revamp it so that the area can pull the crowd like earlier.Arvind Shinde, executive engineer of NMMC said, “The land of that area earlier belonged to CIDCO and hence we were unable to do anything there. Recently, CIDCO transferred the land to us, and accordingly, we planned to give it a facelift. Apart from the main entrance, we will develop stamped concrete pathways (in an area of 1,500sqm) so that the local residents come and walk there. We will barricade the entire area and then plant bamboo trees as partitions. The space between every two partitions will be turned into landscaping areas.“We are also planning to develop two pergolas where the residents can come and sit in their leisure time. Those will be developed in such a way that the entire area can also be used as an amphitheatre, and different programmes can be held there,” he said.Divya Vaibhav Gaikwad, the local corporator of the area, said that there will also be a sculpture near the main entrance that will show a child right from its birth till old age. For the entertainment of the children, there will also be a fountain.Gaikwad said, “In the 1980s and the early 1990s, a private company used to operate a hovercraft at Sagar Vihar and people used to enjoy the rides. That area was well maintained then. When NMMC came into existence in the early 1990s, CIDCO stopped paying attention there and the company also stopped the rides citing poor responses. Despite having resources, NMMC was unable to develop it as CIDCO was the owner of the land. We had been following it up for several years, and two CIDCO MDs and five NMMC commissioners changed during that time. Finally, CIDCO agreed to transfer the land to NMMC.“Once NMMC develops the area, we will approach the authorities concerned and request them to restart water taxis. CIDCO has recently developed a jetty in Belapur for running water taxis between Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. So, we will try to do something similar in Vashi also in the second phase.”
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation begins to identify roads for safety audit through IIT Mumbai||In the coming years, the roads in Kalyan and Dombivli will be more pedestrian-friendly and safe for motorists, claimed the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). The civic body has started identifying the roads for safety audit through IIT Mumbai.For the first time, KDMC has decided to audit the roads in the city to make it safer for citizens, as every year the roads develop numerous potholes during monsoon.“This initiative by the civic body is to learn more about the roads and make it safer for the people. The audit will help give a deeper insight about the roads and take necessary steps for the future,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.Primarily, a team of IIT Mumbai would work in identifying such roads in the city that need a detailed audit. To identify such roads, the team is awaiting the data records of road accidents of the last two to three years in Kalyan-Dombivli from the police.“Based on the data, we can see which roads have a large number of accidents and accordingly will help identify the roads that require detailed audit. We are waiting for the records to be given to us. Once we get them, further audit work will be conducted,” said a representative of IIT Bombay.The KDMC has appointed IIT Mumbai as consultant for road safety audit for which the work order was given on March 19, 2020 for the duration of one year. However, due to the Covid pandemic-led lockdown, the work was delayed. The institute has now commenced the work for audit.A total of ₹7lakh is being spent for the safety audit of the roads.Earlier, in KDMC limits, several accidents due to potholes were reported following which residents and activists have demanded safer roads in the city. In July 2018, a 26-year-old Kalpesh Jadhav died due to potholes at the Gandhari Bridge in Kalyan. Jadhav, a resident of Nandkar village, Bhiwandi, was crushed under a trailer after he fell off his bike because of the pothole.“There are several roads in Kalyan and Dombivli that are cement-concretised and are safe during monsoon as they don’t develop potholes. Asphalt roads are unsafe as they have numerous potholes every year during the rainy days. Concretisation of most of the roads will help make it safer for the motorists,” said Anuj Patil, a 27-year-old resident of Manpada, Dombivli.SCOPE OF ROAD AUDIT*** Analysis and identification of road sections in KDMC area and intersection for safety audit.*** Detailed road safety audit of intersection/road length adopting best international safety audit practice and giving recommendations for safety improvement. *** To issue final certification about the work carried out as per recommendations.ROAD DETAILS IN KDMC LIMITS440km: Total length of road 55km: Cement concrete road385km: Asphalt roads35km: Roads in Dombivli MIDC proposed for concretisation, work to be carried out by MMRDAPOTHOLES – DEATH TRAPSJuly 13, 2018 : A 26-year-old Kalpesh Jadhav died because of a pothole at Gandhari Bridge in Kalyan. Jadhav, a resident of Nandkar village, Bhiwandi, was crushed under a trailer after he fell off his bike due to the pothole.July 11, 2018: A 45-year-old man died after he was crushed under a truck at Dwarli Naka at Haji Malang Road. Anna (name as per police records) was a worker at a cow stable. Passers-by said he fell after stumbling on potholes and the truck behind ran over him. The Hill Line police arrested the truck driver, Nasim Mohammand Jai khan, 45, and booked him for rash and negligent driving.July 10, 2018 : A 40-year-old passenger, Haneef Shaikh, died and four others were injured after a truck toppled on an auto rickshaw at Kongaon, Bhiwandi. The Kongaon police officials claimed that the truck lost balance due to the potholes at Kongaon on the Kalyan- Bhiwandi Bypass Road.July 8, 2018: A 40-year-old Manisha Bhoir, an attendant at a Kalyan-based school, was crushed under a bus while riding pillion at Shivaji Chowk in Kalyan (W).June 2, 2018 : Five-year-old Aarav Atharvale died after his father’s bike skidded between Shivaji Chowk and Sahajanand Chowk in Kalyan. Aarav came under the wheels of a truck. Pedestrians claimed that the bike lost control due to the uneven road at the chowk. 
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation fire department received 25% fewer calls in 2021||There were 25% fewer calls for fire accidents reported in 2021 as compared to the previous year. While the fire department received 1,688 calls in 2021, it had received 2,227 calls in 2020.Fire officials from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation claimed that due to the pandemic, most of the industries and companies were shut down in 2020 and hence the fire incidents reported were more.“Lack of people’s presence in the industries was the main reason for the higher number of incidents as there was no one to look after the maintenance of the equipment and also to douse the fire at the beginning itself. With complete lockdown, there was a lack of inspection by the fire department as well,” chief fire officer, Shirish Aradwad, said.Apart from fire incidents, fire stations receive various calls of rescue, emergency and during accidents. “Any incident that requires saving a life or property, fire stations can be called. We do not take any calls lightly and do our best to reach the spot immediately,” a fire officer said.In cases of accidents, when a person is stuck inside a vehicle or when a heavy vehicle turns turtle, fire stations are informed. “We are also called to rescue birds and animals that are probably stuck somewhere and are unable to move. Instances where there is an oil spillage or a chemical spillage, where vehicles tend to skid, we take those incidents as emergencies. Cases of gas leakage or rescuing a person who would have jumped into water are also considered as emergencies. During monsoon, when trees fall and block roads, we are informed, after which we remove the barrier from the road,” the officer added.Fire officers are called for help even in instances of spotting poisonous reptiles. Domestic issues like LPG gas leak or a toddler locking himself in a room are also taken to the fire department.Of the total 1,688 such calls reported in 2021 at the fire stations, the highest number was reported in Nerul with 404 incidents followed by Vashi with 400 incidents. Airoli reported 342 incidents, CBD had 296 and Koparkhairane, 246.Of the total incidents, 596 were for fire, 543 were for rescue, 30 for emergency, one for accident and 518 were other servicesMeanwhile in 2020, a total of 2,227 calls were made to the five fire stations in Navi Mumbai. Of these, 566 were for fire incidents, 567 for rescue, 53 for emergency, 1,035 for other services and six for accidents. Of the 566 fire incidents, 146 were reported in Vashi, 131 in Nerul, 114 in Airoli, 98 in Koparkhairane and 77 in CBD Belapur.Currently, NMMC has five fire motor bikes, five mini-water tenders, five rescue tenders, four fire jeeps, one ambulance, one 68-metre brinto skylift, two water tankers, two water bowsers and four X-type fire tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-fire-department-received-25-fewer-calls-in-2021-101641042599543.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Omicron threat affects passenger traffic at Pune airport||PUNE The passenger footfall which was expected to cross 28,000 to 30,000 after 24 hours operations resumed on December 1 at Pune international airport remained below 24,000 as the Omicron threat prevented many flyers to cancel their New Year vacation plans.Many flights as well which were supposed to schedule for new destinations did not commence operations.From December 1, 24x7 flight operation resumed at the Pune international airport which was put on halt since October 2020 due to runway re-carpeting work.As of now, 70 flights are operational daily with passenger footfall reaching 22,500 on December 24 while on December 23 it was 20,450. On December 20 it was 20,443.“The passenger traffic has reached around 20,000 on a daily basis. When 24 hours operation started, we were expecting numbers to go somewhere near 30,000 but due to the Omicron threat many flights for new destinations were cancelled and many people cancelled the travelling plans as well,” said an official from the Pune airport.The officials were expecting 90 flights after 24 hours of operation.“The number has still not gone above 70, steadily it is increasing. Many airlines are still not starting flights for new places as different travelling restrictions are placed in different states and once everything is normal, we will see flight numbers going up,” he said.In pre-Covid days the airport has seen passenger footfall of, 28,000-30,000 passengers in a day.“Now let’s see how the situation of Covid 19 improves, once it is normal, we will see a surge in flyers as well as flight,” added the official.Ritesh Loda, a flyer, said, “We have to deal with long check-in queues in Pune so many are still avoiding night flights from the city as they have to wait for longer duration as compared to other airports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-threat-affects-passenger-traffic-at-pune-airport-101641039779309.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Politicos appeal to municipal commissioner to shut schools in Pune amid surge in Covid cases||PUNE Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, elected members from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have appealed to the municipal commissioner to shut down schools.Republican party of India (RPI) leader and former deputy mayor Siddharth Dhende, who is also a medical doctor, has written to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and the education officer and requested to shut schools citing safety concerns.Dhende said, “From the past one week there is a surge in Covid-19 cases. Kids are more vulnerable as they have not received the Covid-19 vaccine yet. By considering this instead of waiting for state guidelines, the municipal corporation needs to make a decision at the local level.””I spoke with various officers and they too agree with the same. If the kids get infected in large numbers, it will create panic, by considering that quick steps are expected,” he said.An official from the municipal administration on anonymity said that they have discussed the issue with the municipal commissioner. It is decided to brief the political leadership about it and a decision will be taken soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/politicos-appeal-to-municipal-commissioner-to-shut-schools-in-pune-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101641039539236.html
01-01-2022||Other||Gurugram civic body to reactivate Covid measures||In the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday decided to reactivate its Covid-19 measures such as restarting its control room, collecting biomedical waste on designated days, and sanitising public areas across the city.The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by additional municipal commissioner Dr Vaishali Sharma, the civic body said in a statement.According to MCG officials, until June 2021, the MCG’s control room in Sector 39 was primarily used for contact tracing, biomedical waste was collected at least two times in a week from a locality, and a seven-member team was designated per crematorium to bury or burn bodies of Covid-19 victims, and sanitisation of over 450 residential and public areas in the city.Each of these operations will now be restarted, said the officials.“As before, MCG will handle these (aforementioned) responsibilities. Nodal officers will also be appointed in due time for handling Covid victims’ bodies, and for mass sanitisation drives,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.Following the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April, the MCG had started operating each of these measures with less than 10% of its usual staff strength and deputed officials to other civic roles.Gurugram has been witnessing a steady rise in the Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. On December 1 this year, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city since the start of the pandemic stood at 181,709, with only 67 active cases. On December 30, the district had 182,682 Covid-19 cases, with 660 active cases, according to the data from the district health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-civic-body-to-reactivate-covid-measures-101641038519165.html
01-01-2022||Other||Nuh cops arrest man for killing 11-year-old boy in Rajasthan||The Nuh police have arrested a 20-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping and murdering an 11-year-old boy who went missing on August 24 from Pinagwan village in Nuh. The suspect, Arif who is a resident of the same village, was arrested on Wednesday, police said, adding that the skeletal remains of the boy’s body were recovered from Rajasthan’s Alwar. According to police, the victim, a class six student, had gone for tuition on August 24 and never returned home. His parents found that some money was missing from the almirah and complained to police and a missing report was lodged at Pinagwan police station on August 26, police said. Shamsher Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Punhana, said that the boy’s father had sold a plot for about ₹4 lakh. “The boy initially stole ₹50,000 and used the money for shopping and partying with his friends. He also told his friends who were senior to him that there was more money kept in the house. His friends conspired and planned to encourage him to steal money and flee with him to another city,” he said. Police were tracking locations of two suspects who were frequently travelling from Pinagwan village to other cities and found the location in the village on Tuesday following which teams were formed and he was arrested from his house, said the officer. Singh said that the suspect revealed during questioning that he, along with his friend, lured the victim to Gurugram and later boarded a bus for Haridwar where they spent a week. “From Haridwar, they went to Rajasthan’s Sariska where they both strangulated the boy and fled to Mumbai,” he said. Police said the suspects regularly kept visiting the village so that no one could suspect them but a few villagers had last seen the boy with them and had informed his father following which he asked police to arrest them. Singh said two police teams were sent to a spot near Sariska in Alwar to collect DNA samples. Police said the suspects spent ₹3.70 lakh in these months on travelling. Raees Khan, father of the victim, said, “The suspects used to often visit our house and were friends of my son. But now they are the killers. All this happened just for money,” he said. Singh said they are conducting raids to arrest the second suspect who keeps changing his locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nuh-cops-arrest-man-for-killing-11-year-old-boy-in-rajasthan-101641037558957.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||Event management pro arrested for making obscene video calls to woman in Kalyan||The issue of misuse of technology for criminal activities is once again in the spotlight after the Mahatma Phule Chowk police arrested an event management professional for allegedly making obscene video calls using international virtual number software.Initially conceived for businesses that need to make a large number of calls on a daily basis for purposes of sales and marketing, international virtual number software generates random mobile numbers that flash on the recipient’s caller id. The idea behind the technology was for the business owners to avoid revealing their personal numbers, but, as with all technology, cybercriminals quickly realised its value and started using it to mask their identity while committing crimes.According to police officials, the victim registered a complaint with them on December 29 last year. In her statement, the victim said that she had been getting obscene messages and video calls from multiple unknown numbers from December 12, and that the offender was covering the camera to hide his face during the video calls. The police registered a case against unknown persons and started investigating based on all the numbers from which the victim had received the calls and messages.“We realised that the accused was using virtual international number software in order to hide his identity. Hence, we sought assistance from Thane cyber cell and, using technical investigation methods, identified the cellular as well as internet service provider whose services were being used by the accused. We contacted both the service providers and sought details of the Internet Protocol (IP) address that the accused was using,” senior police inspector Ashok Honmane, Mahatma Phule Chowk police station, said.Using these details, the police identified the accused as Gurdeepsingh Khalsa (27), a resident of the Ulhasnagar Camp No. 5. The accused was picked up from his residence on December 30 and, during questioning, allegedly confessed to having committed the crime.“The accused works in the event management industry. He shoots videos with various female models and uploads them on his YouTube channel. The accused has said that he had approached the victim as he wanted to shoot a fashion video with her. But, she had refused, which had angered him. Hence, he started to make obscene calls and send obscene messages to her,” Honmane said.Khalsa was placed under arrest and charged with outraging a woman’s modesty. He was produced in court and remanded in police custody till January 2. Police are finding out if he has targetted other women in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/event-management-pro-arrested-for-making-obscene-video-calls-to-woman-in-kalyan-101641037138924.html
01-01-2022||Delhi||Time to read the fine print of consumer law to punish unfair trade practices||New Delhi: The hospitalisation of 16 children and the death of three of them, following administration of a cough syrup containing dextromethorphan during September-October this year in Delhi and another equally tragic incident involving 15 children and the death of nine of them in Jammu and Kashmir last year from an adulterated cough expectorant, throw up serious questions about the safety and efficacy of cough medications for children. It also brings to the fore the need to hold pharmaceutical companies accountable under the Consumer Protection Act too and force them to pay hefty compensation and punitive damages to the victims, in addition to prosecution under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.I will discuss the safety and efficacy of these cough medications in another column, but this week, I wish to emphasise the urgent need for payment of adequate compensation to the families, whose children suffered the consequences of consumption of these cough preparations - both in J&K and in Delhi. And I would urge the consumer affairs ministry in both the states (or at the Centre) which are empowered to take up such class action suits on behalf of consumers, to immediately seek the intervention of the consumer courts. In fact the Consumer Protection Act provides for just such contingencies by defining a ‘consumer’ as not just an individual consumer or a voluntary consumer organisation, but also the central government, any state government and the central authority.Unfortunately, most state governments are not even aware of this provision , that paves the way for such petitions to be filed by governments on behalf of victims of unsafe products and services. This compensation is very different from what the governments may give as ex-gratia and is basically meant to hold the wrong doer accountable for violations of the rights of consumers, particularly the right to safe goods and services. It is for this reason that the law also provides for award of punitive damages. The compensation package of course should be worked out in such a way that it should serve as a deterrent to companies that take consumer safety lightly and play with the lives of children. In the Udhampur case, for example, the cough syrup Coldbest –PC manufactured by Digital Vision, Himachal Pradesh, was found to be contaminated with the nephrotoxic chemical Diethylene Glycol, leading to the recall of the drug from eight states in the beginning of last year. Subsequently in August, 2020, another cough syrup-Cofset AT manufactured by the same company was ordered to be recalled following a case of renal failure in a child.What is most shocking here is that the pharmaceutical company did not do due diligence before releasing the cough syrup into the market. And this is inexcusable given the fact that the extreme toxicity of Diethylene Glycol is well documented. In fact there have been mass poisoning cases from this chemical around the world. In the United States, the death of over 100 patients in 1937 from consumption of Elixir Sulfanamide containing diethylene glycol, led to the birth of their law on drug safety. India too has had its share of DG deaths, perhaps the last one being in 1998, when 36 children aged between two months and six years were admitted to two hospitals in Delhi with symptoms of acute renal failure caused by Diethylene Glycol contamination of a cough expectorant . As many as 33 children died as a result.In the Delhi cough syrup tragedy, the Delhi government is inquiring into whether the incidents were caused on account of sub-standard cough syrup or it was a case of drug overdosing. The Director General of Health Services, union health ministry, in the meanwhile has recommended that the cough suppressant Dextromethorphan manufactured by Omega Pharma be withdrawn in larger public interest. It has also warned that cough syrup dextromethorphan should not be prescribed for children below four years of age. Here again, depending on the report of the inquiry, those responsible for the suffering of the sixteen children will have to be held accountable under the consumer protection law too and made to pay hefty compensation. Meanwhile, parents have to be educated on the side effects of these medications. We in India have for long used natural remedies for cough and cold, particularly in children. These need to be nurtured, propagated and practised.
01-01-2022||Delhi||Cheers 2022! Delhi-NCR’s resolutions are aligned with the #NewNormal||The pandemic has changed people’s lifestyles in more ways than one can imagine. And as we enter a new year with a toast to a better, safer life, residents of Delhi-NCR tell us about their resolutions for 2022, and how their promises for this year have been influenced by the health crisis in the world. For the greater good Ashita Oberoi, a home chef in Kalkaji, is motivated to do her bit for society. “Last year, I devoted myself to Covid-19 patients and their care. I cooked for them and their families, and did whatever I could to make them comfortable. This year, I plan to connect with NGOs and help feed people. My aim is if I am cooking food for someone, I want to donate 50 extra meal boxes to an NGO that serves food to the underprivileged. I am already part of a group where I get leads for those who need help near my location. I resolve to help as much as I can,” Oberoi shares.Making mental health a priority Nancy Awasthi, a homemaker from CR Park, says she has realised the importance of taking it easy and focusing on her mental well-being. “After being at home for a year, I have realised that I don’t have to indulge in the social requirement of going to parties! I love taking care of my family, and being at peace with my decision to be at home is something I resolve to do this year,” she adds.Safety over socialising Meanwhile, Shubham Kumar, a software developer from Noida, aims to not take any risks with Covid-19 this year. “Most public places, like malls, are going to be not so accessible in the days to come. And even when they are, I plan to keep away to avoid any chance of infection. I had refused all New Year get-togethers as well. I’ll limit my physical interactions this year to just my close family members, in order to keep them safe. We continue to be a huge support for each other during the pandemic,” says Kumar.Cooking it up Dhruv Deshwal, a student from Indirapuram, realised his love for cooking during the second lockdown. “2021 was a revelation for me and I was surprised to discover that I enjoy cooking. Lately, I haven’t been able to cook much as I have been busy with college and stuff. However, I resolve to go back to cooking at least once every three-four days as it is quite therapeutic for me,” Deshwal says.Local trips FTW!“International trips plan hi nahin karne,” says Shifali Gupta, a finance associate from GTB Nagar. “I had a baby last year and my life revolves around him now. Due to Omicron and the rising spread of Covid-19, we will look for travel places within the city, like museum walks and picnic spots, once it’s allowed. Just spending time together with family,” she says.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cheers-2022-delhi-ncr-s-resolutions-are-aligned-with-the-newnormal-101641036179138.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM threatens dharna against governor over delay in clearing Bill||In an unprecedented move, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday threatened to stage a sit-in against Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit for not clearing the Bill for regularising the services of 36,000 contractual employees in the state.Addressing a press conference on completing 100 days in office, chief minister Channi claimed that Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tewari had met the governor twice to get the file cleared but no action was taken.Channi said that he had also met Purohit on the issue so that the services of the employees could be regularised, but in vain.“The governor is holding the file under pressure from the BJP-led central government. This is sheer politics. I will meet him again on Monday along with my cabinet colleagues and if he still does not clear the file, I’ll sit on dharna,” the chief minister said.The Punjab cabinet had decided to regularise the services of the 36,000 employees working on contract in November.After passing it, the government sent The Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill to the governor for his assent in the first week of December.Free travel for college, university studentsThe chief minister also announced free travel for students of colleges and universities from Saturday and declared that they can avail the facility by showing the identity cards issued by their educational institutions.“The students can make the bus pass before March 31. By that time, they can avail this service using their identity cards,” Channi announced. He said 25,000 flats will be built and handed over to the economically weaker sections at nominal rates.“Whatever we have done in 100 days is more than what the previous dispensation (led by Capt Amarinder Singh) did in four-and-a-half years,” he added.
01-01-2022||Pune||Know about startup news in Pune||Bajaj Auto announces EV manufacturing unit at Akurdi Bajaj Auto Limited has announced an investment of ₹300 crore and commenced work at a new unit at Akurdi for manufacturing electric vehicles (EV). The unit will have a production capacity of 500,000 EVs per annum. The first vehicle from this unit is expected to roll out by June 2022. The new unit will have cutting-edge robotic and automated manufacturing systems for everything including logistics and material handling, fabrication and painting, assembly and quality assurance. It is spread over half a million sq ft and will employ about 800 personnel. The investments made by Bajaj Auto will be supplemented by a number of vendors, who will invest a further ₹250 crore. Rajiv Bajaj, managing director, Bajaj Auto Ltd said, “Light electric vehicles for sustainable urban mobility is an idea whose time may finally have come. This investment at Akurdi completes the virtuous cycle of hi-tech R&D competencies, high-efficiency engineering capabilities, world class supply chain synergies, and global distribution network which should leapfrog us into a market leading position in EVs in India and overseas.” Deepak Shikarpur conferred with ‘Maharashtrachi Girishikhare’ award On the occasion of diamond jubilee of Maharashtra state, Governor Bhagatsingh Koshyari recognised personalities from all over the state excelling in several fields with ‘Maharashtrachi Girishikhare’ award. IT entrepreneur and author Deepak Shikarpur was awarded by Governor Koshyari for his contribution in IT Sector. Shikarpur helped IT professionals and students in last two years and established them in careers. He has authored 43 books on IT and has conducted several talk shows and career seminars all over the state. We Founder Circle leads seed round worth USD 100k in Glii We Founder Circle (WFC) – a founder-backing-founder based early-stage start-up investor — has led seed round worth USD 100K in Glii, a new age dating and companionship app. The startup plans to exhaust funds in enhancing the product. One of the bigger chunks will go in upgrading the technology backbone including the overall look and feel of the app, and additionally building the tech team. Another part of raised funds will be utilised on the brand building. “With this fresh fund infusion, now we can develop a strong second layer of tech in Glii. This fund is going to act like a fuel to the fire,” said Shivam Kaushik, founder, Glii. Neeraj Tyagi, CEO and co-founder, We Founder Circle commented, “As an investor, I feel that if somebody is making an effort to break the stigmas and do a larger good to the society, then he must get undeterred support. Glii is one such model which will patch the existing gaps in the entire concept of finding companionship online.” ZF acquires majority stake in JV with Rane Group ZF has increased its shares to become the majority shareholder with 51 per cent in the Rane TRW Steering Systems joint venture from the Rane Group. Till date, both partners held equal shares in the company, which employs around 3,400 people. In the future, the joint venture will operate on the market under the name ZF Rane Automotive India. “India is a very important market for ZF, and we want to grow sustainably here,” says Holger Klein, member of the board of management (BOM), ZF Group. “By acquiring a majority stake from our long-standing partner Rane, we aim to further expand both our passenger car and commercial vehicle business for our customers in the India region.” Suresh KV, President ZF India Pvt Ltd. stated, “The complementary nature of the partners has been the hallmark of this JV which has resulted in the organisation performing consistently over the years. Supporting the Indian customer base with ZF engineering and technology along with the customer connect and operations excellence of Rane will continue to be the goal of this JV in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/know-about-startup-news-in-pune-101641034679185.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Startup Mantra: Climbing the ladder of startup success as woman entrepreneur||Here is a ‘startup’ from ‘Bharat’ which is neither founded by any IIT-IIM alumni nor it is tech-based with VC backing or angel funding. It is a story of Amruta Vasant Mangale, a 32-year-old married woman from Pune, who pivoted twice to create a company with turnover of ₹5 crore in just two operational years hit by Covid-19 lockdowns and that too in a sector like manufacturing where women-entrepreneurs are uncommon. Launched under the brand name ‘Beestofix’, Amruta has now set her vision to turn her company into a ‘unicorn’ and create 5,000 direct or indirect employment opportunities. In the beginning… Amruta, a native of Indapur tehsil in Pune district, completed her MSc in Organic Chemistry from Pune University (Savitribai Phule Pune University). Her father insisted that she find a job to become financially independent before marriage. Accordingly, Amruta took a job as quality control officer at Sonai Dairy located on Baramati-Indapur road. Says Amruta, “The job was a turning point for me. It taught me how to handle a team and face challenges upfront. Girls, especially from rural areas, are not used to work with boys and lead an all-male group. I took this job as an opportunity to learn leadership and presentation skills. In turn, it also helped me to be more disciplined which later proved beneficial to me in setting up the business.” “Post-marriage, I came to Pune city in 2015. Till then I had never stayed in a city. I told my husband that I want to start working again and he too supported me. Since I was new to the city, I decided to travel alone and get to know the city and simultaneously looked for job opportunities. I kept on searching for job till 2016 but could not get one. I consider myself lucky in the sense that if had got a job I would have never thought of becoming an entrepreneur,” Amruta said. Restlessness Amruta was becoming restless at home as she knew that going ahead age would not be on her side if she starts late. When Amruta expressed her wish of starting a business, her husband and father-in-law too supported her. “Every woman needs 100 per cent support from her family and in-laws. This is her fundamental right,” asserts Amruta. “While searching for business opportunities, I noticed that CCTV cameras are being installed everywhere, including rural areas and from small shops to big commercial establishments. Since my husband was working in an electronics-based company in Ranjangaon MIDC, I decided to get into electronics services as I could utilise his domain knowledge. I searched on Google and started calling units in Bhosari MIDC to check if they had requirements of CCTV installation or other services,” said Amruta. “My first attempt at doing business was a mix of good and bad experiences. Some trusted me for being a woman while others did not for the same reason. Even today the mindset is not right towards women. Some don’t take us women seriously. I was often asked to confirm with ‘sir’ or ‘husband’ about the final rates for the products being sold. With CCTV installation services, I started my entrepreneurial journey. However, soon I realised that it’s not profitable in real terms. I had inventory stock of ₹1.5 lakh, including cameras, wires, DVR, hard disks, etc. It was a liability and setback for me,” added Amruta. Ecommerce success Amruta started looking for options to get rid of her inventory stock. While searching online, she came across ecommerce platforms which offered a chance of becoming online sellers. “I did not know that we needed only VAT and company name to register on these platforms as sellers,” she says. “We decided to form a company in the name of Hindavi Solution Pvt Ltd and enrolled it on an ecommerce platform. We had to provide inventory stock and estimated delivery period to start selling. I calculated the shipping charges, other costs and profit margins using an Excel sheet and uploaded the product photos on the site. Within a week I got my first order. Tasting success on one platform, Amruta soon enrolled on several other ecommerce platforms and the business took grip,” Amruta said. “I have this ‘never give up’ attitude which has helped me tide over all difficult situation till date. I joined ecommerce platforms in February 2017 and did a business of ₹1.5 lakh in just a quarter. Next year in 2017-18, it went up to ₹13 lakh. It boosted my confidence but the next year in 2018-19 it went down to ₹4 lakh as things took a different turn,” Amruta said. Manufacturing dreams Early success in ecommerce space sparked a debate in Amruta’s home. Amruta wanted to expand her existing business, while her in-laws and husband were of the view that she should dream big and setup a manufacturing plant. But Amruta was clueless about everything – right from what to manufacture, how to setup a plant to how to approach new customers. Says Amruta, “When I visited Bhosari MIDC, I saw several small suppliers providing spare items to big units. I started researching the companies that were functional in industrial areas in and around Pune and opportunities which I could encash. I noticed that packaging industry is big and the tape market is huge within this industry segment. Also, there were not many chemical industries around Pune. There are big companies in Pune who are tape manufacturers but they had to source tape adhesives, etc from out-of-state-located companies. There was no local supplier. Besides this, we made a list of 25 such business opportunities.” Pivot Like many others, Amruta also saw videos on YouTube about setting up companies but soon realised it is not as easy as it is made out to be. Also, some of the businesses they had shortlisted had very less profit margins. “We decided to make a product which is consumable and required in retail as well as industrial sectors. We started studying about adhesives, how they are made and machinery needed to produce it. We also analysed the tape industry, the payment cycle period, inventory costing, profit margins, etc. Companies manufacturing adhesives were not catering to local markets and were export-oriented completely. I sensed a huge opportunity here. I thought if I could look for local companies whose monthly consumption is 50 to 60 tonnes and tap just one tonne of it, then I can setup and get my business running,” Amruta stated. “Setting up an adhesive manufacturing plant is not an easy task. So, we looked for consultants from Pune and Mumbai. Some consultants supported while some sympathised or ridiculed as they thought we could not bear the huge costs involved in the process. One consultant helped me in starting the business on a small scale, but on the condition of complete advance payment. Instead of bulk orders, I paid only for some barrels and supplied those to local companies,” she added. Fresh start As Amruta focussed on the adhesive business opportunity, she lost focus on the ecommerce sales of electronic products and accessories. Amruta says, “I identified a plot in Chimbali area in Moshi and did an agreement with the owner. It was a 4,000 square feet plot and the owner built a shed structure over it. In October 2018, we did the groundbreaking ceremony. I sourced machinery from Nashik, purchased material and finally in January 2019, setup the plant with the help of a consultant.” “When I actually started production under our brand name ‘Beestofix’, I had only one employee and we were able to have only two or three batches of production per month. Companies were not ready to part with their existing suppliers. Numerous customer visits, slowly building trust and initially offering our product free for trial are the things which worked in my favour. But now I have completely stopped giving any free trials and I am proud to have achieved this in just two years. The first production order was delivered on March 30 and second big order was received within 15 days. Since then, we have never looked back,” said Amruta. Explaining the reason behind naming her product as Beestofix, Amruta says, “No one works as hard as a honeybee. The hexagon shaped structure of beehive is the best fixed bond – using least material to hold most weight – known to us and hence we derived the name ‘Beestofix’ from the words bees and best fix.” Customer acquisition Getting large-scale companies as customers was the next big challenge for Amruta. “I used to stand near their production line for hours. Once I demonstrated my product’s efficiency to a customer and they were surprised with the good quality outcome as compared to their earlier suppliers. That was the moment when I got the first big order,” Amruta said. Adding further, she says, “I realised that since most competitors were based out-of-state, I should capitalise on my strengths of prompt after-sales services. Soon, all happy customers started recommending us and the networking effect kicked in.” Diversification Says Amruta, “Once our first product of adhesive stabilised, I realised that we can’t stay put in the market with just single product. We were thinking of adding new product offerings and that’s when our customer themselves showed us the direction. Some customers suggested us to provide with colour pigments or tape colours along with adhesives. I had no clue of what it was, but promised them that soon I will deliver it to them. We did our research and trials and customers were happy with it. Soon, that product too became popular with other customers. We are now getting enquiries from Nashik, Goa, Aurangabad, Bengaluru etc.” Beetofix has also added two new products – printing ink on plastic rolls and adhesives for joining wood – to its range. Covid impact When Covid-19 outbreak started in Pune, Amruta had to shut her plant for two months. “It came as a shock for me personally and was also distracting for my employees. By then I had three employees and they were thinking of going back to their village. However, I requested them to stay back and promised to look after them and their families. I supported them financially and treated them as family. After the restrictions were relaxed, we followed Covid-appropriate behaviour, all sanitisation norms and checked temperature and oxygen levels daily. This benefited me post-Covid a lot,” she stated. Funding Raising capital for business was one of the toughest parts of Amruta’s entrepreneurial journey. She says, “I visited almost all banks to raise funds. Bank officials used to see my tax returns of last three years and either reject the proposal or asked for heavy security, collaterals. Finally, I had to sell all my jewellery, break all FDs and we had to sell our farm to raise funds to setup the manufacturing plant. This entire process was very painful and disappointing, but that’s when I decided that one day these bank officials will come to my company and offer me loan.” While Amruta managed to get the plant ready, she was in need of more funds. That’s when one of their customers asked Amruta to contact Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust (BYST), a not-for-profit organisation that primarily assists disadvantaged Indian youth in developing business ideas into viable enterprises under the guidance of a mentor. BYST helped Amruta with mentoring and creating a business plan, which enabled her to get a short-term loan of ₹20 lakh from a bank. Lakshmi Venkatesan, founding and managing trustee, BYST said, “For majority startups from ‘Bharat’, venture capital or angel funding is not accessible. They really depend on debt financing. Another big challenge for these ‘rural entrepreneurs’ or ‘grampreneurs’ is the ‘mentoring-barrier’. If we lose one entrepreneur like Amruta for lack of mentoring or funds, we are losing our ability to create 10 jobs. Hence, we focus on mentoring the entrepreneurs for two years and helping them with idea validation and further creating a robust business plan. Mentoring helps these same entrepreneurs – rejected earlier by banks – receive debt financing, even without security or collaterals.” Amruta has also won the ‘Young Entrepreneur of the Year 2020’ award on November 3, 2020 conferred by Youth Business International (YBI), UK. She competed with about a thousand entrepreneurs from 46 countries in this contest. -------------------------------- Sales and revenues Industrial adhesive - 70 tonnes daily Printing ink – 1,000 kg per month Colour pigment – 1.5 kg per month --- FY 2020-21 – ₹1.82 Crore FY 2021- 22 – Crossed ₹5 crore in Q2 --- Profit margin Industrial adhesive – 8- 10 per cent Retail adhesive – 13-15 per cent Future Plans “I have set a goal of achieving ₹10 crore turnover this financial year itself. At present I have 25 employees of which eight are in direct employment. My vision is to create employment for 5,000 people and reach all shops, retail market besides the B2B market. Beestofix products should be displayed everywhere where our competitors like Fevicol are present. In near future, I also want to contribute to educating rural youth especially girls who can’t afford school and higher education.” – Amruta Mangale, founder, Beestofix. --------------------- Manufacturing startups •India – 1344 (DPIIT recognised – 647) •Maharashtra – 303 (156) •Pune – 108 (65) Source: Startup India Portal, Government of India --------------------- Units operational in MIDC areas in: •Maharashtra – 49,505 (Attracted investment of ₹1,80,170 crore in FY 2018-19) •Pune – 12,761 (Attracted investment of ₹69,208 crore in FT 2018-19) Source: State Economic Survey and Annual Survey of Industries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-climbing-the-ladder-of-startup-success-as-woman-entrepreneur-101641034258800.html
01-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan ministers lock horns over curfew timings on New Year Eve||Two Rajasthan ministers locked horns on Friday discussing whether to give 2 hour-relaxation in night curfew for people to celebrate New Year.The decision to give relaxation was taken in a cabinet meeting on Thursday chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.In the meeting, Health Minister Parsadi Lal Meena said that the public was averse to the idea of relaxation in the curfew timings.As he made the comment, he was interjected by Food and Civil Supplies Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who put forth his view saying that the Chief Minister should know the “right thing”.He said youngsters of the state were looking forward to the decision of the meeting in the hope of a relaxation.He said “a tremendous revolt would happen” if the curfew timing was not altered, and that there was a risk that despite the ban “people will celebrate on roads”."Who is going to listen to you?" he said, referring to the health minister.As the row heated, Gehlot had to intervene and ask Khachariyawas to drop the matter.He said their sentiments were conveyed to the people as 1.90 lakh people were watching the meeting live on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-ministers-lock-horns-over-curfew-timings-on-new-year-eve-101641025831992.html
01-01-2022||Pune||Decked up as Ravana, Pune man distributes milk on New year's eve||A Pune man, dressed up as Ravana, distributed milk at the traffic signals of the city on New Year's eve, urging people to give up alcohol."We are spreading the message "Daru Nako, Dudh Khao" (Drink Milk, Not Alcohol). I want people to relinquish their inner Ravana and give up alcohol and choose milk instead", said Arun Ohar, who dressed up as Ravana."Alcohol addiction is increasing in the society as a result of which many families get dismantled. Through this program, we're trying to urge people to give up alcohol", said a local leader.He further added, "We chose December 31 as on this day most of the people get drunk and create a ruckus. We are requesting them not to do so. So that the society can celebrate the occasion peacefully."Members of an NGO also came forward on the occasion of New Year to spread awareness on the importance of adherence to COVID-19 protocols amid rising cases of COVID-19 being reported from various parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decked-up-as-ravana-pune-man-distributes-milk-on-new-year-s-eve-101641021425115.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab ADGP SK Asthana removed as Bureau of Investigation head||Punjab additional director general of police (ADGP) SK Asthana was on Saturday removed as the head of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) and replaced by B Chandra Sekhar. Also read: Ludhiana blast: NIA registers case against Multani for bid to revive terrorism in PunjabAsthana, who is on medical leave, had recently locked horns with the Punjab government when he refused to book former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case. A letter by him to the Punjab Police chief, expressing his inability to file the case against Majithia citing legal hitches, was widely shared on social media, embarrassing the Charanjit Singh Channi government. The cyber-crime branch is already probing the leak after registering a case on the orders of the Punjab chief minister. Chandra Sekhar was earlier ADGP, human rights. Elenchezian Khanna SSP, Garg Patiala police chief In a major reshuffle carried out on the directions of the Election Commission ahead of the assembly polls, the state government transferred six senior superintendents of police (SSPs). Punjab Police Service officers posted as district police chiefs have been replaced with Indian Police Service officers. J Elenchezian is the new Khanna SSP and Sandeep Garg the new Patiala SSP, replacing Harcharan Singh Bhullar, who will be the additional inspector general (AIG), Intelligence. Charanjit Singh will be the new Moga SSP, replacing SS Mand. Deepak Pareek has been posted as the Mansa SSP. Mand will be the AIG, crime, Bureau of Investigation. The government has also posted Dayama Harish Om Parkash as the Kapurthala SSP, replacing Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, who will now be AIG, counter intelligence. Gaurav Toora has been posted as the new Batala SSP, replacing Mukhwinder Singh, who has been posted AIG, NRI affairs, Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-adgp-sk-asthana-removed-as-bureau-of-investigation-head-101641021717171.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||123 Covid cases, 2 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar reports highest infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported two deaths and 123 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 65 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 58 infections. A death was reported in each division. The union territory reported the highest 35 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 25 cases in Jammu and 12 each in Baramulla and Doda. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 437 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 276 and 167 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 78 with active positive cases reaching 1,337.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 75,235 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.856 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,35,425 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.28%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,41,290 and the death toll has reached 4,528.The officials said that 65,866 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,157 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 883 deaths. Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,41,290Total recovered patients: 3,35,425Total Deaths: 4,528Active Cases: 1,337||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/123-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-reports-highest-infections-101640988354708.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Only court can decide on SIT probe report in Hyderpora encounter: IGP Vijay Kumar||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday refused to get cowed down by the criticism of Valley’s political leaders and civil society over the Hyderpora encounter investigation saying only the court can decide whether their investigation was right or wrong, not media, politicians or families of those killed.Inspector-general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said that people have a right to seek a probe by a higher agency but they can’t tag the probe of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the police as wrong.“In a democratic set up, media, politicians or even family have the right to not agree with the investigation and demand a higher-level investigation like from the NIA, the CBI or the high court. We have no problem. But whether any investigation is right or wrong it will be decided by the court,” Kumar said at a press conference in Srinagar when asked about the criticism of the police’s special investigation team threatening to take legal action against those questioning its probe.Soon after SIT head DIG Sujit Kumar on Tuesday indicated no wrongdoing on part of the security forces in the Hyderpora encounter in which four persons, including three residents of J&K and a suspected Pakistani, were killed at a shopping complex on November 15 under controversial circumstances, almost all top leaders of mainstream political parties had questioned the probe by SIT.Next day, the SIT had warned political leaders for casting doubts upon the evidence obtained by SIT in the Hyderpora encounter case and threatened to take penal action which again caused outrage among the political leaders and civil society.“A SIT is investigating and a DIG-rank officer will charge-sheet and submit it to court which will decide whether it is right or wrong. This won’t be done by a politician, a family member or any media has no right,” Kumar said.“We have not given any clean chit. Each page will be judged by the court. I request and advise such leaders not to instigate the public. Let the court decide,” he said.Without naming anybody, Kumar also accused politicians of legitimising terrorism. He said that till 2-3 months back only militants would legitimise killings of civilians or police.“But unfortunately, some of our political leaders are also legitimising terrorism now. Mehran was a dangerous terrorist who killed many civilians. After his encounter, you take his photo and go to Jantar Mantar and cry tyranny. Is it wrong to kill a dangerous terrorist like Abbas Shiekh? You want to get sympathy. I want to tell our political parties and leaders to stop this. You are provoking society,” he said.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti had held a protest sit-in at Jantar Mantar in Delhi early this month against killings of “innocent civilians”.On being asked why J&K police were getting increasingly targeted by militants, Kumar said that the neighbouring country was afraid of them.“Today, if Pakistan is fearful of anything, that is Jammu and Kashmir Police. Militancy ends when the local police come to take the (central) role. J&K police are in a central role and will have to work more. Militancy is an obstacle to peace and development. Army and other forces will assist but J&K police will have to take the central role against terrorism,” Kumar said.“It is the modus operandi of Pakistan to demoralise the J&K police, but J&K police will continue to move ahead and work for neutralising all those who are enemies of peace and development,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-court-can-decide-on-sit-probe-report-in-hyderpora-encounter-igp-vijay-kumar-101640988352018.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP’s promise of free power unfeasible, says Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher||In her first public address after results of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections were declared, Member of Parliament (MP) Kirron Kher attacked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which secured the most number of seats in House, and said that its policies are not feasible.Dedicating the newly built community centre in Sector 38-C to the public on Friday, the MP said, “They (AAP) keep talking about providing free electricity to the residents of Chandigarh. Do they not know that the electricity department doesn’t fall under the MC?”On AAP’s promise of free water, Kher said she had spoken about the issue in the Parliament in 2014 and worked out a water-sharing agreement with adjoining Punjab and Haryana. She also said she was “upset” with the people of Chandigarh for voting out BJP councillors “despite all the work they had done”. “When I was elected MP in 2014, the House was dominated by Congress councillors. No work used to be done and I was asked by officials to avoid attending House meetings and only come for voting. Will the same situation be the same in the house now,” she asked. City BJP president Arun Sood and outgoing mayor Ravikant Sharma were also present on the occasion, along with other BJP councillors and candidates who had fought the elections. Sood spoke about the achievements of the outgoing MC House and said the city has never seen so much development in the past. Outgoing mayor Sharma spoke about the new community centre and said that it had been built at a cost of Rs. 4.64 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-promise-of-free-power-unfeasible-says-chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-101640988051702.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||LED streetlight project: Principal secy pulls up Ludhiana MC over delay in payment||While residents, and councillors have been slamming Tata Company officials for poor maintenance of streetlights, the local bodies department principal secretary has pulled up the fund-starved civic body over delay in clearing the company’s dues. The principal secretary, AK Sinha, said the MC officials will have to bear any financial repercussions arising due to contractual clauses or litigation due to non-payment of dues. The civic body owes the company ₹11.83 crore for services rendered between July and November. The company has installed over 1 lakh streetlights across the city. Company officials had complained to the principal secretary about non-payment of dues and the absence of a standard procedure to get funds cleared from the civic body. On the civic body not having adequate funds to honour its liabilities, Sinha said no organisation should enter into an agreement which it cannot uphold, as it also blots the government’s reputation. “It is unacceptable that a bill’s processing period should exceed the billing cycle. Directions have been issued to make the payment at the earliest,” Sinha said. Alleging that not paying the company was a ploy to get private contractors to maintain the streetlights, former MC councillor Inder Aggarwal said, “How can the MC expect the lights to be maintained, if they are not paying the company.” Despite attempts to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he remained unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/led-streetlight-project-principal-secy-pulls-up-ludhiana-mc-over-delay-in-payment-101640987811619.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two arrested for misbehaving with guards outside Panjab University V-C’s residence||Chandigarh Police arrested two persons for allegedly raising slogans and misbehaving with security guards deployed outside the vice-chancellor’s (VC) residence on the Panjab University campus on Friday. The accused, identified as Ajay Pal and Dheeraj, stay on campus with the former being a senior assistant at the varsity. Sloganeering against V-CPolice said the duo arrived outside the vice-chancellor’s residence on Thursday night, and raised slogans against the vice-chancellor. On being confronted by the on-duty security guards, the duo allegedly misbehaved with them before drivingaway. Police tracked down the duo’s car at around 11pm the same night, later arresting the two. Both men were produced before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) on Friday, and have since been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-guards-outside-panjab-university-v-c-s-residence-101640987632760.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Day after Ludhiana logs two-fold spike, 18 more Covid cases detected||A day after the district registered a two-fold hike in fresh coronavirus cases, 18 more people tested positive on Friday.This is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day in five months. It was last on August 11, that 34 people had tested positive in the district, since then the daily tally has only occasionally touched double digits.While the first Omicron case in the state was reported on Thursday, no cases of the highly transmissible variant have been reported in the district so far. Two health workers, and six flu-corner paients were among those who tested positive for the disease. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 87,808, of which 85,611 people have recovered so far. Now, the active cases stand at 80, out of which 78 are under home isolation and two patients have been undergoing treatment at private hospitals.The civil surgeon said as all cases were reported from different parts of the state, no micro-containment zone had been formed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-ludhiana-logs-two-fold-spike-18-more-covid-cases-detected-101640987631424.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||MeT predicts widespread snowfall, rain in Jammu and Kashmir||The minimum temperature improved across Kashmir on Friday providing slight relief from the intense cold conditions, even as the meteorological department forecast colder days and warmer nights ahead owing to a cloud cover, officials said.Srinagar recorded the minimum temperature of minus 3.0 degrees Celsius on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday – a degree up from the previous night, the officials said.Gulmarg, the famous skiing resort in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9.0 degrees Celsius -- up from minus 9.6 degrees the previous night.The officials said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 6.6 degrees Celsius – up from minus 8.9 degrees Celsius the previous night.They said Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded the minimum of minus 3.0 degrees Celsius, while the nearby south Kashmir town of Kokernag recorded a low of minus 3.3 degrees Celsius.The mercury at Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius.The MeT office has forecast colder days and warmer nights ahead owing to a cloud cover.It said there could be light snow over the higher reaches of Kashmir on January 2 and 3.Also, widespread snow/rain spell of moderate intensity is most likely from January 4 to 6 with the main activity on January 5 and 6. Heavy snow is expected at some places during the period as well, it said.The weather may affect surface and air transport, the MeT office said.Kashmir is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as ‘Chilla-i-Kalan’ which began on December 21.It is a period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably, leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake here, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall.The Chilla-i-Kalan will end by the end of January but the cold wave will continue with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold). PTI SSB CJ CJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-widespread-snowfall-rain-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101640987516983.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||3 JeM militants killed, 6 security personnel injured in Srinagar encounter||The police on Friday claimed to have killed three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants in Pantha Chowk. Six security forces personnel were injured in the encounter that ended on Friday.This is the third encounter since Wednesday night in which nine militants were killed. Police on Friday said that number of local militants came down to less than 100 first time after years.Inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar said one of the militants killed in the encounter was involved in the attack on the police bus at Pantha Chowk.Giving details about the encounter, Kumar said a cordon was laid at Pantha Chowk after receiving input about the presence of militants in the area. “There was firing from inside in which three police personnel and two CRPF persons were injured. The injured were hospitalised and are stable. Later, another person was injured. Three JeM terrorists were killed in the encounter.”Kumar said one of the militants had been identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather, who was involved in the Zewan terror attack on the police bus.“We are trying to identify the other two as well. It appears they are foreign terrorists,” he said.He said that this encounter was important because after the attack on the police bus on December 13, the police had promised that the killer will be neutralised soon. “The J&K police worked like a team and developed a small input which resulted in the success of this operation,” he said.Six militants and an Army jawan were killed in the encounters in Anantnag and Kulgam, which broke out on Wednesday night and ended on Thursday.The militants killed in the operations were identified as Sultan, alias Rayees, alias Mavia (a foreign national), Nisar Ahmad Khanday of Dudwangan Kapran and Altaf Ahmad Shah of Nathipora Dooru. Kumar on Thursday said Altaf and Sultan were involved in the Zewan attack on the Police bus along with Suhail Rather. And on Friday Rather was also killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-jem-militants-killed-6-security-personnel-injured-in-srinagar-encounter-101640987515639.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Improvement in ground situation in Kashmir: IGP Vijay Kumar||A top Kashmir cop on Friday said that there was an improvement in the ground situation in Jammu and Kashmir with 2021 marking a decrease in terror incidents, civilian and security forces’ killings, law and order issues and induction of youth into militancy as compared to 2020. Inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar counted the peaceful burial of hardline Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Geelani and the killing of maximum top commanders of militants as major achievements of 2021. “As the IG, Kashmir, my biggest challenge was the death and burial management of Syed Ali Geelani. Every IG would say that Geelani should not die in their tenure,” Kumar said at the year-end press conference in Srinagar. The authorities had imposed a clampdown across Kashmir after the death of the 91-year-old separatist leader in September with streets barricaded, internet and mobile networks snapped and key roads sealed to restrict the movement of people. Geelani, who spent around two decades in jail, had died after a prolonged illness. He was buried at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora amid allegations by his family that the police had forcibly taken away his body. Among other things like killing of soft targets, narcotics and cybercrime, the police said their major challenge for the next year which they are currently facing is a ‘hybrid terrorist’. Kumar said after some attacks when they analysed the CCTV footage they found the involvement of some minor boys of 17 years of age about which even their parents were unaware. “Such type of people who indulge in terror incidents and kill people but there is no record of theirs in police stations, police and parents are unaware and even sister agencies are unaware. We have named them hybrid terrorists,” he said. He said that they identify them by their digital imprints by sending their devices to forensic labs. “We arrest them and then interrogate them to get to more such people. This challenge will continue. We have identified 25 such persons till now and will soon categorise them,” he said. Kumar said that there was a marked improvement in the ground situation in Kashmir in 2021 as compared to 2020. “Political parties and the media have been repeatedly claiming that the situation has not improved. Some even claimed that the 1990s situation has returned. The facts on the ground show that these claims are wrong,” he said. Giving figures, Kumar said that only 192 terror incidents were reported in 2021 as compared to 238 in 202. He said 34 civilians and 29 security forces personnel were killed in 2021 while the numbers were 37 and 57, respectively, in 2020. “This is despite militants having openly instigated saying they will kill civilians and politicians this year,” he said. He said the J&K police have been attacked 16 times this year in which 20 personnel have been killed. “We have solved all these cases. Some have been neutralised and some have been arrested except one case of Bandipora,” he said. Kumar said that as against 167 new recruits into militancy in 2020, this year there were 128 new recruits. “Of these 128, as many as 73 were killed in encounters, 16 were arrested and 39 are active in the field,” he said. He said that maximum recruitment happened in the Shopian district where 33 persons joined. He said that law and order incidents halved in 2021 than the previous year. As against 147 law and order incidents in 2020, there were 64 such types of incidents in 2021. The IG said that there were 168 identified and categorised active militants in the Valley of which almost the locals and foreigners are equal in number. “Almost 85 are locals and 83 are foreigners, besides 25 are hybrid,” he said. He said that 171 militants were killed in 2021, of which 152 were locals and 19 were foreigners. He said that they have recovered 127 assault rifles and 167 pistols. “The number of pistols is higher. It is almost equal to the number of terrorists killed,” he said. There were a series of attacks by pistol-borne militants in the Valley in 2021 many of which were against people belonging to minorities and non-locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/improvement-in-ground-situation-in-kashmir-igp-vijay-kumar-101640987511652.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Dogs maul 5-year-old to death||A five- year-old boy was mauled and killed by a pack of dogs near his house in Bahomajra village, Khanna, on Friday. The victim, Raja, was playing outside his house when he was attacked and killed. Hearing his screams his grandmother and neighbours rushed out to help him, but he had already been badly bitten by then. Raja died on the spot, before he could get medical help. His grandmother said he had recently come to Ludhiana from Bihar with his family. Many incidents of dog bites have been reported from the village, but nothing has been done to solve the menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dogs-maul-5-year-old-to-death-101640987391375.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Automobile registrations in Chandigarh accelerated by 24.96% in 2021||After the Covid outbreak and the resultant lockdown put brakes on vehicle registrations in 2020, dealers in Chandigarh had a chance to rejoice as the numbers showed a slight improvement in 2021. As per the data provided by the registration and licensing authority (RLA) and state transport authority (STA), there was a 24.96% increase in vehicle registrations in 2021, as compared to the year before. With an overwhelming majority of people opting for dealer-pointer registrations, these are seen as a marker of vehicle sales in the city. Though the registration numbers in 2021 were lower than pre-Covid times, city-based dealers say the problem is not with demand but with a shortage in supply. They added that vehicle sales are likely to reach pre-Covid levels by mid-2022.As per officials, there was an increase in the sales of cars as well as two-wheelers in 2021. The sales of electric vehicles also doubled from 370 in 2020 to 733 in 2021.Vice-president of the Federation of Chandigarh Regional Automobile Dealers, Ranjeev Dahuja said, “The rise could have been even higher, but the dealers are facing a shortage of stock. The demand of cars is almost 40% more than the supply.” Dahuja, who also owns a Tata dealership in the city, said that even a one-to-three month waiting period doesn’t deter people, most of whom still prefer premium SUVs over other cars.Prices may rise this yearNitin Mehan, the owner of Autopace Chandigarh and general secretary of the federation, added, “While there is a semiconductor shortage which has affected the supply, it is certain to get fixed by the second half of 2022. However, the price of some components used in making cars is going up in the global markets and a price hike of 4-5% can be expected within January itself.”While the sale of electric vehicles has increased, Dahuja, said it will still be a few years before the concept properly catches on in the city and charging infrastructure will be needed for that.The sale of two-wheelers remained less than cars, however, senior vice-president of Platinum Honda for the tricity Sushil Dutta said there is likely to be a rise in 2022. “There was around a 7% growth in our sales this year but we expect a further increase in 2022. As more offices stop with work from home, people will need vehicles. Because of Covid, there is also a push towards owning a vehicle, so we expect sales to rise further in the coming days,” said Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/automobile-registrations-in-chandigarh-accelerated-by-24-96-in-2021-101640987331427.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 women among 3 held with 15kg cannabis||Three persons, including two women, were arrested with 15kg cannabis on Friday. The accused – Vinod Giri, Suganti Devi and Lalti Kunwar of Siwan, Bihar – were arrested near Gurudwara Dukhniwaran. while they were walking along railway tracks under the bridge. The accused confessed to smuggling in the contraband from Bihar. A case under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the accused.2 held with 1.7kg heroinTwo persons, including a woman, were arrested with 1.7kg heroin on FridayThe accused – Gurjit Singh alias Jeeta, 24, of Mallewal village, and Amarjit Kaur, 60, of Malakpur Colony near Nurpur Bet – were arrested from Kaur’s house following a tip-off, while their accomplice, Baljit Singh, of Mallakpur village is on the run.Inspector Harbans Singh, special task force in-charge, Ludhiana Range, said the three accused were about to supply drugs on a motorcycle when they were arrested. Apart from the heroin, the police have seized the accused persons’ mobile phone, an electronic weighing machine and some empty pouches.Six cases of drug peddling have been registered against the accused at different police stations. A case under Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused in SAS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-women-among-3-held-with-15kg-cannabis-101640987211538.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC awakes, gets ‘poor’ quality road repaired||Waking up from its deep slumber, the municipal corporation (MC) officials got the damaged portion of the road repaired from the contractor, after shopkeepers at Dugri Main Road raised hue and cry over the poor quality of road construction work.On December 29, the shopkeepers had slammed the authorities after the road material started wearing off a day after the portion of road was constructed. The shopkeepers said the material had started peeling off even before the completion of project alleging authorities’ lacklustre approach to keep a check on the ongoing work.The residents have been raising objections on quality of newly constructed roads in different areas of the city including Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Pakhowal Road, Kitchlu Nagar, Shastri Nagar among other areas.One of the shopkeepers at main road, Sanjay Tiwari said, “It is shameful that the newly constructed road had to be repaired. The authorities should keep a check on the quality, as public money in crores is being wasted. The MC officials including junior engineers or any other staffer should remain present while the contractor takes up construction work.” MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said the contractor has been directed to repair the road portion and the concerned officials were told to stop the payment if the contractor fails to do the same. The department is keeping a check on the quality of works and a third party is also being appointed to keep a check on the quality of works being taken up by MC. SAD slams MCShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) also slammed the MC and leaders of ruling party for allegedly indulging in corruption due to which poor quality roads are being constructed in the city. Former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal and SAD leader Harish Rai Dhanda said less and poor quality material is being used for the construction of roads in order to woo the voters ahead of elections, but the road material will wear off in short time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-awakes-gets-poor-quality-road-repaired-101640986911177.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to constitute panel to address problems of industries||Chandigarh The administration on Friday announced the decision to constitute a panel to look into the problems being faced by local industries and discuss future challenges.UT adviser Dharam Pal, accompanied by local industry representatives and senior UT officials, toured the industrial areas, taking feedback from all stakeholders. An official said the UT industry department is working on identifying, and offering solutions, the problems plaguing the industrial area and that a committee is to be constituted for the same. “The industrial areas are struggling with poor infrastructure, encroachments and migration of industrial units to neighboring cities,” the official said, adding that the department will take on board different stakeholders before submitting its suggestions to the administration.Industries Association of Chandigarh president Pankaj Khanna, meanwhile, said the renewed attention towards the issues faced by industries came as a welcome step. He added that the long pending issues need swift policy action for immediate redressal, before pressing for a a complete makeover of the industrial areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-to-constitute-panel-to-address-problems-of-industries-101640986731007.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC: Republic Day run-through on Jan 24||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday in a meeting to review the arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations informed that the full dress rehearsal for district-level Republic Day celebrations would be held at Guru Nanak Stadium on January 24. The meeting held at Bachat Bhawan, was also attended by Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) CA Sandeep Kumar, additional deputy commissioner (development) Amit Kumar Panchal, additional deputy commissioner (general) Rahul Chaba, Additional deputy commissioner of police Pragya Jain, besides head of all government departments.Varinder Kumar said, “In view of Covid-19 pandemic and the government directions, no cultural function or PT show would be organised on the occasion.”DC Varinder also appealed to all city residents to celebrate Republic Day as a National festival and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He asked officers to ensure that people participating in the function should not face any kind of problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-republic-day-run-through-on-jan-24-101640986671139.html
01-01-2022||Mumbai||From 0 to 91, Ambala witness massive one-month jump in Covid cases||Ambala The city witnessed a massive rise in the number of Covid cases over the month of December, with 91 cases being reported compared to zero in November. The rise, according to health officials, was a clear indication of the region entering into the third wave of the pandemic.The city reported 30 new cases on Friday itself, the highest single-day rise since June 8. District epidemiologist Sunil Hari said, “A total of 19 cases are from Cantonment alone followed by four in the city and Mullana, two in Shahazadpur and one in Chourmastpur. The active cases have also risen to 80, highest since June.”“The day’s tally also includes 10 from two families in Cantonment, who did not report symptoms at the time of a family member testing positive,” he added. Ambala gearing up for third waveOfficials said the concerned departments were already gearing up for a rise in cases. Assistant senior medical officer (ASMO) at the civil surgeon’s office and in-charge of oxygen supply Sukhpreet said all oxygen plants at the hospitals have been checked and are operating smoothly.“Oxygen plants at district civil hospital in the city, sub-divisional hospitals in Cantonment and Naraingarh and Community Health Center (CHC) in Chourmastpur are already operational. A similar plant under the CSR initiative is also underway in the city. Beds will be added accordingly if the severe cases rise,” he added. Vaccine registration to begin for 15-18-year-olds Hari revealed that over 11 school students, mostly from the rural belt of Ambala, tested positive in December, including two on Friday itself. Schools across the city remained shut until Friday to avoid the virus’ spread on the campus.According to available information, the city has already fully vaccinated its eligible population as of December 25. The state has now announced the commencement of registration process, on the Cowin portal, for the individuals falling in the 15–18-year-old age group.Beneficiaries of the same group can use student identity cards during registration, a spokesperson from the civil surgeon’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-0-to-91-ambala-witness-massive-one-month-jump-in-covid-cases-101640986611299.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Student molested’: Alleging inaction, Ludhiana parents’ union garland DEO with slippers||Ludhiana Accusing the district education officer of not taking action against a physical training teacher who allegedly molested a student, the Ludhiana Parents Association garlanded Lakhvir Singh Samra with slippers at his office on Friday.Members of the parents’ association met the DEO (secondary) on the pretext of honouring him. Initially, Samra refused to accept any garland, but after the union members insisted, he agreed. It was only when he began removing the garland, did he notice the slippers strung to it.The caseA probe was launched against the PT teacher by deputy DEO, secondary, Charanjit Singh, on December 22, after a member of the parents’ union, Rajinder Ghai, filed a complaint with the chief minister’s office.Ghai, who was involved in garlanding the DEO with slippers, said, “It has been 10 days since the inquiry was initiated. The DEO is trying to save the teacher, which is unacceptable. The teacher has been transferred to a boy’s school which is not a punishment.”The DEO, on realising the indignity meted out to him, confronted Ghai and told him that an inquiry report had already been submitted to senior officials for action. He has also lodged a police complaint against Ghai. Notably, the victim’s parents are not interested in probing the matter further as the teacher has apologised before a local panchayat.Teachers’ union condemns actThe parents’ association actions have been condemned by different teachers’ unions. Backing the DEO, teachers’ union leader Sukhdarshan Singh said, “It is shameful that an honest and humble officer has been mistreated in this manner. We had lots of disagreements with the DEO, but we respect him as an officer”.Democratic Teachers Front district president Hardev Singh Mullapur has also demanded an FIR against Ghai.A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the DEO had been targeted due to power politics in the department.A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the DEO had been targeted due to power politics in the department. “These are blackmailing tactics, which are not acceptable. It is part of a campaign to taint the officer’s reputation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/student-molested-alleging-inaction-ludhiana-parents-union-garland-deo-with-slippers-101640986552731.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | GADVASU gets ₹28.11L grant for research project||Ludhiana The department of aquatic environment, College of Fisheries (COF), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), was accorded sanction for 3-year long research project along with grant of ₹28.11 lakhs by the department of atomic energy (DAE), board of research in nuclear sciences, government of India, on Friday.In the research project, “Development of phage-based strategies for biocontrol of antibiotic resistant Aeromonas species in fishery products,” bacteria killing viruses called “phages” will be used to control Aeromonas contamination in fishery products to develop phage-cocktails (mixtures) that could be applied directly by the consumer.Assistant professor Anuj Tyagi, principal investigator of the project revealed that different Aeromonas (bacteria) species are important fish pathogens, causing gastroenteritis (vomiting, diarrhea, nausea) in humans.“Chemical antibiotics are often used to control bacterial pathogens in fishery products, but due to increasing consumer awareness and global spread of antimicrobial resistance (AMR), there is an urgent need to develop alternative control strategies to safeguard the environment and consumer health,” he said.Dean Meera D Ansal, COF said, “Rapidly emerging antibiotic-resistant pathogens in the environment necessitates to develop eco-friendly organic solutions to curtail use of harmful chemicals in food industry. Output of the project will present a novel biocontrol product with prodigious commercial application.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-gets-28-11l-grant-for-research-project-101640986491048.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | BJP launches toll-free number for enrolment||Ludhiana With elections close at hand, the state union of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been amping up their poll campaign. The state unit on Friday launched its toll-free number for membership drive during a press conference at circuit.Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, union minister and the BJP’s election in-charge of the state along with state general secretary Parvin Bansal and other senior leaders of the party launched mobile number 9227772222 for registration, where the residents could make missed calls to enroll themselves. The toll-free number is a part of ‘Nava Punjab Bhajpa De Naal’ drive launched in Chandigarh recently. State president Ashwani Sharma was the first person to register himself as a member of the party.Urging everyone to participate in this endeavour, Sharma said, “A missed call will generate a SMS message and an OTP number; after which by submitting the name and number, the person will be registered and the location will be shared with party workers, who will apprise newly enrolled party members of the party activities.”New dawn for 2022, says Ashwani Sharma  Sharma while inaugurating the initiative along with Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said a new dawn is going to be set in 2022 with the roadmap charted by the BJP. The opposition parties have diminished the political space and the public wants a government which can deliver promises and political rhetoric people want a party which could bailout the state from the present crisis.“By launching the initiative, BJP has committed to be corruption free, mafia free and most importantly providing an equal opportunity for the youth to get remunerative employment,” said Sharma.Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the opposition parties should refrain from making announcements which are not supported by revenue.He said the days of mafia are soon going to be over and a prosperous Punjab is the “Mission and Vision” of BJP. The Prime Minister wants the border state to again regain its former glory and prestige.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-launches-toll-free-number-for-enrolment-101640986432318.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Harnoor Singh named man of the series at U-19 Asia Cup||Chandigarh Despite a forgettable outing in the U19 Asia Cup final against Sri Lanka, played at the Dubai International Stadium, UAE, Harnoor Singh was named man of the series.The 18-year-old, who is the opening batsman for the side, ended the series as the leading run-scorer. The Indian side beat Sri Lanka by nine wickets in a rain-interrupted summit clash to lift the 2021 U19 Asia Cup trophy. Batting first, the Sri Lankan side posted 108 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 38 overs. Another city-based member of the team, all-rounder Rajangad Bawa, claimed a crucial wicket in the final. India’s adjusted target, after the implementation of the DLS method, was 102 runs. Singh stepped out to open the second innings, along with Angkrish Raghuvanshi, but was dismissed early, scoring only five runs. However, the effort was enough to earn him the top-run-scorer position with a total of 261 runs in five matches. The youngster’s most successful outing had come against the UAE in the first game, when he scored a mammoth 120 runs. The Indian U19 side lost only one match over the course of the tournament, to Pakistan. They will now be gearing up for the U19 World Cup to be held in West Indies from January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-harnoor-singh-named-man-of-the-series-at-u-19-asia-cup-101640986430930.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||5-acre rider on crop compensation: Farmers gherao DC office in Ludhiana||Protesting against the government’s five-acre rider on crop compensation, farmers gheraoed the deputy commissioner’s office on Friday. The farmers, who were protesting under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU – Ekta Ugrahan), submitted a memorandum with an additional deputy commissioner and asked for a list of farmers who had received ₹2 lakh in their bank accounts. “The chief minister is deliberately delaying approvals, but we will continue to gherao the DC office till our demands are met,” said Charan Singh Nurpur, BKU, district president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5acre-rider-on-crop-compensation-farmers-gherao-dc-office-in-ludhiana-101640986371259.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohindra announces projects worth ₹800 crore in Mohali||Mohali With an eye on the upcoming state assembly elections, state local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, accompanied by former health minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, on Friday laid the foundation stone of various development projects in the city at an estimated cost of ₹800 crore.Mohindra inaugurated the first phase of ₹375-crore water treatment plant being constructed at Sinhpur village, while laying the foundation stone of the second phase.The minister also laid the foundation stone of a new ₹150 crore-bus stand at Sector-77, ₹15 crore-Bhagat Asa Ram Baidwan auditorium at Sector-78, and another ₹145 crore-sewerage treatment plant at Sector-83.Speaking on the occasion, Mohindra said the construction work for all projects would be completed within the stipulated time frame. “The construction of a bus stand in the central part of the city covering an area of 14 acres on Airport Road, it will become convenient for the passengers to travel to Chandigarh Sector-43 bus stand and from Chandigarh to other cities of Punjab via Mohali,” he added.‘City bus services gets govt consent’Mohindra said the state government has also accorded the consent for launching city bus service for Mohali. While addressing a function held in Sector-78, the minister said the state will also extend the perimeter of Mohali Municipal Corporation up to 3 kms, a long-standing public demand that, according to him, would usher in a new era of prosperity and provide much-needed impetus to the development of the city. Sidhu, meanwhile, highlighted the water treatment plant being set up at Sinhpur, saying that it would meet the city’s drinking water demand for the next 20 years. He said, “GMADA had constructed 80 MGD capacity water pipeline at a cost of ₹200 crore from Bhakra Main Line Kajoli to village Sinhpur. Of this, 45 MGD part belongs to Mohali city.” Sindhu added that the first phase, which included the construction of a ₹115.80 crore-treatment plant with 20 MGD, had been completed, before adding that a plant with 25 MGD will be added, tenders at the cost of ₹192 crore for which have already been floated. He revealed that 6 MGD of water would also be supplied to Kharar and Morinda from the water treatment plant to be constructed under the second phase. Sidhu also announced an auditorium named after eminent playwright Gursharan Singh, to be constructed at Bhagat Asa Ram Baidwan Auditorium, Sector-78.BoxFoundation stone of Nursing College laid in Mohali The state medical education and research minister, Raj Kumar Verka, on Friday also laid the foundation stone of Government Nursing College to be constructed near Government College, Mohali. Verka said in addition to the construction of medical and nursing colleges the state government was spending around ₹600 crore for the betterment of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-approaching-punjab-state-elections-mohindra-announces-development-projects-worth-800-crore-101640986310944.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | YAD stages protest, seeks cancellation of FIR against Bikram Majithia||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Friday staged a protest outside Deputy Commissioner’s (DC) office, accusing the state government of pursuing political vendetta by lodging an FIR against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former cabinet minister leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case ahead of assembly elections.The YAD members carried out a protest march against the state government from the Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan to the DC office complex, where they submitted a memorandum seeking cancellation of the FIR in the name of governor Banwarilal Purohit.Members of the outfit, led by district president (rural) Prabhjot Dhaliwal, also staged a protest outside the Additional Deputy Commissioner’s (ADC) office in Jagraon over the issue. They alleged the government is trying to divert the attention of the public from issues of development as it has failed to work for the betterment of the state and public.Party leaders including SAD district president Harbhajan Dang, Manpreet Manna and YAD district president Gurdeep Gosha further alleged that the state had lodged the FIR without any proof.“If the Congress had any proof, then why Majithia was not arrested earlier. The FIR has been lodged to befool the public but SAD will continue to raise its voice against the same,” said Gosha.Protest despite imposition of section 144The YAD leaders’ protest was organised despite the imposition of section 144 of CrPC, in view of the blast incident at the court complex in the city, and deployment of police force outside the DC office. Gosha said, “The agitation was necessary to wake the government from its deep slumber and to ensure that the deteriorating law and order situation in the state can be improved”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-yad-stages-protest-seeks-cancellation-of-fir-against-bikram-majithia-101640986132186.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate meet: Promotions and affiliation extensions to be taken up for ratification||Chandigarh A total of 38 agenda items, from promotion of teachers to approval of granting temporary affiliation extensions to courses in colleges for the 2020-21 session, are expected to be taken up for the ratification at the Panjab University’s (PU) senate meeting—the first in two years—scheduled for January 8. In the absence of the governing body meetings, the varsity undertook a number of decisions in anticipation of approvals from the syndicate and the senate. Notably, the varsity had been functioning without the senate, its apex governing body, after the term of the last senate ended in October 2020 and the last syndicate meeting was held in July 2020.Promotions of teachersAs per the agenda papers, PU vice chancellor Raj Kumar, in anticipation of the approval of senate, promoted a number of teachers in varsity departments last year under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS). The matter is listed to be ratified by the governing body.The vice chancellor also allowed Dr Emanual Nahar to take over as chairperson of the Punjab State Commission for Minorities till his superannuation, which also requires ratification.Several teachers at the Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital were also re-appointed on temporary basis. That, added with other appointments and resignations have also been listed for ratification by the senate.Grant of temporary affiliationThe senate is also set to take up ratification of the grant of temporary extension of affiliation to various courses in 204 colleges for 2020-21 sessionThe survey report in respect of Regional Institute of Co-operative Management, Sector 32, for grant of temporary affiliation for starting BBA-1st year (one unit) for session 2020-21 is one of the other major points expected to be taken up.PU senate in its forthcoming meeting will also take a call on the recommendation made by the academic and administrative committee in 2019, under which to the fee structure for NRI students of MSc Forensic Science and Criminology be fixed at USD 2860 per annum, at par with the department of Microbiology and the department of Biochemistry, as tuition fee and development fund.
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Council defers hike in GST; garment traders rejoice||Hailing it as a ‘New Year’s gift’ for the sector, the textile and garment traders in the industrial hub of the state heaved a sigh of relief over the decision taken by the GST council on Friday to defer the increase in GST rate on fabrics, textile from 5 to 12 percent.The sector was exasperated when the government had earlier notified that the increased rates will be applicable from January 1, 2022. The manufacturers and traders said the hike in the tax rate would have not only impacted the business at large, the customers would also have been at the receiving end. The prices of the end products would have increased by around 20 percent, that too when the public is dealing with financial constraints amid pandemic.Traders bid revocation of notificationThe traders further demanded that after deferring the hike, the union government should permanently revoke the earlier notification as yet fear looms over the industry that the government can again increase the rate any time in future.Punjab Cloth Merchants Association (PCMA) president Sonu Nilibar said “The decision to defer the hike in tax rate is appreciable as the industry would have suffered a lot due to this decision. The production cost would have increased and ultimately the customers had to suffer as the cost of garments including ‘saree’ would have increased by around 20 percent. Traders and industrialists from across the country were mounting pressure on the government, who has finally paid heed to the problem,” said Nilibar. The hosiery traders in the hosiery hub of the state said the business is already moving through slump due to the ongoing pandemic and the hike would have pushed the sector on the verge of closure. Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club president Darshan Dawar said, “The hike in the GST rate would have proved to be the final nail in the coffin as the sector has already been struggling due to the slump in the market amid pandemic. The purchasing capacity of the customers has already been reduced and the sector is relieved with the decision to defer the hike.”Members of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal also appreciated the decision taken by the GST council. General secretary Sunil Mehra said the decision will give a boost to the trade. Some condemn the moveMeanwhile, a section of the industry also condemned the union government for unnecessarily triggering fear in the market.Condemning the move to notify the hike earlier and deferring the decision later, general secretary of the Knitwear and Textile Club Charanjiv Singh said, “It is not the first time that the union government has caused unnecessary panic in the market. It had done a similar experiment with the farmers as well, but had to withdraw the controversial farm laws at the end. Similarly, it had created panic by notifying a hike in GST rate for garments, which is unjustified and could have destroyed the hosiery industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-council-defers-hike-in-gst-garment-traders-rejoice-101640985950801.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mauli Jagran: E-rickshaw driver succumbs to injuries 10 days after fight, murder case registered||A murder case was registered after an e-rickshaw driver died of head injuries, believed to have been inflicted by some persons with whom he had a fight a few days ago.The deceased has been identified as Damanjeet Singh, 25, a resident of Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran. His wife, Heena, who is the complainant in the case, said hey got married about four years ago and have a three-year-old son. On December 14, she left home and went to her parents’ place after an argument with victim, who was a habitual drinker. On December 28, she got a call from the victim’s sister, informing her that Damanjeet was unwell and had been rushed to the civil hospital in Manimajra. He had some blue spots under his eyes, as per the victim’s sisters. Doctors said the victim had revealed to them that he had a fight with some unidentified persons about 10 days ago, and that he had not told anyone about it. Post-mortem examination revealed that he had succumbed to the head injuries. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Mauli Jagran police station, against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mauli-jagran-e-rickshaw-driver-succumbs-to-injuries-10-days-after-fight-murder-case-registered-101640985890846.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||After his return from Delhi, Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur indicates cabinet reshuffle||Day after he met Central leaders in New Delhi, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on New Year’s eve indicated that there would be changes in the state cabinet soon after the elections in five states are over. The CM returned to the state capital after he met Central leaders in New Delhi. He had flown to Delhi the day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended a mega rally in Mandi on December 27 held to mark the four years’ regime of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Himachal Pradesh. The party high command will definitely have its focus on Himachal and Gujarat after the polls are over in five states. “There could be a reshuffle in the cabinet as well as in the organisational setup,” said the CM. Speculation of the cabinet reshuffle has been rife after the party suffered electoral reverses in the bypolls to three assemblies – Arki, Jubbal Kotkhai, Fatehpur and Mandi parliamentary seats - from where former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s widow Pratibha Singh trounced Kargil war hero, BJP’s nominee Kushal Thakur. “Modi’s rally had boosted the morale of the party. The gathering at the rally was historic, the CM said, adding that the party high command does not take any elections lightly. “The PM, Union home minister Amit Shah and national party chief JP Nadda do not take the elections lightly,” he said. “Moreover, Himachal is the home state of Nadda. We all will work hard for the assembly elections due next year,” he said. Jai Ram said the Congress in Punjab was in a disarray after the change of leadership. Similarly, there was turmoil in the Uttarakhand Congress. Thakur also commented on the internal strife in the Congress. “There is a turmoil in the opponent party. There are many leaders striving hard to pin down each other. The situation will be entirely different in the 2022 polls,” he said. The CM made clear that the PM will make repeated visits to Himachal next year to bolster the prospects of the party. “Covid has had a large impact, but we ensured that the development of the state does not take a hit,” he said, adding that he has asked Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman regarding the extension of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation facility for the next three years. He said the state was receiving GST compensation and revenue deficit grant (RDG) as a part of the Central assistance and out of this, the GST compensation is effective only till June 2022. Moreover, the RDG will also be reduced in the coming years as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, which will adversely affect the finances of the state. Therefore, the GST compensation facility should continue, he said. 
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tourists throng Shimla for New Year celebrations, violate Covid norms||Tourists have thronged Shimla to celebrate the New Year, but are violating the Covid restrictions despite a surge in cases.Karan, a local resident said, “Himachal Pradesh is a tourist destination, so people have thronged here for New Year celebrations. But tourists are not following theCovid norms. They are not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing.”“However, the local residents of Shimla are properly following Covid appropriate behaviour. I think the state government should impose stricter norms and also track Covid positive case if any,” he said.Further, Karan said that the police personnel should not argue with the violators but should issue challans.Many tourists were seen without masks in Shimla as they said that they removed the masks for clicking pictures.“I have just removed the mask for clicking pictures. I will wear it after it,” a tourist without a mask said.Another tourist who was roaming there without a mask said that he did not wear it because he was clicking pictures with his friends.“We are following all the norms. I removed the mask just now because I was clicking pictures with my friends,” he said.However, there were some tourists who were following all the Covid protocols in Shimla. Neetu, a tourist from Hyderabad said, “I would say that tourists are everywhere in India. We have to fight against this disease. We should follow Covid appropriate behaviour so that it does not spread more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourists-throng-shimla-for-new-year-celebrations-violate-covid-norms-101640985351941.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur to ask Centre to settle interstate boundary disputes||Himachal Pradesh will once again raise the issues related to interstate boundary disputes with neighbouring states at the meeting of the regional state council.“I had earlier raised the issue. We will raise it again at a meeting of the interstate regional council scheduled after the elections in five states are over,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. “We have been raising issues with Kashmir, Haryana and Ladakh,” he said.Himachal Pradesh had asked the union territory of Ladakh to resolve the border dispute with the neighbouring state before the summer months. This is a long border dispute. We have written to the divisional commissioner in Leh and sought his comments. We have placed the old revenue records too,” said deputy commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar. Shepherds from Himachal Pradesh have grazing rights in the territory claimed by the neighbouring state After the dispute, the deputy commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, and the deputy commissioner, Leh, carried out a joint spot visit during which the Himachal authorities presented revenue records and indexed sheets of the survey of India as evidence to buttress their claim on the territory. The records presented revealed that the boundary was 12-13 km ahead of the disputed point and both sides agreed on a demarcation. The boundary dispute issue was further agitated before the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes by Tenzin Sonam, councillor, Lugnak block, LAHDC, Kargil. The NCST convened meetings in 2015 and 2016. The NCST gave direction that demarcation to be done by the Survey of India at the spot.In 2016, a team of surveyor-general of India visited the disputed border in the presence of high officials from both sides. The Survey of India substantiated Himachal’s claim on the territory still no solution to the issue was found as the officials representing the then Jammu and Kashmir government rejected the validity of the maps presented by officials of the surveyor-general of India. Himachal alleges that the Leh administration was not honouring the maps of SOI and not cooperating in carrying out the demarcation of boundaries to settle down the issue. There is another dispute at the Shinkula Pass border. Kargil district claims its territory up to Palmo village which is in fact 10 km from the border on the Himachal side.
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||15 to 18 year olds in Panchkula, Chandigarh can book vaccine slots from today||After Chandigarh, Panchkula is all set to vaccinate children in the age group of 15-18, starting January 3. In both cities, registration on Co-Win portal can be done from January 1. There are about 72,000 eligible children in this age group in Chandigarh and 40,000 in Panchkula.Covaxin will be used for this age group. In both cities, separate vaccination centres have been set aside for children. There will 15 centres in Panchkula, and a list of these will be made available on the Co-Win portal. Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer, said: “Aadhar card is mandatory for children, also they must follow Covid norms. Registration will start from January 1. At all 15 sites (which can further be increased, if needed), walk-in facility will also be available.”In Chandigarh, six centres have been designated. As per the authorities, preference will be given to those with online registrations and walk-in registrations will be allowed subject to availability of slots. The six centres in Chandigarh are: PGIMER, Sector 12 ; GMCH-32, GMSH-16, civil hospitals in Manimajra, Sector 22 and Sector 45.Special vaccination centres will also be set in three schools – Government Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, and Government Model High School, RC-II, Maloya and Manimajra, where walk-in-registrationwill be allowed.For girls, another special vaccination centre will be set up at Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-B, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-to-18-year-olds-in-panchkula-chandigarh-can-book-vaccine-slots-from-today-101640985230386.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area steps into New Year with 99 new Covid cases||The tricity stepped into the new year with fresh worries as 99 new Covid cases surfaced in the three jurisdictions on Friday, an overnight increase of 80% from Thursday. At 49, Chandigarh had the most number of cases while Mohali had 27 and Panchkula 23. This is Chandigarh’s highest single-day count in six months. The tricity now has 347 active cases, of which the UT tops with 170 infections, followed by Mohali with 91 cases and Panchkula with 86 cases. At 3.98%, the positivity rate of Chandigarh was also quite high. The daily positivity rate of Mohali and Panchkula has also crossed 1%.In Chandigarh, no cluster was found as the cases were reported from across the sectors. In Panchkula too, the cases were reported from different parts of the city.In December, 718 positive cases were reported in the tricity, of which the highest, 333, were witnessed in Chandigarh, followed by 214 in Mohali and 171 in Panchkula.This month, seven persons succumbed to the virus, of which three died in Chandigarh and two each in Panchkula and Mohali.Inoculations shoot up in UTWith 12,243 Covid vaccinations on Friday, Chandigarh recorded its highest single-day count of inoculations in four months. At some places, vaccination went on till 9 pm due to the rush, and at the time of filing of the report, officials said the figure was likely to cross 13,000. To deal with the surge in the number of people showing up for vaccination after the UT administration announced to bar partially vaccinated people from accessing public places, 10 additional teams were brought in for the vaccination drive. Ten more are expected to join on Saturday. All Covid vaccination centres will remain open on Saturday and Sunday, as usual. All those adults who are yet to take the first or second dose may get it done immediately without any further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-steps-into-new-year-with-99-new-covid-cases-101640984690498.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid gatecrashes party again, tricity rings in New Year on a sombre note||With Covid playing party pooper again, and authorities bringing in several restrictions on gatherings, tricity residents welcomed the New Year on a sombre note for the second consecutive year. With Panchkula observing a strict curfew from 11pm to 5am, and Chandigarh allowing clubs and hotels to open only till midnight, most clubs in the two cities did not hold any celebrations. The mood was comparatively cheerful in Mohali, which allowed late night parties, but allowed only fully vaccinated people to turn up. Playing it safeChandigarh Club had issued a circular a few days in advance saying that complimentary guest passes issued in the previous years will not be issued this year and a DJ night was organised for the members. The Chandigarh Golf Club also held a members-only event while Chandigarh Press Club also didn’t hold any celebrations.Strict checkingIn Sector 26, police presence was seen throughout the sector while teams of the UT administration were also seen issuing challans. Debdip Chaterjee, manager of the Great Bear Microbrewery in Sector 26, said, “It was like any other day for us. The restrictions have confused people, which affected the turnout.”Manish Goel, director of Social in Sector 7 and Swagath in Sector 26, said, “Clubbing saw a fairly good response but restaurants suffered the most. Police teams blocked the roads around Sectors 26 and 7, which dissuaded many people. The high number of Covid cases on Friday also affected the turnout.”Sector 17 remained mostly empty. Neeraj Bajaj, president of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, said, “Sector 17 saw very less footfall, even lesser than 2020. The confusion related to vaccination certificates discouraged visitors from Punjab and Haryana.”Sector 22 also presented a desolate picture. As per the proprietor of Hotel Aroma, Manmohan Kohli, the response was even worse than last year. “The recent uptick in cases has affected the mood around here. When such bad things happen, people don’t want to go out and celebrate and it also hits the hospitality industry hard.”In Chandigarh, around 1,800 cops, including a special ‘Lady Police Squad’ were on duty. As many as 43 internal nakas and seven outer barriers were set up to check for drunken driving. The traffic police had created nine restricted vehicle zones. Around 350 traffic cops were also on duty.Huge footfall in Mohali mallAt VR Mall in Mohali, the mood was upbeat. A cashier here described how even last year a high footfall was seen here but the numbers were even higher in 2021. Arif Khan, a resident of Phase 6 who was at the mall to ring in the new year, said, “We come here every new year and stay till late. This time, the mall is more crowded than last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-gatecrashes-party-again-tricity-rings-in-new-year-on-a-sombre-note-101640984210366.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Some forces playing dirty politics for political gains: Kejriwal in Patiala||Claiming that the Golden Temple sacrilege case and Ludhiana bomb blast were orchestrated, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that some forces were playing dirty politics to disturb peace of Punjab for political gains. Speaking while leading a peace march in Patiala, Kejriwal said, “Some people have started their dirty deeds. An attempt of desecration was made at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a bomb exploded in Ludhiana. Such attempts are being made to break the communal harmony of Punjab and disturb the peace and tranquillity here.”Accompanied by AAP’s state president Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Kejriwal said the people of Punjab had no faith in these parties. Slamming Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government, Kejriwal said, “The ruling Congressmen are not concerned for Punjab as they are fighting among themselves for the chief minister’s seat. Channi government is the weakest Punjab has ever seen and it has failed to restore peace in the state.” The AAP supremo also questioned the timing of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib, bomb blasts and terror activities. “It all started just before the elections. That is why Punjabis need to be extremely vigilant and united,” he added. Kejriwal said in the Golden Temple lynching case, the Congress government had promised to identify and arrest the conspirators within 48 hours. “This announcement has not been fulfilled yet,” he said adding that peace and prosperity of Punjab would not be allowed to deteriorate at any cost. Kejriwal said people of Punjab were well aware of “selfish, opportunistic and mafia forces like the Congress, Captain, Badals and the BJP”. “Therefore, for the 2022 elections, the people have made up their mind to remove these corrupt people from powerful positions. The people of Chandigarh have recently shown this after Delhi,” he added. BJP pursuing policy of hatred: BhagwantAccusing the BJP of pursuing a policy of hatred, Bhagwant Mann said, “People of Chandigarh have shown that they wanted a policy of communal harmony and development. The state has to keep an eye on ill intenders because whenever elections come, sacrilege, bomb blasts and other incendiary incidents are carried out on the land of Punjab.” 
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Elect a stable govt which can safeguard regional aspirations: Harsimrat||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday urged the people of Punjab to elect a stable government which could safeguard their regional aspirations. She said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was the sole party which had steadfastly stood up for the state and its people. Addressing a gathering in support of SAD candidate Pawan Kumar Tinu, she said the Akali Dal has a track record of safeguarding the regional aspirations of Punjabis. Harsimrat also slammed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, saying that despite being in power for more than three months and making one announcement after another, he was unable to change anything on the ground. Castigating Arvind Kejriwal, she said the Delhi chief minister wanted to usurp power in Punjab through hook or by crook. Harsimrat also visited Dera Ballan in Jalandhar where the dera committee urged her to resume the facility of sending devotees free of cost to Varanasi to visit the birthplace of Guru Ravidas. Sukhbir seeks action in Jalandhar temple sacrilege incident SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday demanded the immediate arrest of culprits who had committed sacrilege at Shivpuri temple in Jalandhar, besides uncovering of the conspiracy to disturb the peace of Punjab by pitting religious groups against each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elect-a-stable-govt-which-can-safeguard-regional-aspirations-harsimrat-101640983490138.html
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress plotted Ludhiana blast to divert attention from govt’s failure: SAD||Accusing the Congress of plotting the Ludhiana court blast, former cabinet minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said it was a plan to divert the attention from the failure of Punjab government ahead of the assembly elections.Claiming that it was a politically motivated incident during a press conference at his residence on Friday, Grewal said the police have revealed the involvement of the SFJ in the blast and brother of an SJF key functionary is the chairman of Punjab Genco Ltd. Even cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa had met SFJ founder Gurpatwant Singh Pannun in an event in England few years back, Grewal said, adding that it pointed towards the involvement of the government in the blast. He added that the government failed to provide justice in the sacrilege cases reported in the past and was now trying to divert the attention by lodging false FIR against Bikram Majithia in drugs case and Ludhiana blast incident. Different statements were issued by chief minister Charanjit Channi, PPCC president Navjot Sidhu, home minister Sukhjinder Randhwa and DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya after the blast. Channi also tried to blame the SAD for the blast, he added. Akali leader Harish Rai Dhanda said that role of MLA Simarjit Singh Bains should also be probed in the blast as hearing of the rape case against him was scheduled on the day of blast. ‘Cong responsible for Golden Temple sacrilege’Grewal also alleged that the Congress was behind the recent sacrilege incident at the Golden Temple. He accused the state government of extending protection to those behind the heinous act. Seeks probe into ‘scams’ by AshuAccusing cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu of committing multi-crore scams, Grewal sought an impartial probe in the different cases of corruption, including scam worth hundreds of crore in purchase of gunny bags and increase in cash credit limit for buying paddy by ₹14,000 crore. Ashu had been refuting such allegations in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-plotted-ludhiana-blast-to-divert-attention-from-govt-s-failure-sad-101640983129911.html
01-01-2022||Dehradun||Dalit woman reinstated as school cook||A 32-year-old Dalit woman, who was fired as the cook in a government school in Uttarakhand 10 days ago after upper-caste students refused to eat meals cooked by her, was reinstated on Friday following widespread criticism.Also Read | After students refuse to eat food cooked by Dalit woman, she is fired for ‘wrongful appointment’Her reappointment came a day after the police registered a First Information Report (FIR) against six named and 18-20 other unnamed — including a female block development committee (BDC) member and the president of the parent teacher association — under the Scheduled Castes (SC) and the Scheduled Tribes (ST) (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and 506 (criminal intimation), on a complaint filed by the Dalit woman, Sunita Devi.“We held a meeting of the parent teachers association and school management committee in the college and reinstated the Dalit woman as bhojanmata (midday meal cook) who was removed from her post on December 22,” said RC Purohit, chief education officer (CEO) of Champawat district.“I am so happy after all I have not only got justice but also will be able to financially help my family. Before my appointment and removal from bhojanmata post, I was not aware of the fact that a Dalit woman can apply for this post. My reappointment for the post has given me the strength to raise my voice for my own right,” Devi said.Also Read | Uttarakhand CM orders inquiry into sacking of Dalit cookDevi had joined as bhojanmata (midday meal cook) in the government inter college (GIC) at Sukhidhang on December 13. She replaced Shakuntala Devi, an upper caste woman who retired after turning 60. On Sunita Devi’s first day, all students had the midday meal together. But a day later, some 40 upper caste students in classes 6 to 8 — out of a total of 66 pupils in these classes — stopped eating the meals and started bringing their tiffin boxes from home, sparking a row over caste discrimination in the area.She was subsequently fired by the education department on December 22, citing “procedural lapses” in her appointment. Two days later, Dalit students in the school boycotted the midday meal cooked by the upper caste woman who replaced Devi.The incident sparked widespread condemnation and allegations of caste bias. On Thursday, Mukesh Kumar, chairman of the state commission for scheduled castes, met Devi and told the police to file a case.Also Read | Uttarakhand Dalit cook case: Scheduled Caste panel chief calls for justice“We have booked six named and 18-20 other persons, including a woman, under the SC/ST Act on the complaint of a bhojanmata (cook). A probe will be conducted by a circle officer (CO),” said sub-inspector (SI) Devendra Bisht, in-charge of Chalthi police outpost in Champawat district.Among those named in the FIR were BDC member Deepa Joshi, parents-teachers association chief Narendra Joshi, Mahesh Chaurakoti, Babloo Gahtori, Shankar Datt and Satish Chand, said Bisht. The FIR was filed on Thursday.Deputy inspector general of Kumaon range, Nilesh Anand Bharne confirmed the FIR.Deepa Joshi refuted the allegations. “We have done nothing except raising voice against procedural lapses in Sunita Devi’s appointment. But it was made a case of caste discrimination by some elements. These elements have provoked her to lodge an FIR against us. We have full faith in the police probe,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dalit-woman-reinstated-as-school-cook-101640982771851.html
