02-01-2022||Noida||Over 115,000 teenagers likely to get Covid jab in Noida, says health department||Over 115,000 people are likely to be administered the Covid vaccines in Noida as the jab drive for the 15-18 age group is scheduled to start on Monday, according to estimates of the health department.The health department has earmarked 27 government centres across the district for administering the Covid vaccines to the people in this age group, officials said on Sunday. Additional staff will also be deputed for vaccinating people in the 15-18 age group. All these centres will get around 300 Covaxin doses per day.Officials said that the department is aiming to vaccinate more than 8,000 children on a daily basis. “Both online and offline services are available for booking slots at all these centres. People can pre-register the slots online. If slots are not available, all these centres can also allow walk-in beneficiaries. People need to carry valid identity cards as mandated by the government,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer. According to the officials, most of the online slots for Monday have been booked. The 27 government centres comprises 22 schools and five government hospitals. A team of doctors and nurses will also be available at all these centres, to prevent any adverse event, said the officials.Several private centres will also start vaccinating people in the age group of 15-18 age group. Kailash Hospital in Greater Noida, Felix Hospital and Sharda Hospital in Noida are among the private centres with the maximum vaccination rate in the district, and these hospitals will start vaccinating people in the 15-18 age group from Monday. “We are among the few centres in Greater Noida, which has the Covaxin doses to be administered to the teenagers. Two sessions have been especially reserved for them. We will also have a paediatrician at the vaccination site for health checkups 24X7,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson of Sharda Hospital. Felix Hospital has started a 24x7 vaccination drive for the teenagers and it will conduct free general health checkup for the children, and also their parents before the vaccination. “The vaccine, allowed by the government, is completely safe for the children, and their guardians should not hesitate in getting them vaccinated. Weighing the pros and cons, it is always better to have the children protected, rather than worrying about their well-being. Though the effects of the disease have been mostly mild among the children, it has also been seen that fully vaccinated people (who have been administered both the doses of the Covid vaccines) have had very mild symptoms even if they test positive,” said Dr DK Gupta, paediatirician and chairman of Felix Hospital. Meanwhile, another mock drill will also be conducted at five centres across the district on Monday and Tuesday, to check preparedness to handle an increase in paediatric cases at the government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-115-000-teenagers-likely-to-get-covid-jab-in-noida-says-health-department-101641148107508.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh: Active tally reaches 1725 as 552 more test positive||The active tally of Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh went up to 1725 on Sunday as 552 more people tested positive within 24 hours. The current figure is close to the number on July 8, 2021 when there were 1789 active cases in the state. The state also saw the year’s first Covid related death in Deoria district, the first in two weeks. The total number of Covid related deaths in the state now stands at 22,916.The maximum fresh Covid cases were reported in the four urban hubs of Gautam Buddha Nagar or Noida (117), Ghaziabad (93), Lucknow (80) and Meerut (54). The active tally in Noida went up to 361, Ghaziabad 291, Lucknow 278 and Meerut 160.The state government directed the state health department to give a thrust to the Covid vaccination drive as well as sound an alert in the districts in which the maximum people have tested positive. Health experts have urged the state government to impose restrictions in the cities in which a large number of cases have been reported as being done by the neighbouring states of Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan to check the surge in cases. Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Lucknow branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the state government has announced guidelines for the implementation of the Covid protocol across the state. With the spike in Covid-19 cases, the guidelines should be implemented strictly to check the spread of the cases, he said. Containment regulations should be enforced in the cities where maximum cases are being reported, including Noida, Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Meerut, he suggested.Dr AK Singh, a private medical practitioner said, Uttar Pradesh is witnessing a surge in Covid cases. The ministry of health and family welfare has alerted the state governments about the possible third Covid wave and several states have started implementing the central government orders, he said. Uttar Pradesh should also impose the required restrictions to check the spread of the cases, he said.A state government officer said the district magistrates of the districts in which maximum Covid cases have been reported have been directed to submit a plan about the strategy to check the cases, as well as to strengthen health facilities.On January 3 and 4, a special team of the health department will review the preparations in government and private hospitals. The health department will organise a mock drill in 500 hospitals, he said. “In all 1,78,831 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and the report of 552 was positive for Covid while 37 patients recovered in the past 24 hours,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health), in a press statement.The overall positivity rate in the state is 1.84% while the recovery rate stands at 98.6%, said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-active-tally-reaches-1725-as-552-more-test-positive-101641147984966.html
02-01-2022||Dehradun||In setback to Uttarakhand AAP, top leader Anant Ram Chauhan joins Congress||DEHRADUN: A day ahead of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Dehradun visit, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state working president Anant Ram Chauhan joined the Congress on Sunday in Delhi.Chauhan, a retired Indian Police Service officer, said he resigned from AAP as he was not being taken into confidence over party activities in the state.AAP has three state working presidents for Garhwal, Kumaon and Terai regions. “I was the state working president in charge of Garhwal region,” said Chauhan, a provincial police service officer who was inducted into the Indian Police Service in 2005. He retired in 2018 and joined AAP in December 2020.“Everything was being managed from Delhi, what to do, when to organise a press conference and so on. Here we couldn’t decide anything. So, I was feeling suffocated in the AAP and decided to join the Congress,” said Chauhan.Rajeev Mehrishi, media in-charge of Congress state unit, said Chauhan, a former inspector-general of police in Uttarakhand, and many others took membership of the Congress and stressed that the people of the entire state were suffering due to inflation, corruption and unemployment.Ganesh Godiyal, state Congress president, said Chauhan joining the Congress will definitely strengthen the party in the state.AAP leader SS Kaler said Chauhan was never interested in strengthening the party in the state as he had great expectations from the party which were not fulfilled. “So, he has chosen the easy way out and joined the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-setback-to-uttarakhand-aap-top-leader-anant-ram-chauhan-joins-congress-101641147744631.html
02-01-2022||Other||Vax certificate rider: Gurugram malls witness long queues||Shopping malls across the city are witnessing long queues due to checking of vaccination certificates by the security guards deployed there. Several malls on MG Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Road witnessed high footfall on Saturday and Sunday as people visited there for New Year celebrations but had to face problems due to the vaccination directive by the state government.According to a recent directive by the Haryana government, from January 1, public places such as malls, public transport, parks, religious places, and restaurants will be out of bounds for those who are not fully vaccinated.Akash Oberoi, president, MGF Metropolitan mall on MG Road, said that the government has passed the order but failed to spread awareness. “This notification has created a chaos. During the peak season, we have more people outside the mall than inside,” he said. Visitors alleged that the security guards at the entrance of the mall were not well trained to check the certificates. Rohan Shukla, a resident of Saket in Delhi who visited the mall, said that his group used same certificate to enter the mall and the guard could not even check the name and details. “Same certificate was used by four of us. It is waste of time standing at the entry gates,” he said. Another visitor said that it took him 30 minutes to enter the mall. “There were more than 50 people standing in the queue and no one was maintaining social distancing. It’s just an eyewash to show implementation of the vaccination directive,” said Nakul Tiwari, a resident of Gurugram’s Sector 10. Shop keepers at some malls said that in many cases, people did not update their vaccination certificates leading to chaos. They fear that their business will suffer on account of the fully inoculated rider. Aman Bajaj, one of the shop owners at the Metropolitan mall, said that people are unaware of the new directives and most of them don’t have their certificates handy. “This has hit our business badly. We accept the measures, but a little awareness would do the needful,” he said. The state government on Saturday also ordered that malls and markets would be allowed to open only till 5pm in five districts, including Gurugram, which have high Covid-19 caseload. “The extension of the deadline will be helpful for business, as the 6-8pm window is the peak time for customer inflow,” Bajaj said. Amit Kamboj, a shopkeeper at Metropolis mall on MG Road, said, “Most people in the 18-45 age group, who visit malls with friends and families, have not been fully vaccinated. But they should be allowed to carry their RT-PCR negative test report not older than three days.” Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that they are implementing the government’s directives strictly to check the spread of Covid-19. “The number of cases are rising, and following Covid-19 protocols will help to remain safe,” he said, adding that people should wear a facemask and ensure social distancing at public places. The Haryana government on Saturday announced several restrictions in five districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad. The restrictions, which will be in place till January 12, include closure of cinema halls, theatres, and multiplexes in these five districts for 10 days. 
02-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Active Covid-19 cases near 1,500-mark||The upward trend of Covid-19 cases continued in Gurugram on Sunday, with the district reporting 358 fresh cases taking the tally of active cases to 1,439, according to the health bulletin from the district health department. This is the first time since May 23 (308 cases) that Gurugram has crossed 300 cases. The active case tally was over 1,500 last on May 31. On Sunday, there were no new cases of Omicron variant in the district, said the district surveillance officer. The district has reported 34 Omicron cases so far. Of the 1,439 active cases, only eight patients are hospitalised in the district while 1,431 are under home isolation, the officials said. On Sunday, the health department collected 6,038 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,310,187, shows the data. Meanwhile, the district administration released an order adding eight more containment zones in Gurugram amid rising Covid-19 cases. The deputy commissioner, Yash Garg, issued an order in this regard on Friday which was shared on Sunday. The eight containment zones include residential societies in sectors 58, 54, 69, 66, 28, 50, 77 and individual houses in Palam Vihar, Sector 45, and South City. The district also has 22 micro containment zones as of now, the order said. Meanwhile, resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city have stopped giving entry to people who are not fully vaccinated. Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council, an umbrella body of various RWAs in the city, said, “We have been spreading awareness regarding vaccination, and now we have decided that we will cancel certain privileges like discounts with hospitals for OPDs for residents who have not taken the vaccine till now. We have also planned to set up vaccination camps with the help of the health department at condominiums for the support staff who have not been able to take the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-active-covid-19-cases-near-1500mark-101641146966012.html
02-01-2022||Other||Reactivate Covid control room, penalise norm violators: CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday called for strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols across the state and directed the deputy commissioners to reactivate the Covid control room in their respective districts for better monitoring of the disease. The chief minister who gave these directions while charing a Covid review meeting on Sunday through video conference also said that penalties should be imposed on individuals and institutions who are found violating the protocols. The Haryana government on Sunday also issued directions for closure of in-person classes in colleges and universities till January 12. “The inter-department committees in the districts should be kept on alert so that their services can be utilised when required. The deputy commissioners must conduct a review of hospitals, oxygen plants and other medical equipment required to meet the situation,” Khattar said in the meeting. Following directions from Khattar, the Gurugram district administration on Sunday said that they are strictly imposing the Covid-19 guidelines and will penalise the violators. “As per the directions of the chief minister, this time not only individual violators but institutions will also face penalties. We are also reactivating the Covid control room for better coordination with hospitals, civic bodies and private agencies,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. The officials said that an individual violator will be fined ₹500, while an institutional violator will attract a fine of ₹5,000.Besides, a key focus area on which the district administration is working is to streamline the home isolation system so that there is a better management of patients at home itself. “We are trying to ensure that a team of doctors is available for home patients, while counsellors can guide them and also reach them in case of hospitalisation,” Garg said. The deputy commissioner further said that status of hospitals, and availability of Covid beds and medicines are being checked. “Any shortfalls will be met without delay. We are better prepared this time as several new oxygen plants have come up in the district. The makeshift Covid care centres in the city are also being readied to meet any emergency,” he said. The district administration said that it will work in coordination with other civic agencies and police to ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour is followed strictly. “The shopping malls, markets and other such crowded places are now allowing entry to only vaccinated people. I also appeal to people to wear masks and follow rules,” said Garg, adding that violators will be strictly dealt with. To prevent the spread of Omicron, Garg said that they will keep track of individuals who have come from abroad as this variant is spread more by people with a travel history.The district health department, meanwhile, said that they were ready to launch the vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years on Monday. “We have set a target of vaccinating 7,7000 children on the first day itself,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. During the Covid review meeting, the chief minister also said the government is ready to meet the situation as there is ample availability of medicines, hospital beds and oxygen in the state. He also said that vaccination of children starting on Monday and booster doses to senior citizens from January 10 will also help check the spread of Covid-19 infection. On Saturday, the government had imposed more restrictions in five districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad, where cinema halls, sports stadiums, swimming pools and educational institutions were directed to remain closed till January 12. Malls and markets have also been asked to operate till 5pm daily, the government’s order had said. 
02-01-2022||Other||State board-affiliated schools start 100-day reading campaign||PUNE All State board-affiliated schools will start with a 100-day reading campaign that will run till April 2022. As per the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), this campaign will focus on students reading different topics and will encourage students to read and write about various issues. The 100-day reading campaign commenced from January 1. MD Singh, director, SCERT, said that the campaign is a part of a national programme.“Under this campaign, students will be read about different topics. The programme varies each week and detailed guidelines are issued to schools. This programme will help inculcate a sense of curiosity and guide students to know more about different topics like fiction, stories, poetry, and others. The reading campaign is designed differently for each standard,” said Singh.He added that to gain a basic understanding and information about things, reading is a must.“This reading campaign will acquaint students with knowledge and in depth exposure to local things well. For example, students from Class 6 to Class 8 will be involved in ‘Hunting the papers’. Wherein students will be involved in hunting local newspapers for specific words and later write a summary of the article. Such activities will help develop a critical and creative thinking among students and the ability to locate, understand and reflect on various kinds of information,” said Singh.He added that the campaign also involves a visit to the school library or local library.“However, because of the pandemic, if the schools are closed for offline teaching, there are alternative methods to continue the campaign. These alternate methods include reverse reading, zig-zag reading, which will improve the confidence among students and help boost the brain,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-board-affiliated-schools-start-100-day-reading-campaign-101641146906203.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Prime Minister says Yogi government now plays jail-jail with criminals in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hit out at previous governments in Uttar Pradesh, saying that gangsters and criminals used to play their own games in the state earlier but the Yogi Adityanath government now plays “jail-jail” with them.The Prime Minister was addressing a public meeting after laying the foundation stone for the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut.“During previous governments, criminals used to play their games and the mafias used to play their own. Earlier, there used to be tournaments of illegal land grabbing. People making obscene remarks at daughters used to roam freely,” he said. The Prime Minister also said people living in Meerut and adjoining areas can never forget how houses used to be set ablaze here.“The result of these games played by earlier governments was that people were forced to leave their ancestral homes and there was an exodus,” the Prime Minister said.“Now, the Yogi government is playing ‘jail-jail’ with such criminals. Five years ago, the daughters of Meerut used to fear leaving their homes after evening. Today, the daughters of Meerut are bringing laurels to the entire country,” Modi said.Modi also referred to the infamous Sotiganj market of Meerut, which specialised in dismantling stolen cars and selling its parts.“There has been ‘the end’ to the game played with vehicles in the market. Real sports are getting encouragement in UP. The youths of UP are getting an opportunity to make their presence felt in the sports world,” he said.He also accused the previous governments of not making efforts to change the ‘narrow’ mindset towards sports. Modi said the sports world was marred by maladies like games of nepotism, casteism, corruption and discrimination earlier at every level, right from the training to team selection but now the situation had changed.The impact of the change was seen when the country’s athletes won many medals in Olympic and Paralympics, he said.Continuing his attack on previous governments, he said the sugar mills were sold at throwaway prices in UP earlier.“But during the Yogi government, new mills are being opened instead of plants being shut down. Those who were earlier in power used to literally make you hanker to get payments for sugarcane price,” he said.He also said the payment made to farmers during the Yogi government’s term was more than what was paid by the two earlier governments.The PM also mentioned that on Saturday lakhs of farmers from UP had got the money transferred to their bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi and that it will benefit small farmers of this region.Laying the foundation stone of the state’s first Major Dhyanchand Sports University at Salawa in Meerut district, he anticipated that world class facilities in the university would help in creating international athletes and sports culture in the country.Stating that Meerut was the “karmsthali” of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand, he said the Central government named the country’s biggest sports award “Khel Ratna” after Dadda (Dhyan Chand) and now first university of UP will be dedicated to him.He said the university would be set up using a budget of ₹700 crore and it would produce more than 1000 players.The PM said over 1,000 boys and girls will pass out as excellent sportspersons from this upcoming sports university in Meerut.“In other words, the city of revolutionaries will further strengthen its identity as the city of sportspersons,” he said, in an apparent reference to the 1857 revolt against the East India Company beginning in Meerut with its leader sepoy Mangal Pandey attaining an iconic status among the country’s freedom fighters.Modi said youths have the biggest responsibility of making a new India of the 21st century.“The nation would walk on the path on which the youths walk,” he said. The Prime Minister also said his government has connected sports with youths’ fitness and career. It has also introduced many policies with greater transparency, he said.Prime Minister Modi mentioned the sports goods manufacturing industry of Meerut. Meerut units are already exporting sports goods to over 100 countries, he said. This way, Meerut was “making local to global,” he added.He further said sports has been given equal weightage with other subjects in the new National Education Policy.Modi also remembered former Prime Minister and farmer leader the late Chaudhary Charan Singh. He mentioned how the Yogi government helped youths by distributing tablets and smartphones and providing them with record employment.Modi also interacted with national, international players and Olympians before addressing the gathering.He inspected stalls of sports goods which were manufactured in local units.Earlier, Modi arrived by road because of poor visibility for flying. He offered puja at historic Augharnath temple in Meerut cantt which played a vital role in the First War of Independence in May 1857 against British Raj. He, along with governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, then visited Shaheed Smark and paid tribute to the martyrs of 1857. He also inspected an exhibition of paintings depicting the events of 1857 before heading to the venue of the main function at Salawa village.On his arrival, PM received a warm welcome from the people in Meerut and a huge crowd, chanting ‘Modi- Modi’, was seen along the side of the road.Accepting the greetings of the locals, he also waved back to the crowd while sitting inside his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prime-minister-says-yogi-government-now-plays-jail-jail-with-criminals-in-uttar-pradesh-101641146904679.html
02-01-2022||Pune||SPPU to conduct semester exam in February||PUNE Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct the first semester exam for last year students in February. This will be an offline exam, said officials.For other students, options of both, online and offline exams will be given by the university and its affiliated colleges. More than six lakh students are expected to appear for the exams this year and due to the Covid restrictions in the state there is demand of conducting exams online.For last one month the SPPU senior officials and deans have been discussing about conducting the examination. The decision was expected to be taken in December, as colleges from all the three districts Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar are about to start from the first week of January.Requesting anonymity, a the senior SPPU officials said, “The SPPU first semester exams will be held in February and discussions over how to conduct it are going on. For the final year students, it would be offline exams and for the rest of the students it would have both online and offline options,”Whereas students are demanding to have online exams as there is an increasing number of Covid cases in the state, Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “Due to the fear of the new Omicron variant many students have again returned back to their villages and in such case conducting offline exams is not a good idea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-conduct-semester-exam-in-february-101641146246153.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||200 local and 14 outstation trains cancelled during 24 hours mega block||MUMBAI: Owing to the 24 hours mega block operated between Kalva and Diva railway stations on Sunday, nearly 200 local trains and 14 outstation trains were cancelled by the Central Railway (CR). The delays in local train operations up to 8 minutes are likely to continue for the next four days due to caution speed orders imposed. According to railway authorities, two more major blocks are also expected to be operated by the Central Railway to complete the connection work. Once the construction work of the Thane and Diva fifth and sixth railway lines is completed, the Central Railway will be able to operate 100 new local train services. Nearly 700 workers were involved in the construction work from Sunday 2am to Monday 2am between Thane and Diva suburban railway stations.The work that was undertaken during the block includes cut and connection work of railway lines at three locations including Kalwa Kharegaon level crossing, Nutan Tunnel and at Diva railway station. A 6.5 km railway track along with the commissioning of a new railway flyover and platforms at Mumbra railway station was also undertaken. During the block period, there were no local train services available from Kalva, Mumbra, Kopar and Thakurli railway stations on the Central Railway.“Due to cut and connection work at various locations near Diva and Kalva, trains on the slow railway corridor, especially Diva and Thane railway stations, may run 7-8 minutes late for the next 3-4 days. We will try to relax the caution orders as soon as possible,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. The fifth and sixth railway lines project between Thane and Diva is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project(MUTP 2B) that got approval in 2008. Earlier, the Central Railway on December 19 had conducted an 18-hour railway block for the construction work of fifth and sixth Thane and Diva railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/200-local-and-14-outstation-trains-cancelled-during-24-hours-mega-block-101641146186050.html
02-01-2022||Pune||MSRTC’sbus with the ‘vista view’ to tour Mahabaleshwar||PUNE To offer a pleasing experience to tourists coming to Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani hill station, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) plans to introduce Vistadome bus, officials said. Vistadome bus from MSRTC is the first-ever in the state that has glass rooftop for a better view of mountains at Mahabaleshwar-Pratapgad area. The bus was to start plying in Mahabaleshwar from January 1, though MSRTC has delayed the plan due to non-clearance from RTO. The bus that will provide various amenities to make the journey comfortable is equipped with a tinted curved glass roof supplying an adequate amount of sunlight for better vision. The bus has an elevated seat, extra luggage space, a hook to hang the bag, and steel handles to help them in the journey. The facility is provided to tourists as well as regular travellers, said MSRTC officials, adding that the minimum fare will be ₹100. The bus takes passengers for a 36-40 km long Mahabaleshwar tour, showing tourists popular destinations at the hill station. Vistadome has replaced the normal bus that takes on a Mahabaleshwar Darshan. Abhijit Bhosale, a Public Relation Officer from MSRTC said, “The bus has a capacity of 44 passengers and a driver who also is the guide for the tour.” Previously, Mumbai - Pune has witnessed a similar experience with the Vistadome coach in Deccan queen express. The train, introduced on June 26, 2021, provides a serene view on the way from Mumbai to Pune. According to officials, the glass rooftop bus is painted with attractive colours while windows also offer a more clearer view to tourists of the beauty of the Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtcsbus-with-the-vista-view-to-tour-mahabaleshwar-101641146064653.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid vaccination for 15-18 years group in Uttar Pradesh starts today||LUCKNOW: Youngsters between 15 and 18 years of age can get their Covid vaccine shot across the state from Monday. There are 14014000 eligible teenagers in Uttar Pradesh, including 3.2 lakh in Lucknow, who can get their Covid vaccine dose. They will be provided only Covaxin vaccine jab, as per the guidelines. “A large number of teenagers have got themselves registered and booked slots. For those unable to do so, spot registration facility will be provided,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge vaccination in Lucknow, where 40-government centres will be administering vaccines to the teens. Walk in facility can be availed with some government ID proof. In Lucknow, teenagers can get vaccinated at urban community health centres in Aishbagh, Alambagh, Aliganj, BKT, Indira Nagar, Gosaiganj, Nagram, Sarojininagar, Tudiyaganj and NK Road. Also Ram Manohar Lohia Institute, Malihabad, Kakori, Gudamba, Itaunja, Mal, Mohanlalganj, Kaiserbagh Bus Stand, Shumacher Institute in Chinhat, BRD hospital Mahanagar, NR divisional hospital in Badshahnagar and Charbagh, TB Hospital in Thakurganj, PGI and KGMU, will be conducting vaccination for teens. “Vaccination of children was a much awaited step to provide safety against the virus. Parents of eligible teenagers should make use of this opportunity,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The Lok Bandhu and Civil hospitals will vaccinate till 10 in the night as they are day and night vaccination centres. Those who wish can visit these hospitals till late evening if they are unable to do so during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-for-15-18-years-group-in-uttar-pradesh-starts-today-101641145884313.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Worker vandalises construction company equipment over unpaid salary in Pune||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have booked a worker of a company for vandalising equipment, as the company did not pay his salary for the past two months.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sarvankumar Satyanarayan Shah, 44, an employee of the company.Between the New Year’s eve and morning of January 1, the accused man came to the company property in Moshi, Pune and vandalised equipment. The damaged equipment includes seven dumpers, three mixers, one spray bowser, two tempo, and one generator van. The accused man, who is on the run from the police, tried to set afire the equipment and broke glasses of some of the vehicles using stones. A case under Sections 435 and 427 of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/worker-vandalises-construction-company-equipment-over-unpaid-salary-in-pune-101641145824491.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Youth shot at during birthday party in UP’s Prayagraj||A youth in his mid-twenties was allegedly shot at and injured during a birthday party in Salori area under Colonelganj police station of Sangam city late on Saturday night, police said. The youth identified as Rohit received a bullet injury in his head and was admitted to SRN hospital in a serious condition. The accused was arrested along with a country-made pistol believed to have been used in the crime, they added.According to reports, a resident of Salori area, Rohit, a painter, had gone to attend the birthday party of his friend Shashi’s wife. It is reported that one Nanka of the same area opened fire following an argument during the party. The bullet hit Rohit in the head and he collapsed.Panic prevailed in the party after the incident and all guests fled the scene. On being informed, Colonelganj police reached the spot and rushed Rohit to SRN hospital. Circle officer, Colonelganj, Ajeet Singh Chauhan said Nanka had been arrested and further probe into the incident was in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/youth-shot-at-during-birthday-party-in-up-s-prayagraj-101641145764323.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Two minors apprehended for killing man in Chikhali||PUNE Two minor boys have been apprehended by Pune police for beating to death a man who slapped one of them for brushing him with a two-wheeler, on which the two boys were riding.The deceased man has been identified as Sunil Shivaji Sagar, a resident of Jadhavwadi in Chikhali, according to the police. One of the two boys is 17-year-old while the other is a 14-year-old. The murder happened near a general store in Chikhali between 5pm and 8pm on Friday.On the eve of new year, the two men had borrowed a two-wheeler from the family of one of their friends to visit another friend in Chikhali.“The two later told the police that they were on their way out from Jadhavwadi area on the two-wheeler when they hit a man with it and he in-turn slapped one of them. The two got enraged and started beating the man who ran inside a grocery shop. They pulled him out of the shop and started beating him when the 17-year-old took a rock from nearby and smashed his head with it. As the blood started flowing, a crowd started gathering and the two fled on the two-wheeler from there,” read a statement from officials of Chikhali police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.A case under Section 302 (murder) was registered against them at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-minors-apprehended-for-killing-man-in-chikhali-101641145704425.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Debt-ridden man dies by suicide after killing mother in Pune||A 42-year-old debt-ridden man allegedly killed his ailing mother and then died by suicide in Pune city, police said on Sunday. The man has been booked, said officials.The man, identified as Ganesh Fartade, 42 in a purported suicide note sent through WhatsApp to a relative, mentioned that he had suffered heavy losses in the share market, which promoted him to take the extreme step, police said.The incident took place on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday. The mother has been indentified as Nirmala Manohar Fartade, 76, The mother and son were residents of Akshay Garden Society in Dhankawadi area of Pune.The man administered a heavy dose of blood pressure medicine to his 76-year-old ailing mother in a bid to kill her at their home. This happened in the living room of their residence. However, when she did not die, the man allegedly smothered her to death with a plastic bag, according to the police.After smothering his mother, the man allegedly died by suicide by hanging himself in the bedroom, said officials.Before taking the extreme step, the man sent a suicide note to his cousin on WhatsApp at 3 am. The brother checked his phone at 6am and rushed from his house in Erandwane to the victim’s house only to find them dead, according to the police.“The man was a diploma holder in engineering and had been out of job since March 2021. He had invested a huge sum in the share market and lost it. He also in debt, but he lost a major amount in the share market, according to primary information. We are verifying more details about it,” said Yunus Mulani inspector (crime) Sahkarnagar police station.  A case of accidental death was registered for his death. Both the bodies were discovered in the early morning hours of Saturday and rushed to Sassoon hospital. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s maternal cousin who also lives in Pune.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/debtridden-man-dies-by-suicide-after-killing-mother-in-pune-101641145524574.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||ATS files new extortion case against Suresh Pujari||Mumbai The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which has registered a fresh extortion case against gangster Suresh Pujari, is also probing the terror angles in the case. A senior officer on condition of anonymity said, “Pujari is in police custody till January 11, 2022, and agency has been probing whether extortion money was used directly or indirectly to support any terror organisation”. The fresh extortion case was registered recently after a Mumbai-based businessman approached a senior ATS officer claiming that the gangster had called him in October 2021, and allegedly demanded ₹10 lakh. He was arrested and Vikhroli unit of the ATS produced him in the court and he was remanded in the police custody till January 11 for further probe, said the ATS officer.A senior crime branch officer, who has investigated several cases registered against Suresh Pujari in Mumbai said, “As per the investigation and information gathered, Pujari was only involved in extortion and we never found any links with any terror groups.”Pujari was extradited from the Philippines in October and arrested by ATS on his arrival in New Delhi on December 15, and brought him to Mumbai. Initially, he was arrested in an extortion case registered against him in Mahatma Phule Police station in Kalyan, which was transferred to ATS Thane unit for investigation. Two international SIM cards were recovered from Suresh Pujari at the time of his arrest on December 15.Pujari already has several extortion cases registered against him in Mumbai and six are MCOCA cases, in addition to multiple extortion and firing cases in Thane and Navi Mumbai, a senior officer said. “He was on the run for 14 years.” In 2015, Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him.Early in his criminal career, Pujari was associated with underworld don Chhota Rajan and later with the Ravi Pujari gang, but later formed his own gang in 2011. Both Suresh Pujari and gangster Ravi Pujari stayed in touch and helped each other, a crime branch officer said.The officer added, “Pujari frequently used aliases such as Suresh Puri and Satish Pai. He came to India in 2013, but left the country in three days on a fake passport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ats-files-new-extortion-case-against-suresh-pujari-101641145406164.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid scare: Allahabad HC, Lucknow bench to function virtually||PRAYAGRAJ: Amid rising cases of corona virus in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad high court will function in virtual mode both in Prayagraj and Lucknow from January 3. A meeting of the administrative committee of Allahabad high court was held on Sunday under the chairmanship of chief justice Rajesh Bindal, in which it was decided that from January 3 online hearing mode would be adopted. According to a press release issued by the Advocates’ Association of Allahabad High Court, secretary of the association, Harikesh Singh and its president Pradeep Kumar also participated in the meeting in representative capacity. After attending the meeting, both of them requested the advocates to take follow-up steps required for only virtual hearing of the cases from January 3 onwards. “There would be no adverse order at least for a period of one week”, they added. Similarly, Amrendra Nath Tripathi, general secretary of Oudh Bar Association, Lucknow informed that he along with Rakesh Chaudhary, the president of Oudh Bar Association, participated in the meeting of the administrative committee, in which the issue of rising cases of Covid was discussed. “For the next 15 days, offline hearing will remain completely suspended. But chambers of lawyers in high court and office of the Oudh Bar Association will remain open,” Rakesh Chaudhary said. It may be pointed out that Lucknow high court will reopen on Monday after the winter break. Several high courts across the country have decided to go for virtual hearing of cases from Monday due to increasing cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-scare-allahabad-hc-lucknow-bench-to-function-virtually-101641145284413.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj’s Rajju Bhaiya Univ to hold fourth convocation on Jan 4||Fourth convocation ceremony of Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) State University (PRSU), Prayagraj, will be held on January 4 (Tuesday), said varsity officials. Former University Grants Commission chairman prof Dhirendra Pal Singh will be the chief guest on the occasion while deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will be the special guest. UP governor and chancellor Anandiben Patel will preside over the function, said PRSU vice chancellor Dr Akhilesh Kumar Singh. During the ceremony, Akash Kumar Kamal, a resident of Mandhana Kalyanpur in Kanpur city and a student of BSc (agriculture) at Kulbhaskar Ashram PG College will be awarded the Chancellor’s Gold Medal, he said. Besides, the Gulati Gold Medal will be awarded to Vaishnavi Agarwal, a resident of Sethia Mohalla, ward number 14 of Lalgopalganj, Prayagraj who is a BBA student of United Institute of Management at Naini and Gauri Srivastava of ward number 10 of Handia, Prayagraj, who is a student of BCA at Urmila Devi Degree College, Baraut, he added.University’s public relations officer Avinash Kumar Srivastava said the ceremony will begin at 11am on the university campus at Naini. In the convocation ceremony, a total of 132 meritorious students will be awarded different medals for 2020-21 session, he added. The total medals that would be awarded during the ceremony include 47 gold, 44 silver and 44 bronze. “The medal winners this time include 77 males and 57 females,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagrajs-rajju-bhaiya-univ-to-hold-fourth-convocation-on-jan-4-101641145224280.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Vehicles halting on narrow road make Chandni chowk a risky drive||PUNE While the stretch near Narhe on Mumbai-Bangalore highway has been the focus due to series of mishaps, the other part of the road between Chandni chowk and Wakad is also equally risky, according to regular commuters.At Chandni chowk, many vehicles halt suddenly to pick up passengers going towards Mumbai, posing risk to those driving from behind especially when the highway often witnesses vehicles passing at higher speed.On one hand the ongoing construction of the flyover at Chandni chowk has turned the road narrower, the halting of vehicles, many say, causes problem. At the same time, another stretch on the highway between Warje and Wadgaon is also risky as hawkers selling fruits and vegetables cause hindrance.“I stay at Katraj and go to work at Hinjewadi while passing through Highway. Every day I find vehicles suddenly halting near Chandni chowk or fruit sellers occupying part of the highway. Given that it’s a highway, and vehicles move at a particular speed, such hindrance has in the past turned deadly,” said Avinash Bhosale, an IT engineer.According to the data shared by Pune police, stretch between Bhumkar bridge and Navle bridge have reported 25 accidents in 2020 while part under Sinhgad road jurisdiction saw 20 mishaps and Warje police station recorded 33 accidents.Besides accidents, the congestion due to flyover work at Chandni chowk often leads to long queue of vehicles heading towards Mumbai. At the same time, despite various initiatives taken by National Highway Authority of India and police, the Highway near Narhe continues to be risky, as see last week when three persons were killed when a truck hurtled in reverse and run them over.“The major and higher number of accidents occur on the Navle bridge.The traffic police are not on duty to manage heavy traffic coming from all directions under Bhumkar bridge,” said Latika Kunwar, shop owner.The Navle bridge connects Mumbai-Bangalore highway and a left turn to the service road leads to Katraj witnessing such cases often. Abhijeet Shinde, a resident staying on that highway said, “Katraj has become an accident-prone area. Generally, the accidents occur majorly due to two reasons - one, due to bursting of the tyre of a vehicle coming from Bhumkar bridge and secondly the vehicles taking reverse on the bridge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vehicles-halting-on-narrow-road-make-chandni-chowk-a-risky-drive-101641145108721.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Many Lucknow schools set to reopen from today||Lucknow Even as parents are concerned about the safety of their wards following spike in the number of Covid cases in the state capital, many schools in the city have decided to reopen from Monday with the assurance that Covid -19 protocols and SOPs laid down by the state government in the past would be followed. A number of Catholic, Anglo-Indian and other private schools in Lucknow will reopen from Monday after brief winter vacation. The schools this year has cut short the winter vacation to make up for the loss of teaching days due to prolonged pandemic-induced closure during the start of the new session. City Montessori School would reopen all its campuses for offline classes for all its students right from entry level to class 12, said CMS founder manager, Jagdish Gandhi. He said, “As there is no government order, so the school will resume offline classes. We will comply with the district administration or state government order.” St Francis College (SFC) in Hazratganj has sent text messages to parents in this regard. The message sent to parents whose wards study from class 6 to 8 reads: The college will reopen from January 3. Classes will be held both online as well as offline as per the time table. Students those who attend on campus classes must report by 8:25 am. Home time for students : 1:20 pm. Likewise, Hoerner College will reopen on Monday (January 3) for all classes amidst Covid protocols in the offline mode only. Classes will resume as usual with standard operating procedures in force. “There has to be a sense of normalcy, hence no panic must be created. Masks will be mandatory, as well as social distancing and use of sanitisers. Hoerner College is a fully vaccinated campus. All teaching, non-teaching and support staff and Principal are fully vaccinated,” said principal, Mala Mehra. “The timings will be from 9 am to 2:30 pm for classes 6-12 and 9am to 1:50pm for classes 1-5 and 9am to 1pm for KG, 9am-11:10am for nursery and 11:20am to 1:40 pm for pre nursery. Exit time is staggered so as to follow all Covid protocols. Entry and exit are from separate gates as mentioned in the SOP’s. At St Teresa’s Day School in Model house, classes nursery to 8 will start online and class 9 to 12 will continue offline, starting January 3, said Peter Fanthome Junior. President of Uttar Pradesh Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Anil Agarwal said, “The schools will hold a meeting on Monday to take a call regarding how to run schools in Covid times.” This academic session, the schools in Lucknow reopened in a phased manner with classes 9 to 12 reopening from August 16. In the following week, classes resumed for students from class 6 to 8 and from September 1, schools reopened for all classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/many-lucknow-schools-set-to-reopen-from-today-101641144804330.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Two Nepalese among three killed in Kheri accident||Three people, including two Nepalese and an Indian, were killed while six other Nepalese were injured when a mini bus in which they were travelling rammed into a stationary truck on national highway 730 near Ludhauni village on Lakhimpur-Isanagar road of the district on Saturday midnight, police said. The mini bus was carrying 14 passengers, including the bus driver, from Himachal Pradesh to Nepal. Those injured included two women and three children. The bus driver fled the spot after the accident, they added. On getting information, Isanagar police station in charge Raj Karan Sharma along with his staff rushed to the accident spot and carried out rescue work.As per the police, the deceased were identified as Dhaman Khatka, 14, Rohit Bohra, 15, residents of Nepal’s Salyan district. However, the identity of the deceased Indian bus conductor was yet to be established. They said the seriously injured passengers including Ganesh, 30, his wife Manju, 25, and their three sons Ravi, 7, Kavi, 5, Raman, 4, and one Ganga, 50, all hailing from Salyan district of Nepal were rushed to the district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-nepalese-among-three-killed-in-kheri-accident-101641144744269.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Follow ‘extreme’ Covid-appropriate behaviour, Mumbai civic body tells citizens||With the daily surge in Covid cases continuing in Mumbai on Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) appealed to all citizens to strictly follow ‘extreme’ Covid-appropriate behaviour, wear masks in public places, and avoid crowded places.As the city reported 7,792 new Covid cases, BMC urged Mumbaiites to ‘act responsibly,’ but not to panic as 90% of the hospital beds in Mumbai are vacant. On Sunday, Mumbai reported zero deaths due to Covid. In December, zero deaths were reported on a total of seven days spread across the month. Total deaths in the city are now at 16,377.The surge in cases reported since the last week of December has resulted in a 252% increase in Covid cases in Mumbai in December, in comparison to the month of November. According to the figures from the state government, Mumbai reported a total of 21,585 Covid cases in December, in comparison to 6,125 reported throughout November.In a statement on Sunday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday night, “I appeal to all the home quarantined patients to strictly abide by home quarantine guidelines. I also appeal to the citizens at large to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. There is no reason to panic, but at the same time, all of us have to be extremely cautious and exercise extreme Covid-appropriate behaviour. Mask is mandatory in the public and citizens should refrain from going to crowded places. All of us must join hands to tide over this new wave.”In his statement Chahal said, out of the total cases detected in Mumbai today, 89% are asymptomatic. Only 503 patients among those who tested positive on Sunday were hospitalised, out of which 56 cases were put on Oxygen beds. “As of today, 90% of hospital beds in Mumbai are vacant,” Chahal added. At present, out of the 30,565 covid-19 beds in Mumbai, 3059 are vacant, according to BMC.The surge in Covid-19 cases indicates Mumbai is in the third wave, according to experts and authorities. Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra minister for environment and tourism, and guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs, on Sunday, took to social media and said, “In the past 2 days BMC has changed the reporting method Covid cases and added number of asymptomatic patients/ hospital beds/O2 beds being occupied to avoid unnecessary panic. Fear and panic kept aside, extreme caution and Covid Appropriate Behaviour is a must as we are in the midst of the third wave.”BMC also issued a detailed circular on Friday with guidelines for Covid patients in home isolation. According to this circular, only those patients who are asymptomatic, mildly symptomatic, or elderly or co-morbid patients after evaluation by BMC and consultation with the family doctor, can be in home isolation. This is provided they have a separate toilet and bathroom, attached to the room they are isolating in, apart from the family contacts in their home. Patients in home isolation must have a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, face mask, gloves, sanitiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/follow-extreme-covid-appropriate-behaviour-bmc-tells-citizens-101641143664311.html
02-01-2022||Other||Congress gave SC CM to Punjab after 72 years: Sidhu in Phagwara||Phagwara Even as political observers say that Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi are not on the same page, Sidhu had words for praise for Channi on Sunday. “Within a short time of appointment, the current Punjab CM has paved the way for an enterprising state and displayed hope for equality in the system,” Sidhu said in a press note that his office released of a rally that Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal had organised. At the rally, Sidhu praised the fact that women outnumbered men. “Punjab got a Scheduled Caste (SC) chief minister after 72 years. A new Punjab is emerging and Punjabis will write a fresh script in the new era because new people have come, while people like former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who looted the state, are not to seen,” he told the rally. Sidhu alleged that the BJP was arm-twisting political leaders to leave the Congress by using central investigating agencies. “Our manifesto will not have 5,000 promises, but only a 13-point agenda, meant for the poor, the labourer and farmer, and not for the 1%, who are already elite people.”He launched an attack on the SAD, alleging that their workers spread lawlessness in the state. “Arvind Kejriwal is running a factory of lies, as he has failed to deliver in the national capital.” On the post-matric scholarship scheme, Sidhu alleged, “The rupees mutli-crore scam in the scholarship scheme for the SC students occurred under the Akalis between 2012-17 by creating fake colleges and admissions. If anyone from the Congress party committed wrong, then he should be punished as we will not defend him.”He added that the NDA government had failed to check runaway inflation, and on top of it was charging unjustified taxes. “I have chosen the Punjab Model with utmost care and for that reason it has accounted for the fact there is a huge population of Punjab, which are NRIs. They need to be valued. It is proposed that a single window clearance portal for NRIs be formed with access to property and land related work to weed out delays, harassment and additional effort,” Sidhu claimed.
02-01-2022||Other||Sacrilege bid meant to weaken SAD, SGPC: Akal Takht jathedar||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has claimed that the recent sacrilege bid at the Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple) was meant to weaken the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). “These are representative bodies of Sikhs in political and religious fields,” the jathedar told a gathering that the SAD had organised at the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex in protest against the Congress government of Punjab. “Had the sacrilege culprit succeeded, the SGPC would have been targeted and a narrative would have been built against it. The SAD would also be targeted, because it is ruling over the SGPC. What else was the mission of this conspiracy? It was meant to shake the foundations of these organisations, but with the grace of the Guru, the culprit could not succeed,” the jathedar claimed.SAD patriarch and former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal said, “Dangerous conspiracies to install government stooges as “neo-Masands” in sacred gurdwaras are behind these events. These conspiracies are meant to weaken the Khalsa Panth and dilute its religious identity.” SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged that a conspiracy was afoot to rob the state of its peace. Senior Akali leader and Rajya Sabha member Balwinder Singh Bhundar justified the lynching to death of the Golden Temple sacrilege suspect. Sirsa deceived party which gave it everything: BadalEven as the agenda of the meeting was sacrilege, Delhi-based Sikh leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who resigned as chief of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and later withdrew it, remained the focus of speeches. “I have never named anyone publicly, but I would say that Sirsa deceived the party which gave him everything. His joining the BJP amounts to using bodies of 800 martyrs of the Kisan Andolan to further one’s political career. He should be ashamed,” Badal said. SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami also expressed distress over Sirsa’s move.Sukhbir attacked farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. “Kisan organisations used to criticise us, even as we quit the Union ministry and later left the NDA alliance. Now, why is Rajewal inclined towards the BJP?”In the presence of Badals, the jathedar claimed, “Whenever I visit foreign countries, Sikhs complain that the SAD and the SGPC do not talk about an Independent Sikh state or rule. Is this the reason behind their weakening? If these organisations weaken, there will be a ban on recitation of ‘Raj Karega Khalsa’ (Khalsa will rule) under a new rule in the historic gurdwaras. At least, the SGPC is keeping the demand of the Khalsa Rule alive. With the dissolution of the SGPC, this demand will be crushed.” Opposing the recent arrest of Sikh youth Jagmeet Singh for secessionist activities, he said “Today, there is discrimination. We raise no objection if anyone talks about the Hindu Rashtra. However, we don’t accept the arrest of anyone for talking about Sikh Rashtra under sedition charges.” He added, “Is this not excess and tyranny? On the other side, calls are given to kill or eliminate a particular community openly. No action is taken.”“Parkash Singh Badal has said the SAD will abide by what the Akal Takht Sahib directs it do. The SAD has been raising its voice against excesses; it should raise this voice even today if Sikhs or Hindus or Muslims face any kind of excesses,” he added.
02-01-2022||Other||Amid Omicron threat, Jharkhand urges Centre to provide genome sequencing machine in RIMS||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government on Sunday urged the Centre to provide genome sequencing kits and equipments at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) as lack of such a facility in the state is leading to delay in getting reports of samples being tested for the Omicron variant, currently being sent to Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Bhubaneshwar.“I request you to provide required kits and equipments for genome sequencing at RIMS which also has the distinction of being a research centre. We currently send samples to ILS, Bhubaneshwar and it takes 45 days to get reports. I would request if you could also intervene so that we get the reports in 15-20 days,” state health minister Banna Gupta told union minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a review meeting chaired by the latter.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Gupta said he has also requested the Centre to allow Covaxin to be administered to kids above 12 years of age besides allowing treatment of Covid-19 to be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.“Earlier we thought, there would be a different vaccine for children under the age group of 15-18 years. But since it’s Covaxin that is being administered to them, it could be administered to those above 12 as well. It will help build their immunity,” said Gupta.There are 2.41 crore population above 18 years in the state eligible for vaccination, while an estimated 2.4 lakh of the population fall under the 15-18 category. In the 18 plus category, around 74 % have been administered the first dose and around 45 % have been completely vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.The state has witnessed an exponential spike in fresh Covid-19 cases in the past week, with the state logging 1,007 cases on Saturday, out of which 495 cases were recorded in Ranchi alone, followed by Dhanbad and Jamshedpur which recorded over 100 cases on January 1.Despite the spike, the state is yet to officially record any case of the new variant Omicron. The union health ministry has confirmed that the new variant has been detected across 23 states in the country..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-omicron-threat-jharkhand-urges-centre-to-provide-genome-sequencing-machine-in-rims-101641140843980.html
02-01-2022||Other||Punjab BJP president reviews readiness for Modi’s January 5 Ferozepur rally||Amritsar State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma visited Amritsar on Sunday to take stock of preparations for the rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be held in Ferozepur on January 5. He was accompanied by BJP national secretary and Punjab co-incharge Dr Narender Singh Raina and former national BJP vice-president, and Amritsar Lok Sabha in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna.Ashwani Sharma addressed an organisational meeting held at the district BJP office, Shaheed Harbans Lal Khanna Smarak, under the chairmanship of BJP district president Suresh Mahajan. “PM Narendra Modi has a special attachment with Punjab and Punjabis and there is a lot of enthusiasm among the people of the state and BJP workers regarding his Ferozepur rally. “Prime Minister Modi’s rally in Ferozepur will be a historic rally and a lesson for the opposition,” Sharma claimed.Sharma called upon workers to reach the rally in large numbers, claiming that this rally would lay the foundation of BJP’s victory in the assembly polls. “The issues of drug addiction, unemployment, corruption, protection of women were prevalent even 20 years ago and have not been resolved. Political parties have been fooling the people by giving hollow promises, free announcements, guarantees etc. just to garner votes. “We will fulfil Punjab’s dream of being a drug-free and corruption-free state. Industry and employment will also be created,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-bjp-president-reviews-readiness-for-modi-s-january-5-ferozepur-rally-101641140783945.html
02-01-2022||Patna||MG setu reconstruction gets fresh deadline, bridge to become fully operational by May-June||The long-awaited renovation of the eastern flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu—the communication lifeline between north and south Bihar—is likely to jump the deadline yet again.. The Afcons infrastructure limited, the construction firm allotted the work to rehabilitate the 39-year-old cantilever bridge over the river Ganga by the Central ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), was given the extended deadline till March this year to finish the project. However, given the pace of work and the recent upsurge in the Covid pandemic, officials of the state road construction department (RCD) said that the eastern flank of the bridge might become operational for traffic by May-June this year. RCD minister Nitin Nabin, who reviewed the progress on the ₹1,742 crore project last week, has categorically told the construction firm to complete the rehabilitation by May 15. “Approximately 95% of the work on span segment and 50% on pier caps have been done. We have stipulated the deadline to finish the project, after which there will be no further extension,” said Nabin, adding that penal action would be initiated in case of failure. RCD officials the minister had asked the firm to adhere to the latest deadline, as operation of the only western flank of the renovated MG Setu was resulting in perennial snarl-ups of heavy vehicles on Patna side. Union MoRTH minister Nitin Gadkari had opened the western flank of the reconstructed bridge for traffic in August 2020, while work to dismantle and renovate on the eastern flank took off in July the same year. The officials said that the reconstruction work, which started in June 2017, had already suffered many deadlines. “Originally the project was set to complete within two years from the start of the work. Accordingly, the western flank of the bridge was to become fully operational by November 2018. But it got delayed owing change in design and classification of materials used in the bridge,” said an RCD engineer deputed to supervise the project. An official of the Afcons Infrastructure said that the supply chain of materials was disturbed owing to the global impact of the pandemic. “Many parts of the steel fabrication for trusses are being imported from other countries. We are sure to hand over the project to the government within the deadline if the Covid pandemic does not take its toll on the supply chain yet again,” he said. 
02-01-2022||Patna||IGIMS begins genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples||PATNA: The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Saturday started conducting genome sequencing, to check the strain of Sars CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, said its director Dr NR Biswas.“We have initiated the process to conduct genome sequencing tests for Covid-19 at our laboratory from January 1 on 24 samples we had collected. It will take a week from the extraction of the RNA to get the test result,” said Dr Biswas.The institute had conducted two trial runs on archived Covid-19 samples between May and November last year.“We found the Delta variant is around 70% of the 24 samples we tested in two rounds during the trial run. The remaining 30% contained virus of no significance,” said Dr Namrata Kumari, professor, and head of, department of microbiology, IGIMS.“We found Delta variant in the sample of a person with travel history of the United Kingdom that we had tested in the last week of November,” she added.After the trial run, the institute had to wait for funds from the state government to procure the reagents, which are costly, before running into a shortage of reagents.“It takes ₹13-15 lakh to run one test, which can accommodate a maximum of 96 samples at a time,” said people familiar with the test.“It will take 10 days to get the final result from the date of collection of the oropharyngeal or nasopharyngeal swab. The result will, however, depend on the quality and concentration of the DNA,” said Dr Kumari.Explaining the time-consuming process, she said, once the RNA is extracted through a polymerase chain reaction, it has to be converted into DNA and then the genetic material in the organism has to be fragmented to get it into the machine. Chips are used and sequencing is done after the genetic material is put in the cartridge. The machine throws out huge data, which has to be compared with the reference genome data, and then mutations of Delta or Omicron are picked up.This is the first time the institute is conducting genome sequencing with recently collected samples of Covid-19 amid the growing threat of the new variant Omicron across the world. The state reported its first case of Omicron on December 30 when a 26-year-old resident of Patna’s Kidwaipuri locality who returned from New Delhi after meeting his brother, with a travel history to the UK, tested positive for Covid-19. The youth has since recovered, said officials.The IGIMS is the only institute in Bihar to be a part of the Insacog (Indians SARS-CoV-2 consortium on genomics), a network of laboratories working on genomic surveillance of Covid-19, set up under the ministry of health and family welfare to study and monitor genome sequencing and virus variation of circulating strains of Covid-19 in India.The Insacog currently has 35 laboratories working on genome sequencing against 10 national laboratories when it was set up in December 2020.
02-01-2022||Patna||75 including medicos, docs from NMCH test Covid positive in Patna||Around 75 doctors and medical students from Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) were among the 352 new cases to test positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, as the number of active cases in the state shot up to 1,074, said state health officials. “As many as 87 doctors and medicos of our institution have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days. As many as 75 of the 194 samples tested on real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) were positive on Sunday, while 12 had tested positive on Saturday,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, medical superintendent of the NMCH. Five of the 87 doctors and medicos positive at NMCH are hospitalised while the remaining are under home isolation, said superintendent Dr Singh.Two assistant professors, including one who recently returned from Andaman and Nicobar, at AIIMS-Patna, have also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, said its nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar. Many doctors to test positive had attended the two-day 96th national annual conference of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held in Patna between December 27 and 28. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, speaker of the legislative assembly Vijay Kumar Sinha, health minister Mangal Pandey and education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary were among the political dignitaries to attend the valedictory function of the IMA. “On Sunday, we collected around 194 samples of students and doctors, presently residing in our hostels,” said Dr Hiralal Mahto, principal of the NMCH and also professor and head, department of microbiology at the medical college. “As many as 17 of the 80 samples tested on rapid antigen detection kits on Saturday are positive. Their samples, along with many others, have now been taken for RT PCR test,” said Dr Papu Kumar Saifi, a final year postgraduate student in the department of medicine at the NMCH. A health manager of the Guru Gobind Singh hospital in Patna City has also tested positive for Covid-19 for the fourth time. Patna has shown a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, with 405 of the 749 active cases in the state, as per the government’s Covid-19 bulletin on Saturday. Of the 281 new cases, 136 were from Patna on Saturday. Gaya accounted for 70 and Munger 10. On Sunday, Patna reported 142 new cases, followed by 110 in Gaya and 13 in Munger. The number of active cases in Patna had now gone up to 542. Twelve have so far tested positive for Covid-19 of the estimated 306 people who returned to Patna from Omicron-affected countries, including the USA, UK and the Netherlands, in December. Swab samples of those testing positive have been sent for genome sequencing, officials said. The Bihar chief minister is scheduled to inaugurate the launch of the vaccine for children in the 15-18 years age group at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday. He will also visit the genome sequencing laboratory at the institute. Bihar will host around 2,787 session sites for vaccination of children on Monday, said health minister Mangal Pandey. Gaya will have the highest 243 session sites, followed by 229 in Bhojpur, 208 in Nawada, 204 in East Champaran, 176 in Buxar, 175 in Supaul, 133 in Munger, 120 in Begusarai and 110 each in Muzaffarpur and Nalanda. State capital Patna will host 87 vaccination sites. Bihar has around 12 lakh doses of Covaxin, which will be administered to children. Besides, it has around 80-82 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine. The government has increased from four to six the cap on the number of registrations against a mobile number on the CoWIN portal for vaccination purposes, said officials.
02-01-2022||Patna||Schools up to class 8 to remain closed till Jan 8||PATNA: In view of the cold wave, the court of the district magistrate on Sunday passed an order, “prohibiting academic activities in all private and government schools of Patna up to class 8 till January 8”, citing risk and health to the life of children.All the schools were scheduled to reopen from January 3 in the state.According to the weather forecast, cold conditions are likely to increase in the coming week due to the impact of westerlies. The temperature is likely to fall by another 2-3 ° C with continuing overcast conditions.Meanwhile, according to Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha, due to prevailing cold conditions, academic sessions for Classes 1 to 8 will be remain suspended January 3 to January 5, for all schools in the district. Classes 9 to 12 can be held from 9am., the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/schools-up-to-class-8-to-remain-closed-till-jan-8-101641140483925.html
02-01-2022||Pune||MCA and Pharmacy courses on the upswing||PUNE With the highest number of admissions at the end of all admission rounds, Master of Computer Application (MCA) course seems to be the most in-demand from students. However, the architecture course had multiple vacancies, according to the statistics given by the Maharashtra state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell.As per the information given by the state CET cell, out of the total 8,714 seats available for the MCA course in the state, 8,503 seats were admitted and only 211 seats remained vacant with 2.42 per cent of vacancy. It was followed by Direct Second year Pharmacy (DSP) course with seats available, 5,996 seats were admitted and 304 seats remained vacant with 4.83 per cent of vacancy.Similarly, for the Masters in Pharmacy (M.Pharm) and Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course there was a less vacancy percentage with 10.53 per cent and 10.34 per cent respectively. This year students have given more preference to Pharmacy and management courses looking forward to the job opportunities in these fields.Whereas the highest number of vacancies is with the Bachelor of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) course with 53.51 per cent of vacancy across the state. It is followed by Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch) and Master of Architecture (M.Arch) courses with vacancies of 45.34 per cent and 43.17 per cent respectively.Ravindra Jagtap, Maharashtra state CET cell chairman said, “The admissions for the MCA and pharmacy courses went on well compared to other courses. Apart from the hotel management and architect courses all other professional courses saw a good round of admissions for this academic year.”Talking about the overall trend of students going for Pharmacy courses, one of the pharmacy college professors Shrikant Borate said, “Due to the pandemic there was high demand for various types of medicines and other medical equipment’s. Even the business of medical shops and pharmacy industry boomed in last two years, considering this a lot of students are now preferring to go for pharmacy courses after completing Class 12. This is the field which gives job opportunities in any situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mca-and-pharmacy-courses-on-the-upswing-101641140303845.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Only electric buses to be allowed on ghat leading to Sinhagad fort in Pune from January 26||PUNE The next time you visit to Sinhgad fort on the weekend, you will have to park your private vehicle at the base of the fort and travel by a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahandal (PMPML) electric bus to the top of the fort. The forest department is planning to stop private vehicles using the ghat section of the fort on weekends, as it causes traffic jams and congestion. Recently, the forest department and PMPML officials conducted a survey of the fort and if everything goes as per plans from January 26, this PMPML bus service will start at Sinhagad fort. There has been heavy rush of tourists visiting Sinhgad fort especially on weekends, causing long queues of vehicles in the ghat section of the fort. Hence, the state forest department had announced a ban on private vehicles on the ghat section on weekends. Instead, tourists will travel by the PMPML’s electric buses. “One of the trusts is ready to give their land for parking of buses and soon we are going to sign an MoU. In a survey done of the fort, we checked for charging stations and other technical things. If all the technical and other administrative things go as per plans in next 15 to 20 days, we will start electric bus service from January 26,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune forest department division. Dattatray Zende, traffic manager of PMPML said, “For the last few days our trials of electric buses on the Sinhagad fort ghat section were going on and now a place has been finalised for buses to park. Also, the charging point stations at the top of the fort and other technical issues have been surveyed by senior PMPML officials. To give the historical details of the fort and share information, a guide will also be there in the bus on the way to the fort. Ticket fares for these electric buses has not yet been finalised.” “It is a good decision to stop private vehicles using the ghat section now people will only have to travel by PMPML buses. Long queues and traffic jams also affect the environment. People waste many hours just going to the fort,” said Kiran Pisal, a regular visitor to Sinhgad fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-electric-buses-to-be-allowed-on-ghat-leading-to-sinhagad-fort-in-pune-from-january-26-101641140003896.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Teenagers to get jabbed from Monday||Mumbai Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will begin inoculating 15 to 18-year-olds with their first dose from Monday. Initially, only Covaxin will be administered to teenagers across jumbo centres in Mumbai that are operated by the municipal corporation. Private hospitals that have a stock of Covaxin will also vaccinate this age group from Monday itself, civic authorities said.At the jumbo facilities, vaccination will be open between 9 am and 5 pm. Private hospitals with Covaxin stock may decide their own timings to remain open, civic authorities said.Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer from BMC’s public health department said, “At the start, we are vaccinating teenagers only at the jumbo centres, where dedicated booths will operate for this age group. Each jumbo centre has a minimum capacity to vaccinate 1,500 teenagers per day. We have about 3,00,000 vaccine doses in stock at present, so the shortage of doses will not be a problem. Based on the response in the first few days of the drive, more municipal hospitals will start vaccinating teenagers. We have identified about 900,000 beneficiaries in this age group.”BMC on Sunday evening took to social media with instructions for beneficiaries in this age group. The civic body said, “Children born before 2007 are eligible for jabs. They will be required to carry either their Aadhar card or their school identity card with them. Parents are requested to accompany their children, and BMC school students will be accompanied by their teachers. Both online and offline registration is available at the vaccination centres. Children must be registered on the Cowin portal, either through existing accounts of their parents, or self-made accounts.”Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital, who is the coordinator between BMC and private hospitals in the city said, “There are very few private hospitals with Covaxin stock at present. Those who have it in stock have been given detailed instructions for Monday’s drive.”5L in Thane eligible for jabAround 5 lakh in the age groups of 15 to 18 years are eligible to get vaccinated in Thane district from Monday onwards. Along with special vaccination centres for this age group, camps are being set up in some educational institutes across the district to make vaccination accessible to all. Thane Municipal Corporation itself has around 15 vaccination centres for those between 15 to 18 years of age. Among these, around 12 centers are in educational institutes. “For the convenience of adolescents, we have made provisions to vaccinate within their respective school or college itself. Taking prior appointment through Cowin application online is necessary to get vaccinated,” said Sandeep Malvi, Additional Commissioner TMC.Meanwhile, rural parts of the district have provided both online and offline vaccination facilities for adolescents from Monday onwards.“We have set up ten centres in rural parts of the district including two educational institutes. These centres will provide Covaxin doses, however, children must carry some identification proof and must not have any illness,” said Anjali Chaudhari, Immunization officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teenagers-to-get-jabbed-from-monday-101641139703839.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 852 new Covid cases and 7 deaths on Sunday||PUNE As of Sunday, Pune district reported 852 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.16 million, of which 1.14 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,186 with 3,274 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 10,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 156 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 370,078. The death toll went up to 7,041 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 530 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 527,495 and the death toll to 9,267 as three more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 166 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 271,597 with the toll at 3,528 as two more deaths were reported in the district on Sunday. Pune district also saw 10,535 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard. In total, 15 million doses have been administered in the district, of which 8.71 million are first doses and 6.42 million are second doses. A total of 231 sites saw vaccination of which 140 were government centres and 91 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-852-new-covid-cases-and-7-deaths-on-sunday-101641137783458.html
02-01-2022||Pune||10K doses to be administered in Pune on Monday, day 1 of vaccinations for 15-18 age group||PUNE At least 10,000 doses are likely to be administered on the first day of vaccination for minors aged below 18 years, but above 15 years, at 40 vaccination centres earmarked by the PMC. However, even as minors prepare to take the vaccine, adults are still reluctant to come forward, says the data. Pune has the highest number of beneficiaries in the state who are yet to take their second dose. Starting from Monday, January 3, Pune will start vaccination of those aged 15-18 years across the state, with 250 doses reserved at each centre. The vaccination process will start at around 10 am. To avoid crowding at centres, the civic body has allowed 50% of doses to be reserved through the CoWin app and 50% through walk-in registration. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “We have arranged for crowd management, howeverm we do request minors and parents not to crowd vaccination centres. We have dedicated 40 centres each of which will have 250 dose. Half of which are reserved for online beneficiaries and half for walk-in beneficiaries.”However, among adults, the response for vaccination is still lagging despite a rise in cases. In the past two weeks, there has been a spurt in the number of cases by almost three-fold, however Pune still has over 1.16 million people waiting to take their second dose of Covishield, which is the highest of any district in the state. In terms of Covaxin as well, Pune has 71,000 people waiting to take the second dose. Pune has reported 104% vaccination with regards to the first dose and 73% of the beneficiaries aged above 18 years of age have taken the second dose. In the past few days as there has been a rise in the number of new cases, the demand for vaccinations has also risen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10k-doses-to-be-administered-in-pune-on-monday-day-1-of-vaccinations-for-15-18-age-group-101641137543279.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Pune’s Covid positivity rate shows a post-Christmas spike from 1% to 4%||PUNE Although genome sequencing of Covid samples have shown that 2% of samples collected from randomly have tested positive for the new variant, Omicron, a rise in cases is indicating that more samples need to be tested and to get a clearer picture. Since December 25, 2021, the district has seen a rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases from 200 a day to now close to 600. The positivity in Pune has risen from 1% to around 4% in the past few days. As cases rise, the number of tests conducted by the administration has not risen in proportion. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “We can collect as many swab samples as possible, however, we are limited by the capacity where we send our samples for testing, namely NIV, BJ Medical College and IISER, which are also loaded with testing samples and genome sequencing work. We will be requesting them to test more samples to increase the testing rate of the city as currently we are testing about 7,000-7,500 samples a day, which also includes samples collected and tested at private labs. We are reporting 100-125 more cases each day and our doubling rate is about three days as of now, which is worrisome.”Although Pune is not reporting as many new Covid-19 cases as Mumbai, the number of active cases is rising steadily in the district. As of December 22, Pune had 1,827 active Covid-19 cases. As of December 29, this figure stood at 2,053 which accounted for 14.60% of the total active cases in the state. On December 29, Mumbai reported 8,060 active cases which accounted for more than half the state’s active cases, which is about 57.31%. Pune saw a 12.37% rise in active cases in a week’s time and continues to be one of the five top districts reporting higher active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-positivity-rate-shows-a-post-christmas-spike-from-1-to-4-101641137063133.html
02-01-2022||Pune||63% of total active Covid cases in district are from PMC limits||PUNE The number of active Covid cases in Pune district have increased within the last few days and most active cases have been recorded in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). As per the district Covid report issued on Saturday, almost 63% of the total Covid cases are from PMC. By Saturday the number of active Covid patients had crossed reached 2,070, while in the district there are 3,275 active patients. Of the total active patients in PMC 306 are hospitalised and 1,764 are in home isolation. This rise in Covid cases and active patients has the civic body on alert. After almost five and a half months, the daily positivity rate within the civic limits crossed the 4% mark. “For the past few weeks, the number of active patients in the city has been rapidly increasing. The number of active patients had dropped to 600 in the city and now we are witnessing a sharp increase. Within the span of a few days this number has crossed the 1,500 mark and is rapidly increasing further. We are alert and closely monitoring the situation,” said Muralidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune. Aundh, Baner, Kothrud, Bavdhan, Hadapsar, Mundhwa, Ahmednagar road, Kondhwa, and Wadgaon Sheri are areas from where Covid patients are being reported. As per directions from the state government, additional restrictions such as prohibition of gatherings of more than five people post 9 pm, a limit on attendees at cultural and social events and at weddings, have already been imposed in the city. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol has called a meeting on Monday with civic body officials to assess the situation. “Considering the increase in new Covid cases in the last five days I am conducting a meeting on Monday. Preparedness of the health system and PMC will be assessed. Though there is no huge spike like in Mumbai, in Pune, we are taking extra precaution. Along with preparedness of health infra, there will also be a discussion on solutions at the meeting,” said Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/63-of-total-active-covid-cases-in-district-are-from-pmc-limits-101641136583304.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Citizens write to CM to address Worli fisherfolk’s concerns||MUMBAI Over 50 prominent citizens including architects, urban planners, academics, activists and a former Mumbai municipal commissioner have written an open letter to the chief minister and cabinet minister for environment, seeking their intervention in the growing conflict between the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the fisherfolk of Worli-Koliwada in taking necessary steps to protect the latter’s customary rights.The fisherfolk since October 30 have blockaded construction of an interchange between the coastal road and the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, claiming that it would cut them off from their traditional fishing grounds and force closure of Cleveland Bunder, an artisan fishing port at Worli-Koliwada.The signatories of the public appeal include D M Sukhtankar (former BMC chief); Indira Jaisingh and Anand Grover (human rights’ lawyers and founders of the NGO, Lawyers Collective); Dr Surendra Thakurdesai (coastal geomorphologist); Rahul Mehrotra (professor of urban planning and design at Harvard University); Dr Amita Bhide (dean, School of Habitat Studies at Tata Institute of Social Sciences); and 45 others -- some of whom are affiliated with other educational institutes including IIT-Bombay, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Madras Institute of Development Studies, and Jawaharlal Nehru University.“We write this letter to express our concern about the wellbeing of the fisherfolk of Worli, who have been peacefully protesting for the past two months to protect their customary rights, and their right to livelihood. We are worried that a government that claims to be pro-people and pro-environment has allowed this injustice to continue, and has done very little to address the very legitimate demands of the community,” the appeal states. The fisherfolk’s primary demand is a span of 200 metre under the proposed interchange, as opposed to the BMC’s proposed span of 60 metre, which the fisherfolk say is not enough to ensure safe passage for their boats while venturing out into the open sea.“The MCGM has been insisting that increasing the distance between the pillars beyond 60 metre is technically not feasible. This is clearly disingenuous, since larger spans have already been provided for the navigation of boats in case of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, and proposed by the MSRDC in case of the Versova-Bandra Sea Link,” the appeal states, adding that “Since work on the interchange has not yet commenced, it is still possible to execute a design change to increase the span as demanded by the fisherfolk. The least that the MCGM can do is to ensure that the livelihoods of citizens are not permanently lost in the pursuit of a project that is clearly not in the larger public interest. Protection of livelihoods and the safety of citizens is the responsibility of the civic authority, and this ought to be given higher priority than technical or monetary concerns,” the appeal states, adding that the fisherfolk’s protest must be seen as a legitimate defense of their fundamental rights, including their right to life and right to livelihood.Sukhtankar, former BMC chief who is among the letter’s signatories, told Hindustan Times that BMC must take the trouble to accommodate the fisherfolk’s requests. “It is not logical to say that a span of 200 metre is not feasible. It is. The fisherfolk’s grievances must be independently verified by a qualified body. The typical view of the bureaucracy toward such conflicts is that they are a nuisance, but in my view the BMC is obliged to resolve this issue and earn the goodwill of the Kolis, who are Mumbai’s first settlers. In a project that costs upwards of Rs12,000 crore, the government should not begrudge the little extra money it will take to do this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citizens-write-to-cm-to-address-worli-fisherfolk-s-concerns-101641136415621.html
02-01-2022||Pune||PMC’s daily action on non-compliance of Covid norms in single digits even as cases spike||PUNE A sudden spurt in Covid cases in Pune notwithstanding, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been lax in acting against those not complying with Covid-appropriate behaviour.During 11 days between December 18 and December 28, 54 citizens were fined for not wearing masks in public places and on public transport, according to statistics released by the PMC. Action against offenders are in single digits for all days, besides December 28, when 16 violators were fined. A total fine of ₹27,000 has been collected by the PMC during this 10-day period. Given that large crowds were seen in market areas the PMC action is negligible. The number of mask violations recorded by PMC during the second wave between March 1 and June 30, was a daily average of 107 cases. The daily average cases of mask violations have come down to four in December, as per PMC’s data till December 28. A total penalty of ₹65,260 has been collected from citizens for not wearing masks in December. There was a spike in daily Covid cases in PMC with 232 fresh cases on December 29, which includes four cases of the new Omicron variant. “We still have time to deal with the situation by increasing tests,” said Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer of health, when asked to comment on PMC’s plan of action for the rising Covid cases. “The PMC is ready with better health infrastructure like adequate oxygen supply, ICU beds and ventilators. Covid care centres can be opened at any time,” he added. Dr Wavare noted that restrictions are already in place with 50% capacity for marriages and other gatherings, 9pm to 6am night curfew, and a ₹500 fine for violators of Covid norms. According to Dr Wavare, Covid cases are expected to rise but the rate of hospitalization will not be as high as it was during the second wave of COVID-19. “If the situation worsens with a higher number of cases and higher rate of hospitalization, stringent actions will be taken to curb it with increased restrictions, but it is premature to say anything right now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-daily-action-on-non-compliance-of-covid-norms-in-single-digits-even-as-cases-spike-101641136403134.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Pandemic hit anemia programme in schools, anganwadi centres||Mumbai: As the pandemic forced schools across the country to shut down, it wasn’t just learning that was disrupted — for almost half the students in Maharashtra their health was impacted too. Children and adolescents between six months to 19 years missed out on crucial iron and folic acid (IFA) supplements — distributed in schools and anganwadi centres — when they shut down on March 15 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state public health department data indicates that while 12.7 million children and adolescents received their supplements in 2019-2020, in 2020-2021, the coverage dropped to 7.1 million, which is a 44% decline. Distribution of IFA tablets in government and government-aided schools and anganwadi centres is one of the key interventions to reduce the incidence of anemia— a condition in which the number of red blood cells or the hemoglobin concentration within them is lower than normal. While children between six months to 59 months get bi-weekly doses of IFA in syrup form, those between five to 19 get weekly supplements in the form of sugar-coated tablets. Anemia has serious health implications ranging from fatigue to worsened pregnancy outcomes. These supplements are distributed to toddlers and to school-going children, as part of the Anemia Mukt Bharat programme. Distribution of IFA supplements has been undertaken by states since 1970, but the Anemia Mukt Bharat initiative was launched in 2018 as a comprehensive approach that looks at six interventions including prophylactic supplements, behavioral change, provision of fortified foods in public health programmes among others. Schools across the state were shut down after the first case of Covid-19 was recorded in Maharashtra on March 11, 2020. In-person classes were opened for classes 5 to 8 in rural Maharashtra and classes 8 to 12 in urban areas in August 2020 but in a mix of in-person and online classes format. Classes 9 to 12 reopened in November, but all classes moved back to the online mode shortly after the second wave hit in February 2021. “The weekly IFA supplementation programme is mainly designed to be implemented in schools and anganwadi centres,” said Dr Ramchandra Hankare, deputy director of the state’s family welfare bureau. “Due to the pandemic and the lockdown, the distribution suddenly came to a standstill as children were confined to their homes. The programme did take a hit,” he said. According to the National Family Health Survey-5, nearly 69% children under 5 years of age are anemic in Maharashtra. More than 50% women and over 20% men in the age group of 15 to 49 years are anemic in the state. Maharashtra’s parameters were slightly better compared to Gujarat which has the highest prevalence of anemia among children under 5 years at 78%, but at par with states like Bihar (69%), Uttar Pradesh (66%) and West Bengal (69%). Given the high incidence of anemia in Maharashtra, the hit in the programme is damaging, experts said. “When setbacks happen, it takes such programmes a few years behind,” said Dr Usha Ram, head of the department of public health and mortality studies, International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai. Already behind the curve The state’s achievement in the IFA supplementation programme started in the 1970s, has been on the lower side even before the pandemic hit. The state has a target of administering these tablets to 8 million children between six and 59 months. In 2019-2020, the state’s IFA supplementation coverage in this age group was 39%, but fell to 27% in 2020-2021. Officials said that ASHA and anganwadi workers were roped in to home deliver supplements to achieve some target during the pandemic. Similarly, from the 8.2 million target in the age group of 5 to 9 years, the state reached 57% beneficiaries in 2019-2020, but only to 30% beneficiaries in 2020-2021. The IFA supplementation coverage in the 10 to 19 years age group (11.1 million) had a 42% coverage in 2019-2020, but it dropped to 22% in 2020-2021. Even the outtake of Albendazole, a deworming therapy, given twice a year to children and adolescents in between one and 19 years, has come down. Parasitic intestinal worm infestation is known to be a major cause of undernutrition leading to anemia. In 2019-2020, the state had 95.48% coverage of Albendazole tablets, which declined to 91% in 2020-2021. “As soon as the first wave receded, we involved ASHA and anganwadi workers to distribute the supplements at homes. We could reach out to many beneficiaries with this intervention,” said Dr Hankare, adding that the IFA supplementation coverage has improved considerably between April to November 2021 as adequate stock was supplied to districts and focus was re-directed to non-Covid activities. “Despite high incidence of anemia, the state’s low coverage of IFA supplementation programme prior to the pandemic has been concerning,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management at Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “There is plenty of evidence that IFA supplementation programmes work. But the tablets should be given along with health education,” he said. According to Ghosh, the state should look at multi-sectoral strategies to implement the programme by involving various departments such as education and women and child health. “To overcome the shocks like the ongoing pandemic, the focus should not be simply on supplements, but also on a diversified, iron-rich diet. The public distribution system (PDS) should offer a variety of pulses and food grains and not just rice and wheat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-hit-anemia-programme-in-schools-anganwadi-centres-101641133822900.html
02-01-2022||Other||Cash allowance to women not freebie, but social security: Mann||Moga Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday said giving ₹1,000 allowance to all women was not a freebie, but social security. “Women will become empowered and self-reliant with the extra financial help. AAP’s policy of giving ₹1,000 allowance to all the women of Punjab above 18, will prove to be a milestone in women empowerment. For this scheme, only ₹8,200 crore are required per year. If we can end the sand mafia, we earn ₹20,000 crore,” said Mann, in Dharamkot to hold a ally in support of AAP candidate Davinderjeet Singh Laddi Dhos.Mann added, “Leaders, who are talking about eradicating poverty directly, are outright liars. Poverty is not overcome by speaking and making promises. Poverty can be eradicated through good education and knowledge. If voted to power, the AAP government will ensure good education for your children and will provide opportunities and resources to move ahead in life.”Emphasising the importance of agricultural reforms, Mann added, “Farmers in villages adopt the method of farming by taking advice from each other. To really improve farming and production, we must adopt scientific methods. The AAP government, if and when formed, will provide help of agricultural experts, who will guide the farmers towards adopting new and improved scientific methods. We will recruit agriculture experts.”“You have given opportunities to the Congress, the Akalis, the BJP and Captain Amarinder Singh. They have only increased the problems of Punjab. Give only one chance to the AAP. We will save farmers, youth and businessmen and take Punjab forward,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cash-allowance-to-women-not-freebie-but-social-security-mann-101641132384081.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Land measurement of western ring road completed||PUNE The land measurement of the western part of the ring road to be constructed by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is now over, according to the state government notifications issued on December 31. The completion of land measurement has cleared the path for the evaluation of the land compensation to be given to the affected people and further starting the bidding process for the construction of the road. The land measurement of the western part was completed nine months, despite facing hurdles like Covid and opposition from villages. The land measurement process of eastern ring road is currently underway and almost 10 villages have been covered so far, said officials.“By law it is necessary to submit the final report of land measurement after answering the suggestions and objections raised on it within a year. After receiving the report the state government has issued the notification of land acquisition. It will be published in detail through publications,” said Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC. Out of ₹26,831.21 crore approved by the state government for the ring road project, ₹12,175.97 crore has been allocated for the western part of the ring road. Western ring road is passing through four tehsils- Maval, Mulshi, Haveli and Bhor. ₹14,655.24 crore has been allocated for the eastern side.“In the notification published by the state government, details of land to be acquired in 36 villages in four tehsils have been published. A total of 629.57 hectare area has been acquired from these 36 villages The measurement of 37th village Kelawade is pending due to technical issues,” said Patil. The MSRDC has submitted a realignment proposal in the Kelawade village to the state government and the approval is pending. “Now sub-divisional officers are calculating the compensation price for the land and its proposal will be submitted to the town planning department and to the collector office,” said an official from MSRDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-measurement-of-western-ring-road-completed-101641132382594.html
02-01-2022||Other||Punjab govt fooling public, claim those selected as asst profs||Patiala With recruitment of 1,091 assistant professors stuck in legal complexities, candidates who have been selected have accused the state government of fooling the state’s residents in their name. These candidates claim that the state government was issuing false advertisements, claiming that 1,091 assistant professors had been recruited successfully.“The reality, however, is that the process has been halted and the issue is in Punjab and Haryana high court due to the failure of state government in putting up its case in a legally sound manner,” selected candidates have lamented.Nirbhai Singh, one of the candidates, said, “What is point of giving advertisements and installing billboards and banners for the recruitment process when our future still remains uncertain.” A section of applicants had filed a civil writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court, alleging that the question papers of Punjabi and Mathematics were leaked well before the exams were conducted from November 20-22. Others objected to additional five marks given to guest faculty.In complete contrast to the dilemma before the selected candidates, hundreds of guest faculty, already working as assistant professors in government colleges across Punjab, continue their protest against the state government for conducting these fresh recruitments. These teachers have been camping outside the house of higher education minister Pargat Singh in Jalandhar.Harminder Singh, president, Punjab Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, said, “The government is not serious about our demands. Some of us have been working in government college for 20 years, and now we find that we have no job security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-fooling-public-claim-those-selected-as-asst-profs-101641132022856.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Resident doctors await official response to their demands||Mumbai: While the New Delhi resident doctors on Friday called off their strike, Sunday witnessed the continuation of state-wide protests by their counterparts against the delay in the release of the NEET-PG counselling date. According to Central MARD, nearly 6,000 resident doctors from more than 20 medical colleges across Maharashtra participated in the protest on Sunday.The doctors are still waiting to hear from state officials regarding their additional demand for the recruitment of non-academic Junior Residents (JRs) equal to the number of residents in that particular college.Dr Hanumant Phad, general secretary, Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said, “It has been three days of the state-wide strike and we were expecting a meeting but the state authorities or the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) have still not arranged any meeting to listen to our demands.”A member of MARD said three hospitals in Mumbai are thinking of considering the demands of the doctors. BYL Nair Hospital, LTMG Hospital, and KEM Hospital have issued a notification stating recruitment of non-academic junior residents.“ We had a meeting with our dean Dr Mohan Joshi on Sunday and he was positive regarding our demands. They have told us that they will approach DMER concerning the demand for the three colleges,” said Pravin Dhage, general secretary of Sion MARD.The resident doctors have also demanded that the prerequisites like form filling and document verification should be asked to be completed as soon as possible and release of the schedule regarding the same to avoid further delay in the process. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of LTMG Hospital said “The resident doctors have demanded that the new batch of doctors should join immediately after the counselling, so there is nothing which we or the state government can do regarding the same. DMER will have to look into the matter.” Dr Avinash Dahiphale, president of Central MARD said that there is no communication from DMER yet. “We are trying to get in touch with the DMER director hoping that they will arrange a meeting on Monday to hear our demands.”Hospital authorities said that there was no impact on the emergency services or the Outpatient Departments (OPD), but they had to postpone some elective surgeries due to the strike. “In the last three-four days, we had to cancel almost 25-30% of the elective surgeries. I have tried to convince the resident doctors and we are hoping they will withdraw the strike on Monday,” Dr Mohan Joshi said.The hospital staff of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur said that since the OPDs were closed on Sunday, there was no major impact of the strike. Patients did not face problems since the emergency services were functioning normally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-await-official-response-to-their-demands-101641131422844.html
02-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 15-18-year-olds to get Covid-19 jabs from tomorrow, here are vaccination sites||Gurugram is all set to start vaccinating the 15-18 age group against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Monday, that is, January 3, 2022. While online slots for the immunisation drive have already been allotted on the Co-WIN website of the central government, the deputy commissioner (DC) of Gurugram on Sunday shared the vaccination schedule for the forthcoming drive.According to updates shared by the Gurugram DC on his official Twitter handle, the vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group will be carried out from 10am to 5pm on Monday at as many as 77 immunisation centers across the district.Here are all details regarding the Covid-19 vaccination schedule for the age group of 15-18 years on January 3:Here are the vaccination sites in Gurugram for the 15-18 age group:There are also a number of vaccination sites for government and private school students, intending to get themselves immunised against Covid-19. It is to be noted that only the students of these respective schools shall be allowed at these sites and not outsiders:For further vaccination-related inquiries, Gurugram residents are encouraged to call on these government vaccination helpline numbers:In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government has also has decided to impose new guidelines from Sunday onwards. These new guidelines will be applicable till January 12.According to these guidelines, schools, colleges, coaching institutes, Anganwadi will remain closed in the entire state, in view of the rising cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-15-18-year-olds-to-get-covid-19-jabs-from-tomorrow-here-are-vaccination-sites-101641129275421.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Witnesses being pressured by NCB, claims Malik||Mumbai Firing a fresh salvo at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Sameer Wankhede, its zonal director in Mumbai, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minority development minister Nawab Malik charged that the agency was trying to manipulate papers in a case.Malik alleged that a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra was lobbying with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to ensure that Wankhede was given an extension in his posting in Mumbai.“Now, to set things right with these fake cases, NCB officials are pressurising their own panchas (witnesses) to sign backdated panchanamas,” said Malik on Sunday. He played an audio clip wherein a panch called Maddy was purportedly called by an NCB official named Kiran Babu and asked to sign the backdated panchanama. When Maddy called Wankhede, he was told to go ahead and do the needful.“We feel there can be no greater farziwada (falsehood) than this. It was through farziwada that cases were registered against people. It was through farziwada that money was extorted from film personalities. When this farziwada was exposed, the NCB started the game of making people sign backdated documents,” charged Malik, while asking if senior NCB officials were involved in this.Malik questioned the NCB about the progress of the vigilance inquiry against Wankhede after allegations of extortion surfaced against him during the Aryan Khan case.Meanwhile, zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB said, “It is a legal procedure and we record statements of witnesses and take their signature on the statement in each and every case before filing the chargesheet. The investigating officer called a witness to record his statement which is mandatory. There is nothing wrong with the mobile conversation and Kiran Babu, an investigating officer calling him as per the procedure.”“Most of the witnesses have become hostile and are scared to come in the court or give their statement because of Malik, who has been trying to malign the name of an agency for no reason,” said another NCB official, who does not want to give his name.The minister said that his son-in-law Sameer Khan, who was arrested in a drug-related case, and later released on bail, was being singled out and used to put pressure on him. The NCB has approached the Bombay High Court (HC) to cancel Khan’s bail.“My information suggests that lobbying is underway in Delhi… a senior BJP leader from Maharashtra is lobbying the MHA for an extension,” said Malik, adding that Wankhede had not been relieved despite his deputation in the NCB coming to an end in December 31. Malik claimed that NCB officials had pointed to lapses on Wankhede’s part, sent a negative report, and red-flagged his handling of cases. Despite this, some influential BJP leaders from Maharashtra were trying to get Wankhede an extension. He questioned if these leaders were involved in any wrongdoings.Meanwhile, BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya tweeted the screenshot of the copy of an email sent to Hemant Nagrale, Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, by a witness in a case registered by the NCB claiming a threat to his life. The witness has alleged that Malik had threatened him to speak out against the NCB to the media and claimed that he was offered ₹30 lakh for it, or asked to face “dire consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/witnesses-being-pressured-by-ncb-claims-malik-101641130162536.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Cop attacked with chilli powder, iron rod; managed to nab gang member||Mumbai: Despite being attacked with chilli powder and iron rod, Vikrant Vedant, a constable from Kurar police station, successfully nabbed a robber, part of a notorious gang of four, with over 70 cases of thefts and robberies against them from Shivaji Nagar, Malad East on January 1 at 2am.According to police, constable Vikrant, who had a hair’s breadth escape in the attack, was on patrolling duty when he saw four accused travelling in a rickshaw. After suspicion, he followed the vehicle and asked the men to come out for checking which led to the attack. The cops informed that the four entered Mumbai to rob liquor stores post New Year’s eve.Constable Vikrant, who is currently admitted to a hospital narrated the harrowing details, “As soon as I came to approach them, four men including the rickshaw driver, tried escaping the spot. Sensing a foul play, I did not waste a second and caught one of them.” After being nabbed, the accused removed red chilli powder from his pocket and threw it at Vikrant. Another one allegedly picked up an iron rod and hit him on the shoulder and right arm. An injured Vikrant fell on the road but didn’t let go of the accused’s pants.Vikrant’s colleagues, after hearing the screaming, rushed to the spot, arrested the accused and admitted Vikrant to a nearby hospital. Upon searching the rickshaw, the police officers found tools for cutting shutters of shops and other housebreaking tools like a chopper, iron rods, rope and knives. The cops are now on the lookout for the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cop-attacked-with-chilli-powder-iron-rod-managed-to-nab-gang-member-101641129082409.html
02-01-2022||Pune||Corridor of accidents: Despite crashes, deaths things remain unchanged at Kharadi bypass||PUNE Earlier in December when two persons were killed and two others were injured as a speeding SUV rammed into a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) stop at Kharadi on Pune-Ahmednagar road, residents thought this would be used as trigger to bring changes in traffic. Weeks later, not much has changed on the ground, with several commuters flouting rules by driving through the BRT corridor, risking lives. “Cars and two-wheelers often enter the BTRS lane illegally. While there are traffic cops at the Kharadi bypass chowk, no one is penalised,” said a kiosk owner who sets shop at the chowk.Pune was among the first few cities in the country to introduce Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in 2006 which looked to revolutionise public transport with dedicated bus corridors. However, with the random implementation of the project and no solution found on illegal encroachment into the BRTS lane, the project has become a corridor of accident. Traffic wardens have been deputed on the corridors to stop private vehicles from entering the lanes but the move has proved ineffective. “Soon after the accident on December 8, for the next three to four days we took action against 750 vehicles at Kharadi bypass. Fines have been increased from ₹200 to ₹500 for violation of no entry in the BRTS lanes. But it’s very difficult to keep a check on every vehicle entering the lanes,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).Speeding and drunk driving are the major causes of accidents in Pune in 2021. In the last two years, 34 persons have lost their lives in different accidents on Ahmednagar road between Yerawada to Kharadi, according to Shrirame.As many as 250 accidents took place in Pune last year. According to the data provided by Pune police, Kharadi bypass chowk is considered an accident-prone or black spot as it had recorded 10 accidents in 2020. Now, in 2022, nothing has changed. Last year, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had come up with a plan to install boom barriers at the BRTS corridors. Boom barriers are automated pivoted poles that are used to block pedestrians and vehicles from entering a particular lane. However, Pune Municipal Corporation is yet to install it. “The accidents usually take place early morning or at night when the roads are empty and vehicles are speeding through Ahmednagar road,” said inspector Asha Varle, who was on duty at Wageshwar crossroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corridor-of-accidents-despite-crashes-deaths-things-remain-unchanged-at-kharadi-bypass-101641128722890.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||State, ULBs to purchase, rent only electric vehicles: Aaditya Thackeray||Mumbai In a major push for the use of clean energy in urban mobility, the state government has decided to purchase or rent only electric vehicles for use by the state and urban local bodies from this month. Earlier, this was to be done from April 1, but the deadline has been preponed to this month.This was announced by Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Sunday. “Keeping our commitment to clean mobility and encouraging citizens, the Govt of Maharashtra has decided to implement the decision of Purchasing or Renting only Electric Vehicles for Govt/ Urban Local Bodies/ Corporations from 1st January 2022 instead of 1st April 2022,” Aaditya tweeted.He also thanked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat for supporting the climate action policies of the department of environment and climate change and ensuring that the government mechanisms go green too, to encourage citizens to walk alongside in climate action.Aaditya has pitched electric vehicles as one of the means to fight air pollution, and the state has also announced its Electric Vehicle Policy- 2021 to incentivise and promote the use of electric vehicles. It wants to achieve a 25 per cent EV share in public transport in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik. This policy envisages converting 15 per cent of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) fleet of buses into electric vehicles by 2025 and making the state the top producer of battery-driven vehicles in the country in terms of annual production capability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-ulbs-to-purchase-rent-only-electric-vehicles-aaditya-thackeray-101641127582719.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena, NCP demand strict action against people behind Bullideals||Mumbai Taking a strong position against the communally-targeted harassment of Muslim women on social media, the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have demanded strict action against those responsible for it.After an unidentified group uploaded photographs of Muslim women on the ‘Bulli Bai’ app and “auctioned” them off online, Minister of State for Home (Urban) Satej (Bunty) Patil said that the Maharashtra Cyber Police and Mumbai Cyber Cell had initiated an inquiry and lodged an FIR. “Be assured, we will take this to a logical end with the culprits facing the law,” said Patil, who belongs to Congress.He further tweeted, “Digital platforms like these are rife with misogyny and communal hatred aimed at women. This is very disturbing and shameful. Maharashtra Govt. is taking strong actions against such platforms.”This is the second time in less than a year that Muslim women have been listed for auction on social media by right-wing elements. Last year, a similar ‘Sulli Deals’ site had led to a massive controversy but did not lead to any arrests.Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi said she had spoken to Sanjay Pandey, Director General of Police (DGP), Hemant Nagrale, Commissioner of Police, Mumbai, and Rashmi Karandikar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP). She said she hoped that “those behind such misogynistic and sexist sites are apprehended.”On Sunday evening, Chaturvedi tweeted that the West region cyber police station has registered a FIR under the relevant sections of the IT Act against the Twitter handles and the Bulli Bai app developer hosted on GitHubChaturvedi said she also expected Twitter to cooperate with the police and provide them with the information needed. “Stonewalling the investigation citing intermediary safe harbour will not be helpful to ensure justice is served,” she stressed, while also noting that the perpetrators behind the previous Sulli Deals app had not been found and arrested.Maharashtra minority development minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said that some such portals were “operated by some supporters of the ruling party at the Centre.” “They have a troll army…There can be no two opinions that they have support from the government. Even if the Central agencies do not act against them, the Maharashtra Police will surely do the needful as there are some girls from Maharashtra (who have been targeted). I will follow up on this personally,” he added.Malik said that the perpetrators had targeted those girls and women from the Muslim community who were vocal and outspoken. “I will personally write to the Home Minister (Dilip Valse Patil) and seek action against them,” he added, stating that these people should be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-ncp-demand-strict-action-against-people-behind-bullideals-101641127222458.html
02-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal shuts schools, colleges, allows flights from Delhi, Mumbai on 2 days||KOLKATA: With the daily count of Covid-19 increasing by more ten times in just six days in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee government announced a partial lockdown from Monday, shutting schools and colleges, imposing curbs on flights from Delhi and Mumbai, restricting timing of local trains and capping capping attendance at private and government offices at 50%.“All academic activities in schools, colleges and universities will remain closed. Government and private offices will continue with 50% of the work force at a time. Local trains will operate with 50% of the seating capacity and up to 7 pm,” West Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi told reporters at the state secretariat on Sunday.Flights from Delhi and Mumbai will be allowed to land in Kolkata only on Mondays and Fridays. The government last week announced suspension of direct flights from the United Kingdom landing at Kolkata airport from Monday and mandated Covid tests for all passengers arriving on international flights.The fresh restrictions announced on Sunday were announced after West Bengal reported 4,512 new Covid-19 cases, which translates into an increase of the daily count of new Covid cases by 10 times in less than a week. On Monday last, the state reported just 439 new cases.Kolkata has registered the maximum number of cases among all districts with 2398 cases, up from 204 on Monday (Deceber 27). According to aata compiled by the Union health ministry, Kolkata’s weekly positivity rate has risen to 23.4% for the week, December 24 – 31.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already announced that containment zones may be brought back in Kolkata to check the spread of the virus. Officials said at least 11 such zones may be declared in the city on Monday.The state government imposed similar restrictions from May 3 2021 when Covid-19 cases shot up exponentially after the assembly elections. They were relaxed in phases.To be sure, Saturday’s daily count of cases is higher than the peak of of the first wave, which hit the state in October 2020. The state then recorded 4,157 in a day. The daily count touched 20,846 in mid-May 2021 during the second wave.According to the order introducing restrictions issued on Sunday, the Bengal government has reintroduced 10pm-5am night curfew. The government relaxed night curfew from December 24, 2021 to January 1, 2022 for Christmas and New Year celebrations.While swimming pools, spas, gyms, salons and beauty parlours, entertainment parks and tourist places have been ordered to close down, the government has allowed shopping malls, markets restaurants and bars to remain open for now on the condition that they operate with 50% capacity till 10pm.Social, cultural, academic, entertainment related gatherings, such as weddings have been allowed with not more than 50 people. “Even though cases have shot up, there is no need to panic. We have reviewed the health infrastructure including hospital beds and oxygen support. There is no shortage,” the Bengal chief secretary said, echoing a point made in the national capital Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who stressed that most patients were asymptomatic or reported mild symptoms onlyKolkata’s mayor Firhad Hakim earlier said that about 80% of the Covid-19 cases reported in the city were asymptomatic, another 17% have mild symptoms and only 3% of the patients needed to be treated at hospitals.Officials said that the restrictions will remain into force till January 15, after which they would be reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-shuts-schools-colleges-allows-flights-from-delhi-mumbai-on-2-days-101641123742402.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||150-year old Horniman garden to get a face-lift||Mumbai: The 150-year-old Horniman Garden in South Mumbai is set to get a major face-lift starting next month, as the heritage cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has taken up restoration of the Grade-1 heritage structure located in the heart of Mumbai’s Fort area.The tenders are in the approval stage and the restoration, expected to start by February, will take 24 months to complete. Conservation-architect Pankaj Joshi, who is a consultant on this project, said that one of the key aspect of this project will also be to restore the cast-iron fence and the gates of the garden that date back to the Victorian era. To restore the gates, Joshi said that the composition of the metal will be identified in a laboratory to create ingots with a similar material.“After identifying the composition of the metal. We will create ingots with a matching metal. These molten ingots will be poured into the cast to make replicas of the missing pieces, which will then be fixed at the panel,” Joshi said.Senior officials of the civic body said that as portions of the garden’s walkways have caved-in, restoration of the garden will include bringing them to the same level as the footpaths outside the garden.“Inside the garden we will create green pathways and install heritage style benches and furniture and all the dilapidated structures will be refurbished to restore their original look. The present day electric poles will be replaced with new poles that will have a unique vintage design. There is also a fountain inside the park that is lying defunct and we will transform it into a modern programmable fountain with new design pattern,” an official from the department said.“The restoration works were due for many years and there was an ambiguity on whether the garden cell will carry out the work or the heritage cell. The ‘A’ ward office had been following on this issue since many years,” said Shivadas Gurav, assistant municipal commissioner, A-Ward.The garden, which has a circumference of 1.1 km, dates back to the 1860s. According to Shekhar Krishnan, a historian, archivist and advisor to the heritage cell, the idea of having an organised open space was conceived by the city’s first police chief Superintendent Charles Forjett.“This place was developed after the Fort walls came down and was known as Elphinstone Circle back then. Later with time, this place started to became a major business hub, with several offices and commercial establishments setting up their base here. Post-Independence, the garden and the area was renamed after eminent British journalist, Benjamin Horniman who was a well-known crusader of the Indian Freedom Movement,” said Krishnan.The garden also once operated as a ground where the city’s first stock trading activity -- in cotton and other commodities -- first started. “This garden was a trading hub of cottons during the Big Cotton Boom in the 1860s,” said Krishnan.BMC officials said that a water-storage chamber beneath the pyau (drinking water fountain) outside the garden as well as the staircase leading to it, will also be restored.“There’s a staircase adjacent to the Pyau that goes to the main water storage chamber. This chamber is situated 12-15 feet below the surface of the garden. We will be restoring that staircase and chamber and after that we will take a call on whether it should be opened for public viewing,” the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/150year-old-horniman-garden-to-get-a-facelift-101641121101986.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Buy one, get one free, but conditions apply||Buy one, get one free. Buy now, pay later. Heavy discount sale! These are a few catchy phrases that hold perennial attraction for every Indian, irrespective of gender, age or class. Lucrative offers by traders are tempting enough for people to loosen their purse strings and indulge impulsively. Despite being packed to capacity, wardrobes are tested for their endurance as more garments, bought out of the compulsion of availing discounts than out of necessity, are stuffed in. Discounts on the exaggerated priced apparel lead to the buying of more clothes without getting rid of earlier ones, resulting in a textile glut. Some store owners are shrewd enough to display in bold letters: 50% OFF! Once you enter the store and spot an article of your choice, you are politely told, “Sorry sir, this is from the fresh stock. Items on sale are in that corner.” You are guided to a remote section to select from a bunch of out-of-vogue items to avail the much-publicised offer. Another ploy traders resort to is mentioning on the bill: Items purchased in sale won’t be exchanged. It belittles the dignity of the shopper and conveys the message that buying at reduced prices is not cool. Recently, a popular brand of sports shoes offered a laptop bag worth ₹2,000 with a purchase of a pair of shoes costing ₹6,000. I fell for the deal and ended up buying running shoes worth ₹6,000! My happiness was short-lived because my daughter was quick to decode the arithmetic behind the offer. She said that the bag was not worth more than ₹700 and the shoes I bought for ₹6,000 were available online for ₹5,000. Once again, my desire to have the last laugh was cut short. Another incident highlights the ploy traders resort to. Last month, my wife went to buy a woollen jacket, she was trapped in the network of freebies by the psychologists of marketing. When she was about to pay for the merchandise, the salesman persuaded her to buy one more jacket so that the bill adds up to ₹10,000. That would enable her to earn gift vouchers worth ₹2,000 for her next shopping jaunt. She readily accepted the offer and returned home with a heavy bag, and a heavier bill. The next day, she took our son along to buy a pullover for him by encashing the hard-earned vouchers. The salesman clarified curtly, “Ma’am, you can avail the voucher only if you buy clothes worth ₹10,000 or more. You can’t simply buy an item worth the price of the voucher and walk away. Once again, she had to buy expensive articles to avail the discount and return home with a big smile, and a bigger baggage. When I tried to challenge her shopping acuity, she was ready with the reply, “I have spent to save. Look at the rewards of judicious spending before labelling my shopping trip as a wasteful expenditure. And listen, I have another gift voucher worth ₹2,000 in case you require something worthwhile.” Herein lies the art and science of marketing: The art is in striking one’s fancy and the science in striking it repeatedly. rajivsharma.rs201067@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/buy-one-get-one-free-but-conditions-apply-101641120381520.html
02-01-2022||Bhopal||5 street dogs chase, maul 4-year-old girl near her house in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A pack of street dogs chased and mauled a four-year-old girl in Bhopal on Saturday evening. The girl has been admitted to the hospital in serious condition. The horrific incident was captured on a CCTV camera in Anjali Vihar colony of Bagsewaniya area. The girl was identified as Guddi Bansal, daughter of a labourer who works at a construction site in Anjali Vihar colony.“Guddi was playing when a pack of dogs chased her and pulled her on the road. She was bitten on her head, ears, stomach and legs. She was saved by a local. A passerby threw a stone at dogs and chased them away. Later, the girl was taken to Hamidia Hospital where doctors are treating her, the girl’s father Rajesh Bansal said.The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has taken cognizance of reports of the case and sent notice to Bhopal municipal corporation (BMC) commissioner and district health officer.Last year, a seven-year-old girl was attacked by stray dogs in the city’s Koh-e-Fiza area. In 2019, a six-year-old was killed by stray dogs in Bhopal.BMC commissioner KVS Choudary said the girl is being given proper medical treatment. “She is alright,” Choudary said, according to news agency PTI. Choudary rebutted criticism on social media that the authorities were not taking steps to curb the menace posed by street dogs. He said the canine sterilisation programme was paused only for two-three months last year during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, and that at least 30 to 40 dogs are being sterilised daily.
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Govt, municipal bodies to only buy, rent electric vehicles: Aaditya Thackeray||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government will only buy or rent electric vehicles (EV) for use of the state government or urban local bodies with immediate effect, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Sunday, announcing the government decision to advance the April 1 date that it set for itself earlier.“Keeping our commitment to clean mobility and encouraging citizens, the Govt of Maharashtra has decided to implement the decision of purchasing or renting only electric vehicles for Govt/ Urban Local Bodies/ Corporations from 1st January 2022 instead of 1st April 2022,” Aaditya Thackeray tweeted.Also Read: The path to Maharashtra’s net zero commitmentAaditya Thackeray has pitched electric vehicles as one of the means to fight air pollution and came up with the state’s Electric Vehicle Policy- 2021 to incentivise and promote the use of the non-polluting vehicles.The policy seeks to achieve a 25% share of electric vehicles in public transportation in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik, and targets converting 15% Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) fleet of buses into electric vehicles by 2025. Aaditya thanked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat for supporting the climate action policies of the department of environment and climate change and ensuring that the government departments opt for green options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/govt-municipal-bodies-to-only-buy-rent-electric-vehicles-aaditya-thackeray-101641117561292.html
02-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal announces fresh Covid-19 curbs; schools, colleges shut from tomorrow. Details here||In view of the Omicron situation, West Bengal has imposed a series of fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions from January 3 (Monday), under which all schools and colleges in the state will once again shut their gates. Moreover, restrictive measures have also been imposed on shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants, and bars, wherein they will now allow only 50 per cent of their total capacity.Also Read | West Bengal to operate flights from Delhi, Mumbai twice a week from TuesdayThe restrictive measures, on part of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal, were announced on Sunday by the state's chief secretary, HK Dwivedi.Here are all details on the latest Covid-19 curbs imposed in West Bengal:Announcing the aforementioned measures, the West Bengal chief secretary also instructed the respective district administrations, police commissioners, and local authorities to ensure strict compliance with the stated directives. Any violation of the restrictive measures will be liable to proceeded against as per the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-fresh-covid-19-coronavirus-curbs-omicron-schools-colleges-tourist-places-shut-101641116482359.html
02-01-2022||Other||157,000 smart meters installed in Gurugram: DHBVN||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) on Saturday said that it has installed 157,000 smart meters in Gurugram and covered 1,314km network of power lines where high tension cables have been put underground. Officials from the power distribution company said the target is to install 297,000 smart meters across the district and put 2,000km high tension lines underground by the end of 2022. The officials said that the work of installing smart meters and underground cabling under the Smartgrid project was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The project was started in 2018. According to the officials, the smart meters will do away with the need for manual meter reading and resulting disputes, reducing thefts and increasing billing efficiency.Vikas Malik, chief engineer, Smartgrid project, said that the laying of high tension cables underground will help improve power supply and minimise leakage of power in the system. “We have also installed 230 smart feeders, out of the 580 smart feeders which have to be installed under the project,” he said. The officials said that once the Smartgrid project is completed, the power utility will have the ability to switch supply of power from one area to another in case of load shedding through control room. The underground cables and smart feeders will also help in managing the load evenly and balance the supply in areas which have low load requirement. In the final stages, the project will see that overhead power cables in most of the areas of the district have been brought underground, Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/157000-smart-meters-installed-in-gurugram-dhbvn-101641115341317.html
02-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Two U-turns below Shankar Chowk flyover to be closed||The two U-turns below the Shankar Chowk flyover located on the service lanes of the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway will be closed by the traffic police in mid-January on a trial basis, officials said.According to the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Ravinder Singh Tomar, with the opening of the Ambience Mall underpass in October 2021, the two U-turns -- one leading towards DLF Phase 3 and the other towards Cyber City -- below the flyover have become redundant and are only leading to confusion and congestion.Vehicles travelling from Udyog Vihar, those leaving the expressway at exit number 18, and the ones coming from Cyber City towards Delhi, all converge below the Shankar Chowk flyover.“With the closing of the two cuts, vehicles travelling from Udyog Vihar can no longer cross from one side of the highway’s service lane to the other for heading towards Cyber City or DLF Phase 3. Instead, they will need to avail the Ambience Mall underpass to do so. This will reduce convergence of vehicles below the Shankar Chowk flyover by a great extent, thereby reducing congestion and also helping commuters save travelling time,” Tomar said on Friday.The existing traffic issues below the flyover came into the notice of authorities during an inspection by Tomar and deputy commissioner Yash Garg on December 28, 2021, which prompted the traffic police to take the decision on closing the U-turns.“During the visit, we realised that closing the cuts will help improve traffic management. We are aiming to first create awareness among residents and then close the U-turns by mid-January. Depending on its success, we will take a further call on making them a permanent feature,” said Tomar.The 377-metre underpass at Ambience Mall helps commuters take a U-turn before the Sirhaul toll and head back towards Gurugram, without crossing into the national capital.Commuters said that the move will help them save around 10 minutes of travel time.“Travelling from Cyber City, I take a right turn below the Shankar Chowk flyover to head towards Delhi. I often get stuck at the converging points for 8-10 minutes. Vehicles from the extreme left carriageway on the highway’s service lane often make a sharp right to avail the two U-turns, which results in a bottleneck,” said Abdul Najeeb, a resident of RK Puram in Delhi who works in Gurugram.
02-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Covid cases rising rapidly. Arvind Kejriwal explains why there is no need to panic||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections in Delhi are increasing rapidly but there is no need to panic because all the cases are mild and asymptomatic, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday after the city reported about 3,100 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, up from 2,716 cases reported a day earlier.Kejriwal also compared the current hospitalisation numbers with the figures during the second Covid wave to underscore the point.“Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Delhi, but there is no need to panic. Currently, the active cases in the city are 6,360. Today, 3,100 new cases are expected to be reported. But, the reason why I am saying there is no need to panic is because only 246 hospital beds were occupied yesterday. All cases are mild and asymptomatic,” he said while addressing a press briefing. Kejriwal said that on March 27, 2021, Delhi reported about 6,600 active Covid-19 cases, which is similar to the current situation in the city.Also Read: Daily covid cases grow by 50%, harsher curbs unlikely soon“But, back then 1,150 oxygen beds and 145 ventilator beds were occupied. Today, we have 6,360 active cases and only 82 oxygen beds are occupied. Only five people are on the ventilator today. So, the Omicron variant spreads rapidly, but the severity of infections is fairly low this time,” he said.These numbers underline global trends that the Omicron variant appears to be more transmissible but less virulent, and that the variant of concern (VOC) does not crowd hospitals like the Delta variant did.The chief minister said even if people start needing hospital care, Delhi government is prepared with 37,000 oxygen beds.Also Read: West witnessing worrying Omicron-driven Covid surge. Low death rate is silver liningKejriwal also shared data to show how the cases have rapidly increased in the past five days, but the number of beds occupied in Delhi hospitals have declined.“On December 29, Delhi had 2,191 active cases. The total hospitalisation cases were 262. Today, on January 2, we have 6,360 active cases and hospitalisations have decreased to 247, despite the increase in caseload. This shows that most cases are mild and asymptomatic. There is no need to panic,” he said.
02-01-2022||Delhi||New Year’s Eve used to be like Diwali for us, rue DJs amid cancellations||Ringing in the New Year while dancing to the hottest party tracks has been the norm for many on December 31. However, due to the pandemic last year, we saw muted celebrations, and it seems to be continuing into this year as well. In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, several cities have banned New Year celebrations and imposed night curfew, which has led to last-minute cancellations, calling off party packages and tours of DJs — leaving the live music industry in shambles.DJ AJ feels that organisers as well as guests should have paid more attention instead of being lax about safety protocols. He says, “Just one day ago, I had received cancellation for my New Year’s Eve (NYE) performance in Bengaluru as well as another in the beginning of January. The season had just picked up with back-to-back performances for us since November. I just hope we have enough to sustain.”For many DJs, this was their time to shine and make the most money. However, they are in a catch-22 situation. DJ Kayu, who plays at a popular party spot in Gurugram says, “We cannot help but obey the new government regulations. The party packages have been cancelled but there’s a-la-carte for guests. We’ll also be playing only light music as per the curfew timings as we don’t want to go too loud and make people dance, resulting in social distancing problems.” Elaborating on how their plans have gone for a toss, DJ Sumit Sethi rues, “NYE is very important. It’s like Diwali for us. We get booked two to three months in advance. The moment the new restrictions were announced, we received cancellations and everything has gone for a toss.”DJ Suketu, who played in the Capital last week, believes that people have finally accepted the fact that parties are going to start and end early on NYE. “Most of the club and restaurant owners are going ahead with the celebrations, even though revenue wouldn’t be the same but kuch na hone se toh better hai. There are also restrictions for open air parties, so let’s see what happens with my gig.”In this scenario, are DJs planning to opt for online gigs? “Virtual gigs may come back but woh baat nahi hoti jo live mein hoti hai,” says Sethi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-year-s-eve-used-to-be-like-diwali-for-us-rue-djs-amid-cancellations-101641112460817.html
02-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka students denied entry to classroom for wearing hijab, seek help||A government college in Karnataka's Udupi on Saturday allegedly prevented some students from entering the classroom wearing hijab, according to district authorities."Those of us who were wearing hijabs were prevented from entering the classroom," said a student of the college.Later, a delegation including some students of the college along with some members of the Islamic Organization of India approached District Collector Kurma Rao regarding the incident. Five girls who were stopped from entering the classroom were part of the delegation.The collector said he spoke to the principal of the college regarding the issue."We were told to bring our parents to college but when they arrived, school authorities made them wait for some three to four hours," said a student."Everything was fine before we started wearing the hijab but now we are being discriminated in this manner," said another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-students-denied-entry-to-classroom-for-wearing-hijab-seek-help-101641110263726.html
02-01-2022||Dehradun||10 days after FIR, SIT set up for ‘fair and unbiased’ probe in Haridwar speeches||DEHRADUN: Ten days after filing a criminal case over hate speeches delivered at Haridwar’s Dharma Sansad, the Uttarakhand Police on Sunday formed a five-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case.The move comes a day after the Uttarakhand director general of police Ashok Kumar confirmed that investigators have added two more names, Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, to the list of accused in the case. The first information report (FIR) registered on December 23 initially listed only one accused, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi formerly Waseem Rizwi. Later, two more names, Annapurna Maa alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, and Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, were added.Garhwal range deputy inspector general Karan Singh Nagnyal said a five-member SIT has been formed “for a fair and unbiased probe”.“The SIT will be led by a superintendent of police (SP), assisted by an additional SP, one inspector and two sub-inspectors. The case which was till date investigated by the Haridwar Kotwali police will now be handed over to this newly formed SIT. All necessary legal action will be taken by the police against those found accused in the investigation,” said Nagnyal.Police this week added section 295(a) of the Indian Penal Code (insulting a religion with deliberate and malicious acts) to the FIR. which earlier only cited section 153 (a) of IPC (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred).The decision to assign a special team to probe the politically sensitive case comes against the backdrop of criticism that the police probe was moving too slowly. On Friday, senior lawyer Kartikeya Gupta said the police should have been “very very active” in probing the case relating to communal issues “but here it seems to be the opposite”.Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar, however, countered this view, insisting that police are “taking all necessary action” in the case.The event where hate speeches were made targeting minorities was held from December 17-19 in Haridwar.Police registered a case on December 23 only after videos of hate speeches by the participants emerged on social media on December 22, causing furore among netizens who asked the Uttarakhand government to take action. The police then registered a case and assigned the investigation to a sub-inspector rank police officer of Haridwar’s Kotwali police station.
02-01-2022||Dehradun||Covid-19: 85 students in Uttarakhand's Nainital test positive, being treated in school||As many as 85 students in Uttarakhand have tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The cases happened at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Gangarkote village in Nainital district.An ANI report said the school has been classified into a micro-containment zone on the instructions of the deputy collector."Initially, 11 students tested positive along with the school staff. Soon after, the Uttarakhand health department set up a testing camp and took 496 samples in which 85 children were found to be Covid-19 positive," deputy collector Rahul Sah was quoted as saying.The report said children are being isolated on the school premises itself.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand reported four new Omicron cases on Saturday taking a total number of infections from the new disease to eight, as per Central government data.The four people earlier infected with Omicron have recovered. One Omicron case was reported from the state on December 11 and three more on December 27.Of the four new cases, three cases are from Dehradun and one from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Director General Health Tripti Bahuguna said.In another incident, as many as 13 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi, with the authorities ordering a closure of the university until further orders.The decision to close the university located at Kakriyal near Katra town, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine, was taken to contain the spread and ensure safety of the students and general public, PTI quoted an order issued by Reasi district magistrate Charandeep Singh as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid-85-students-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-test-positive-being-treated-in-school-101641107109000.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||169 Covid cases recorded in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir reported two deaths and 169 fresh Covid infections on Saturday, an official health bulletin said.Of the total cases, two deaths and 101 cases were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 68 infections. The union territory reported the highest 48 cases in Srinagar followed by 34 cases in Jammu and 15 in Baramulla. As many as 13 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 448 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 298 and 164 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 107 with active cases reaching 1,397. The overall number of people who have recovered was 3,35,532, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have mounted to 3,41,459 and the death toll stands at 4,530.The officials said that 65,920 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 83 fresh cases that took its tally to 2,28,940, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 3,860, a health official said.The latest fatality was reported from Shimla, he said.The number of active cases in Himachal Pradesh climbed to 474 from 466 on Friday, the official said.With 70 more patients recuperating from the viral disease, the total number of recoveries stands at 2,24,581, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/169-covid-cases-recorded-in-jk-101641101599727.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kashmir to receive fresh snow next week: MeT office||Kashmir could witness moderate to heavy snowfall next week that could lead to the disruption of air and surface transport, MeT office said on Saturday. “As per today’s analysis, light snow is expected over higher reaches of Kashmir, Zojila-Drass axis during evening/night and may continue tomorrow,” MeT office said in a statement. The weather office said that widespread snow and rain spell of moderate to heavy intensity is most likely during January 4 to 6 in both UTs. “Heavy snow is expected at some places on January 5 and 6 that may affect surface and air transportation. Light snow is expected over higher reaches of Kashmir on January 1 and 2.”The weather office said they expect colder days and warmer nights from Sunday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-to-receive-fresh-snow-next-week-met-office-101641101421669.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Leopard spotted in Shimla again||Panic gripped Shimla town again after a leopard was spotted in posh US Club locality on Saturday morning. The incident took place around 6.30am when a woman, who was out for a morning walk, noticed some stray dogs barking at something on the tree. When she got closer, the woman saw a leopard atop the tree.The woman immediately informed others after which, a large number of people gathered at the spot. Meanwhile, locals informed the police and forest department about the animal after which emergency teams were rushed to the spot to rescue the big cat. The leopard was tranquillised and taken to the animal rescue centre in Tutikandi. As per the forest authorities, the leopard is a cub of about six to eight months old. About a week ago, a woman had a close encounter with the leopard near Oak Over, the chief minister’s official residence. The leopard had killed two children in the town in August and November last year. ACCF Anil Thakur said that a team of wildlife officials reached the spot after receiving information about the presence of a leopard in US Club area. “It is a 6-8 months old cub and has been rescued. It might have strayed into the residential area in search of food from the nearby Jakhu forest and climbed the tree after being chased by a pack of stray dogs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-leopard-spotted-in-shimla-again-101641101299687.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress will win Himachal assembly elections: Pratibha||Maintaining that the victory in the by-elections boosted the morale of the party cadres, the newly-elected MP from Mandi, Pratibha Singh said the Congress was marching ahead strongly and will also win the assembly polls slated for the end of this year. She was addressing a press conference on the sidelines of a party event wherein the Himachal Congress launched the New Year Calendar commemorating the MP’s husband and former chief minister, Virbhadra Singh. Replying to a question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent rally held at Mandi, Pratibha said she expected that the PM would announce some relief package for the state, but nothing like that happened.“The PM just tried to please the people by speaking in the local dialect,” she said. Congress state president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the demise of the former six-term chief minister has caused the Congress a great loss. On the evacuation of people following the terror threat, Rathore said if the government and intelligence agencies had some inputs, they should have informed the people beforehand.“Why did they allow such a large number of people to gather in the first place?” he asked, adding that the entire episode damaged the reputation of Himachal and would hurt the tourism also.Replying to another question, Rathore criticised the proposal of the central government to increase the rates of GST and said the government had no control over the rising inflation. By increasing the rates of GST, he said, the government is hurting the people who are already reeling under inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-will-win-himachal-assembly-elections-pratibha-101641100939558.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Security beefed up in Shimla after intel inputs on terror attack||In the wake of threat perception from a Pakistan-based militant group, security has been beefed up on The Ridge and Mall Road in Shimla. Scores of tourists and locals had gathered on The Ridge on Friday night to celebrate the New Year, but just as the celebrations began, cops arrived along with sniffer dogs. The police teams carried out an anti-sabotage check in every nook and corner of The Ridge ground, resulting in panic among the revellers. The teams placed metal detectors on the entry and exit routes and frisked the visitors. Police vans fitted with public address systems repeatedly asked the people to return to houses, hotels and guest houses, saying that gathering could lead to the spread of omicron. As per the information provided by police officials, a Pakistan-based terror outfit had threatened to blow up the water storage tank below The Ridge. The tank was built in 1880 to meet the water requirement of Shimla town. The local police also took assistance from the army, which deployed its anti-sabotage teams in the town. Security has also been beefed up at the Army Training Command close to the Mall Road which was set up in 1991. The water tank is cleaned regularly, but a major portion of the tank has developed cracks. The police teams throughout the day conducted checks in the town as well as the key establishments, including the Himachal Pradesh secretariat. Security was scaled up at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence as well, besides the Viceroy Regal Lodge. “There were specific inputs about The Ridge and the information was shared by Punjab intelligence. Inputs came late in the evening, so we had no option but to act promptly and get the area vacated,” said HP director general of police Sanjay Kundu. “There are a lot of tourists in the town. The security will remain tightened,” he added. HP chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh spoke to his Punjab counterpart besides officials of the home department to gather more inputs on the threat. However, there was a mixed reaction to police action among the business community. “It was an action taken timely as there was a huge rush and the safety of humans comes first,” said a trader on the Mall Road, Karan Nanda. State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, meanwhile, castigated the police action. “The way people were asked to leave The Ridge and the Mall Road was inappropriate. It led to panic and scare among them,” he added. Security will remain heightened: CMChief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the security will continue to remain tightened in the state following the inputs from intelligence agencies. He said that the state had received inputs on Friday evening and soon after, forces were in action and police were deployed in Shimla. He said he had held a meeting with officials and other security agencies. He also thanked the Indian Army for deploying a special bomb disposal squad from Chandigarh. “We have kept all places on alert, especially Shimla. This input was for The Ridge and the Mall Road. We are allowing tourists and locals to move and are not stopping anyone, but the forces have been deployed. We got input late and we were able to evacuate the people as soon as it was possible. We vacated The Ridge and Mall Road, requesting people to move citing Covid-19 protocol. We will have to be alert in future as there are some kind of elements who want to destabilise peace. We took it seriously as it was needed,” said the chief minister. 
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab reports spike of 332 Covid cases in a day||Punjab on Saturday reported 332 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,05,126, according to a medical bulletin. The state had on Friday reported 221 Covid cases. Punjab’s positivity rate for the day remained 2.02% as it continues to have a poor testing record despite spike in infections. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 1,041, highest in the past three months. Among fresh cases, maximum 98 were reported in Patiala, 53 in Pathankot and 37 in Ludhiana, the bulletin said. With 42 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,440, it said. Till now, 16,645 persons have lost their lives due to the virus in the state. 122 among 66 students of Thapar varsity test positive in Patiala Patiala: The district witnessed a spike f 122 Covid cases on Saturday. As many as 66 cases have been reported from the Thapar University. On Saturday, students and their parents asked the university authorities to postpone semester examinations and shut the institution in order to contain the virus.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said they are collecting samples of close contacts of positive students and have asked the university not to allow anyone to leave the campus without testing.14-fold surge in Bathinda in a week BATHINDA: The district recorded a 14-fold surge in infection in the last one week after 32 people were tested positive for Covid-19 on the first day of the New Year.According to the health department data, Bathinda reported five cases on December 25 and the number of active cases on Saturday reached 73. Civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said since December 28, coronavirus cases have seen a jump in the district.He said the absence of Covid appropriate behaviour by the residents and vaccination hesitancy is primarily responsible for the upward trend of the infection. Wearing masks by the general public is almost missing, he added.“A sizeable number of Covid-19 cases are being reported from the Bathinda military station. Other parts of the district are also reporting the cases as Covid-19 guidelines are not being followed strictly,” said Dhillon.Overcrowding in markets, political gatherings and public transport is a common scene in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-spike-of-332-covid-cases-in-a-day-101641100519758.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Piercing cold in Punjab and Haryana; Bathinda shivers at 1 degree Celsius||Biting cold wave conditions persisted in most places of Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, while some parts of the two northern states also witnessed dense fog.Bathinda in Punjab was the coldest place as it recorded its minimum of 1 degree Celsius, three notches below normal, according to data provided by the Meteorological Department here.Hisar in Haryana shivered at 2 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal.The Union Territory of Chandigarh, which is the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum at 5.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Gurugram, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their minimum temperatures of 4.9, 3.8, 3, 4.4, 4.6, 5.1 and 4.2 degrees Celsius respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded their respective minimums at 4.2 and 7.8 degrees Celsius, up to two degrees above normal.Patiala, Pathankot, Halwara, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows of 4.7, 4.2, 2.7, 4.5 and 5.1 degrees Celsius.Dense fog was witnessed at Bathinda, Patiala in Punjab and Ambala in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/piercing-cold-in-punjab-and-haryana-bathinda-shivers-at-1-degree-celsius-101641100280234.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Channi govt doesn’t have courage to arrest Majithia, says Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday targeted the Congress government in Punjab alleging that it is not being able to arrest SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Taking on the Charanjit Singh Channi-led regime, Kejriwal, whose AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab, said the state government does not have the courage to arrest the former Punjab minister.Majithia has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state.He is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.“They (the state government) have just registered an FIR and then boasted about it,” Kejriwal, who is the chief minister of Delhi, said when asked a question on Majithia.“It took them five years to register an FIR,” he said and asked how many days have passed since the registration of the case.They do not have the courage to arrest him, said Kejriwal while talking to reporters in Amritsar in poll-bound Punjab.He slammed the state government for not having been able to nab Majithia despite his anticipatory bail being rejected in the Mohali court.How many days have passed since the rejection of the anticipatory bail and till now, arrest has not been made, he said.Kejriwal alleged that the Congress government was least bothered about drug menace and sacrilege issues, and added that only fight for chair is going on in the ruling party.After the Mohali court dismissed the anticipatory bail plea, Majithia had moved the high court.AAP promises quality education to all SC students In Amritsar, Kejriwal promised to provide quality education to every child of the Scheduled Caste (SC) community if his party is voted to power in Punjab. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal paid obeisance at the Ram Tirath Temple in Amritsar, the ashram of Maharishi Valmiki and the birthplace of Lord Rama’s sons Luv-Kush. On this occasion, the Sant Samaj honoured the AAP convener with a mace. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal made four promises related to the Dalit children, sanitation workers, Sant Samaj and sewer men.“I guarantee education of all Dalit children to fulfil the dreams of Maharishi Valmiki and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Equality can be brought in the society only by giving good education to children of the poor and downtrodden,” said Kejriwal. He also agreed to Sant Samaj’s demand to dissolve the shrine board and promised that if voted to power, his party’s government will hand over the responsibility of running the temple to the society. Making the third promise, Kejriwal said the AAP government will regularise services of all sanitation workers in Punjab. He also promised to provide safety kits to all the sewer men. “We will give machines to those who go to sewer and clean them by hand so that they can do their business,” he added. AAP chief visits Dera Sachkhand BallanJALANDHAR: Eyeing Dalit votes, Kejriwal visited Ravidassia community’s Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Jalandhar and met its chief Niranjan Das. He was accompanied by party’s state unit chief Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema. Kejriwal said Dera Sachkhand Ballan has played an important role in promoting communal brotherhood and equality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-govt-doesn-t-have-courage-to-arrest-majithia-says-kejriwal-101641099979644.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod to monitoring wing in soil, water conservation dept||The Punjab cabinet on Saturday approved setting up of “design, quality control monitoring and evaluation wing” in the soil and water conservation department to ensure precise planning, designing, estimation besides transparent and accountable implementation of public works. Charing the cabinet meeting at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Saturday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the designing, monitoring, quality control and evaluation wing is being set up at headquarters of the soil and water conservation department. According to a government spokesperson, the creation of this wing would not entail any additional government expenditure but help in saving public money due to implementation of proper planning, designing and estimation besides enhancing accountability among departmental officers/officials. It would also help farmer community, especially small and marginal farmers, which are often devoid of government benefits as due to copybook planning and designing no farmer would feel left out of government projects. Approves setting up of MI-SPV for intelligent irrigation The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to set up a micro irrigation (MI) special purpose vehicle (SPV) in the soil and water conservation department for the promotion of intelligent irrigation systems in the state. To achieve this objective in the larger public interest, the spokesperson said the process requires organisational changes within the department and a person having requisite qualifications and experience in the micro irrigation field shall be deputed by way of nomination/additional charge in the soil and water conservation department, who would head this SPV and set up the requisite organisational structure of this dedicated wing for implementation of micro irrigation programme in the state. The cabinet also approved upgrade of sub-tehsil Tanda in Hoshiarpur district and Adampur in Jalandhar district as tehsils/sub-division. The newly upgraded tehsil/sub-division Tanda would comprise of five kanungo circles, 47 patwar circles and 133 villages whereas Adampur would consist of six kanungo circles, 60 patwar circles and 161 villages. Nod to dental education service rules In order to bring uniformity, the cabinet also approved Punjab Dental Education (Group-A) Service (Amendment) Rules, 2021, according to the norms of the Dental Council of India. The decision would be instrumental in filling the vacant post of medical faculty in government dental colleges across the state for imparting quality education to the students besides providing the best dental treatment to the patients. Special package for Mega projects The cabinet approved special package of incentives for new mega and ultra mega projects to attract huge investment in the state. According to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office, the project with fixed capital investment of ₹1,500 to ₹2,500 crore with minimum contract demand of 20 MVA would be treated as mega projects and projects with fixed capital investment of above ₹2,500 crore and minimum contract demand of 30 MVA shall be treated as ultra mega projects. Under the special package, the projects will be provided special power tariff for four years to mega projects and five years to new ultra mega projects from the date of release of permanent power connection. Similarly, the incentive of Net GST reimbursement would be available at the rate of 100% of Net GST with a cap of 200% of FCI to be availed over a maximum period of 17 years for mega projects and 20 years for ultra mega projects. This special package of incentive will be available to only those units which file their common application form before October 17, 2022, and attain commercial production within three years (mega projects) and four years (ultra mega projects) from date of submission of the common application form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-monitoring-wing-in-soil-water-conservation-dept-101641099799496.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Eye on UP assembly election, Arvind Kejriwal to address rally in Lucknow today||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal will address a rally at Lucknow's Smriti Upvan Maidan on Sunday afternoon.The AAP has said their leaders have travelled all over the poll-bound state for the rally and taken a letter of support from the people on promises like 300 units of free electricity, 10 lakh jobs and unemployment allowance, according to a report by news agency ANI.The rally was initially to be scheduled to be held on November 28, 2021, but got cancelled due to the TET exam.Besides 300 units of free electricity to all domestic customers, the AAP has announced a waiver of outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and 24-hour power supply, if voted to power in Uttar Pradesh.The party has also promised to create 10 lakh jobs and provide an allowance of ₹5,000 per month to the unemployed in the poll-bound state.The elections to the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early this year. After coming to power for the second term in Delhi, Kejriwal is hoping to expand its base in the neighbouring UP.The AAP has made similar promises in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa that are also headed for Assembly polls this year.In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered a victory after it bagged 312 Assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly and brought Yogi Aditynath to the chief minister’s chair.The Samajwadi Party bagged 47 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19, while the Congress managed to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eye-on-up-assembly-election-arvind-kejriwal-to-address-rally-in-lucknow-today-101641086433530.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Why parties will remain on tenterhooks in mayoral race||The coveted post of mayor, the first citizen of Chandigarh, has seen pitched political battles over the years, and being a single-largest party or even having a majority in the municipal corporation hasn’t ensured a victory. In the 25-year history of the MC, on several occasions, even a party with one or two seats, has ended up getting their councillor elected as the Chandigarh mayor.The upsets were galore in the pre-2017 era, when nominated members had voting rights. There were major reverses for parties even holding a majority of elected members in the house. Even after nominated members’ votes were quashed, cross-voting all too frequently marred the parties’ election calculations. Nominated members votes scrappedIn 2017, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the nominated members’ voting rights in the mayoral elections. Advocate and former councillor Satinder Singh, on whose petition, the voting right of nominated members was withdrawn, said, “The nominated members’ votes were used to nullify people’s mandate. So, on many occasions, the nominated members played the kingmakers without having to answer to people like the elected councillors.” The HC while quashing the nominated members’ voting rights, stating, “In the meeting to be convened for the election of mayor, nominated members who have no right to vote in the meetings of municipalities would have no right to vote even in the meetings for election of the mayor of the municipal corporation, Chandigarh.”No anti-defection law in MC HouseThe anti-defection law in force in Parliament and state legislature hasn’t been enforced for Chandigarh MC. It can come into force in the MC only after Parliament’s nod.Satya Pal Jain, senior advocate and senior BJP leader, said, “In the absence of an anti-defection law, no law prohibits councillors from choosing a candidate of their choice irrespective of party. With secret ballot, it is easier for the councillors to do cross-voting. Anti-defection law should be implemented in the Chandigarh MC too.” The tricky numbers gameIn 2001 mayoral election, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Harjinder Kaur had won the mayoral election, even though, SAD had only two councillors in the house. BJP, with 13 councillors in the house of 20 elected councillors, didn’t participate. In the 10 votes polled on the occasion, seven went to Kaur, and three to her party colleague Mohinder Singh.Congress candidate Poonam Sharma was elected mayor in 2015, defeating BJP candidate Heera Negi by two votes, even as the BJP had 14 votes, including that of the MP, while Congress had only nine. Of the total 33 votes polled, Sharma got 17 votes and Negi managed to get 15. In a close contest in 2007, Anu Chatrath of the Congress lost by one vote to Harjinder Kaur of SAD, even though Congress had a clear majority with 13 seats (total elected councillors – 20).In the 1998 election, even though BJP had 13 councillors and its then ally SAD had two elected councillors, but still the party’s rebel candidate was elected to the mayor’s post.In another mayoral election, the Congress got its candidate elected with only one elected councillor against BJP’s 13.Cross-voting fears persistIn the post-2017 period too, with no anti-defection law in place, cross-voting has been the norm rather than exception in the mayoral elections.In 2019, the BJP, with 21 votes in the house of 27 (including one vote of Chandigarh MP), had a major scare when its candidate could win by only a narrow margin. Rajesh Kalia only got 16 votes and rebel candidate Satish Kainth received 11 votes, even though BJP had 22 votes in the house of 27, and Congress only four. Kainth later joined the Congress. In the previous year too, the party’s candidate Davesh Moudgil had got one vote less than the party’s total votes. In the last election of the outgoing house too, the winning BJP candidate Ravi Kant Sharma got two less votes than 19 votes the party councillors cast.In the newly elected MC house too it’s anybody’s game. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has 14 votes, BJP 13, Congress 8 and SAD 1. “Unlike the outgoing house where BJP had brute majority, and so cross voting didn’t cost the party an election, this time around, all the three parties are neck-to-neck. With cross-voting a real possibility, all three parties - Congress requires 19 votes from total 37 votes, BJP 6 and AAP 5, are in the race,” said a veteran BJP leader requesting anonymity. 
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: New Year bash invite from Chandigarh Traffic Police||Chandigarh’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP), traffic administration, Palak Goel took to Twitter to share an invite for a special New Year’s Eve party. Those invited included rash and drunk drivers. The venue, “your nearest police station”, was to feature a special performance by ‘DJ Lockup’. The tongue-in-cheek invite was shared widely across WhatsApp groups and liked by many for the sense of humour. Wonder how many actually made it to the party. Aaptimism: Victory march in UT with eye on PunjabThe “victory procession” of the Aam Aadmi Party, led by its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in Chandigarh on December 30 after the AAP won 14 of the 35 municipal corporation seats had a message for the Punjab electorate as well. With Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann by his side, Kejriwal expressed the hope to be back in Chandigarh to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the Punjab government with his party at the helm. Some in the crowd were carrying posters of AAP candidates in Punjab; the biggest being a life-size poster of Kulwant Singh, the former mayor and now the Mohali AAP candidate.Mind your spellings, it’s ‘o’ not ‘a’ in Mohindra The Mohali District Public Relations Office (DPRO) was left red-faced the other day when it issued a press release wrongly spelling the name of Punjab cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra. The Punjab local bodies minister was in town recently to inaugurate a slew of development projects. The press note issued by the DPRO office spelled his surname with an “a”, while the minister spells his name with an “o” – Brahm Mohindra. All that was required was a little attention to detail, especially when it comes to the names of ministers. Covid vaccine drive gets booster shot in PanchkulaPeople ignore appeals and comply only when strict instructions are passed. The vaccination drive in Panchkula got a boost after the recent Haryana government order that only those who had taken both vaccine doses would be allowed at public places from the New Year. Earlier, convincing people to get vaccinated was a task in itself and some would even misbehave with health workers, who were already stretched. With Covid-19 cases on the rise again along with the government order, those who shunned the vaccine are now coming forward, seeking favours to get vaccinated at the earliest. Well, the administration should not have delayed passing such orders. Vaccine lucky draw winners fail to show up for prizes The UT health department had on December 9 conducted a lucky draw for people who got vaccinated in Chandigarh between November 18 and 30. A total of 200 winners were selected through a computerised draw at the UT Secretariat, and the winners were supposed to get gift hampers of ₹2,000 each, a cash award of ₹1,000 each, and food and beverages coupons of ₹1,000 each. Even though the health department extended the deadline for collecting the awards from December 22 to December 26, around 40% of the winners didn’t show up. “The winners were contacted several times but they didn’t visit the Chandigarh Housing Board’s office to collect their prizes. The validity of food and beverages coupons has expired but those who won cash prizes and gift hampers can still collect their wins. The lucky draw was aimed at increasing vaccination in the UT in view of the rising number of cases,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said. New Year, new interface: PU upgrades its websiteDays after releasing its calendar for 2022, the Panjab University website got a brand new look on the first day of the New Year. The new interface gives quick facts about the university. A picture of Jawaharlal Nehru’s visit has been prominently displayed. Nehru had visited the campus to inaugurate the AC Joshi Library. There is also a section of news that is updated regularly. Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Mandeep Narula and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-new-year-bash-invite-from-chandigarh-traffic-police-101641077643568.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Morni rape case: High court dismisses bail plea of main accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has dismissed the bail plea of Sunil Kumar alias Sunny, the main accused in the 2018 gangrape reported in Morni, a tourist town, 30 km from Panchkula.The victim had alleged that she was raped for four days, from July 15 to 18, 2018, by eight to 10 men, including two policemen, at Lovely Guest House in Kaimbwala village in Morni. She was initially turned away by the local police and an FIR was registered by the Chandigarh police, but later the Panchkula police took over the case. The bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill observed that the victim, in her statements, had consistently stood by the rape allegations. “The petitioner, being the main accused, and the allegations against him virtually having been substantiated, this court is unable to accept the contention that it is merely a case of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 and not of Section 376-D IPC (gangrape),” the bench stated.The accused had approached the high court on April 8, challenging the 2019 order of a trial court dismissing his bail plea. It was argued that even if all the allegations as alleged are taken to be correct, still the same, at best, would constitute an offence under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. It is punishable for a maximum imprisonment of two years. But the petitioner has undergone 3 years and 6 months’ sentence so far. It was also claimed that medical evidence presented did not corroborate allegations of rape.Police had claimed that Sunny is the main accused and was running a guest house, where the woman was initially allured on the pretext of offering employment but was raped. The accused invited his friends and she was made a captive. Some photos, of the woman, were also referred to, allegedly shared by the accused to invite his friends. The court said woman had been kept in a hotel and even if she had raised any hue and cry in a room in a hotel, the same was unlikely to have been heard by anyone else. Rather, sending of photographs to his friends would substantiate the case of the prosecution. “As such, with regard to aforestated facts and the heinous nature of crime, no case for grant of bail is made out,” the bench said dismissing his plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morni-rape-case-high-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-main-accused-101641077343242.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla, his deputy Devinder Babla get into public spat||The simmering tension within the Congress, after its poor show in the recently concluded Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, spilled out in the open as the party’s city unit chief Subhash Chawla and his deputy Devinder Singh Babla got into a public spat on Saturday. The incident took place during the oath-taking ceremony of the newly-elected councillors at the Municipal Corporation Bhawan in Sector-17 on Saturday. Both Chawla and Babla were sitting in the visitors’ gallery, when they got into a heated exchange, prompting other councillors to intervene. The spat went on for several minutes. Speaking after the episode, Chawla said, “Babla hurled abuses at me. I am very upset over his behaviour. The party will decide what action is to be taken against him for this behaviour.” Babla, on the other hand, denied the allegations of hurling abuses. “I was enquiring from him why a party meeting has not been called to discuss the defeat. However, his behaviour was odd. He shot back saying it was not necessary, which infuriated me.” He added that Chawla must take moral responsibility for the defeat and tender his resignation. Those present at the spot said that Babla accused Chawla of “destroying” the party. He also alleged that AAP was Chawla’s creation as he let senior leaders like Pardeep Chhabra (former Congress chief) to leave party and join AAP with several others. He also accused Chawla of “selling tickets” and giving it to those, who did not stand a chance to win “even in their own Mohallas.” “Chawla could not ensure his own son’s victory. It was a very good opportunity for us to win this election. There was a wave against BJP. But due to poor management of Chawla, we lost the polls,” Babla said after the incident. In a city, once considered a Congress stronghold, the party was outsmarted and out-campaigned by debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which grabbed most of the anti-incumbency votes against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Congress could secure only eight seats, while AAP won 14 and BJP retained 12 seats. Congress had four councillors in the outgoing house. 35 councillors take oath of officeThe 35 elected councillors were administered oath of office on Saturday morning at a ceremony at the assembly hall of municipal corporation in Sector 17 by deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh in the presence of MC commissioner Anindita Mitra. The UT is yet to announce the dates for mayoral polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-chief-subhash-chawla-his-deputy-devinder-babla-get-into-public-spat-101641076623221.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 15-18 group: 650 slots booked in Chandigarh on first day||After the Chandigarh health department opened online registrations for Covid-19 vaccination for children aged 15 to 18 on Saturday, over 650 vaccination slots out of the 1,200, were booked for the first day of the inoculation.As per union government’s directions, the Chandigarh health department will start inoculating children from January 3. As per eligible population projected by the Central Government, there are about 72,000 eligible children in this age group in Chandigarh and 40,000 in Panchkula. The number of slots booked in Panchkula on the first day was not available, a health official said. Children are to be administered the Covaxin and registrations can be done by logging on to the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-15-18-group-650-slots-booked-in-chandigarh-on-first-day-101641075903144.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ushers in New Year, Covid protocol defied||Despite tight security cover on New Year’s eve, youngsters flocked to Sarabha Nagar to celebrate the occasion, and heavy rush was also witnessed at Sutlej and Lodhi Clubs. Except minor scuffle, no major clash was reported on Saturday.After the clock struck 12, the cops began to close nightclubs and restaurants hosting new year parties.Youngsters flout Covid normsInvariably the popular Sarabha Nagar became the epicenter of ruckus as youngsters were seen flouting Covid guidelines, one of whom had even rammed his car into a police barricade, installed to block the entry of traffic. At Sidhwan Canal Road, near South City Road, youngsters were seen driving recklesslyThe Covid protocols also went for a toss and youngsters without masks, ignoring social distancing, were witnessed pushing and shoving each other to make their way.Many youngsters were seen entering into a heated argument with the police. Later the cops resorted to mild cane charge to disperse the crowd.Red alert by administrationAfter the bomb blast, there is a high alert in Punjab as well as a red alert has been issued by the government and administration and Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed. But youngsters did not give two hoots to the government guidelines.31 medico legal reports filedBesides, incidents of scuffle, as many as 31 incidents of clash were reported in the city. Civil hospital officials said 31 medico legal reports (MLR) were filed since December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ushers-in-new-year-covid-protocol-defied-101641075243216.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||235 challans issued for flouting traffic rules in Ludhiana||Amid new year celebrations, the Ludhiana police strengthened its crackdown against violators at the popular spots in the city. As many as 235 offenders were issued challans on Friday by the police for different traffic violations.A total of 110 traffic offenders paid penalties for the violations, while 125 violators had to appear in the court to pay the fine.Among the court challans, 36 traffic challans were imposed in Zone-1, 31 in Zone-2, 16 in Zone-3, 14 in Zone-4. Around 19 red light jump offenders received e-challans to be cleared from the local court.These challans were imposed for the breaching rules, including three for black film, 12 using mobile phone while driving, four for pressure horn, nine for over speeding, 21 red light jump,14 triple riding, 16 unauthorized number plate, 14 without helmet , 13 wrong parking , 11 wrong side driving and eight others.Meanwhile, 110 people paid their penalties in cash for violations, including one black film, five for disobeying signals, 15 without seat belt, ten for unauthorized number plate , 59 vehicles towed, eight without helmet, ten wrong parking, and two for wrong side driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/235-challans-issued-for-flouting-traffic-rules-in-ludhiana-101641075183388.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Facing flak, Ludhiana MC chief seeks inspection of development works||Amid residents and opposition parties lamenting over ‘poor’ quality road construction works being done in different parts of the city ahead of the assembly elections; municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal penned a letter to principal secretary of local bodies department on Friday seeking formation of a high-level committee at the state level for monitoring the quality of development works being undertaken in the city.Recently the residents and shopkeepers at Dugri Main Road and Pakhowal Road had objected to poor quality works stating that the material started wearing off a few days after the roads were constructed in their respective area. Earlier, similar complaints were also received from Model Town-Jawaddi road, Kitchlu Nagar, Shastri Nagar, among other areas. Corrective action to be taken in case of oddityIn the letter to principal secretary , Sabharwal said inspection of different workb run by operations and maintenance wing, and bridges and roads department of municipal corporation (MC), was also conducted in November and the contractors were directed to take corrective steps, where anomalies were found. Sabharwal said, “Regular checking of development works is being done and I have asked the principal secretary to form a high-level committee for independent inspection of work so that corrective action can be taken in case of any oddity. Earlier I had also asked the local bodies department for a third-party inspection of the works being undertaken under the Smart City mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/facing-flak-ludhiana-mc-chief-seeks-inspection-of-development-works-101641075123392.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | PBA bids farewell to Punjab teams||A farewell ceremony for the girl’s and boy’s teams of the state, who will participate in the 71st Junior National Basketball Championship, was held at District Basketball Association (DBA) on Saturday. The championship to be organised by Basketball Federation of India, will be held at Basketball Complex, Indore, from January 4 to January 10. Members of Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) and District Basketball Association (DBA) boosted the morale of the players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pba-bids-farewell-to-punjab-teams-101641075063427.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana para badminton player bags gold in Para Badminton National Championship||Shavan, a para badminton player of the district, on Friday bagged two medals, including a gold medal at 4th Para Badminton National Championship held at Bhubaneswar, Orissa.While Shavana bagged a gold medal in the double’s category, she clinched a silver medal in the single’s category in the tournament.Meanwhile, her husband Ashwani Kumar, who was part of the Punjab men’s team reached the quarter final.Kumar said they received financial help from numerous people, including the members of Ludhiana Lodhi club, who financed their kits and wheelchairs, to participate in the championship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-para-badminton-player-bags-gold-in-para-badminton-national-championship-101641075003150.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC releases ₹1cr for Baba Vishwakarma Mandir’s renovation||District deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday handed over a cheque of ₹1 crore to the Committee of Baba Vishwakarma Mandir.The amount would be used for renovation purposes.Ludhiana Central MLA Surinder Dawar, present at the occasion, said Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had announced an amount of ₹1crore for the renovation and beautification of Baba Vishwakarma Mandir in Miller Ganj. He expressed gratitude to CM Charanjit Singh Channi, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Punjab government for fulfilling their promise.DC Varinder informed that the amount has been released out of the discretionary quota of Punjab finance minister’s Small Savings Award Money for the year 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-releases-1cr-for-baba-vishwakarma-mandir-s-renovation-101641074943354.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Not furnishing vaccination details costs teachers month’s pay||Government school teachers who had not uploaded their vaccination certificate on the Punjab integrated human resource management system did not receive their December salary.  In its December 21 order, the finance department had said that employees will not be able to draw their salary if their vaccination certification number – for single or dual jabs – was not registered. Government employees’ salaries will only be released once they upload their certification number. Among those whose salaries have been held ransom was a Government Senior Secondary School principal. “The salaries of my staff have also been withheld as my bill was not generated due to non-submission of vaccination details on the integrated human resource management system,” she said.Another teacher complained that the department did not give them adequate time to submit their vaccination status. District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra said teachers had been directed to furnish their vaccination details as directed by the state government. “It is important that teachers fill in their vaccination details to ensure the safety of their students and colleagues. The teachers whose salary was not released will be guided on how to resolve the issue.” Education department nodal officer Davinder Chinna said, “The state government has taken a tremendous initiative to ensure inoculation. While 98% teachers are fully vaccinated, others will also get the jab now.” Meanwhile, of the 26,044 staffers on election duty in Ludhiana, the department has received the status report of 25,936 employees so far.While 21,896 employees are fully vaccinated, 2,864 have received one jab, and 1,176 have not received a single dose. Till December 29, as many as 10,63,287 people had not yet received their second dose. 
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man arrested with 1kg heroin||A man was arrested with 1.2kg heroin near Tajpur Road on Friday. The accused, Suman Tiwari, 27, of Bihar, who was residing in Gagan Colony has been sent to police remand by a local court.An electronic weighing machine, empty polythene pouches were also found in his bag.Special task force in-charge inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge said. “Acting on a top-off, we installed a check post at Tajpur Road. The accused was crossing the area on his bike when he was topped for checking.”“The accused has been involved in drug peddling for the last three years,” said the officer. He was on his way to take the contraband to Bhola Colony when he was arrested. A case under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused at STF police station in SAS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-with-1kg-heroin-101641074882841.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||With 0mm rain, Chandigarh saw driest December in 12 years||With no rain throughout the month, December 2021 was the driest in 12 years as per the data available with India Meteorological Department (IMD).While the month witnessed trace rainfall (less than 0.1 mm) on four days, the value for the whole month has been kept at 0mm as there were no significant showers in the month.IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “December usually experiences rain but it’s only due to Western Disturbances. This time, we had around four Western Disturbances, but they were weak in the plains, even though these did cause rain and snow in the hilly areas of Northwestern India.”Rain likely from January 4The IMD director added that residents can expect rain at the start of 2022. A Western Disturbance is likely to hit the region on the night of January 4 and bring moderate rainfall in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. It is likely to continue up to January 6, while conditions for fog will start around the morning of January 8.The day temperature, which has also been on the higher side in recent days, is likely to fall when it starts raining. The minimum temperature, however, is likely to go up due to this. Maximum temperature went up from 20.9°C on Friday to 21.5°C on Saturday. Minimum temperature went up from 4.7°C on Friday to 5.1°C on Saturday. Maximum temperature will remain between 20 degrees and 21 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 5 degrees and 7 degrees.2021 was driest since 2016The annual rainfall tally of 2021 has gone up to 735.5 mm, making it the driest since 2016 when it had gone down to 568.3 mm as per IMD data. The normal annual rainfall of Chandigarh is 1,059.3 mm, making 2021 30.5% deficient in rain.Singh said, “There haven’t been any winter rains with 0 mm rain in December and 0.6 mm rain in November. Further the monsoon also didn’t see much rain this year and July and August, which are usually the wettest months of the year, received below average rainfall.”September was the wettest month of 2021 with 176.8 mm of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-0mm-rain-chandigarh-saw-driest-december-in-12-years-101641074822980.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Parents’ union member booked for garlanding DEO with slippers in Ludhiana||A day after a parents’ association member garlanded a secondary district education officer with slippers, the police booked the former for trespassing, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy, committing an obscene act in a public place and obstructing a public servant from discharging his duty on Saturday.The accused, Rajinder Kumar Ghai, had accused the district education officer (DEO), Lakhvir Singh Samra, of not taking action against a physical training teacher who allegedly molested a student, following which he garlanded Samra with slippers at his office on Friday. The DEO told the police that members of the parents’ association had met him on the pretext of honouring him and to get pictures clicked with him.Initially, Samra refused to accept any garland, but when the union members insisted, he agreed. “Ghai garlanded me with slippers while other members were garlanding me with flowers. It was only when I began removing the garland, did I notice the slippers strung to it,” he told the police, adding that Ghai had clicked pictures of him wearing the garland to blackmail him. Teachers’ associations protest Hundreds of members of different teachers’ unions protested outside the DC office, demanding immediate arrest of the accused and raised slogans in support of the DEO. A protester, principal Amandeep Singh, said the protest will not end until the accused was arrested. “He should be behind bars as he has not only disrespected an honest and respectable officer, but has also defamed the education department.”The protesters demanded a comprehensive probe into the matter, suspecting the involvement of a few senior officials. “It is a bigger conspiracy and needs to be exposed. We suspect a few senior officials in the department to be part of this power tussle”, said another principal.Notably, Ghai had earlier sent texts to a few journalists revealing his plans, following which the teachers’ unions requested the police to probe their role as well. Charan Singh Sarabha, veteran teacher’s union president, said the DEO could have only have transferred the teacher. “The DEO is not a police officer and cannot arrest the teacher. He, however, submitted a report with seniors and transferred the teacher immediately”, said Sarabha.Teachers’ unions are likely to stage a bigger protest on Monday in case police fail to arrest the accused. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union also supported the DEO. The caseA probe was launched against the PT teacher by deputy DEO, secondary, Charanjit Singh, on December 22, after Rajinder Ghai filed a complaint with the chief minister’s office.Ghai had claimed that since DEO did not take any action though 10 days had elapsed, and was trying to save the teacher. The teacher had been already transferred to a boy’s school by the DEO. The DEO, on realising the indignity meted out to him, had confronted Ghai and told him that an inquiry report had already been submitted to senior officials for action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parents-union-member-booked-for-garlanding-deo-with-slippers-in-ludhiana-101641074762907.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Paralysed man found abandoned outside Chandigarh hospital||A Mohali based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Serve Humanity Serve God Charitable Trust, rescued a paralysed man, who was found abandoned outside Government Medical and Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, Chandigarh. The man, identified as Ajit Singh and a resident of Delhi, was found maggot infested sores on the roadside.Social workers alleged that the elderly man, who was admitted at the emergency ward in GMSH, Sector 16, was thrown out from the hospital by healthcare staff and police.“The elderly man used to do sewa at Gurudwara Sri Nanaksar at Sector 28 of the city. Two weeks ago, the man suffered a paralysis attack and the gurudwara authorities informed Chandigarh police. Police then took the man to the emergency ward of GMSH-16, where he was getting treatment. I personally met the patient at the hospital,” said Swaranjeet Singh, chairman of the NGO.He added, “On Saturday, some healthcare staff of the hospital informed me that the man is lying on the roadside, outside the hospital, in a poor health condition. The man was thrown out of the hospital by hospital and police authorities. In the past two weeks, the man was thrown out twice by Chandigarh police and thrice by government hospital. As a result, the man was on the verge of dying. He even got bed sores.”The NGO members then took the patient to their health centre--‘Serve humanity Serve God Care Centre’ at Ratwara village of New Chandigarh, where they are already providing treatment to over 40 patients.“We will provide all healthcare facilities to the patient,” said Swaranjeet.GMSH-16 authorities refuted the allegations. Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “Healthcare staff can never deny treatment to people and there is no way that we will throw out a patient after admitting him to the hospital. We will inquire into the matter and if any hospital employee is found responsible, action will be taken against him or her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paralysed-man-found-abandoned-outside-chandigarh-hospital-101641074524765.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two JCPs transferred in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police department was rejigged on the first day of the year on Saturday. While J Elenchezian, who was holding the charge of joint commissioner of police (JCP, city and traffic) has been made senior superintendent of police (SSP) Khanna, Dayama Harish Omprakash, who was JCP (headquarters) has been made SSP, Kapurthala. It is expected that the department will soon post some senior officials to replace them.Thieves strike at bank, return empty handed
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Trial run carried out: Pakhowal Road RUB likely to open within the month||A trial run for one of the railway under bridges, which will link the Pakhowal road canal bridge with Sarabha Nagar, was carried out on Saturday. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who was present for the trial run, termed it as a “New Year’s gift” for the residents. Since the railway under bridge is still under construction, the minister said it will be opened to the public in around 20 days. While opening the RUB will certainly help tackle traffic snarls and decongest roads, an MC official, requesting anonymity, said it may take over a month more to complete the project as bitumen roads have to be constructed and few civil works are also pending. Light traffic, including cars and two wheelers, were allowed to move on the RUB for a few hours on Saturday. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra were also present during the trial run. The entry from Pakhowal road canal bridge towards Sarabha Nagar has been blocked due to ongoing construction work on the Pakhowal road ROB/RUB project and the residents have to take a detour through Model Town Extension and Malhar Road to enter Sarabha Nagar and vice-versa. Missed deadlines The Pakhowal road project has missed multiple deadlines and the civic body has been facing flak over the same. The project hold importance for Ashu with the assembly elections round the corner. Three bridges, including two under bridges and an over bridge, will be constructed on the Pakhowal Road Railway Crossing. The entire project will be completes within three to four months. Initiated, in December 2020 under the Smart City Mission, the authorities had set August 31 as the deadline for the ₹120 crore project, but the deadline was eventually extended to December 31, and then to March 2022. Due to closure of the stretch from Pakhowal Road Canal Bridge to Hero Bakery Chowk, shopkeepers have been ruing low footfall, due to which several of them have relocated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trial-run-carried-out-pakhowal-road-rub-likely-to-open-within-the-month-101641074043087.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana logs six-month high as 37 test positive||The district witnessed a spike in cases for the third consecutive day as 37 more people tested positive for the virus on Saturday – the highest in six months. It was last on June 25 that the city had seen 43 new Covid cases in a single day. While the district had reported 17 cases on Thursday, 18 cases were reported on Friday. Among those who tested positive was the family of a prominent businessman who owns a woollens’ mill. It is learnt that he and his wife, contracted the infection from their domestic help. The number of active cases has also crossed 100 for the first time after five months. It was last on July 21 that 104 active cases were reported in the district.The sudden surge in cases has triggered speculation regarding the spread of the Omicron variant. However, civil surgeon Dr SP Singh maintained that no case of the Omicron virus has been reported in the district so far. “We were expecting the cases to surge at some point of time as the virus has not gone anywhere, it is just that we are getting a protective shield in the shape of a vaccine,” said Singh, urging people to strictly follow all Covid norms and wear face masks. On the other hand, a departmental employee said that the number of cases could be much higher. “Earlier, we used to sample around 10,000 people each day, but only 2,000 to 3,000 samples are collected each day now. If the government starts vigorously sampling, the figures may be much higher,” said a doctor working at the civil surgeon’s office. Most of the patients have symptoms such as cough, fever and loss of smell and taste, and a few are also complaining about fatigue. Those who have tested positive include three health workers, 11 flu-corner patients and 11 OPD patients. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 87,845, of which 85,618 people have recovered so far. Now, the active cases stand at 110, of which 108 are under home isolation and two patients have been undergoing treatment at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-logs-six-month-high-as-37-test-positive-101641073862813.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana eateries gutted | 2 proprietors to file FIR against the third, PSPCL||Two businessmen, whose shops were also consumed by the rapidly spreading flames, have sought an FIR against the owner of the Vada Pav eatery, where the flames allegedly broke out, and the PSPCL. Both complainants’ had just opened their establishments – Bite Crackers had been inaugurated on Christmas, while Chai Sutta Bar had opened three months ago. They suspect that the fire broke out to due to the negligence of the owner of Datta Bhau Vada Pav, who may have left a device operational, causing the mishap. Chai Sutta Bar owner Riya said, “We had opened the eatery around three months ago, and have suffered a loss of around ₹12 lakh due to the blaze. All our electronic devices have also perished due to no fault of ours.” Saying that they will lodge an FIR on Sunday, Bite Crackers proprietor Gaurav Dhanda said, “We have learnt that a few appliances and electrical switches in the shop had been left open, which caused the mishap. Besides, the fire fighting operation was delayed as the PSPCL staff did not snap the power supply in time. We will lodge an FIR on Sunday, seeking compensation for the loss from whosoever is responsible.”Meanwhile, the owner of the vada pav eatery, Raman Verma, said that they were not in fault for the fire incident as a short circuit had taken place due to a short-circuit in the power supply lines in the corridor outside his shop. “The flames might have been doused in time and the shops would have been had the PSPCL snapped the power supply in time. The allegations are baseless. I too have also suffered loss in the lakhs.” Kochar Market police post in-charge Kulvir Singh said no complaint had been received so far.“One of the shopkeepers had said that the fire broke out due to a short circuit, “ he said.PSPCL executive engineer Rakesh Kumar said no one contacted him and neither had the staff has apprised him of any fire incident. “The department gets the power supply snapped by contacting the grid immediately after a fire incident is reported. There might have been some miscommunication on the part of shopkeepers. The PSPCL’s grid is situated near the DC office complex, a throw’s away from Feroze Gandhi market. The shopkeepers could have contacted the staff at the grid itself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-eateries-gutted-2-proprietors-to-file-fir-against-the-third-pspcl-101641073563153.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman duped of ₹30 lakh on pretext of investing in Bollywood movie||A resident of Sector 38 (West) alleged that she was duped by wrestler-turned-actor Sangram Singh and producer Vinay Bhardwaj of ₹30 lakh in the name of making a movie on cricket superstar Sachin Tendulkar. Acting on the complaint filed by Iram Khan, a resident of Sector 38(West), who has now shifted to Delhi, police registered a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at Maloya police station, after preliminary inquiry. The woman, in her complaint lodged with senior superintendent of police (SSP,) Kuldeep Singh Chahal, said that Sangram Singh Chaudhary and Vinay Bhardwaj allured her to invest in their upcoming movie titled ‘God of Cricket’. She alleged that she was assured that a famous Bollywood producer will assist them, after which she invested ₹30 lakh on July 20, 2019. Khan alleged that the accused neither released any film and nor returned her money. Khan had told the police that she had met the accused through one of her acquaintances in Delhi and later the deal was finalised in Chandigarh following which she made payment. It may be mentioned that the movie “God of Cricket” is a film celebrating cricketer Sachin Tendulkar’s fandom. Sangram Singh had starred in the movie which is co-produced by Vinay Bhardwaj. The inquiry of the complaint was marked by the SSP to superintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal about four months ago and the case was registered after the inquiry. “We would be summoning the accused soon for investigations,” said a senior police officer without willing to be named. Sangram Singh and Vinay Bhardwaj could not be immediately contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-duped-of-rs-30-lakh-on-pretext-of-investing-in-bollywood-movie-101641073202965.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest teachers protests: Teacher climbs water tank in Yamunanagar, goes live on Facebook||Ambala A teacher from Kurukshetra’s Ladwa, who is part of the ongoing guest teachers’ agitation in Yamunanagar, on Saturday climbed up a water tank as a mark of protest before threatening to jump. He was, however, brought down by his fellows and the administration after nearly three hours, the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagadhri Sushil Kumar said. No case had been registered against the teacher until the time of writing the report. The teacher, Rajkumar Kaliraman, scaled up the water tank installed at the office of the Public Health Engineering Department, saying that he was “unhappy with the state of agitation”. Fellow protestors had no knowledge about his plan, and rushed to the spot only after coming across his Facebook live stream. Speaking to reporters after being brought down, Kaliraman said, “I’m due to retire in September and the government will offer me nothing. We do equal work, then why not equal treatment and pay?”The union members said at least 11 women teachers will shave off their heads on Sunday, and protest against the police, if Rajkumar was to be arrested. Scores of teachers from different parts of the state have been protesting against the state government near the Agrasen Chowk on the National Highway 73A (Yamunanagar-Paonta Sahib) for the last week now. The teachers are demanding regular jobs, with a delegation also holding meetings with the department officials in Chandigarh earlier this week. Speaking on the issue, Radaur Congress MLA BL Saini said, “The teachers told me that almost five of their demands have been accepted and they are demanding that in writing. But they are reluctant to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-teachers-protests-teacher-climbs-water-tank-in-yamunanagar-goes-live-on-facebook-101641073142774.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Revised hostel mess rates: Panjab University panel to consider student demands||Chandigarh The Panjab University (PU) has constituted a panel to hear the student bodies’ demands for the rollback of revised rates of eatables in the campus hostels.The six-member panel has already held a meeting, wherein they decided to hold a dialogue between the students and mess/canteen contractors. A few panel members also engaged in a dialogue with students and contractors, but a final decision on the matter is yet to be taken by the varsity.PU had in December announced the revised rates of eatables in the university hostels for 2021-22 academic session on the representation of the contractors of mess and canteens. The decision however, drew criticism from the student bodies, who were quick to demand the pre-Covid rates be reinstated.A member of the panel, requesting anonymity, said, “The price hike was justified to student leaders who were invited for the dialogue. The panel has to also keep in mind the grievances of contractors as well.”According to students, the price for a regular meal for boys was around ₹35, which was increased to ₹40 during the lockdown, and later increased to ₹43.50 now. They added that the price of a regular meal in the mess has also been increased to ₹42 and the revised rate of the special meal, for both boys and girls, stood at ₹48.Another meeting of the panel is expected to be held, albeit after a round of discussion with students and contractors, before a final decision. A university official said the final call on the matter will be taken in the coming days.Box: Museums tour for children of migrant labourersPanjab University’s Centre for Social Work on Saturday organised an exposure visit for children of migrant labourers on the campus. As many as 10 children, nine girls and a boy, of age group between 6 to 14 years, toured departments of Zoology and Anthropology museums. “The purpose of the event was to give children a practical exposure about the preserved animals and importance of animal studies,” the varsity said.
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate meet: Members seek deferment as 14 elected candidates yet to be notified||Chandigarh With the elected candidates from two constituencies—the constituency of faculties and the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges—of the Panjab University (PU) senate yet to be notified, nine other senate members have sought the deferment of its forthcoming meeting and demanded that notifications be sent out.The senate members wrote to vice president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, the varsity’s chancellor, asking him to notify the fourteen elected candidates. They also asked the chancellor to direct the vice chancellor to defer the meeting as the senate is incomplete.The members, in their letter to the chancellor, highlighted that the candidates who are yet to be notified had been elected after thorough scrutiny in accordance with the given procedure for the conduct of PU senate polls and the electoral process was conducted by the university under the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court after meticulously following the due process of law.“This is for the first time in the history of PU that notification of the senate was issued in two parts. It is even surprising that the university has scheduled the senate meeting on January 8, 2022 when the complete senate has not been constituted as per the Act, which would amount to violation of the PU Act,” the letter read.The elected candidates who are yet to be notified from the constituency of faculties are from the Goyal group and are former senate members. “We appeal to you to get the notification issued of the fourteen elected candidates issued immediately so as to uphold the democratic principles enshrined in the PU act and also direct the vice chancellor to defer the meeting of the incomplete senate till the full senate is constituted,” the members further wrote. PU senate, the varsity’s apex governing body, is scheduled to meet on January 8, with 11 items on its agenda for consideration. This will be the first meeting of the PU senate in two years.The senate election was held in 2021 following a year’s delay. So far, 71 members, including 36 nominated by the chancellor, have been notified.
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors: Seeds Deep Munim and Pushti Laddha progress||Chandigarh Top seed Deep Munim on Saturday breezed past Parag Jain 6-1, 6-0 in the boys’ singles first round qualification match at the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors Grade tournament, being played at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) Stadium, Sector 10. In the other boys’ singles qualification round results, Yashvardhan Gaur defeated Tarun Sharma in straight sets 6-3, 6-3. Sixth seed Akarsh Gaonkar, Arnava Majumdar and Hitesh Chauhan were among the others to book their spots in the next round. Second seed Pushti Laddha, meanwhile, was made to fight hard in her opening round girls’ singles qualification match. She was a 6-3, 3-6 [11-9] winner over Soha Singh. Harleen Kaur Dhanda scored the upset of the day, ousting sixth seed Gouri Mangaonkar 7-6(6), 6-2. In other results, Suryanshi Tanwar, Samaira Malik, Harnoor Sidhu, Sohani Gaur and Diva Bhatia also progressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-world-tennis-tour-juniors-seeds-deep-munim-and-pushti-laddha-progress-101641072842825.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula mishap: Two killed, one critically injured as crane rams into motorcycle||Two men were killed while one was left critically injured after a speeding crane hit their motorcycle near the Sector 6/7 lightpoint in Panchkula on Friday. Complainant Anil Kumar, a resident of Manimajra, told the police that he works as a manager in one of the showrooms in Sector 11. Around 9pm, three of his salesmen – Chandicharan, 34, of Sector 25, Panchkula, Durga Parsad, 21, of Sector 4, and Jitender, 31, of Haripur village in Sector 4 –left on a motorcycle after closing the showroom. Kumar left in his car.The complainant said that around 10:20pm as they stopped at the lightpoint of Sector 6 and 7, a crane came at a high speed and hit the motorcycle, following which the three salesmen fell on the road.The crane driver sped away after the incident.The mishap victims were taken to the civil hospital in Panchkula, where doctors declared Chandicharan and Durga Parsad dead while Jitender was referred to PGIMER. A case under Section 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by rash or negligent driving) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-mishap-two-killed-one-critically-injured-as-crane-rams-into-motorcycle-101641072782814.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Charred beginning to New Year for 3 Ludhiana eateries||New Year celebrations turned sour for three eatery owners in Feroze Gandhi market after a fire broke out at their outlets around 2am on Saturday. The owners said the blaze started at one of the outlets due a short circuit and quickly spread to adjoining shops. The toughened glass partition, which separated the eateries – Datta Bhau Vada Pav, Chai Sutta Bar and Bite Crackers – also shattered after two gas cylinders exploded. Fortunately, the eateries were closed at the time of the incident and no casualties were reported. The flames caused revellers who were out and about at the time to panic. The scope for tragedy was large, but luckily the eatery owners were able to safely remove five gas cylinders from the outlets, and the fire did not gut the IELTS institutions above the eateries.The alarm was raised by an auto-rickshaw driver, who was crossing the area, and spotted smoke emanating from the outlets. “The power supply was not immediately snapped, which made the cylinders burst and the fire spread to other units,” he said. Sub-fire officer, Maninder Singh, said, “Soon after receiving the alert, three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The flames were doused around an hour after the power supply was snapped.” PSPCL to blame: Shopkeepers Accusing Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials of not acting on their feet, the shopkeepers say had the power supply been disconnected at the right time, the fire would not have spread to other shops. Vada Pav eatery owner Raman Verma says the fire broke out due to a short-circuit outside the shops, and the fire fighting was delayed for around an hour because the PSPCL employees failed to snap the power supply, despite repeated requests. “The flames might have been doused outside my shop, and would not have spread to other shops, if only the power supply had been have snapped in time, “ he said. PSPCL executive engineer Rakesh Kumar said no one contacted him and neither had the staff has apprised him of any such incident. “The department gets the power supply snapped by contacting the grid immediately after a fire incident is reported. There might have been some miscommunication on the part of shopkeepers. The PSPCL’s grid is situated near the DC office complex, a throw’s away from Feroze Gandhi market. The shopkeepers could have contacted the staff at the grid itself,” he said. Market association seeks fire lane Citing a 2019 high court order, Feroze Gandhi Market Association chairperson Col Harjap Singh (retd) demanded that a fire lane be established in the market. He also asked that the civic body decongest the parking lots in the market, by introducing hourly parking. “The MC has failed to take any steps to ensure the safety of residents,it would have been very difficult to douse the flames reported the day,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charred-beginning-to-new-year-for-3-ludhiana-eateries-101641072423245.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Nargis, barf mein umeed ki kali||On a stormy day, hope flickers like a diya (wicker lamp) braving buffeting winds; on a moonless night, it is the ‘jugnoo’ (firefly) who lends a glimmer of hope to the lost soul; in the tyrannical winters that beset alpine cottages of the Himalayas, come spring and it is sunny Nargis (daffodils) and their desperate fragrance that augurs relief from snow, weary-grey clouds and odours peculiar to layers of prickly, warm robes.As mysterious nature would have it, in the quaint apple hamlet of Bahu nestling in the Banjar valley of Kullu, the nargis bloomed early this December, much before their time. The white-yellow nargis sprang up in the chill, looking resplendent in the garden and apple orchard of Deepak Atheist. They were a welcome surprise, along with a few roses, mustard blooms and wild flowers, till the first of snow flakes gently kissed the plucky petals.Realising the blooms would soon be interred by tons of the white shroud, Deepak lopped the precious Nargis stems and placed them in two rooms of his cottage. They lasted weeks. Their scent, like intoxicating whiffs of Paris’ Chanel No 5, suffused the family’s living spaces with a fragrance of hope, from the siege of snows just a glance from the windows. Yearning for the sun’s smile this December, amid nagging clouds and hardening snow, the colours of early-up nargis penned a floral simile to warm, golden rays falling upon the white dread.The nargis enjoys cultural and religious resonance in the lives of the intensely superstitious pahadis. “In our apple orchards, when trees grow tall, we cannot grow wheat because of cold shadows. So, we plant nargis in orchards and it grows effortlessly. Nature is the gardener who selflessly tends to her modest needs. During our spring festival of Himachal Pradesh, nargis blooms are offered at temples and men sport nargis stems on their Kullu topees,” Deepak told this writer. The festival of Fagli is held in Paldi valley after Lohri. Masked men dance for four days sporting nargis stems. The priest finally throws a nargis bunch into crowds and in whose lap it falls, is deemed to have been supremely blessed. However, festivities were marred in 2019 when the bloom bunch fell into the lap of a Dalit youth, Lalchand, and his elation quickly turned to gloom. That bunch’s fall doomed Lalchand and his five friends as they were nearly lynched by so-called upper castes for having “polluted” ritual sanctity. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-nargis-barf-mein-umeed-ki-kali-101641071705402.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | As memories linger, the nostalgia remains||Growing up as we did in the 60s and 70s, we did not have many amenities as available today, and yet our childhood was joyful and fun-filled. Of course, fun for us had an altogether different connotation – a candy, chocolate, orange bar, or a bottle of Coca-Cola were a big indulgence. There were no video games or expensive toys to entertain ourselves with, and we relied on simple games and the kids in the neighbourhood. With the internet, computers and mobiles things of the future, we had real interactions as opposed to virtual ones. We would wait for the holidays to visit our maternal grandparents’ home, our one-stop vacation, each summer vacation. An occasional film outing was enough to send us on cloud nine.Growing in a middle class family with two-three siblings , in a period of scarcity, we learnt to find joy in the small pleasures of life. Not only did we take pleasure in small things, but also learnt to enjoy the wait. There was no instant gratification, we had to wait for almost everything, small or big, and thus cherished the item when we finally got it. We had to wait for our birthday or a special occasion to get a new dress. A wristwatch may not be on the wish list of the children today, but I was on the top of the world when I finally got an HMT watch, in the eighth standard as reward for topping the class.There were no refrigerators or televisions in our homes, gadgets which are now believed as necessities. There was an anticipation and thrill, wait and excitement, and a celebration as each new device was added to our households. The acquisition of a thing as small as a transistor or a record player was a source of great joy for us. We would save money to buy records of our favourite movies. These days everyone carries a mobile, but back then there was a long wait of years for getting a fixed-line connection. Prior booking, at times running into years, was required to buy a scooter. I can’t forget how thrilled we were when ‘Hamara Bajaj’ arrived loaded as my father was yet to learn how to drive it!The new generation of kids are usually over pampered, most are fussy about food, and their whims are met more often than not. When they don’t feel like eating home-cooked food, Zomato, Swiggy are there to deliver their choicest food at the doorstep. However, we had to eat whatever was cooked, without any tantrums. Pizza, burger, and noodles were unheard of, and hot samosas and jalebis were a big treat. Home deliveries are a recent phenomenon, but back then there was no culture of dining out either. In fact, there was hardly any posh restaurant in my city till early 70s. I must have been in my teens when I had the first experience of eating at a three-star hotel. I remember feeling ill-at-ease with its ambience. Naively, I drank the water in the finger bowl. Well! We grew up in frugal times, yet we cherish our childhood for there was something magical about this joyful, carefree period of innocence. The 60s and 70s may be a distant past but we have treasure trove of childhood memories. As memories linger, the nostalgia remains.rama_1177@yahoo.co.inThe writer retired as an associate professor from MCM DAV College, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-as-memories-linger-the-nostalgia-remains-101641071402450.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Random Forays | The true significance of the 1983 victory||Those were very different times in India. Simplicity, quite simply, adorned people’s expressions. Success was rare. But we had our heroes. Somehow, there aren’t as many around these days.Kapil Dev’s men pulled off a well nigh unimaginable victory in the 1983 cricket world cup, against all predictions, all odds, all logic. Our dibbly-dobbly seam attack and a motely group of batsmen, some doughty, others spunky, achieved the impossible with a brand of cricket that, in hindsight, actually suited the conditions more aptly than any other team’s at the time. But who knew? Kabir Khan’s much awaited film, 83,which is centred on that momentous milestone in India’s sporting history has brought out our goose pimples and moistened our eyelids, even though four decades have elapsed. With style, verve, poise, an eye for detail, an emotional connect and an inspired narrative, the film wins our hearts. 83 is adroitly able to bring out the shyness, the camaraderie, the defiant spirit, the gradually enveloping sense of “we might actually be able to do it” that team India exemplified under the captaincy of the magnificent Kapil Dev in that world cup. Ranveer Singh’s portrayal of Kapil leaves us in awe of the aura of the champion all rounder, all over again. For us, the man on screen is not Ranveer, but the great cricketer himself. Kapil’s grit and gusto, his flamboyant style of batting, his energetic run up, his diction and his mannerisms are all on display on screen through an actor who was born two years after 1983. His astonishing, blistering,boisterous and world-record shattering innings of 175 not out against Zimbabwe has been showcased for us, as if for the first time, even though in enactment. The BBC’s strike on that unforgettable day, and the cricket world’s inability to watch even a single ball, is the stuff of legends as well.Kabir Khan has even managed to replicate most of the original scenes from the ‘83 world cup that we,watched on re-runs over the decades. Each memorable stroke that the cavalier Kris Srikkanth, the courageous Mohinder Amarnath, the swashbuckling Sandeep Patil, or the redoubtable Yashpal Sharma played during the cup has been filmed with almost exactly the same technique and manner as the originals. Kapil’s running catch at mid-wicket to dismiss the world’s greatest batsman off Madan Lal, Balwinder Sandhu’s astounding in-swinger which bamboozled the formidable Gordon Greenidge, Roger Binny’s impressive swingers and Amarnath’s slowish seam up bowling, have all been brought out with impressive authenticity. Sunil Gavaskar’s brooding (but ultimately joyful) expressions and DilipVengsarkar’s anguish after being struck by a Malcom Marshall bouncer, too, have been very adeptly portrayed.Deepika Padukone as Romi Dev is perhaps the only one who appears more like her own self than the character she portrays, but she too does her best to merge herself with her role. The stand out acting performance comes from Pankaj Tripathi as PR Man Singh. He is under the skin, under the breath, and seamlessly seeped in the persona of Singh. He acts brilliantly, compellingly, and with telling effect.Yet, more significantly, this remarkable film is merely a reminder of the unquestionable ground level impact of that 1983 victory, which came as a manna from heaven. India was by no means an all-conquering nation. We were forever the global ‘sideys’ despite our immense population. And though India reformed its economy from 1991 onwards, and the IT era later fashioned remarkable successes for Indian companies, it was from the 1980s that we slowly started imbibing confidence and standing up to the world as a people. Kapil Dev’s team actually transformed the narrative for the youth of that generation. We too began to believe, as Kapil did, that we could beat the best. We too began aspiring, as a then school-going Sachin Tendulkar did, to scale impossible heights.And even more tellingly, young India, in its villages, along its borders,in the hinterland, across its length and breadth, identified with that achievement in 1983, as being his or her own breakthrough moment. A never-say-die moment to remember for all times to come. That, then, was and is, the true meaning of the 1983 win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-true-significance-of-the-1983-victory-101641070863407.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 70 new Covid cases, highest daily count since June||Just a day after reporting 49 Covid cases, Chandigarh logged 70 more infections on Saturday, an overnight jump of 42.8%. This is the highest single-day case count recorded in the city since June. With Mohali reporting 29 cases and Panchkula adding 26 cases, the tricity’s single-day count stood at 125 on the day. The only silver lining was that there were no deaths on the day. Active case count at six-month highThe active cases too shot up to 457, the highest the tricity has seen since June when it was in the midst of the second wave. At present, there are 236 people are actively infected in Chandigarh, followed by 114 in Mohali and 107 in Panchkula.The positivity rates in the three jurisdictions also stood above 1%. On Saturday, the positivity rate in Chandigarh was as high as 4.75%, followed by 2.41% in Mohali and 1.63% in Panchkula.Experts say the spurt in infections is a clear indication of the beginning of third wave. Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “Covid cases are rising sharply in Chandigarh, which is an indication of the third wave. This is a result of crowded gatherings that took place during election campaigns, marriage events and year-end festivities. People must follow basic rules like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and getting vaccinated against the disease as it will help control transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-reports-70-new-covid-cases-highest-daily-count-since-june-101641070565032.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Things to leave behind and those to take along to 2022||How does one send off a year and welcome another in times such as these? Of course, there is no way of doing it but with hope. One such message has been brought to by an artiste of the city, Kumar Varma, whose plays one grew up seeing from our college days when we learned to go to auditoriums in Chandigarh to watch the drama of life as audience. Posting a picture of German actor, Helene Weigel, the famous matriarch of Bertolt Brecht’s plays in a scene from Mother Courage, online, which was the lifeline in secluded times, he quotes the playwright:‘The New Year’s come.The watchmen shout.The thaw sets in. The dead remain.Wherever life has not died out It staggers to its feet again’(Bertolt Brecht in ‘Mother Courage And Her Children’)No, Varma is not running an online theatre class all the way from Thrisur in Kerala, his home state, where he is settled after teaching a lifetime in the department of Indian theatre at the Panjab University. It is his way of wishing people, crushed by calamities, both natural and man-made, a happy and peaceful entry into the New Year. Who can tell this better than Mother Courage! This play by Brecht, although set in the 17th Century of the 30-year war, was directly aimed at decrying fascism. The courage of the mother notwithstanding, she sells her wares to soldiers and loses her three children to death. Even as she grieves she has no choice but to move on with her cart. Such is the way of an artiste playing with contradictions and yet suggest a path where all is not lost.‘Words are not mere words’It was city poet Kumar Vikal who had said, words are not mere words, there are people behind them, people in clothes of varied hues. In The Blind Matriarch, Namita Gokhale’s novel that came out in 2021, Ritika and Satish, who live in a joint family, became a pointer to the two years of pandemic, ranging from the political to the personal. Written in the breezy style, which was also seen in her debut novel Paro, she was able to bring alive the crisis of the trying times: “Ritika’s smile drooped as she made her way to the kitchen. Their maid, Irina, who lived in the slum cluster nearby usually stayed on to do the dishes, but there was a no-show today. “Kaf and Fiver,” she had reported in the WhatsApp message. Ritika had correctly decrypted her message. “Cough and fever”. Irina was twelfth-pass and proficient in Hindi; it was her ambition to be fluent in English as well”.The Blind Matriarch, thus, becomes a symbol of a system that refused to open its eyes. Commenting on it poet and critic K Satchidanandan says: “A multi-layered narrative woven around an extended family into an allegory of our existence as a nation with its vulnerabilities, its hierarchies… and special modes of surviving crises”. However, it is the title of her earlier novel, Things To Leave Behind, that demonstrates the struggle and sorrow of what often seems the hapless masquerade, besides the burden of sheer existence with the economy in doldrums. One treasures the spirit of the many in rising above the situation. We take with us the sacrifices of many front-liners, the generosity of others who shared the little they had, the health workers who met their end saving others, the activists who bravely performed last rights of those who had no one, those who tried somehow to bring food to stranded labourers, children with glasses on their noses taking online classes as they think of lost playgrounds and friends… as symbols of faith not lost. And lest we forget, thoughts turn back to the determined girl cycling hundreds of miles to take her ailing labourer father to safety and those too who perished on the way and or farmers who died protesting in the cold climes for their rights and those who lived to see things change.The return of a love poemAs the second year of the decade is born one shares a few lines of a poem Even Bricks Need Love by Nabina Das, who edited a beautiful and exhaustive volume of Witness: The Red River Book of Poetry Of Dissent through the pandemic but stopped writing poetry nearly completely, except a short sequence and then pined for recovery since this year began:One whole year of lovelessnessOne dream I had last night is of youA curtain flying in the wind, it’s a sea sideI taste salt from your roots and you too slakeYour thirst with the aroma I shed from my crevicesWe talk food we didn’t eat and love over heatFrom our mouths. Outside, the city still waits like a hunter’s trapnirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-things-to-leave-behind-and-those-to-take-along-to-2022-101641070203542.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||CoBRA commando hailing from Sangrur killed in encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma||Constable Varinder Singh, 25, a commando of the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, hailing from Lehragaga of Sangrur, was killed in an encounter with Maoists in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Friday.Sagar Singh, the father of Varinder Singh, said his son was recruited in the CRPF in 2017 and after training in Odisha, he went to Madhya Pradesh. “He was currently on duty with a team of the 208th CoBRA unit. Varinder last visited us near Diwali. He was killed in an encounter in the forests. He wanted to join the Army. He fought bravely even after receiving bullet injuries. I am proud of my son,” he said.It is learnt that his body will reach Lehragaga on Sunday where he will be cremated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cobra-commando-hailing-from-sangrur-killed-in-encounter-with-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-101641069123584.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||No decision yet on BJP’s CM face in Punjab: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||The BJP seems to be dragging its feet on the announcement of the Dalit chief minister face for Punjab. BJP poll campaign in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat underlined that no decision has been taken yet on the party’s chief ministerial face for the polls. Shekhawat was accompanied by state general secretary Subhash Sharma in Jalandhar on Saturday. While addressing a press conference, when asked that BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh had made the announcement of a Dalit CM face in April, he said he feels that was his (Chugh) personal views as no person was authorised in the party to give such statements.“In the BJP, our parliamentary board decides upon the chief minister. Let the parliamentary board sit and decide the matter,” added Shekhawat. On the 100 days of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s government in Punjab, Shekhawat claimed that it was full of empty promises. When asked about the Dalit CM face last week, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma, too, said that the sentiments of an individual do not reflect the party’s stand. A final call over such a vital decision had to be taken by the parliamentary board of the party. “The opposition parties will be decimated in the upcoming assembly elections and history will be created by the BJP by forming the government,” he said. Shekhawat claimed that the BJP will form the next government in the state and revive the economy of Punjab. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would address a historic rally in Ferozepur on January 5 as there was huge enthusiasm among people. “The Prime Minister has a special bond with Punjab and will definitely work out a roadmap to rejuvenate the economy of the state,” he said. 
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Start India, Pakistan trade by opening Khemkaran-Kasur rail link: Adesh Partap Kairon to PM||Former food and civil supplies minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to visit Punjab on January 5, to open trade between India and Pakistan by using the Khemkaran-Kasur rail link, which has been lying closed since the Partition.“Instead of giving lollipops and freebies, there is a need to bring better economic policies to increase the income-generating resources of Punjab. There is no need to acquire any land or lay any rail line. An integrated check post should be established at the Khemkaran border to open trade between both the countries, which will not only increase the income of the farmers of Punjab but also provide better employment opportunities, especially to the people living in border areas,” Kairon said while addressing a press conference at his native village.He said, “The PM is coming to Punjab and I demand from him to pay special attention towards strengthening the commerce and industry sector of Punjab. Today, no big companies are ready to open their business in the state owing to its proximity to the international border. Many political parties have been talking about providing freebies to the people of Punjab, but the state needs a long-term solution. We need Himachal and Haryana-like industrial policies. The Central government should support Punjab to bring agricultural industries here.”“I am not against the freebies, but there should be proper policies to sustain these freebies from the state’s exchequer. Delhi CM Arwind Kejriwal has announced ₹1,000 to every woman in Punjab, but there is no clarity on where the amount will come. The state is already facing fiscal crises,” he said.He asked the PM to ensure the early completion of his brain-child project—the Patti-Makhu rail link, which connects the Majha and Malwa regions of the state. The project has been hanging fire for the last eight years. Farmers stand to benefit from the link as they could send vegetables and fruit to markets in Mumbai and Gujarat much faster. The distance between Amritsar and Mumbai will be reduced by 240 km, as the project will also link Punjab with the trade capitals of Gujarat and Maharashtra.Demanding the PM’s focus towards the border farmers, who have not received their compensation for the last four years, Kairon said, “The farmers of around 220 border villages of Punjab have not been getting their compensation due to the poor implementation of the policy. The PM should directly intervene and ensure the release of the compensation. These farmers have also been facing problems for many years in getting compensation for the land acquired by the Border Security Force (BSF) along both sides of the barbed-wire fence for patrolling. The PM should direct the officials concerned to fix the acquired land’s rate, besides releasing the compensation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/start-india-pakistan-trade-by-opening-khemkaran-kasur-rail-link-adesh-partap-kairon-to-pm-101641069065629.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Charanjit Channi weakest chief minister of Punjab: Harpal Cheema||Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Saturday said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is coming around to accept the ground reality of his “hollow announcements”. In a statement issued here, Cheema said on Saturday that Channi himself exposed the reality of his cabinet’s announcement to regularise 36,000 temporary employees in the state. “Today, the CM had to publicly tell the truth that 36,000 employees weren’t regularised. Whereas, we (Aam Aadmi Party) are saying this since day one that no employees are being regularised,” said Cheema, claiming that AAP state president Bhagwant Mann had challenged the Channi government to give names of any 36 employees that have been made permanent after the announcement. Terming Channi as the weakest chief minister of Punjab, Cheema said judging Channi’s “non-serious” attitude, all government officials are out of their control and due to their civil war, leaders and ministers seem to be uncontrollable. Cheema said if the chief minister had completed the process of filing for regularisation with seriousness, there wouldn’t have been any solid reason on the part of the governor to not clear that file. He said Channi is giving a statement that the governor is not signing the file, and if he didn’t then Channi with his entire cabinet would stage a dharna in front of Punjab Raj Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charanjit-channi-weakest-chief-minister-of-punjab-harpal-cheema-101641069063639.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 killed, 3 injured in road accident on Barnala-Moga road||Two men were killed and three others sustained injuries after a Bolero car allegedly collided with a Tata Ace on the Barnala-Moga road near Cheema village on Friday late evening. The police booked the driver of Bolero for negligence on Saturday.The deceased were identified as Fagan Khan (55) of Cheema, who was travelling in the Ace, and Hargopal (63) of Barnala, who was a co-passenger in the car.The injured Kalu Ram and Ranjit Singh were referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. Besides, Sukhwinder Singh was undergoing treatment at the civil hospital, Barnala.Gurwinder Singh, a resident of Cheema, said four men were returning from Mansa to Cheema when a car hit them from the wrong side. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital, Barnala, where Khan succumbed to his injuries.ASI Satnam Singh of the Barnala Sadar Police Station said two men were killed in the accident and the police booked Pargat Singh of Pharwahi under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and other Sections of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-killed-3-injured-in-road-accident-on-barnala-moga-road-101641069061951.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Corrupt leaders being pressured through Central agencies like ED to join BJP: Navjot Singh Sidhu||After three Congress MLAs have joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recent past and rumours are rife that few others are joining the saffron party in the coming days, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president, Navjot Singh Sidhu alleged that corrupt leaders are being pressured to join the saffron party by using pressure tactics through Union government agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The leaders are being given only two choices to either join BJP or be thrown behind the bars. Sidhu was in the district to participate in the Congress election rally in the Sahnewal area on Saturday.He claimed that even leaders who have committed marginal corruption in the past are being pressured and there are many who have been running mafia in the state.“The BJP was nowhere seen in the state in the last five years and now the party is forcing leaders to join them by pressuring them through the ED and other Central government agencies. Earlier also, there were 78 MLAs of Congress but the CM was of the BJP and he was working under the influence of the BJP and the ED,” said Sidhu. He also flayed Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claiming that Kejriwal never came to Punjab in the last five years and now he was making false promises to form liquor corporation and generate employment, even as he has failed to perform in Delhi. Also, Delhi was the first state to notify three contentious farm laws.Speaking on the rift between Congress leaders over party tickets, Sidhu stated that there was a rift in every party but the party will choose honest candidates on merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corrupt-leaders-being-pressured-through-central-agencies-like-ed-to-join-bjp-navjot-singh-sidhu-101641069002653.html
02-01-2022||Other||Gurugram residents call police control room for New Year wishes||The police control room (PCR) of the district police received over 160 calls around Friday midnight, but most of the calls were to greet the policemen on New Year. Police said that this is perhaps the first time that there were hardly any complaints about drunken brawls, loud music and late night parties. According to operators at the PCR, even young children greeted them and conveyed wishes for their family members. One of the operators said that the callers simply wanted to greet them and asked to transfer calls to the PCR vehicles deployed for night patrolling. Police officials said that they received only 20 complaints about late night parties even after restrictions and three complaints about loud music. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that 4,000 policemen were deployed on the streets on December 31 to maintain law and order situation. “Most of the parties and events were cancelled, and the night curfew imposed in the wake of rising Covid cases was implemented strictly. Our teams worked all night to ensure people did not organise large gatherings and were home post 11pm,” he said. Rao said the control room phone started ringing from 11.55pm and people wished the force for their good work. “People were expressing their concerns for police teams and wanted to send tea and coffee for the personnel at a few locations,” he said. According to the officials, most people celebrated the New Year’s eve at their homes, and crackers were also not allowed. 
02-01-2022||Other||Cinema halls, entertainment parks closed in Gurugram, 4 other districts as Covid cases rise||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Haryana government on Saturday ordered the closure of cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, and entertainment parks in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat districts till January 12. According to an order issued by Haryana chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, the restrictions have been imposed in these five districts since they have the highest daily infection rate. The five districts have the caseload accounting for 88% of the total active cases in the state, according to the state health bulletin. The malls and markets are allowed to open up to 5pm, while bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% capacity. The restrictions also include closure of sports complexes, stadia, and public swimming pools. All business-to-business exhibitions have also been prohibited, said the order. Government and private offices except for emergency or essential services have been advised to function with 50% attendance, said the order that comes into effect from Sunday. For the remaining 17 districts, gatherings of more than 100 persons will be allowed only with the prior permission of the respective deputy commissioners. Cinema halls in malls as well as stand alone, restaurants, bars including in hotels and in malls, gyms, spas and club houses, restaurants, bars of the golf courses have been allowed to open with 50% seating capacity with adherence to Covid-19 protocols and regular sanitization of the premises. Swimming pools in the 17 districts will be allowed to open after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitization and Covid appropriate behaviour, the order said. All swimmers, practitioners and staff should get vaccinated with both doses. Sports Complexes, stadia are also permitted to open for sports activities including for outdoor sports activities except contact sports. Sports authorities shall ensure adherence to requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitization of the premises and Covid-19 appropriate behavioural norms. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Saturday reported 298 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the past seven months, according to the data shared by district health department. With this, the number of active cases now stands at 1,149, of which 1,140 patients are in home isolation while nine are getting treatment at various hospitals, health officials said.Gurugram on Saturday reported only one case of Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the tally to 34 in the district. Of 34 Omicron cases, six are active while the remaining patients have recovered, the officials said.It was May 23 (328 cases) last year when Gurugram had reported more Covid cases than Saturday’s. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said steps are being taken to identify local spreads and set up micro containment zones. “Currently, we are testing around 6,000 samples daily. But the testing will be ramped up further to identify the cases and take steps to curb the spread of infection,” said Yadav. On Saturday, the directions issued by the state government to allow entry to only fully vaccinated persons at public places also kicked in and several malls were seen enforcing the ban. A spokesperson of the district administration said they have issued directions to all the public and private establishments to strictly follow the vaccination rule for entry. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “All steps are being taken to boost health care facilities such as beds, oxygen supplies and related infrastructure to manage the rising Covid-19 cases,” he said.On Saturday, the health department collected 5,962 samples for testing, which took the total testing numbers to 2,304,149. The health department also said that 10,265 persons were vaccinated at 88 vaccination sites. 
02-01-2022||Noida||Road rage case in Noida: Group of men chase victim’s car, throw alcohol bottles||In a road rage incident, five to six men in a car chased a four of a family travelling in a luxury SUV for nearly three kilometres and pelted beer bottles at them in Noida on the New Year’s Eve i.e, around 9.10pm on December 31, 2021.Shonak Sharma,35, an advocate practising in the Delhi high court and a resident of Noida Sector 51, has filed a complaint at the Sector 49 police station regarding this. Sharma, his wife and two sons (aged 10 and 4) were travelling in an Audi Q7, and his parents (70 and 75) were travelling in another car on Friday to attend a dinner programme at a friend’s house in Noida Sector 26 on New Year’s Eve. “I was following my parents’ car near the Sector 52 metro station, when five to six men in a white Hyundai Verna car were driving the car from the wrong side. When my parents questioned them about driving on the wrong side, the suspects abused them. When we intervened, the suspects also used expletives on us,” Sharma said, adding that they decided not to engage with them and drove away.“My parents had safely navigated. However, the suspects started chasing our car near Hoshiarpur T-Point. We took a right turn towards Sector 35-52 and started to drive a little faster,” he said, adding that the suspects tried to overtake and stop them on the way. “When they failed, they threw at least eight to 10 beer bottles at us from the sunroof of their car. One of the bottles hit our car’s rear glass, which got damaged. The glass particles came inside the vehicle... my children had a narrow escape. The suspects followed us till Iskcon Temple in Noida Sector 33 and then drove away,” he said.The family somehow reached the friend’s place and informed the local resident welfare association (RWA) and the police.The incident took place between 9.10pm and 9.45pm, said Sharma, adding that he did not find any PCR or police vehicle on the way. He said that his children are still in shock. Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the Sector 49 police has been directed to investigate the matter and scan CCTV footage along the route to identify and arrest the suspects at the earliest. Vinod Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station, said that the victim could not note the registration number of the suspects’ car. “We have received a complaint on behalf of Sharma from the Sector 51 RWA on WhatsApp. There is no specific section for road rage incidents... A case will be registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 427 (mischief) and 279 (rash driving) at the Sector 49 police station. “We have not found the car in the CCTV camera footage till Saturday evening,” he said.Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary of Sector 51 RWA, said this was a serious matter. “We have informed the police and also called a residents’ meeting to discuss the issue on Sunday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/road-rage-case-in-noida-group-of-men-chase-victim-s-car-throw-alcohol-bottles-101641066241793.html
02-01-2022||Noida||58 standby centres as coronavirus cases grow, 81 fresh infections in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad health department has put 58 private and government healthcare facilities on standby as the district has been witnessing a rise in the number of Covid cases, with 81 fresh infections reported on Saturday -- the first day of this year.According to official figures, the district witnessed more than 81 cases the last time on May 30, 2021, when 91 fresh cases were reported. Officials said the 81 fresh cases have primarily been reported from trans-Hindon localities like Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Vasundhara, Vaishali and Raj Nagar among others. An MLA (details not shared) and 11 of his family members were among the fresh cases reported on Saturday. With the sudden increase in the number of Covid cases, the sample positivity rate jumped from 0.62% (out of 5,369 samples tested) on Friday to 1.62% (out of 4,984 samples tested) on Saturday.The spike in the sample positivity rate indicates that the cases have risen even if the testing has not been increased. Sample positivity rate is the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples. Sometimes, patients would give more than one test for confirmation, and so the total positive samples could be higher than total positive cases. The overall sample positivity since the start of the pandemic (in March 2020) stands at 2.4%. “There is a sudden rise in the number of Covid and 81 infections were reported till the midnight of December 31, 2021. Majority of the patients are asymptomatic and also include one MLA and 11 of his family members. These cases have come in mostly from trans-Hindon localities where people often move to neighbouring cities for work,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer.“As a result of the sudden spike, we have put on standby 58 healthcare facilities, which include government and private hospitals. This has been done for patients in areas requiring immediate medical intervention, and the people could be shifted to nearby facilities immediately in such cases,” according to Tyagi. The officials said that the majority of patients are asymptomatic, and they become difficult to trace. “That is why they often come in contact with other people and pass on the infection. In order to find out more suspected cases, we have also asked hospitals to conduct tests for OPD patients if they show symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) or that of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI),” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The symptoms of ILI and SARI include fever, cough, loss of appetite, body aches among others, which are generally found in Covid patients, too. According to the officials, the 58 hospitals have a total of 3,459 Covid beds, which include 796 ICU beds, 228 ventilator beds and 105 equipped with oxygen concentrators. The officials said that if the cases continue to rise further, they would scale up the number of beds to nearly 6,000, so that there is no shortage of beds in case patients need admission. “The rise in cases indicates that it is the start of another Covid wave and it is time that testing should increase in order to find out more cases so that they can be identified and treated at the earliest. It is high time that enforcement should increase against people not wearing masks or following Covid protocols properly,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). As of now, official records till Saturday (January 1) morning indicate that the district has had 55,919 cases since the start of the pandemic in 2020, and the active cases stand at 192.
02-01-2022||Other||Channi outlines initiatives of his 1st 100 days as Punjab CM||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday outlined major pro-people initiatives taken by his government over the past 100 days, listing the setting up of several chairs in the names of Bhagwan Valmiki; Guru Ravidass; Bhagat Kabir; Bhagwan Parshuram; Bhai Jaita (Baba Jiwan Singh); Dr BR Ambdekar and devout Sikh Bhai Makhan Shah Lubaana. He also listed the setting up of an exclusive research centre on the three epics of the Ramayana, the Mahabharat and the Srimad Bhagavad Geeta.Replying to a query on establishing another chair in the name of the martyr Shaheed Udham Singh, Channi said he would get the proposal examined. Defended his government against the oft-repeated allegations of failing to deliver justice in sacrilege cases, claiming that the previous SAD-BJP government had not done its legal homework on the case. “Only one person gave statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) against Baba (Ram Rahim) and we issued warrants. The court allowed us custodial interrogation of Baba. Our team went to interrogate the dera’s team thrice, but nobody was found there. We have again sought custodial interrogation. We are proceeding in the case, keeping in mind legal hitches,” Channi told a press conference. FIXED ALLOWANCE INCREASEDEmphasising the need to boost employment avenues, Channi added, “My government is already in the advanced stage of implementing the Employment Guarantee Scheme, which would be announced soon. Modalities are complete.” He added that the regularisation of services of 4,587 Safai Sewaks and Sewermen working on contract basis Urban Local Bodies is already under way, with the notification having been issued. Channi added that the state was now allowing a fixed monthly allowance of ₹2,500 to 22,000 ASHA workers at a cost of ₹60 crore. He added that the fixed allowance of 42,500 mid-day meal workers has been increased from ₹2,200 to ₹3,000 per month at a cost of ₹64.2 crore.EVASIVE ON SIDHUOn Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu’s repeated tirades against the decision of his government, the CM was evasive. “I am ready to work with the PPCC chief, as party organisation is considered to be boundary/fencing of the government. It is the party that has to propagate the works of the government.” When pressed for a clear answer, he said “Aaate aate aayega dil ko karaar, jaate jaate bekrari jayegi (the heart will peaceful, when it has to; unease will ease, when it has to).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-outlines-initiatives-of-his-1st-100-days-as-punjab-cm-101641065401512.html
02-01-2022||Other||Nigerian held with cocaine by state narcotics bureau in Gurugram||Sleuths from the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau (HSNCB) arrested a Nigerian national with 10 grams of cocaine on the New Year’s eve in Gurugram. Acting on a tip-off that a Nigerian will deliver a drug consignment in DLF Phase 1 on Friday night, a team led by Ajay Dhankhar, in-charge of HSNCB Gurugram, reached the spot and barricaded the area, officials said. Dhankhar said that around 12.30am they spotted a two-wheeler and when signalled to stop, the rider tried to enter a hotel property but lost balance and fell. “We caught hold of the suspect and recovered a packet of white powder which was tested to be cocaine and weighed 10 grams,” he said. The cost of the drugs in the international market is around ₹5 lakh, the officials said.The suspect was identified as Chukwubuike Francis Onyegiri of Umunze in Nigeria, the officials said, adding that he came to India on a student visa on February 18, 2021, and his visa is valid until February 17, 2024. Vishnu Prasad, assistant commissioner of police, HSNCB, said that the suspect is being questioned about his previous involvements and source of the drugs. “It is also being probed to whom the consignment was to be delivered,” he said. According to Prasad, it is suspected that the Nigerian got the drugs from Delhi and supplied them in pubs, bars, and night clubs in the city. “Drugs such as cocaine, heroin and weed are sold at parties. The suspect, who is a member of a group dealing in drugs, was regularly supplying the drugs since February,” he said. The suspect was booked under Section 21 (punishment for contravention in relation to manufactured drugs and preparations )and Section 16 (punishment for contravention in relation to coca plant and coca leaves) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at DLF Phase 1 police station on Friday night. In a separate incident, the HSNCB team arrested two men with 650 grams of cannabis on Saturday from Lokra village in Pataudi. The suspects were identified as Hemant and Manoj, both from Pataudi. They were on a motorcycle when the team intercepted them and recovered the drugs. A case under relevant sections of the NDPS Act was registered against the duo at Pataudi police station, the officials said.
02-01-2022||Other||Pandemic effect: Pendency in HC at 4.5 lakh, over 15% cases added in 2021||Chandigarh The restrictions that Covid-19 pandemic induced have led to massive increase in pendency of cases in the Punjab and Haryana high court. According to government data tracking agency, National Judicial Data Grid, pendency of cases in high court on December 31 was recorded at 4.48 lakh cases with 69,000-odd cases added to the list in 2021 alone. Of total cases, 2.83 lakh were civil and 1.65 lakh criminal. On December 31, 2020 the pendency was 3.79 lakh cases with 2.42 lakh civil and 1.37 lakh criminal. The pendency on December 31, 2019, was 3.54 lakh cases including 2.33 lakh civil and 1.21 lakh criminal. Courts have been functioning in restricted mode, since March 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country and lockdown was imposed on March 24. Functioning of courts has been resumed, partially, with focus on disposal of freshly instituted cases. Old cases are being adjourned; the latest such move happened in December, when cases listed for January were adjourned for a date between July-September 2022. Data shows over 95,000 cases are between 1-3 years old, including 21 months of the pandemic, 88,655 are 3-5 years old, the highest pendency is in the category of 5-10 year-old cases at 1.05 lakh. The court has 13,344 cases pending for 20-30 years. ‘Special efforts needed to speed up disposal’ Lawyers say, when the functioning resumes fully, the filing is likely to go up manifold. Over 11,000 cases were such which have been filed, but not numbered in 2021, when ordinary cases filing was allowed by high court, says, Bar Association president, SS Grewal. He added that they have met the chief justice recently and would be meeting him again, when courts open after winter vacations. “Special efforts are required to speed up disposal. One way could be that cases, where replies are yet to be filed, be listed before a registrar and put up before a bench only when pleadings are complete,” he added. The situation has deteriorated to the extent that a lawyer wrote to the registrar general recently, questioning the fact that how were cases being adjourned through administrative orders. On some occasions, lawyers suspended work demanding that more category of cases be listed for hearing. “The high court ought to continue to hold its courts in restrictive manner and should not be adjourning cases. The pandemic, unfortunately, has more or less become a part of our lives,” said, lawyer Amar Vivek, former additional advocate general, Haryana, who in a letter sought details of government advisories, which have been the basis for adjourning cases. 49 judges against sanctioned strength of 85 The HC is functioning with 49 judges now, against the sanctioned strength of 85; for most of 2021, it functioned only with 44-46 judges, with five judges being appointed in October. Those appointed in October were recommended by the HC in August 2020. It has rarely recorded judges’ strength beyond 50. At one point of time in 2020, the strength was of 56 judges. But due to retirements and delay in new appointments number came down to 44 in 2021. There is only a remote possibility of HC getting more judges, immediately. The situation appears to be even more alarming in lower courts. In Haryana, pendency has gone up to 12.82 lakh, with 4.33 lakh civil cases and 8.49 criminal cases. In Chandigarh, over 69,000 cases are pending, nearly 23,000 civil and over 46,000 criminal. In Punjab, 9.19 lakh cases are pending with 5.24 lakh criminal and 3.95 lakh. ‘Ramped up virtual infra’ The high court administration said that virtual infrastructure has been ramped up in the high court as well as in lower courts and physical hearings are taking place, wherever possible. “The national judicial data grid figures include miscellaneous cases as well, such as traffic challans etc. Exact data is being compiled and will be available after high court opens after winter vacations,” said high court public relations officer, Vikram Aggarwal. 
02-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Chief secretary asks DMs, commissioners to complete preparations||Chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra on Saturday directed divisional commissioners and district magistrates (DMs) to soon complete all necessary preparations in view of the forthcoming UP assembly polls ,a government spokesman said.Holding a video conference here, the chief secretary said senior officials must make spot inspection of all the polling centres to ensure that these centres were connected to a proper approach road, and had all other facilities such as toilets, drinking water, furniture and electricity.Expressing satisfaction over the action taken against illicit liquor trade in the state so far, the chief secretary asked officials to intensify checking in border areas by erecting barriers to strictly curb storage and movement of illicit liquor in view of the forthcoming UP assembly polls.“Tough action must be taken against anti-social elements, criminals and mafia,” he stressed. He said if any untoward incident happened in a district, senior officials must rush to the spot immediately and quell rumours by providing correct information to the public. The chief secretary asked officials to ensure 100% vaccination of all the personnel to be deployed for the UP assembly polls and also do screening of all such personnel and frontline workers. Those found having taken the second shot 39 weeks ago should necessarily be given a booster dose, Mishra added.He warned that the third wave of Covid-19 was coming, but said there was no need to panic. He asked officials to remain alert and strictly enforce the Covid protocol with regard to social distancing and masking.“Also ensure that 100% vaccination is done by January 20 and DMs should make a strategy accordingly,” Mishra said. The chief secretary told commissioners and the DMs to sensitize police and revenue department officials on the need for giving a patient hearing to complainants and make quick disposal of their grievances. A watch must also be kept on the social media and take appropriate action in the event of false news being spread around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-chief-secretary-asks-dms-commissioners-to-complete-preparations-101641064981257.html
02-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad opens online slots for vaccinating children, jab camps in schools soon||The Ghaziabad health department has opened up online slot booking for vaccinating children in the age group of 15 to 18 years, which will start from January 3, officials said on Saturday.The officials said that they have planned administration of vaccines to the children at 40 vaccination centres, and they have also identified 60 schools where more vaccination camps will be set up. Online slots were made available for the children at 16 vaccination centres on Saturday, and there is also a walk-in facility for them if they produce their school ID cards or Aadhaar cards, besides other valid documents. “We have sought permission from schools so that vaccination administering teams can visit and provide Covaxin doses to the children. We have identified nearly 60 schools so far, and consent for camps is likely to be received from more in the coming days,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. In December 2021, the Uttar Pradesh government issued guidelines for vaccinating children aged 15-18 years from January 3 this year, and also for senior citizens, healthcare workers and frontline workers who will be administered the third dose of the Covid vaccine from January 10. The government has also set targets for vaccinating beneficiaries in different groups.Gautam Budh Nagar has a target of vaccinating 115,592 children, and Ghaziabad would be vaccinating 234,488 beneficiaries in the 15-18 age category. “We are also appealing to schools to encourage children of classes 10 and 12 to get vaccinated at the earliest, so that they get their second Covaxin dose before their board exams. The second dose in case of Covaxin becomes due after 28 days. Once the vaccination starts on January 3, one team will be deployed at each school who requested for the vaccination camp,” Dr Mathuria added. At present, officials familiar with the development said that they have stock of nearly 50,000 doses of Covaxin and more will be procured before the vaccination process scheduled from January 3. According to the state guidelines, children will be administered only Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as it is the only vaccine with Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for the 15-18 years age group and recommended by ‘Covid -19 Working Group’ of the National Technical Advisory Group on immunisation. Regarding the daily Covid vaccination till December 31, the district has achieved a target of 97.44% in case of administration of the first dose (2,632,938 doses administered against the first dose target of 2,702,167 doses). The second dose coverage is nearly 67.97%, with 1,789,676 beneficiaries who have got both the doses of vaccines till December 31, 2021. Of the first dose coverage, the district has administered 100% or more in case of healthcare workers, frontline workers and the ones in the 18-45 category.
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three killed, two injured after landslide at Dadam mining zone in Bhiwani||At least three persons were killed and two others were injured after a landslide at Tosham’s Dadam mining zone in Bhiwani district on Saturday, said district officials.The deceased have been identified as Sanjay Kumar, of Jind, Toffan Singh, of Jharkhand, and Vijender Kumar, of a village in Bhiwani’s Tosham tehsil. Two others were rescued out of the debris and were rushed to a private hospital in Hisar where they are undergoing treatment.The district officials said three persons were killed in the incident while Haryana home minister Anil Vij confirmed the death of four persons in the mishap at Dadam mining zone. The incident took place at around 8am on Saturday.Bhiwani superintendent of police (SP) Ajit Singh Shekhawat said, “A rescue operation is underway and four Poklane, dumpers and other machines are buried in the rubble. A team of doctors has also reached to provide medical assistance to the injured. A few more people are feared to be trapped.”Vij said a rescue operation by the district administration was underway and teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been called.In a tweet, Vij said: “I am deeply saddened by the accident that happened at the mining site in Haryana’s Bhiwani district. Rescue operation is being carried out by the administration. NDRF team has been called from Ghaziabad, SDRF team has been called from Madhuban. An army unit has been called from Hisar. Four people have died so far.”Large-scale mining operations are carried out in the hills of Khanak and Dadam in Bhiwani’s Tosham assembly constituency. Two months back, mining work was banned here due to rising pollution levels. Some eye witnesses said mining activities were halted after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued orders. On Thursday, the NGT had allowed resuming mining work and it had started the next day.“We speculate that explosions might be made to fulfil the shortage of building material which led to landslides but the exact cause of the collapse of stone mines is yet to be ascertained,” the eye witnesses added.Earlier in the day, Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, who is Loharu (neighbouring to Tosham constituency) MLA, reached the spot.“Some people have died. I cannot provide the exact figures as of now. A team of doctors has arrived. We will try to save as many people as possible. I have directed the police, administrative officials and a medical team to ensure swift rescue operations and immediate assistance to the injured,” he said.Tosham MLA and senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhry and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda along with other leaders expressed grief over the incident and blamed the ruling BJP-JJP government for the incident.“I had flagged the issue of rampant illegal mining at Dadam many times in the state assembly but the government turned a deaf ear to the matter. The government should initiate a probe into the matter and compensate the families of those killed and injured in the mishap,” Choudhry added.Hooda said even the Supreme Court had made a serious comment on illegal mining being done in the area by flouting rules but the government is not conducting a fair investigation.“There should be a judicial inquiry into the flouting of norms,” Hooda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-killed-two-injured-after-landslide-at-dadam-mining-zone-in-bhiwani-101641064502703.html
02-01-2022||Other||Only non-performers leaving Cong: Ashu||Ludhiana Amid speculation that a few Punjab Congress MLAs and cabinet ministers might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as assembly polls near, Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu labelled these as tactics of the saffron party to tarnish the image of the party and its leaders. Ashu was also among those whose name was being whispered around as leaving the Congress. He dismissed any such talk as baseless. “Only non-performing, overambitious leaders or MLAs, who suspect that they might not get the party ticket this time, are joining other parties ahead of the assembly polls,” he said, after the trial run of the Pakhowal Road RUB (railway under-bridge) on Saturday. “The opposition is trying to tarnish our image, ahead of the elections, as the Congress is in a strong position. Many rumours are circulating, including one that the party symbol is missing from my posters installed in my constituency. No cabinet minister is joining the BJP. Only over-ambitious leaders and MLAs have joined other parties; these leaders sense that they might not get party ticket due to non-performance,” Ashu claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-non-performers-leaving-cong-ashu-101641064443347.html
02-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: FIR lodged against Atiq’s son, aides for assaulting property dealer||PRAYAGRAJ: Former MP Atiq Ahmad’s son Ali and his aides allegedly attacked a property dealer and his kin, and demanded ₹5 crore in cash from them on Friday. On his complaint, an FIR was registered against Atiq’s son Ali and his aides in this connection at the Kareli police station. Two persons had been detained with a SUV and efforts to nab Ali and others named in the FIR were underway, a police officer said. The property dealer claimed that Ali made him talk to his father Atiq who is presently lodged at Ahmedabad Jail. A video of the incident had also gone viral on the social media. In his complaint given to police, the property dealer, a resident of Chakia area, Mohd Zeeshan said that he was at his plot of land in Ainuddinpur area Ali when Ali and his aides cornered them. “Ali took me on gunpoint and handed over me his phone to talk to his father. Atiq issued threats and asked me to transfer the land in his wife’s name or else give ₹5 crore in cash. Ali and his aides then also assaulted me, my brother and nephew, and demolished the boundary of the plot when I refused,” he alleged. Zeeshan in the complaint also claimed that Ali and Asaad opened fire on them but he somehow managed to flee and reached Kareli police station. Kareli police reached the spot and rescued the other two persons. Saif and another person were nabbed by police at the spot while others fled. The injured had been admitted to SRN hospital, Zeeshan added in the complaint. SHO of Kareli police station Anurag Sharma said that two persons had been detained along with a SUV. One person received injuries in the incident. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR has registered against nine named persons including Ali, Mohd Asaad, Arif, Imran, Saif, Aman, Kullu and Ali Abba and 15 unnamed individuals in connection under relevant sections of IPC, including section 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentionally insulting, and thereby provoking a person), 506 (criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-fir-lodged-against-atiq-s-son-aides-for-assaulting-property-dealer-101641064321493.html
02-01-2022||Other||Ludhiana bomb blast: Court extends police remand of two co-accused||Ludhiana A local court today extended the police remand of Ranjit Singh, 54, and Sukhwinder Singh, aka Boxer, 39, till January 6. The duo had been brought from the Ludhiana Central Jail and are accused for radicalising former cop Gagandeep Singh, the main accused of the bomb blast case took place at the Ludhiana court complex on December 23. They had shared a barrack with Gagandeep. Sukhwinder, once a national-level boxer, was arrested with 3- kg RDX by Banga police in 2012. As per the police, before being arrested again in 2019 Boxer was in touch with some militant groups in Jammu and Kashmir when he visited there to procure AK-47 rifles.Meanwhile, there was panic in the court complex on Saturday as well, when a fire broke out in a chamber on the 6th floor of the district court complex. A short-circuit is believed to have caused the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bomb-blast-court-extends-police-remand-of-two-coaccused-101641064081192.html
02-01-2022||Other||Covid-19 medicine kits’ distribution begins in Varanasi||VARANASI With the help of monitoring committees, the distribution of Covid-19 medicine kits began in Varanasi on Saturday as a preventive measure to check the third wave of Covid-19, said additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Sanjay Rai. District magistrate (DM) Kaushal Raj Sharma had procured a large quantity of Covid medicines for the city from the government and monitoring committees had been roped in to distribute the medicine kits, he said.“A total of 874 committees will distribute the kits in rural areas under eight primary health centers (PHCs) in developmental block areas of Varanasi. Likewise, monitoring committees of all 90 wards will distribute the Covid medicine kits in urban areas under 24 PHCs. These committees will also distribute the kits in Ramnagar and Gangapur areas,” Dr Rai said. Apart from this, the Covid medicine kits would also be available at five other identified places, including seven Covid hospitals, railway stations, bus stands and jail in the city.Dr Rai said, “The Covid medicine kits comprise different medicines for different age group of people. The kits for children from birth to 1 year, and 1-5 years contain paracetamol drops, ORS and multivitamin drops. While for 5-12 years, it has paracetamol tablets, Ivermectin 6 mg and Vitamin B complex. Azithromycin 500, Ivermectin 12 mg, Vitamin D3, Vitamin C, Zinc, Vitamin B complex and paracetamol tablets are available for those above 12 years.” Varanasi reports 21 fresh Covid-19 cases The total number of Covid-19 active cases in Varanasi increased to 46 on Saturday, with 21 more people testing positive for the virus in the district during the day. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has appealed to the people to follow Covid protocol, including wearing face masks, sanitising hands frequently and maintaining physical distancing of two yards. Chief medical officer Dr Sandip Chaudhary said, “Vaccination will be done at 529 centers in the district on January 3. This facility will be available for people between 15 and 18 years of age.” He said that slots had been opened for a week from 8pm on Saturday and beneficiaries would be able to get vaccination from 10am. “Now, six people can be registered on the CoWin portal with one mobile number. Day/night special vaccination center at Sigra Stadium and LT College, Orderly Bazar, will also be operational from 7am to 10pm,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-medicine-kits-distribution-begins-in-varanasi-101641063721395.html
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat gets new tehsil camp police station||A new police station has been made operational in Panipat city on Saturday.Now, the number of police stations in Panipat city has increased to 10, including a women police station. The new tehsil camp police station has been set up in the existing building of the women police station and the staff of the women police station has been shifted to the first floor of the building.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said setting up of the new police station will help improve policing in the industrial city and the city police will get more sanctioned force and resources.“This new police station will also help decrease the response time and quick disposal of cases,” he added. He said 32 police officials have been deputed in the tehsil camp police station and this will help reduce workload of the existing police stations.“As the deadline to inaugurate the new police station was fixed as January 1, the women police station was shifted to first floor to make room for the new police station,” said women police station in-charge Suniat Rani.On whether the new police station in the same building will create problems for the women complainants, she said, “There is enough space in the building for both police stations.”On the other hand, some officials of the women police station said the new police station could have been made at any other police stations located in the area.Panipat SP said these are temporary arrangements till construction of the new building of the women police station is completed.The SP said a women helpdesk has also been set up in every police station in city and setting up of the new police station was necessitated to put a complete check on criminal activities within the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-gets-new-tehsil-camp-police-station-101641063060962.html
02-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: Eatery owner refuses to serve food on New Year’s Day, murdered||Police have arrested two people on Saturday for allegedly killing a 27-year-old eatery owner inside a shopping complex after he refused to serve the suspects food earlier that day in Greater Noida, said officials.The victim -- Kapil Rana, a native of Dhaulana in Hapur -- had been running SR Food Service at Omaxe Arcade near Pari Chowk for the past six years.The suspects were identified as Akash, 30, and Yogendra, 30 -- residents of Greater Noida.Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of the Beta 2 police station, said that the eatery only delivers food online. “Police received a phone call at 3:30am on Saturday about the incident. The caller said that the two suspects shot the eatery owner, Rana, dead after he refused to serve them food.”Police took the victim to a nearby private hospital, where the doctors declared him dead, he added. A case has been registered against the two suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Beta 2 police station on Saturday, Kumar said.The 35-year-old eatery’s cook -- Praveen Kumar -- is an eyewitness in the case.“Praveen said that the two suspects reached the eatery at 1:30am on Saturday and ordered paratha. When Rana told them that the eatery caters to only online orders, the two suspects created a ruckus there,” Kumar said. Rana dialled 112 and a PCR van, which patrols the area, reached the spot. The suspects fled the spot after the police arrived there.At 3:30am, the two suspects again visited the eatery, this time armed with an illegal weapon. “They opened three shots of bullets at Rana, and injured him in the chest,” he said. Amit Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Praveen revealed during questioning that Akash frequently visited the eatery. “We arrested both Akash and Yogendra from Greater Noida at 10am on Saturday,” he said. Police have also recovered the weapon used in the crime. The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday.Sarita Rana, 30, sister of the victim, said that she and her family members were in Maharashtra’s Shirdi for a pilgrimage. “My brother used to return home at night. On New Year’s Eve i.e, Friday (December 31, 2021) he came home late. Some of his staff had left the place, and he was about to leave for work, when the suspects arrived at the eatery and opened fire. We do not have much information about the incident. Now, we are returning to Greater Noida,” Rana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-eatery-owner-refuses-to-serve-food-on-new-year-s-day-murdered-101641062940951.html
02-01-2022||Noida||Noida registry office shut for third day over row on buildings in flood plains||Advocates continued to lock the stamp and registration department’s office building in Noida Sector 33 for the third day on Saturday, disrupting public work, as they demand execution of registries on residential buildings built on flood plain areas.They shouted slogans against the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Suhas LY, demanding prohibition of registry of plots and flats on flood plain areas.Suhas LY, however, said that he stands by his order issued in September 2020, which bans registrations of ”illegal” buildings built on flood plain areas because the move is to protect “ecology of river and safeguard the rights of poor people, who are lured by land mafias” who develop illegal housing facilities along River Hindon. Meanwhile, the Bar Association of Noida said that they will continue to lock the registry office in Sector 33 if the registries on flood plain areas will not be allowed in the future. The special secretary with the Uttar Pradesh government, Ajay Kumar Awasthi, said in an order on December 6, 2021, that “there is a loss of revenue for the state government due to the ban on registrations, and thus the ban must be lifted”. “But even after the order of the special secretary of the state government, the ban on registrations continues on flood plain areas, affecting at least 1 lakh people who have bought property in the flood plains of Hindon or Yamuna. If the order is not implemented, we will continue to protest and lock the office. The ban is affecting our livelihood and affecting the people who have bought properties in flood plain areas,” said Shyamber Singh Baisoya, president of Bar Association of Noida. The general secretary of Bar Association of Noida, LC Sharma, said, “Why Why were these housing facilities allowed to be built on the flood plain of River Hindon? If these are built, people will live there, then why no registrations.” The committee of district disaster management of Gautam Budh Nagar constituted under Section 25 of the Disaster Management Act on September 30, 2020, prohibited registrations of structures on the land on flood plains and ‘unsafe unauthorised buildings’, because those are not considered safe for living. The district \magistrate, Suhas LY, also prohibited the registration process under the Disaster Management Act provisions. “We banned the registrations because land mafias are selling properties on unsafe structures or buildings, which are not even authorised by the local authorities on flood plain areas. Even the Allahabad high court, in its orders on February 3, 2021, took the disaster management committee’s decision on record and refused to lift the ban. We cannot allow illegal activities by land mafias in flood plain areas, come what may,” said Suhas LY. Administration and advocates will discuss the issue on Monday, said officials. “We will discuss the issue with advocates on Monday in detail to resolve the deadlock,” said Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. 
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Cybercriminals adopting different strategies during pandemic, warn cyber experts||Beware, cybercriminals are adopting different strategies to dupe people to the advantage of the changing scenario at the time of the pandemic outbreak and its changing scenario, said UP police cybercrime cell’s superintendent of police (SP) Triveni Singh here on Saturday.The SP said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued an alert for the citizens about the latest tricks and fraud being done by the cybercriminals on the pretext of Omicron testing and medicines. He said the state cyber crime cell is also trying to propagate it and alert people about this new trick about cyber fraudsters so they do not fall into the trap and lose their hard-earned money through these phishing emails sent to them and asked to share their details.Singh said cyber fraudsters are taking advantage of the situation by adopting new techniques to swindle citizens. He said the fraudsters try to capitalize on the things that the common man is going through and health issue is the main concern for everyone during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.He said the MHA has explained its modus-operandi in its advisory stating that fraudsters send emails regarding testing for Omicron with the attached malicious links and malicious files. He said government and private health services are being mimicked (e.g. their names are used as senders) in such attempts to scam innocent citizens.The SP said the potential victims clicking on the links are pointed towards fake websites created by fraudsters that look similar to government/private health services, where citizens can apply for a “Covid-19 Omicron PCR test”. He said the lure of a free Omicron PCR test allowing citizens to avoid Omicron related restrictions imposed by governments is presented to potential victims.He said the fake website prompt people to fill in their details like name, date of birth, home address, mobile number, and email address, mother’s maiden name, etc., and the process of registration is completed with a transaction of a small amount as registration fees from victims. The banking details of the victims are captured through such small transactions.“Cybercriminals attain personal details and banking credentials through this method for committing further cyber crimes such as financial cyber frauds, identity theft, etc,” the advisory said.The SP said people should simply avoid emails from unknown senders to remain safe from such phishing emails. He said people should avoid using unofficial websites of health services and other government/non-governmental services. He said people should avoid web pages with addresses not beginning with https://.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cybercriminals-adopting-different-strategies-during-pandemic-warn-cyber-experts-101641062521454.html
02-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi lashes out at Samajwadi Party in Rampur||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday lambasted the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the bastion of its Rampur MP Azam Khan, who is currently in jail in connection with multiple cases, and said that during their reign the “Rampuri chaku (knife)” was used for capturing the land of the poor. He also alleged rioters were honoured at the chief minister’s residence under SP rule.In an attack on SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, Yogi Adityanath said, “I heard “Babua” (a reference to Akhilesh) saying that they could have also got the Ram temple constructed.”“Kabristan banane se fursat hoti, toh Ram mandir ke bare mein sochte. (They would have thought of the Ram temple only they had time to spare after building graveyards),” he said.Those who did not hesitate to fire bullets on Hindus in Ayodhya, are now talking of getting the Ram temple constructed in the holy city, Yogi said.Yogi Adityanath was addressing a public meeting after inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of 25 development projects worth ₹95 crore in Rampur district.“We follow the guru parampara (tradition) for using the Rampuri knife. In the hands of good people, it will be used to protect the country and religion, but wrong people will misuse it in looting, capturing the properties of the poor and downtrodden. (Rampur ki ye chaku Samajwadi Party mein gareebon ki sampatti par kabza karne ka hathiyar bana),” he said.Comparing his government with the previous ones, Yogi said, “Fark saaf hai (a reference to the BJP’s catchline). Before 2017, the accused in the Muzaffarnagar riots and Saharanpur riots were called and honoured at the CM’s residence. After 2017, the farmers are honoured and Gurbani is recited at the CM’s residence.”Targeting Akhilesh Yadav further, the chief minister said that “Babua” was saying when he forms the government, free electricity would be provided, but when the (SP) government was there before 2017, they did not give electricity.“It was our government that provided electricity and constructed toilets,” Yogi said.Referring to cash seizures during tax raids, CM Yogi asked the SP apologise to the public.“We are recovering money from the people who were looting the public’s money and buried it in the walls. In the SP regime, the youths were cheated and did not get jobs,” he said.Reacting to the chief minister’s remarks, SP leader and former UP minister Pawan Pandey said: “With each passing day, these people (BJP top leaders) are getting more and more scared of Akhileshji and the support he is getting. Our previous government is remembered for its development works and now people are restive about getting it back. Our government had worked for all the sections of the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-lashes-out-at-samajwadi-party-in-rampur-101641062400955.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Ten ministers, 20 MLAs infected for Covid-19, says Ajit Pawar||Mumbai: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday confirmed that 10 ministers of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government and 20 legislators are infected with Covid-19, and urged people to follow Covid norms in the midst of the third wave in the state. The winter session of the state legislature, which ended on December 28, took place over five days, Pawar said. Inspite of this, many legislators were found positive.Among the infected are revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur and state of minister for urban development Prajakt Tanpure — all of whom declared themselves positive for Covid-19 on their Twitter handle in the past one week.Other ministers and legislators who are Covid positive include state tribal development minister K C Padvi, Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Sameer Meghe, and Madhuri Misal. More than 2,300 people were tested at a camp set up outside the state legislature building at Nariman Point for those attending or covering the second week of the session, which started on December 22.At least 54 people tested positive for the virus. This number does not include the state ministers and MLAs mentioned above.Several house staffers, police personnel and journalists who covered the legislative proceedings were found to be infected.The assembly secretariat also made it mandatory for all participating members to undergo Covid tests twice during the five-day long session: first at the beginning of the session and then after a gap of three days.“We have imposed fresh restrictions to contain the situation. The winter session of the state legislature was held only for five days. Despite that ten ministers and nearly 20 legislators have been infected with Covid-19,” Pawar said, speaking after paying tribute at Jay Stambh on the 204th anniversary of Koregaon Bhima war memorial in Pune.“The new variant (Omicron) of Covid-19 is infecting people at a very fast pace. It has wreaked havoc in countries such as the United States, France and Britain. We have suffered a lot during the second wave as many people close to us lost their lives. Life is important and the state government is trying to save your lives. We request you to follow all Covid appropriate norms,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ten-ministers-20-mlas-infected-for-covid-19-says-ajit-pawar-101641062341139.html
02-01-2022||Mumbai||Cost of coastal road project to escalate||Mumbai: The ongoing construction work for the Mumbai Coastal Road Project (MCRP), stalled for two months near Cleveland Bunder at Worli due to an ongoing protest by fisher community will raise the cost of the project to a tune of ₹30 crore, civic officials said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is building a span (bridge) near Cleveland Bunder to connect the coastal road with the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL).However, members of the Worli Koliwada fisher community who are staging the protest, said that the upcoming span will have a direct impact on their livelihood as they will not be able to safely navigate their boats into the sea.The 10.58 km road originates near the Princess Street Flyover at Marine Drive and will connect the BWSL through the proposed span at Worli that will be constructed near Cleveland Bunder. The span’s pillars in the sea are proposed to be built with a gap of 56 metres. However, fisherfolk said that they will need at least a 200-metre gap between each pillar for the safe passage of their boats during high tide.The local artisanal fishing community has been protesting since October 30 due to which construction work on the connecting bridge has been stalled.The BMC has said they have already suffered a loss of ₹30 crore and if the delay in works continues then the overall cost could escalate further. As per the 2021-22 BMC budget, the cost of this project is ₹12,950 crore including construction and other consultancy charges. “All the construction works that were happening at Worli and Cleveland Bunder have come to halt for more than two months. The proposed connector is an important aspect of this project because this is the point of interchange from where traffic coming from and going to the northern side of the city using the coastal road will merge with the BWSL,” said a senior official, who didn’t wish to be named.In December, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had said that MCRP will be completed by December 2023. The officials said that the BMC had planned to finish the primary construction works for this span by May 2022, but due to the ongoing protests the BMC is already two months behind its schedule and with monsoon, the project will get delayed further. With an estimated loss of ₹5 crore per month, the BMC has said that they are set to suffer a minimum loss of ₹30 crore for this delay which will increase further if the work doesn’t resume soon.“The six months delay will cost us ₹30 crore because of the machines and logistics that are lying unused. Besides these, there are other overhead costs which include day to day office expenses, fuel costs, freight charges, manpower and electricity charges. These additional charges will easily escalate the cost of the project by multiple fold,” said the official.The BMC has appointed the Tata Institute of Social Service (TISS) for carrying out a survey for giving out compensation to the fisherfolk community. The BMC also claimed that they have also offered to pay interim relief compensation to the members in advance however the members are reluctant to give in unless the BMC assures them that the width between the pillars will be increased to 200 metres.“We have reports of all the state appointed technical agencies which suggests that a width of 30-35 metres will be more than enough for them and here we are proposing a gap of 50-56 metres. Also the existing span at BWSL is only 17 metres wide but they have been operating boats below that for many years now,” the official said.Nitesh Patil, secretary of Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society Limited, who is spearheading the movement, said that their protests will continue unless the BMC agrees to increase the width of the span.“During high tide and monsoon it will become difficult for us to navigate our boats through such a narrow span. We need at least 200 metres of gap for safe passage. There are heavy winds blowing by this area throughout the year and the sea bed near Cleveland Bunder is very dangerous as there are rocks over there. If adequate space is not given to us then the gushing winds will lead to crashing of the boats in the pillars of the proposed bridge,” said Patil.“Due to the reclamation all our catches have moved away from the shallow waters and we have to travel deep into the sea for our daily catch. Now if we don’t have enough space to navigate our boats then how are we supposed to sail into the sea? We have our own source of livelihood but if our demands are not taken into consideration then it will be difficult for us to survive,” he said.Royal Patil, another member of the community, said that earlier this week, the BMC had written to them saying that a committee of TISS members will visit them for a survey.“We are not withdrawing our protest unless the demands are not met. They can do as many surveys as they want but we know the loss that we will face if our demands are not met,” said Royal Patil.The Worli Police had, on December 19, issued a notice to protesting fisherfolk under Section 49 of the Criminal Procedure Code, instructing them to “stop interfering” with ongoing Coastal Road construction work being carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), or face prosecution. Since October 14, fisherfolk have prevented the BMC’s contractor from constructing the interchange between the Coastal Road and the Worli end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, which they maintain will cut them off from their traditional fishing grounds.Despite being warned of penal action, the fishers once again occupied the waters of the construction site (for the 10th time since October 14). Their demand is that the interchange’s design be revised to include a span of 200 metres under the bridge, to allow safe passage for their boats. Else the project will force them to shut down operations at Cleveland Bunder, a traditional Koli fishing port in Worli Koliwada, which locals estimate is at least a century old and supports between 40 to 60 motorised and non-motorised fishing boats on any given day, in addition to employing a large number of non-Koli and migrant fishers.(With inputs from Prayag Arora Desai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cost-of-coastal-road-project-to-escalate-101641062222176.html
02-01-2022||Other||Cong’s Lali Majithia joins AAP||Amritsar Senior Taksali leader of the Congress from the Majha region, Sukhjinder Raj Singh, aka, Lali Majithia joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in presence of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in Amritsar on Saturday. He had been with the Congress for two decades. Lali Majithia resigned as the chairman-cum-director of Punjab Pungrain on Thursday, accusing the state government of mishandling of sacrilege and drugs issue and will contest against SAD leader and former Punjab cabinet Bikram Majithia from Majitha. “We are sure that Lali will win the seat by defeating Majithia from Majitha constituency,” said Raghav Chadha, AAP’s Punjab co-incharge. The move is seen as a setback for the Congress; on Tuesday, two Congress MLAs from Gurdaspur district — Fateh Jung Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Ladi — had joined the BJP. Lali, who had been sidelined for at least four-and-a-half years, was given the plump post as the Pungrain chairman by former CM Captain Amarinder Singh in June. Amarinder had brought Lali to the fore to counter his rebels from the Majha region, after his ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria, among other MLAs, had opened a front against Amarinder for not acting against Majithia. “The state government has failed to nab Majithia who has been booked in a drug case. Has he gone underground? The government is deliberately not arresting him. There has been no justice in sacrilege cases,” Lali has said in the pastCongress’s Amritsar-rural district president Bhagwan Singh Sachhar said, “Lali was given top posts even after he had lost several elections. He has betrayed the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congs-lali-majithia-joins-aap-101641061620200.html
02-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt readies 159 centres for vaccines to 15-18 year olds||New Delhi: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the city has the infrastructure to vaccinate 300,000 people a day even as the registrations for Covid-19 jabs to those between 15-18 years age group began on the CoWIN system.Also Read | Registration opens for children’s vaccinationThe vaccination drive will be carried out from January 3 between 9am to 5pm at centres located in selected schools, hospitals and health facilities across the Capital.“The Delhi government is fully prepared to vaccinate the children between 15-18 years of age,” Jain said in a briefing on Saturday.Though authorities plan to prepare separate registration desks for the teenagers, sites being used for vaccinating adults may also be used to administer doses to them, officials said. As on Saturday, Covid 19 vaccines were administered at 1,365 sites, of which 1,247 were government establishments.On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced inclusion of 15 to 18 year olds in the national Covid immunisation programme from January 3, 2022. The decision was taken based on the advice of technical experts on immunisation looking into the scientific evidence generated globally on children’s vaccination against Covid-19. The eligible teenagers will only be given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.The Delhi government has prepared a list of 159 vaccination centres across the city where beneficiaries between 15-18 years will be vaccinated from January 3. A senior official of Delhi’s health department said that while not all of these centres will be exclusively for children, a separate section of the building will be reserved for them so that they do not have to wait with others.“There will be a separate wing where children will be vaccinated. The entry and exit to these centres will be separate from the regular vaccination points. We are also getting schools to encourage children to come forward and get vaccinated from Monday,” said the official who asked not to be named.Also Read | Delhi govt readies 3,000 Covid beds of kids as cases surgeSome of the centres where children will be vaccinated are Hindu Rao Hospital, Giridhari Lal Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Maulana Azad Medical College, Charak Palika Hospital, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bawana, Safdarjung Hospital. The full list of 159 centres can be accessed at dshm.delhi.gov.in.As part of the preparations, the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) on Friday wrote to schools in the capital, directing them to inform parents to get their children in the 15-18 age group vaccinated as soon as possible. In its directive to both government and private schools, the department said that it was imperative for all government, government-aided, and private unaided school students aged 15 to 18 years to get vaccinated on an immediate basis.Outlining the crucial role that school heads could play in ensuring prompt vaccination of children, the DoE has asked schools to identify a nodal In-charge at the school to coordinate the vaccination drive . “Class teachers of the relevant classes/sections must ensure that parents are informed to take their children to nearest vaccination site earmarked for vaccination of children between 15 to 18 years of age,” the DoE directive said.AK Jha, principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini, said the school has already sent messages to parents. Jha said the school was in touch with doctors and exploring the possibility of carrying out vaccination through mobile vans. “A mobile van can be positioned at the school for a fixed number of days. This will allow us to vaccinate children in batches,” said Jha.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, said the school will be holding a vaccination camp on after tying up with a private hospital. “We have written to a private hospital in the vicinity and the district administration for holding a vaccination camp. Starting from Monday, we will be holding webinars laying emphasis on the need for the vaccination of children. We will also rope in children to create awareness videos about vaccination to convince parents who are a little hesitant about vaccination,” said Acharya, who is also the chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) which has 122 Delhi schools as members.Dr Suneela Garg, professor and a member Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force, said as per 2011 census there are over 900,000 children in the Capital between 15-18 age group. Dr Garg said many under the 15-18 age group may be at risk due to obesity and other comorbidities, and that they also have higher chances of getting infected when they go to schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-readies-159-centres-for-vaccines-to-15-18-year-olds-101641059160841.html
02-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Cold wave abates, air quality worsens||New Delhi: Coldwave conditions in Delhi abated, at least statistically, on Saturday with the mercury rising marginally above four degrees on Saturday after two days staying below 4°C mark -- considered the benchmark by IMD to declare a coldwave.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius on Saturday even as the IMD predicted that the temperatures are expected to start rising Monday onwards due to a fresh western disturbance (WD) that is expected to bring light showers to Delhi on January 5, 6 and 7.The IMD declares a coldwave in a region, when the minimum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below the normal mark, or when it drops to 4 degrees or lower. Delhi recorded coldwave conditions on both December 30 and 31, with Safdarjung (3.8 degrees), Lodhi road (4 degrees) and Ayanagar (4 degrees) the stations meeting the criteria.The lowest minimum of the season so far has been 3.2 degrees Celsius, recorded at Safdarjung on December 20.On Saturday, Lodhi Road, Jafarpur and Safdarjung stations recorded 4.2 degrees Celsius, which is around three degrees below the normal mark for this time of the season. The maximum temperature was recorded at 20.2 degrees Celsius – one degree above normal.“Temperature will begin rising from Monday onwards and the minimum could touch 10 degrees Celsius by January 5. Overcast skies and light rain will meanwhile bring down the day-time temperature and make the day of January 5 and 6 cold, with the maximum expected to be below 20 degrees,” said Jenamani.According to the forecast, shallow to moderate fog is expected in the region on Sunday, with the maximum and minimum likely to hover around 21 and 4 degrees Celsius respectively.Meanwhile, a combination of low temperatures and cracker bursting on New Year’s eve led to deterioration of air quality in Delhi with the Central Pollution Control Board recording an air quality index of 362 (very poor) on Saturday. On Friday, Delhi’s AQI was recorded at 321 (very poor).Forecasts by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a body under the ministry of earth sciences, predicted on Friday that air quality will deteriorate over the next three days, owing to firecracker emissions and coldwave conditions.Gufran Beig, founder project director at Safar however said adverse weather conditions played a key role in deterioration of air quality. “We had forecast both coldwave and firecracker emissions to impact Delhi, but the deterioration has not been too sharp. This indicates it was mainly due to the low temperatures prevailing in the region,” said Beig, stating air quality was unlikely to improve in the next three days, but a severe spell was also unlikely.Also, the sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) has lifted the ban on operation of stone crushers and hot-mix plants in NCR, according to an official order dated December 30, stating that air quality was unlikely to hit severe zone (AQI 401-500) until January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-coldwave-abates-air-quality-worsens-101641058920672.html
