03-01-2022||Other||After 5 months, eight in Tihar jail test positive for Covid-19||Two inmates and six jail officers in different sub-jails of Tihar tested positive for Covid-19, prison officers aware of the development said on Monday. These are the first reported cases of the infection after five months, the officers said, adding that the first Covid-19 case inside Tihar was reported in the second week of July 2020. The variant of the virus that has infected the eight inside Tihar jail now is unclear. Jail officers said no infection has been reported in Rohini and Mandoli jails. The three jail complexes collectively hold around 18,000 prisoners. “No person is critical. Their health is being monitored round-the-clock. They have been quarantined,” a prison spokesperson said.Jail officers said that the two inmates were not imprisoned recently. Officials suspect the virus may have entered the prison through an infected prison officer, who may have been asymptomatic.About 70-100 people arrested for different crimes across the city are brought to the three jails every day. About the same number of prisoners are also released on bail or acquitted.“Because of the threat of the Omicron variant, we are currently detaining new prisoners in a separate space within the prison complex where they are quarantined for at least a week. This is the same drill we followed during the first three waves of the infection in Delhi,” the spokesperson said.Prison officers said that if the infection spreads rapidly in the next few days, they will inform the government and a high court-appointed committee to evaluate if prisoners could again be released for the time being to ensure social distancing inside the jail.In the last two years, about 5,000 prisoners have been released twice on bail or emergency parole and directed to surrender later. Ensuring social distancing, which is the key to arresting the spread of Covid-19, is a major problem in Delhi jails because the jails hold nearly twice the number of prisoners against their sanctioned capacity. There are nearly 18,000 prisoners against a sanctioned capacity of 10,024 in the three prisons.Since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, the three jails have collectively reported over 600 infections among prisoners and jail staff. Six prisoners also died of the infection. One of the prisoners who died of Covid-19 was former Bihar gangster turned politician Mohammed Shahabuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-5-months-eight-in-tihar-jail-test-positive-for-covid19-101641234333686.html
03-01-2022||Other||1,360 teens vaxxed on Day 1 in Prayagraj||The wait for teenagers to get the anti-Coronavirus vaccine ended with the district launching the vaccination drive for teenagers between 15 and 18 years on Monday. District magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri inspected the vaccination centre at MLN Medical College and inaugurated the drive marking its start for eligible teens in the Prayagraj district.District immunisation officer, Prayagraj, Dr Tirath Lal, said that over 1,360 eligible teens were vaccinated in the district during the day. The district medical and health department had made special arrangements for their vaccination. “For the vaccination, 30 vaccination centres including 20 primary and community health centres in rural areas and 10 in the city have been set up. These include MLN Medical College, SRN Hospital, TB Hospital, Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital, Daraganj PHC, MD Eye Hospital, Moti Lal Nehru (Colvin) Divisional Hospital, Dufferin Hospital, Railway Hospital, Homoeopathic Medical College, Naini and near Allahabad High Court. Separate booths have also been made for eligible teenagers at all these vaccination centres, Dr Lal said. A target to vaccinate 6,000 individuals falling in the 15 to 18 years age bracket daily has been set for the district. “Each of the 30 centres has been instructed to target vaccinating a minimum of 200 individuals per day. After 10 days, the count of vaccination centres for 15 to 18-year-olds will be hiked. The target is to vaccinate all the targeted 4.17 lakh eligible 15 to 18-year-olds of the district in the next two months,” he added.On the first day, many teenagers turned up at the centres of their choice to get the jabs.Anushka Singh, a student of Class 9, was one among them and got her dose at the MLN Medical College. “There was no problem in getting the vaccine. I feel fine after getting the jab. Now I will motivate my friends also to take the shot and protect themselves against the disease, especially in the light of exams set to be held offline,” she said.Likewise, Om Tiwari of Rajapur locality got the vaccine at the MLN Medical College vaccination centre. “I arrived early and got the shot on time. I feel confident that now that the Omicron variant is spreading fast that I will be safe and will also help keep my parents and siblings safe too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1360-teens-vaxxed-on-day-1-in-prayagraj-101641234215775.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Resident doctors’ strike: DMER gives nod to recruiting non-academic doctors||MUMBAI The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on Monday met representatives from 18 medical colleges in Maharashtra to discuss the demands of resident doctors who are on strike against delays in NEET PG counselling. The DMER gave its nod to appointing non-academic doctors to reduce the workload on resident doctors but stopped short of commenting on the delays in the NEET PG counseling process. The resident doctors however said that they will call off the strike only after a written assurance is given.DMER head Dr Dilip Mhaisekar said, “I do not want to comment on their demand for prerequisites since the matter of NEET PG counseling is still in the Supreme Court and it is sub-judice. The appointment of non-academic JRs is not an issue and we will provide them with that.” Dr Mhaisekar appealed to the resident doctors to call off the strike. “I have appealed to them that by law, they should withdraw the strike. The rest is up to them,” he said. Dr Mhaisekar communicated with the deans to issue orders of recruiting non-academic doctors as soon as possible.Three civic-run hospitals including the BYL Nair Hospital, LTMG Hospital, and KEM Hospital have already issued a notification stating recruitment of non-academic JRs.Dr Avinash Dahiphale, president of the Central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors, said, “The DMER has given us an assurance regarding the recruitment of non-academic JRs equal to the number of residents in that particular college, but we are still waiting for an official order from their end.”The resident doctors have also demanded that the prerequisites of state counseling like form filling, document verification be completed as soon as possible and the schedule regarding the same be released so as to avoid further delay in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-strike-dmer-gives-nod-to-recruiting-non-academic-doctors-101641233494027.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Snow, rain warnings in higher mountain regions of Himachal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued snow and rain warnings for the next 48 hours in the higher mountains regions of Himachal Pradesh. The head of IMD Himachal Pradesh, Surender Paul said, “In the next four to five days the weather conditions in the state would bring snowfall and rain in the region. On January 5 and 6, higher mountains of the districts of Shimla, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Sirmaur and some parts of Solan will receive heavy snowfall and other parts of the state will get light snowfall and rain.”Meanwhile, Kashmir could also see back-to-back two western disturbances in the next couple of days that could bring moderate to heavy snowfall in the Valley and rains in Jammu region.Though the Valley has witnessed snowfall in October and November, plains in Kashmir haven’t observed good snow. “Two successive western disturbances are most likely to affect the UTs of J&K and Ladakh from January 3 to January 9. Under the influence of weather systems, widespread moderate rain and snow is expected in J&K and Ladakh. Light rain and snow would commence at a few places of Kashmir from January 3 evening and thereafter increase in intensity and distribution. Main activity of the system will be occurrence of moderate to heavy snow most likely during January 5 and 8 and gradual decrease thereafter,” reads the weather advisory.The advisory said the snowfall could disrupt the air and surface transport in Jammu-Srinagar and Jammu-Leh national highways, Zojilla Pass, Sadna and Mughal Road. “There are chances of avalanches and disruption of power supply in hilly areas.”On Sunday night, Srinagar recorded 3°C temperature. At tourist resort of Gulmarg, the mercury dropped to minus 5°C. Pahalgam recorded minus 3°C and Leh recorded minus 9.1°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snow-rain-warnings-in-higher-mountain-regions-of-himachal-101641233433026.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||In Basti, Lucknow, Nadda accuses SP of seeking withdrawal of cases against terrorists||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda accused the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) government of seeking withdrawal of cases of such terrorists, some of whom, he claimed, were later sentenced to death. He also pitched the ruling BJP as a party that never compromised with national security and urged people to vote for it in the coming assembly elections. “Akhilesh ji correct me if I am wrong or pull me to court in case if I am not correct. But isn’t it a fact that your government had sought withdrawal of cases of 15 terrorists? The court disallowed withdrawal of cases, and in fact, sentenced a few of them to death and gave life imprisonment to others,” Nadda said while addressing public meetings in Basti and Lucknow on Monday. “Do you (people) want a government that protects terrorists?” he asked the crowd which cheered him on. These public meetings were called to mark the culmination of ‘Jan Vishwas Yatras’ that had set out across the state on December 19. Focusing his attack mainly on the SP, he said, “The level of corruption in the previous SP government was such that one of their ministers is still in jail.” “Today as we face another election, it is important to look back at what the situation was when BJP came to power in UP in 2017. Back then, Akhilesh ji’s government failed to give utilisation certificate of ₹1 lakh crore, its rule was marked by ₹1600 crore Gomti river front scam. Back then the mafia called the shots. Today, the mafia are either in wheelchairs, in hospital, in jail or outside of UP,” Nadda said, praising the BJP government in UP for ushering in good governance. “Back then there was zero governance and corruption. Now, there is good governance and an honest government,” he added. The BJP chief also arrived in Lucknow and held meetings with the party’s top leaders over poll preparedness in the state. Nadda was the party’s UP in-charge in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP won 64 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats. In the 2017 UP polls the BJP had won 312 out of the 403 assembly seats, with SP bagging 47, BSP 19 and Congress 7 seats, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-basti-lucknow-nadda-accuses-sp-of-seeking-withdrawal-of-cases-against-terrorists-101641233373860.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||One tonne beef seized, three held in Palghar||MUMBAI: In yet another incident that brings to the fore the illegal slaughter of cattle for trade in beef, the Manor police late night Sunday seized 1,000kg of beef, rescued two cattle including a cow, and arrested three persons for allegedly smuggling the banned cattle meat worth Rs8.92 lakh in Palghar.Based on a tip-off, the Manor police late night Sunday chased a car and a tempo carrying the banned cattle meat plus two cattle near Tenn naka. The cattle thieves tried to collide their vehicles with the police car and pelted stones at the police team but the latter succeeded in nabbing Shabbir Ahmed Shagir Ahmed Sheikh, 50; Sharif Hanif Qureishi, 35; and Tabrez Farooq Shaikh, 22 – all residents of Bhiwandi in Thane district.The trio was arrested under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 379 (theft), 353 (assaulting a public servant on duty), 279(rash driving), 337 and 338(hurt) and 429 (maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); the State Animal Preservation Act, 1965; and the State Animal Protection Act, 1995. When produced before the Palghar court on Monday, the trio was remanded to police custody, said senior police inspector Pradeep Kasbe of Manor police station.Meanwhile over a span of six months, nearly 800 cows, bulls and other cattle belonging to about 200 owners were stolen from Dahanu, Palghar, Vikramgadh and other areas of Palghar district. The cattle were to be smuggled to illegal slaughterhouses in Bhiwandi while the nearly 1 tonne of beef that was seized was meant to be sold to roadside dhabas and other illegal eateries.To address the concerns of the 200-odd owners whose cattle were stolen and who were deprived of their means of livelihood (selling milk), Rajendra Gavit, MP from Palghar; on Monday held a meeting with Prakash Gaikwad, additional superintendent of police (ADSP), Palghar; and the said owners wherein he revealed that a whopping 800 cattle had been stolen over a span of just six months in Palghar district.Gavit blamed the Palghar police for failing to curb the growing cattle thefts and alleged that the police are taking the matter very lightly. The farmers whose cattle have been stolen have been deprived of their means of livelihood even as the stolen cattle have been sent to and slaughtered in illegal abbatoirs in Bhiwandi, Gavit said.However, Gaikwad maintained that the Palghar police were helpless as recruitment had stopped during the pandemic and there was less manpower and a heavy workload to tackle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-tonne-beef-seized-three-held-in-palghar-101641233311855.html
03-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Over 7,500 aged 15-18 years get first dose of vaccine||A total of 7,527 adolescents got their first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in Gurugram on Monday as the vaccination of children aged between 15 and 18 years started at 77 government-run sites across the district. Of the 7,527 doses, 7,050 doses were administered at government vaccination sites and 477 doses at private hospitals, officials from the district health department said on Monday, adding that around 200,000 teenagers in this age bracket are eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine in the district.The vaccination was conducted at 38 government health centres, 39 government and private schools, and 10 private hospitals from 10am to 5pm. At the 77 government vaccination sites, 100 slots each were available with a target of 7,700 doses for the first day. Earlier, the vaccination drive was inaugurated by deputy commissioner Yash Garg at DAV School in Sector 49. After the inauguration, Garg also interacted with children who came to get vaccinated. “Vaccination is very important to prevent spread of Covid-19 infection. Teenagers must visit a vaccination centre with their parents and get the vaccine at the earliest, and motivate their peers to get vaccinated. I appeal to the public that they must follow all safety protocols, wear masks and not go out unless necessary,” said Garg. Students said that they were happy to receive the vaccine as Covid-19 cases are increasing continuously. Tamanna Dhingra, 17-year-old student of DAV School, who was the first girl in the district to get the vaccine, said, “I had been waiting for the vaccine for a long time, and I am happy that I got vaccinated on the first day itself. Getting the dose at my own school made the process all the more comfortable.” Aryan Lohchab, 17-year-old student from DAV School who was the first boy to get vaccinated, said, “I was a little worried before taking the vaccine, but I did not feel any side effect. It is important that we come forward and take the vaccine as that is the only way to develop immunity and fight the spread of the virus. Now, we will feel less scared to come to the school.” The health officials said that the vaccination process at most schools was completed by 1pm, with many students willing to get vaccinated even after the slots for the day were completed.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “At most of the government vaccination centres, there were long queues with parents waiting to get their children vaccinated. But we decided to vaccinate 100 children as it was decided for the first day. On Tuesday, vaccination for the 15-18 age group will be carried out at 39 government health facilities and 38 government and private schools.” The officials said that no adverse effect of immunisation was reported from the district, but some students said that they felt slight pain in the arm. Snehil Gupta, a class 12 student of CCA School in Sector 4, said, “It was a relief to get the vaccine and I did not feel any side effects but just a little pain in the area where I got the vaccine.” According to the health department, on Monday, , 24,508 people (including 15-18 age group) received Covid-19 jabs, of which 13,475 took their first dose and 11,033 the second dose. With this, over 4.31 million doses have been administered in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-over-7-500-aged-15-18-years-get-first-dose-of-vaccine-101641233192136.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Chandni Chowk parking project: Delhi north civic body recovers additional ₹41.27 crore||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has recovered an additional cost of ₹41.27 crore from the contractor in charge of Chandni Chowk’s Gandhi Maidan parking lot and shopping complex project on account of a delay in payments, a senior municipal official overseeing the project said.The project aims to provide parking space for 2,100 vehicles and 80 tourist buses besides developing a large commercial complex with modern amenities in the walled city. As part of the project, which is being developed in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode, the civic body will lease out the commercial portion of the Gandhi Maidan parking lot to the builder, along with 25% car parking space abutting the commercial section after the project is completed.A report municipal commissioner Sanjay Goel filed in the House last month, a copy of which was seen by HT, said that under the agreement the builder was to deposit a total of ₹445 crore in four instalments for this project.The first instalment of ₹111.25 crore was to be paid at the time of the agreement, with subsequent instalments at fixed intervals. The delay in payment led to show-cause notices and additional recovery by the civic body.“There is a provision of issuing a show-cause notice under Article 10.2 of the agreement and this regards a show-cause notice that was issued to the builder. Rupees 41.27 crore have been recovered in the form of interest from the builder on account of delayed deposit in instalments,” the report by Goel said.The report was filed based on questions asked by municipal councillor Poonam from Ward 21-N Jahangirpuri.The municipal councillor had also asked if the parking and shopping complex had been built according to the plans and rules of the corporation, to which the commissioner responded stating that they would inspect the construction after the completion of the work. In the meantime, he said, the ongoing construction work was in accordance with the plans passed by the civic body.A senior municipal official from the engineering department said that the entire principal amount, as well as the interest, have been recovered from the builder and, so far, a total amount of ₹486.27 crore has been deposited by the builder. “The project is likely to be completed by July 2022 and the large-scale addition of parking space will help in decongestion of the Chandni Chowk commercial area while acting as a major revenue source for the corporation,” a senior municipal official overseeing the project said.In a bid to meet the parking demands in one of the largest wholesale and retail hubs in Chandni Chowk, the north MCd has allotted around 4.5 acres of land to the private builder. As part of the project, the builder will develop a 10 lakh sq ft area with five levels of parking and three levels of retail space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chandni-chowk-parking-project-delhi-north-civic-body-recovers-additional-41-27-crore-101641233132080.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Mulund couple catch caretaker molesting daughter, kill him & dump him in drain||MUMBAI The Mankhurd police on Monday arrested a couple from Mulund for allegedly lynching their children’s caretaker, 69, and dumping his body in a nearby drain. The couple claimed that they had caught the victim molesting their daughter, 13.According to the police, the accused have been identified as Salim Jafar, 38, and his wife Firoza Salim, 36. The couple, both fish vendors who stay in Mulund, told the police that they had twice caught the victim Abdul Khalil Shaikh, 69, molesting their teenage daughter.Police inspector Adinath Gawde of Mankhurd police station said that on Saturday, they found the body of a senior citizen near a drain in Mankhurd. The police registered a case of accidental death as no external injury marks were visible on the body. After the autopsy report of the elderly man confirmed that he was murdered, the police circulated the man’s photo across police stations to ascertain if any individual matching his description had been reported missing. On Sunday, a woman approached the police and informed them that the deceased was her father and had been employed as a caretaker by a couple in Mulund. The woman informed the police that she saw the photo of her father’s body being circulated on WhatsApp and tried calling him but in vain.“I assumed I was mistaken and the man only looked like my father, but later when I approached the police, they asked me to identify the body after which I was convinced that my father was dead,” said Naine Sabir Shaikh, 38, who runs a zari workshop. She informed the police that a couple hailing from their village had employed her father and given him shelter. Naine told the police that the couple would go out for work during which time her father took care of their two children (13 and 11).Gawde said that based on the information, they called Jafar and his wife for questioning. During interrogation, the couple revealed that on Friday when they returned home, their daughter, 13, informed them that Shaikh had molested her. The couple said that even before this incident, they had caught Shaikh touching their daughter inappropriately.Gawde said after the earlier incident, they assaulted Shaikh and warned him with dire consequences if he repeated such behaviour. On Friday at about 8pm when their daughter informed them that Shaikh had again molested her, they beat him to death. The couple said that they did not intend to kill Shaikh but when they realised that he had died, they decided to destroy the evidence by dumping his body.“The couple said that they left the house with Shaikh’s body in the trunk of their car at 11pm, intending to throw it into the sea, but when they saw that there was heavy police bandobast at several places, they dumped his body in the drain at Mankhurd and fled the spot,” said Gawde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mulund-couple-catch-caretaker-molesting-daughter-kill-him-dump-him-in-drain-101641232773062.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Traders oppose Ayodhya master plan||The Ayodhya’s master plan is facing opposition from the business community. At present the layout is on display at the office of the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). Traders of Ayodhya have registered their opposition with the ADA against the master plan alleging that the proposed layout will result in large scale demolition of shops and other commercial establishments. In the master plan, several stretches of the city have been earmarked for the road widening project. Ramesh Jaiswal, president of Vyapar Adhikar Manch, said large number of shops and other commercial establishments would be demolished if the master plan was implemented in its present form. Jaiswal further said the traders had registered their protest with vice chairman, ADA, Vishal Singh. The development authority has asked traders to submit their objections in writing so that they could be discussed and addressed. In the proposed separate development plan, two stretches of the road in Ayodhya Dham (old Ayodhya town), including the one leading to the Hanuman Garhi temple, are to be widened. Another major expansion of the road is proposed from Naya Ghat to Udaya crossing. This stretch is around 4.6 km. The entire road is proposed to be 24 feet and 12 feet on both sides of the divider. Large number of commercial establishments fall on this stretch of the road. Traders are demanding to curtail the proposed expansion to 20 feet from 24 feet. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had renamed Faizabad district as Ayodhya during Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on November 6, 2018. Before this merger, Ayodhya was a town in Faizabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/traders-oppose-ayodhya-master-plan-101641232771817.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Physical schools shut for all except Class 10 and 12||Mumbai: Owing to the skyrocketing cases of Covid-19 in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday decided to shut physical schools for Class 1 to 9 and Class 11. Online classes will continue.Lessons for Class 10 and 12 will continue in offline mode as the board exams are set to be conducted physically this year, announcement of which has already been made.Students between the ages of 15 to 18 years will be called to the school for vaccination. In a statement issued on Monday, the BMC said, “In the wake of increasing Covid cases and also due to the threat of Omicron variant, BMC has decided to shut schools for Class 1 to 9 and Class 11. The decision will be in effect till January 31.”The decision has come barely a month after schools were reopened in mid-December for Class 1 to 8 in Mumbai. The daily caseload in Mumbai has gone up from nearly 300 last month at this time to over 8,000 cases daily.Meanwhile, as of January 1, out of 791,457 cases of COVID-19 in the city, 14,921 are of those children between age of 0 to 9 years and 39,230 are between the age of 10 to 19 years of age.Following the decision by the BMC, Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar has issued a statement saying the schools in the entire district will remain shut till January 31. The classes for class 10 and 12 however will continue to be offline. Narvekar said, “The Covid cases in Thane district are increasing since the last few days, the district and state authorities are taking all measures to curb the spread. As a precautionary measure, all the schools in urban and rural areas of the district from class 1 to 9 and class 11 (except class 10 and 12) will be closed for offline classes. The classes like earlier will resume online. The decision will be valid till January 31.” He also appealed the students in the age group of 15 to 18 years old to get themselves vaccinated at the nearest vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/physical-schools-shut-for-all-except-class-10-and-12-101641232533340.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Cong targets PM again over Teni’s dismissal demand||The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi again for allegedly protecting Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni whose son has been made an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a post on social media questioned the PM on the issues concerning farmers and reiterated her party’s demand for Teni’s dismissal.“Even steps taken keeping elections in mind like false apology and withdrawal of three farm laws cannot cover Modiji’s anti-farmer thinking. He is holding the position of a protector but is siding with perpetrator of crime. The son of union minister of state for home is the main accused in the incident of crushing of farmers in the chargesheet filed in Lakhimpur Kheri case…..,” said Priyanka in a tweet in Hindi. “But due to @narendramodi ji’s patronage, Minister Ajay Mishra Teni did not even come under the scrutiny of the investigation and he remains in his post. #Dismiss Teni,” read second part of her tweet.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu in a press statement also demanded dismissal of Teni and said the SIT had submitted 5000-page chargesheet making the minister’s son Ashish Mishra alias Monu the main accused. Lallu said the FIR in the case carried name of Teni and asked on whose instruction the minister’s name was removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-targets-pm-again-over-teni-s-dismissal-demand-101641232351859.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Assembly revokes BJP MLA Jitendra Mahajan’s suspension||Delhi Assembly on Monday revoked the suspension of Jitendra Mahajan, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Rohtas Nagar, who was suspended from the assembly in December allegedly for disrupting the proceedings of the House.After the session began, leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri moved a motion requesting Speaker Ram Niwas Goel to revoke the suspension. The suspension was revoked after a voice vote in favour of the motion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-revokes-bjp-mla-jitendra-mahajan-s-suspension-101641231991862.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||SP’s free power promise gave BJP the ‘severest shock’: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got the “severest of shocks” ever since he promised to give free electricity to the people of the state. Marking the start of the New Year, Akhilesh had on Saturday promised to provide 300 units of free electricity to households and free power to farmers for irrigation if voted to power in the upcoming UP assembly polls.“Sabse zyada current BJP ko laga,” said Akhilesh as he reiterated his promise. “To all domestic users... 300 units free...not just poor,” he clarified while addressing a press conference at the SP state headquarters here.“And now they (BJP people) are asking from where the energy would come for free electricity?. I say if the ‘Nasamajh’ (ignorant) and ‘Unupyogi’ (useless) CM had worked well, the state would have had a surplus energy and the people would not have been giving so much power bills as they have to do now,” he alleged.Akhilesh claimed that it was the SP governments that gave Rosa, Parichha power plant, Lanco, Anpara D, Meja power projects by either executing or founding them. “And the other ‘SP power projects’ that are coming up in Etah, Hardua, Panki, Naveli Lignite were not completed by the BJP government,” he further claimed.“SP governments worked on thermal, solar and sugar factories’ power plants and once the SP returns to power, it will complete all the power plants and give 300 units of free power,” he said. “So, when we made 300 units free power promise there was a logic behind it,” he said and added: “And this government could not fulfil its promise of doubling farmers’ income”.On the repeal of three farm laws, he said: “The BJP government withdrew the ‘dark’ farm laws because it eyes votes.” “Stunned by the ‘Samajwadi Vijay Yatra’ from Jaunpur to Lucknow all through the night ending in the morning, the BJP government withdrew the farm laws,” the SP chief claimed.Attacking the Centre over the power issue, Akhilesh said: “Twice the people of UP helped the BJP form the government at the Centre but the government did not increase UP’s quote in power and coal quota.”He also alleged that the BJP lied on power issues and that the people had made up their minds to show “liars” the door in the upcoming UP assembly polls. “Imagine the height of liars’ lies...when they had to show a flyover, they showed Kolkata’s flyover. When they had to show factories, they displayed the US factories and when wanted to showcase an airport, they put up a picture of China’s airport”, he alleged.
03-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP MP urges party chief Nadda to field Yogi from Mathura||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha member Harnath Singh Yadav on Monday wrote to party chief JP Nadda requesting him to field UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath from Mathura assembly seat even as state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also declared his intent to contest the 2022 UP elections. “I think Yogi ji has said that the party will take a call. My case too won’t be any different. As leaders who have been getting directly elected, we would surely like to contest direct elections than take the legislative council route,” Maurya said in Lucknow on Monday. In November, Yogi too had said something similar. “I have always contested elections and will contest from wherever the party wants me to,” he had said then, a line he has consistently taken since. BJP leaders and experts say top leaders contesting elections helps not just the seat they contest but also influences party prospects in adjoining seats. Both Yogi and Maurya had recently described Mathura as the party’s unfinished agenda, stating that like Ayodhya and Kashi, a grand temple would also come up in Mathura too. Mathura—the western UP town believed to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna—has a prominent mosque—the Shahi Idgah— located next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi (the site believed to be the Lord Krishna’s birthplace). The mosque has been at the centre of a legal battle for years with Hindu groups claiming that the Idgah was built on land where Lord Krishna was born. “Yogi ji has already declared that he would contest from wherever the party wants him to. Though I am sure that voters in each assembly segment would want Yogi ji to contest from their place but very humbly I would like to offer that people in Braj region specially want Yogi ji to contest from Lord Krishna’s Mathura,” the BJP MP stated in his missive to the party chief who would hold meetings with party leaders and Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow over the party’s preparedness for the assembly elections soon. The development coincides with the BJP setting in motion the process of screening candidates for ticket selection in the poll bound state. Nadda is also scheduled to visit Lucknow on Monday evening for meetings with party leaders over poll preparedness and party leaders admit that the issue of top leaders getting to contest the state elections might come up for discussion. Yogi Adityanath, who won his first Lok Sabha election in 1998 at the age of 26, represented Gorakhpur for five terms in a row before resigning as an MP after being named the chief minister in 2017, as did Maurya who had to quit his Phulpur Lok Sabha seat on being named deputy chief minister. Maurya was the first BJP leader to win Phulpur Lok Sabha seat in 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He had earlier won the 2012 UP polls from Sirathu, an assembly segment, from where some BJP leaders feel that the deputy chief minister could again get to contest from. “Maurya is hugely popular and will win from anywhere the party wants him to,” said a BJP lawmaker from Prayagraj region. As for the chief minister, it is raining offers for him. Party’s Ayodhya lawmaker Ved Prakash Gupta said he would be happy if the CM contests from the temple town where a Ram temple is coming up and both BJP governments at the centre and in UP have announced massive schemes to make Ayodhya a global pilgrimage town.BJP leaders in Gorakhpur as well as in Lucknow too want the chief minister to contest from their regions. “I think Maharajji (Yogi Adityanath) will contest from Gorakhpur (rural) seat,” a BJP leader from Gorakhpur said. “Gorakhpur (rural) seat is one where the Gorakhnath Mutt of which Yogi is the head priest has considerable influence,” the party leader said. Yet another party leader has written to Yogi and BJP leadership to field the chief minister from an assembly segment of Lucknow.
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to seal whole or part of building if over 20% flats have Covid patients||The city civic body of Mumbai on Monday issued fresh guidelines for sealing premises to check the recent spread of the coronavirus disease and detection of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus in the country’s financial capital.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the whole building or a wing of a complex shall be sealed if more than 20 per cent of the occupied number of flats in the building or wing have Covid-19 patients. The new guidelines will come into effect from Tuesday.It said a decision on de-sealing the building or wing can be taken at the respective ward level. Mumbai | Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation issues fresh guidelines for sealing, says that the whole building or a wing shall be sealed if more than 20% of the occupied number of flats in the building or wing has Covid19 patients pic.twitter.com/FRgbctz89IMumbai registered 7,928 new cases and two fatalities, the highest daily count since April 18, 2021. This pushed the total number of cases to 8,06,359. It also recorded 40 of the 68 cases of the fast-spreading Omicron variant, pushing the number of such infections to 368 in the metropolis. Earlier in the day, the BMC said schools will remain closed for classes 1 to 9 in Mumbai till January 31 in view of a worrying surge in Covid cases. Classes will continue as scheduled for classes 10 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-seal-whole-or-part-of-building-if-over-20-flats-have-covid-patients-101641230292200.html
03-01-2022||Patna||Bihar varsity ad hocism: V-C on medical leave avoids vigilance, another delays joining||Ad hocism in Bihar universities refuses to go. While Magadh University vice-chancellor (V-C) Rajendra Prasad, who has been on medical leave ever since the state vigilance unit (SVU) carried out raids at the residence and office with another one-month extension last week, the newly appointed V-C in Patna-based Pataliputra University RK Singh has been delaying his joining for the last 40 days for reasons best known to him. He has reportedly sought more time from the Raj Bhawan for joining.Prasad was to appear before the SVU on Monday, but with his medical leave sanctioned by the Governor-cum-Chancellor, that could not happen, even though MU’s registrar, proctor and the library in charge were earlier arrested in the corruption case and sent to jail. The university is yet to get any replacement, while the acting V-C Bibhuti Nayan Singh has his powers curtailed to just routine work “till the return of the regular V-C”.“We have not got any official communication from the V-C as to why he did not turn up, though the committee did sit as per schedule to hear him. All that we know is through media that he is on leave,” said NH Khan, additional director general (ADG), SVU.The problem in MU is that the acting V-C has been recently given nod by the Chancellor’s office to hold meetings of syndicate, academic council and exam board, but his hands are tied in filling up vacancies of various department heads, principals and deans. The university has also apprised the Chancellor’s office about the absence of key functionaries due to their arrest.“Even the most routine work of clearing pension of widows or retrial dues are getting hampered, while the entire university is passing through a phase of uncertainty. How can a V-C function if there are no key functionaries? Even the financial advisor is in dual charge,” said a senior MU professor.In Patliputra University, the senate, syndicate and academic council meetings are scheduled from January 10-12 and if the new V-C does not take charge by then, it will be held under the acting V-C SP Singh who is also the V-C of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) and holds additional charge of Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU). AKU has been without a regular V-C since September 2020 despite the advertisement of vacancy thrice, while Pataliputra University is without a V-C since January 2021. AKU is also without pro-V-C and registrar.SP Singh was in the eye of the storm after former VC of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University Md Qudus levelled serious allegations of financial irregularities against him in a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Kumar later forwarded the letter to the Governor, terming the allegations serious. However, later Qudus himself quit.In MU, however, the date of the syndicate meeting is yet to be announced amid confusion, as usually the registrar notifies it. “The affiliation process in MU also remains stalled, even as the deadline of January 15 for submission of fresh proposals, as per court order, is drawing closer,” said another official..
03-01-2022||Other||Covid surge: Physical meeting between inmates, kin suspended||PATNA: Amid the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the Bihar prisons department on Monday decided to suspend prisoners’ meeting their relatives from January 4 till January 31, people in the home department, aware of the development said. During the pandemic, family members were allowed to speak to inmates through video calls, termed e-Mulaquat, introduced last year by the Bihar government. Prisoners are allowed “e-mulaqat” with family members thrice a month for 15 minutes each.“In view of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases once again, it has been decided to suspend physical ‘mulaqat’ of all inmates of central jail, district jail, and sub-jail with family and friends with effect from Tuesday till January 31. The situation will be reviewed again on February 1”, read a letter issued by IG prison Manesh Kumar Meena.Earlier in March 2020, the Bihar prisons department suspended such physical meetings and resumed on October 28 after hundreds of inmates of Beur central jail went on a hunger strike.The total capacity of prisons in Bihar is 46,669, while the number of inmates had gone past 66,307 till December 31, as per official data.
03-01-2022||Patna||CM asks IGIMS to have additional genome sequencing setup||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to have an additional setup of genome sequencing for timely detection of the strain SARS CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, as the state reported 344 new Covid-19 infections, taking the number of active cases to 1,385. He said this after inaugurating the Covid-19 vaccination for children in the 15-18 years age category at the IGIMS on Monday morning, said officials familiar with the development. A total of 1.56 lakh children were vaccinated on the first day across 3,000 vaccination session sites installed for the purpose in the state. The CM, who inspected the state’s first genome sequencing facility at the newly established molecular genetic laboratory of the IGIMS, said the additional set up of genome sequencing would help in the timely detection of the Omicron variant among the Covid-19 patients. He advised the authorities to have another genome sequencing setup after doctors at the IGIMS told him that it would take 7-10 days to get the test result. The genome sequencing setup, which could cost over ₹2 crore, would include a sequencer, a computer having a large capacity server up to 13 terabytes, and different smaller equipment and testing kits, besides additional manpower to run the equipment. Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey also told the CM that his department was in an advanced stage of discussion with a private firm for giving test results specifically on Omicron within 24 hours. The IGIMS, which is the only institute in Bihar to be a part of the Insacog (Indian SARS-CoV-2 consortium on genomics), a network of laboratories working on genomic surveillance of Covid-19, has initiated the process of genome sequencing on January 1. “We initiated on January 1 the process to conduct genome sequencing test for Covid-19 with 24 samples we had collected. It will take a week from the extraction of the RNA to get the test result,” said Dr NR Biswas, director of the IGIMS. Meanwhile, Ritika Kumari, 16, a resident of Bariarpur village in Lakhisarai district, was the first adolescent to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in Bihar, said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent of the IGIMS. “Ritika was delighted to be the first among adolescents to be vaccinated in Bihar. She was absolutely cheerful to get the vaccine shot and showed no signs of nervousness,” said Dr Mandal. In all, 180 adolescents in the 15 to 18 years age group were vaccinated at the IGIMS on Monday. Many among them were NCC cadets. “We will like to complete the first dose vaccination of the projected 83.46 lakh target group children in the 15-18 years age group this month itself, and finish off with their second dose of Covaxin by February,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, who was present on the occasion. Patna accounts for as many as 4.95 lakh of the 83.46 lakh adolescents eligible for vaccination in Bihar. “We set up around 3,000 vaccination session sites for children in schools across the state, where not only schoolchildren but even those from adjoining clusters were vaccinated,” he added. 
03-01-2022||Patna||11 test +ve for Covid at CM’s Janata Darbar; Nitish convenes high-level meet today||PATNA: As many as 11 people who were present at chief minister Nitish Kumar’s residence on Monday have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. According to officials, out of the 11, six had come for redressal of their grievances at chief ministers’ weekly Janata Darbar programme, while five were from the catering team.Raising concern over the issue, the chief minister, while speaking to the media said, “During the initial check-up before the start of the programme, one out of the total 186 complainants, who poured in at Janata Darbar, was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection. Later, it was found that six people had tested positive. One of the staff from the catering team also tested positive for Covid19. It’s becoming a matter of concern.”An official later informed that four more staff of the catering department were diagnosed with Covid-19 after they underwent a rapid antigen test. “Those who tested Covid positive will now undergo confirmatory RT-PCR test,” he said.Stung by the exponential rise in cases of Covid-19 infections, the chief minister on Monday said that the government would make a comprehensive study about the sudden surge in Covid cases on Tuesday and take all necessary steps to curb it.Partial lockdown, strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and night curfew for a limited period are a few measures that the state might resort in a bid to bring the situation under control after the high-level meeting convened by the chief minister on Tuesday, said a senior officer, who is keeping a close watch on the situation.The CM said that the state health machinery was in alert mode and the pace of pathological tests to confirm the virus has also been enhanced. “Genome sequencing to isolate Omicron variant of Covid-19 has also been launched in the state. The isolation centres that were set up to treat people suffering from Covid-19 are being readied. There is no dearth of medicines and oxygen. People need to be made aware of how to deal with the renewed challenge,” Kumar said.Answering a query if the elections to five states needs to be postponed to curb the spread of the pandemic, Kumar said that the situation is not too alarming. “Assembly elections in Kerala were held during the pandemic phase. Even Bihar went for the polls amid rise in Covid-19 cases with precautions. People are there to take care of the poll preparedness in view of the pandemic,” the CM said.Till January 2, Bihar had 1,074 active cases. On January 1, it reported 352 positive cases, the reports of which were uploaded on January 2.Meanwhile, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, his wife Shanti Devi, and 13 other family members also tested positive for Covid-19. Manjhi’s personal assistant Ganesh Pandit and two security staff have also been diagnosed with the infection, people aware of the development said.
03-01-2022||Ranchi||J’khand: Edu institutions, high footfall places closed till Jan 15||Bringing back restrictions on various economic activities in wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, the Jharkhand government on Monday decided to close all educational institutions, high footfall places like gyms, parks, swimming pools and tourist spots, besides directing markets to remain shut after 8pm barring medical shops, bars and restaurants.To begin with, the new restrictions will remain in force till January 15, state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta said after attending the meeting of the disaster management committee chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren.“The recent surge in the cases are very worrying. We don’t know what form this new wave would take. Certain decisions have been taken today in the meeting chaired by the CM to contain the spread of the virus. Any further decision would be taken as per the new developments,” said Gupta.The minister said while all educational institutions would remain shut, they’ll be allowed to do administrative work with 50% attendance. Offices in the government and private sectors will also function with 50% capacity with a ban on biometric attendance.The government has also decided to restrict participation in marriage and last rites functions, with a cap of 100 persons. Restaurants and bars have been allowed to operate with 50% capacity or 100 persons, whichever is less.Though the government has decided not to impose a night curfew, like few other states, all markets would have to close by 8pm. “Only medical shops, bars and restaurants would be allowed to operate beyond that time,” said Gupta.The state has witnessed an exponential growth in new Covid-19 cases across the state in the past week. From 60 cases on December 26, the state has reached 1000 plus cases since January 1, with almost 50% of the cases being reported from the state capital Ranchi.What is closed# All parks, swimming pool, zoo, tourist spots, stadium to remain closed till Jan 15. # School, colleges, educational institutions closed till Jan 15; administrative work allowed with 50% attendance. # All shops to operate till 8 pm; medical shops, bars, restaurants exempted# Maximum 100 persons allowed in any outdoor event # Indoor events allowed with 50% capacity or 100 persons, whichever is less. # Govt and private offices to operate with 50% attendance, no biometric attendance allowed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-edu-institutions-high-footfall-places-closed-till-jan-15-101641230071978.html
03-01-2022||Pune||80% Covid cases among those fully vaccinated, says Pune mayor||PUNE At least 80% of Covid positive cases reported in the past six days in Pune are from among those who fully vaccinated. However, symptoms are mild and need for hospitalisation is minimal, said Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Monday. The Mayor also said that starting from January 10, the civic body will start administering a third precautionary dose, as approved by the government of India, for all those who have comorbidities and also frontline and healthcare workers. Mohol, speaking to the media, said that while the rate of infection is high the civic body is prepared with oxygen and drug stocks. Mohol said, “Almost 80-75% out of the total new Covid-19 cases are those who have taken both shots of the vaccine. On January 1 when the city reported 309 new Covid-19 cases, of those 255 were fully vaccinated. This trend can be seen in the past one week since the time the city has seen a drastic rise in the number of new cases. The number of active cases has also gone up above 2,500, however, it is also important to point out that of these most are isolated as per protocol and are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Only 80 persons need oxygen therapy while 25 need a ventilator. As of now the symptoms among those infected after two doses appear to be mild and so we urge everyone to get vaccinated.” Mohol further added, “Starting from January 10, Pune Municipal Corporation will also start vaccinating those with comorbidities, frontline workers and healthcare workers with the third, or precautionary dose, as the number of cases are rising. There must be a gap of at least nine months between the second and third dose. Also if someone has been infected after taking the second dose then they must wait at least three months before going for the third dose.” Mohol added that while Pune tops in the country in terms of vaccinating first doses, it is also true that more than 300000 are yet to take their second dose despite completing the mandatory 84 days gap. He said, “We will now reach out to each of them and ensure that they get vaccinated. As preparations for any upcoming waves, the PMC has stocked 4,000 vials of remdesivir and has 1,800 beds in PMC hospitals. If needed we can begin operations in the Jumbo hospitals in just one week. Also in terms of oxygen requirement, we have a production capacity of 9500 litres per minute and a stock capacity of 130 kilolitres at nine of our hospitals.” In view of more children being infected in the upcoming wave, the PMC is also in talks with the paediatric task force to ensure that all necessary specialised drugs and ventilators are in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/80-covid-cases-among-those-fully-vaccinated-says-pune-mayor-101641229956691.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Beginning of end of the pandemic? Answer lies in how fast everyone gets vaccinated: Dr Gangakhedkar||PUNE Hoping that this may be the start of ebbing of the pandemic, eminent health expert Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, who is part of the team put together by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to examine origins of pathogens such as Sars-CoV-2, said the virus from here on will chase unvaccinated and vulnerable population. He also said that the answer for whether this is the end of the pandemic lies in how fast everyone is willing to get vaccinated against the virus.He also said that although symptoms of those infected with the Omicron variant are mild, the sheer numbers based on how fast it is spreading could put a strain on the medical infrastructure.Earlier in a round table meeting along with the Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response Forum on Sunday, Dr Gangakhedkar stated that people are speculating the impact of the third wave in India in different ways according to the information available with them. However, there is a need to be cautious. He concurred with the view that the symptoms of the patients suffering from the Omicron variant are mild.“Even though the rate of hospitalisation among the infected patients would be lower, the sheer numbers are likely to put a strain on the medical infrastructure. We are likely to see an increase in the number of children suffering from Covid-19 in the third wave. The demand for diagnostic services will go up substantially and so there is a need to develop an alternative diagnostic testing mechanism to detect the infections rather than relying solely on genome sequencing. Also, the newly approved drug, “Molnupiravir” would be an effective medicine only in cases where the patients have mild infections due to lack of sufficient data,” he said.According to Dr Gangakhedkar, the natural immunity among citizens was possible due to the delayed start of our vaccination drive. “However, we now need to accelerate the vaccination drive to ensure all those eligible to get the vaccine are given the doses. I hope that we are almost at the end of the pandemic unless there is an unpleasant surprise from the ongoing wave in India and China. For the next one month the healthcare infrastructure would certainly be stretched,” said the former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research during the round table meeting.Later in an interview to Hindustan Times, Gangakhedkar stressed expediting vaccination among those who have not taken any jabs, saying that developing herd immunity against infectious disease will take time.“In that process, a lot of people will suffer. Instead of waiting for the natural immunity (by infection) if we go for induced immunity through the vaccine, it will be good and the damage will be minimal,” he said.According to Dr Gangakhedkar, the virus will try and infect most in the community and the process it will continue to mutate. “While doing so, the virus will then share a symbiotic relationship with humans though we cannot wait till that moment and should get vaccinated,” he said.When asked about any possibility of a virus getting weak at some point he explained that viruses come, they go naturally. Once everybody in the community is infected, the virus, unlike in its original form’ becomes stable and it will then try to lead a symbiotic relationship.To a question on whether the current phase can be described as the start of an end of a pandemic, Dr Gangakhedkar said the answer lies in how fast everyone gets the vaccine shield.“There is a significant proportion that has still not taken a second dose even if they were eligible. Unless your coverage of vaccination improves dramatically, the scare always is there. After this, one thing will happen, the virus will start hunting for those who are unvaccinated, those who are older, and those who have immunodeficiency,” he said.When asked about why cases are soaring in the UK and US despite the high vaccination rate in those countries, Dr Gangakhedkar said infection is spreading due to Omicron though the severity is less.He said that as per the research so far, the Omicron virus has the ability to spread rapidly. The virus even evades vaccine-induced immunity.“In such conditions, if the maximum number of people get infections, the virus will make further mutations. The more chance we give to the virus, it will generate more mutations. Thinking that any such mutations will favour humans as virulence level of the virus will go down and it will go naturally, it is better than everyone should get vaccinated and protect themselves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/beginning-of-end-of-the-pandemic-answer-lies-in-how-fast-everyone-gets-vaccinated-dr-gangakhedkar-101641229713162.html
03-01-2022||Other||UPSC meeting on regular Punjab DGP appointment today||Chandigarh The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) meeting for the appointment of a regular Punjab DGP will be held on Tuesday, amid confusion over the cut-off date for the selection of the new police chief. The previous meeting, scheduled on December 21, was postponed after Punjab raised objections over the UPSC move to consider October 4 as the cut-off date. Punjab wants to fix September 30 as the cut-off date; this will ensure that present officiating DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya gets the chance. Punjab wanted to change the cut-off date even after it had first agreed to consider September 30, when the government sent the panel. The UPSC says that since the vacancy was created on October 4, it will consider this as the cut-off date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upsc-meeting-on-regular-punjab-dgp-appointment-today-101641229711646.html
03-01-2022||Other||Dalits are with Modi and Yogi: Lalji Nirmal||Uttar Pradesh Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation chairman Lalji Nirmal on Monday laid the foundation stone of Maharishi Valmik Kalyan Mandap in the state capital.This facility will come up at the New Hyderabad Colony.Speaking on the occasion, Nirmal stated that the Dalit community in Uttar Pradesh was with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath.“Maharishi Valmik wrote Ramayan while Babasaheb Ambedkar wrote the constitution of India. Both are centre figures of the BJP government,” said Nirmal. He also listed out welfare schemes of the Central and the state government.“Around 80% beneficiaries of all schemes of the Central and the state government are Dalits,” said Nirmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalits-are-with-modi-and-yogi-lalji-nirmal-101641229358025.html
03-01-2022||Other||Section of farm unions against Modi visit at opposition’s behest: Punjab BJP incharge||Ludhiana With farm unions announcing that they will protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ferozepur on January 5, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP, Dushyant Gautam, stated that a section of farm unions were working under the influence of opposition parties to oppose PM Modi and defame the BJP.Gautam was in the city to review preparations for the rally; he also conducted a meeting with BJP leaders at the Circuit House on Monday. “PM Modi has been working to increase the income of farmers and will be making big announcements for the state. Opposition parties, however, are trying to find reasons to oppose BJP with baseless issues,” he claimed, adding that a large number of leaders/MLAs, including those of the Congress, have been making a beeline to join the BJP in Punjab. When questioned about MLA Balwinder Singh returning to the Congress party, six days after induction into the BJP, Gautam said Balwinder still believed in PM Modi and BJP. “Responding to PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s allegations that the BJP pressures corrupt leaders through central government investigation agencies, Gautam said, “The BJP follows its own criteria, but if Sidhu knows that his party’s leaders are corrupt, then why is he not acting against them.” BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said over 15,000 workers from Ludhiana, in over 500 buses and cars, will participate in PM’s rally in Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/section-of-farm-unions-against-modi-visit-at-opposition-s-behest-punjab-bjp-incharge-101641229051710.html
03-01-2022||Pune||TET 2018 case: List of 56 candidates who paid ₹40K found, search on for more||PUNE The Pune police have found a list of candidates of Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) 2018 who were set to receive qualification certificate without actually qualifying for the exam as was alleged during the registration of the case. The police also told a court in Pune that they had found a list of 56 candidates who are believed to have made the payment to appear in the qualification list. Each of the 56 candidates are suspected to have paid ₹40,000 for gaining a spot on the TET 2018 qualification list. The list was found in possession of a government employee called Nikhil Kadam, 36, who was arrested on December 25 and initially remanded to police custody till January 1. His custody was extended till Tuesday by Judicial magistrate first class MA Shaikh on January 1. The same court granted judicial custody to two other accused in the case, Ashwin Kumar and Saurabh Tripathi.“Only two points are different in the remand report. Nothing else has changed. The police had asked for an extension for two of them as well but the court agreed that sufficient police custody was granted to them so far and sent them to judicial custody. We will now be applying for bail,” said advocate Shivam Nimbalkar who appeared with advocate Harshad Nimbalkar for Kumar. With this update in investigation, the police are yet to arrest six people out of which five are already arrested in two other cases. Those wanted in the case include president of GA Software company Pritish Deshmukh, agents Ankush and Santosh Harkal, ousted exam council commissioner Tukaram Supe, and consultant to education department Abhishek Savrikar along with one other. The former commissioner of state exam council Sukhdev Dere was arrested and remanded judicial custody in this case. Police inspector Ajay Waghmare is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tet-2018-case-list-of-56-candidates-who-paid-40k-found-search-on-for-more-101641228811533.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid vaccination camps in schools from today||Students can get their Covid vaccine jabs via special camps to be held on the school campus starting Tuesday. Moreover, the students will get a two-day holiday from school after getting their first dose.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during a high-level Covid review meeting on Monday, said, “Students will be provided holiday on the vaccination day and the next day. I have personally met children at the vaccination centre. Parents should be congratulated as over 1.5 lakh children got their vaccine dose during the day.” Vaccination for children between 15 and 18 years started on Monday.“We will hold Covid vaccination camps at 12 schools on Tuesday, and more schools are contacting us for the camp. We shall hold more camps in the following days, but it would be better if at least 100 students are available for vaccination at one camp,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.Twelve schools where the vaccination camp will be held are five branches of CMS in Gomti Nagar-I, Gomti Nagar-II, Aliganj, Mahanagar, Kanpur Road, St Joseph Montessori School, C Block, Rajajipuram, St Joseph College, Sitapur Road, and a few branches of LPS (SP Singh).The Unaided Private School Association president Anil Agarwal said it was on their initiative that the state government decided that the children of 15 to 18 years of age get vaccinated in their respective schools.“This initiative was taken by the Private School Association that children should be vaccinated in schools only because they will not get exposed to Covid infection at the vaccination centres, which otherwise remain crowded. There will be less risk of infection in schools than hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-camps-in-schools-from-today-101641228691851.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi unveils oil painting of Ambedkar, others||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, on Monday, unveiled oil paintings of Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and former President Dr Rajendra Prasada at the central hall (PD Tandon Hall) of the state assembly and released several books, including books titled ‘Karmyodha Ram Naik’ and ‘Hridaya Narain Dikshit Rachnavali’.A demand for putting up an oil painting of Dr Ambedkar in the central hall has been raised in the state assembly time and again.Yogi lauded the contribution of Naik as governor of Uttar Pradesh and Hridaya Narain Dikshit as the speaker of the state assembly. The CM listed Naik’s initiatives during his tenure as governor of Uttar Pradesh and said he was behind the state government’s decision to celebrate January 24 as Uttar Pradesh Day.On this occasion, a collection of speeches by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and former chief ministers was also released. These include speeches by defence minister Rajnath Singh, former chief minister late Kalyan Singh, former chief minister late Ram Prakash along with former Prime Minister late Chaudhary Charan Singh in the state assembly.Yogi said these new books would be useful for new members of the state assembly, those interested in politics, research scholars and those keeping an eye on social and economic activities. A book selling centre was also thrown open for the public at gate number nine of Vidhan Bhawan. Naik, speaking on the occasion, lauded the chief minister for his leadership in the state’s fight against Covid. He said UP will effectively fight omicron, the new variant of coronavirus. Vidhan Parishad chairperson Manvendra Singh narrated Naik’s experiences as governor of Uttar Pradesh. Other books released on the occasion, include speeches of UP’s members in the constituent assembly and ‘Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Sabha main Mahilaon Ka Pratinidhitva Evam Mantriparishad Main Sahbhagita’.Others who spoke on the occasion, include the minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna and former minister for parliamentary affairs and deputy speaker Vidhan Sabha Dr Ammar Rizvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-unveils-oil-painting-of-ambedkar-others-101641227972564.html
03-01-2022||Other||Akal Takht jathedar’s call to strengthen SAD hurt Sikh sangat: Punjab deputy CM||Amritsar Taking strong exception to Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s call to strengthen the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) at an event held in the Golden Temple last week, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has written an angry letter to the jathedar, labelling the Badals as so-called Panthics, and even calling for their expulsion from the community. “The appeal made by you to the Panth to get together to strengthen the SGPC is fair, but asking the community to strengthen the Badal Dal has hurt sentiments of the common Sikh Sangat. Badal Dal disassociated itself from the Panth during the 1996 Moga Akali conference. Later, it did the same in its Constitution submitted to the Election Commission of India. The so-called Panthic Badals have been issued warrants by a Hoshiarpur court many times in this matter. You should ask them to first resolve the dispute of being ‘Panthic’ or ‘Non-panthic” in this court,” the letter, written in Gurmukhi, says. “The event hurt me a lot as the day was observed in the presence of the head of the Akal Takht Sahib, the institution that was founded by Guru Hargobind Sahib, and it was great Sikh warriors who upheld its dignity,” the letter adds. The event was organised by the SAD at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the shrine complex to mark ‘Panthic Ros Diwas’ (Panthic protest day) in protest against state government’s alleged failure in identifying the accused of the sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple and uncovering conspiracy behind the recent sacrilege incidents. In addition to the jathedar, who termed the SAD as the sole political body of the Sikhs on the occasion, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami also addressed the gathering.The deputy CM’s letter adds, “In speeches delivered in Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in your presence, the Panth was asked to be conscious of taking over the gurdwaras or the SGPC by Masands. The persons who delivered these speeches, should be asked as to which Masands, who are ruling over the SGPC, kept relationship with a dera head, who imitated Guru Gobind Singh. They should be asked which Masands submitted a report to cancel the case against the dera head in 2012, and sought votes of the dera... Was any Masand bigger than the Badals at that time?”“Our government took these sacrilege incidents very seriously and relied on the same SIT to continue the probe. In 2018, Bargari sacrilege accused were arrested and jailed. You are requested to expel this father-son duo from the community according to the Panthic tradition, in view of these facts,” the letter demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-jathedar-s-call-to-strengthen-sad-hurt-sikh-sangat-punjab-deputy-cm-101641227011484.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Constable in Alibaug arrested for sexually assaulting 35-year-old married woman||A police constable working at the district police headquarters in Alibaug has been arrested after being accused of sexually assaulting a married woman.Pen police arrested the accused constable, identified as Shyam Jadhav (33), on Sunday. According to the FIR lodged by the 35-year-old complainant on Saturday, she knew the accused and taking advantage of the friendship, the accused had started sexually abusing her six years ago.“According to the complainant, the accused used to threaten her that he would harm her husband and children,” Ashok Dudhe, superintendent of police, Raigad, said.The victim finally lodged the complaint after getting fed up with the regular harassment. After the case was registered, the accused had also assaulted a police official from Pen police station after which another case for obstructing government work was also registered against him.A resident of Ramwadi in Pen, Jadhav had been working in the police department for the last six years and is married.“We suspended the accused with immediate effect and he is currently in police custody till Tuesday,” Raigad DSP, Atul Zende, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/constable-in-alibaug-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-35-year-old-married-woman-101641225151444.html
03-01-2022||Other||SBS Nagar constituency watch: All parties stand nearly equal in Bhagat Singh country||SBS NAGAR Formerly known as Nawanshahr, the district was renamed Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in 2008, with the revolutionary’s ancestral village, Khatkar Kalan, located here. SBS Nagar district has only three assembly constituencies. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress, both, have a strong support base. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) also has a respectable presence here, which cannot be dismissed easily.NAWANSHAHR: RULE OF SINGLE FAMILY A TRADITION, SAINI VOTE KEY Traditionally, the seat has remained with a single family, that of sitting MLA Angad Singh Saini. Saini’s father, Parkash Singh, and mother, Guriqbal Singh, have also served as MLAs; Parkash Singh’s uncle, Dilbagh Singh, has been a five-time MLA from here. This time, the SAD has given the seat to its new ally, the BSP, which has fielded its state general secretary, Nachhtar Pal. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded sitting councillor and former Nawanshahr municipal council president, Lalit Mohan Pathak, who has a good hold on the city, having played a vital role in ensuring its top performance in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan. The Sainis form a sizeable proportion of the voters on the seat. For the electorate, illegal mining in the Rahon area, drugs, poor sewage system and unemployment are key issues. There are 1.76 lakh voters in this general category seat. BANGA: NO CLEAR FAVOURITES IN SEMI-URBAN SEAT A semi-urban constituency, sitting MLA Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi is from the SAD; the AAP had finished second in the 2017 polls. This time, too, the SAD has trusted Dr Sukhwinder. The AAP has given its ticket to Kuljit Singh Sarhaal, son of former MLA Balwant Singh Sarhaal. Local volunteers of the AAP, which won five seats in municipal council polls, have been opposing the decision to give the ticket to Sarhaal. The Congress is yet to announce its candidate, but there is a strong buzz that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s principal secretary, Hussan Lal, who hails from SBS Nagar, may be fielded from here. Former Congress leader, Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki, who looked after the constituency has joined the Punjab Lok Congress, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s party. Lack of development, poor infrastructure, drugs and unemployment are the major issues. The reserved seat has 1.64 lakh voters. BALACHAUR: CONG BREACHED SAD FORTRESS IN 2017, TOUGH CONTEST ON THE CARDSIn 2017, the Congress breached the SAD fortress with Darshan Lal Mangupur defeating four-time sitting MLA, Chaudhary Nand Lal, who had been winning from here since 1997. A rural segment seat, which also includes part of the Kandi area, is set to witness a tough contest again as the SAD has fielded Nand Lal’s daughter-in-law Sunita Chaudhary against Congress’ probable candidate, sitting MLA Mangupur. The AAP has given its ticket to Santosh Kataria, daughter-in-law of former MLA, Ram Krishan Kataria. The splinter groups of the Congress party may spoil its chances of retaining the seat, whereas the SAD has managed to quell factionalism. For voters of Balachaur, illicit liquor, illegal mining, lack of development and unemployment are issues that continue to make life difficult. The seat is reserved and has 1.54 lakh voters.
03-01-2022||Pune||15-18 age group: Vax drive held at 40 centres in Pune||PUNE Starting from January 3, 2022, the vaccination drive for minors aged between 15 and 18 years began in Pune as part of a national initiative. The vaccination drive ran from 10 am to 6 pm with 40 centres administering 250 doses each on Monday. Currently, in Pune, minors are being jabbed with Covaxin. PMC allowed 50% of available doses to be administered via walk-in registrations. No more than five minors were allowed at any one time, to avoid long queues. Students can register for the vaccine using an Aadhar card. Samatha Pethne, a nurse at a vaccination centre said, “Children coming to receive the jab are more confident than adults. The response received since morning is very good. Children are being jabbed with Covaxin in the same quantity as adults.” “The experience of taking the jab was wonderful. I waited for 10-15 mins in the registration line, it took less time than expected,” says a Class 9 student from Vidya Patil Memorial School, who asked that her name be withheld. Amit Karanskar, a parent of Class 9 student said, “My daughter was excited to take the vaccine. She was waiting for the vaccine for quite some time. We were trying to register for the past two days but it was not successful. I booked the slot today morning and came to take the jab.” The vaccination for the 15-18-yearr age group will continue on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1518-age-group-vax-drive-held-at-40-centres-in-pune-101641224791403.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Considering polls, give precautionary vax doses to police personnel: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked officials to start administering precautionary Covid vaccination doses to police personnel from January 10, given their vital role in the forthcoming UP Assembly elections. “Police forces have an important role in the UP assembly elections and all measures must be taken to protect them from Covid, including precautionary doses of vaccine from January 10, when the fresh vaccination drive starts for corona warriors, healthcare and frontline workers,” said the CM on Monday while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state.Adityanath also said for accurate identification of Omicron variant among the infected, the already established genome sequencing facilities in the state should be further consolidated. “Genome sequencing set-up should be created in prominent medical institutions in Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Ghaziabad and the PGI Lucknow too should have it,” he added.He said Covid infection was rising fast in the state, and in the last 24 hours, 572 fresh cases were reported across UP.“Vaccination is the best bet against Covid infection. So far, the state has administered 20.36 crore doses to the population while 7.46 crore people got both their doses,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/considering-polls-give-precautionary-vax-doses-to-police-personnel-yogi-101641224551508.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Schools in Pune resume offline classes, low turnout of students amid rise in Covid cases||PUNE As schools reopened after winter vacations for offline classes, the turnout on day one was low. With the looming threat of Omicron and the probable beginning of the third wave, parents are still sceptical.However, schools, teachers and students are hopeful that in the coming day the turnout will increase.On Monday, Mumbai ordered to shut classes from standard 1 to 9 till January 31.Speaking about the turnout, Arti Sharma, principal, Army Public School Khadki, which is affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said that on the first day, the turnout is usually not very good.“We have just started the classes and the attendance was around 30 per cent to 40 per cent for Classes 8 to 12. We have not started off-line classes for students below Class 8 as of yet. For the first few days, parents try to gauge if they should send their ward to school and so the turnout is likely to improve. This has been the trend in the last few months,” said Sharma.She added that since other places like tourist spots and malls are reopened, schools should stay open as well.“The teaching and non-teaching staff are vaccinated and the classrooms are sanitised. We take care of all Covid protocols and so permission should be given to continue offline classes for at least class 8 and above as many students are promptly getting vaccinated too,” said Sharma.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association, said that in rural parts, the attendance on day one was 60 per cent and in many parts above that.“Students are enthusiastic to attend school. Many parents want to send their wards to school. Vaccination for children has given a positive light to parents as it will ensure the safety of every child,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-in-pune-resume-offline-classes-low-turnout-of-students-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101641224013476.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||One-year-old boy drowns to death at home in Bhiwandi||A one-year-old boy drowned to death in a bucket filled with water at his own house in Bhiwandi on Sunday while his mother was busy in the kitchen.Bhoiwada police registered an accidental death report in the case after investigation. The boy has been identified as Dilkash Ansari, a resident of Deunagar in Bhoiwada, Bhiwandi.On Sunday evening, he was playing with his six siblings, but later when all the siblings started watching cartoon shows on TV, his mother went to the kitchen to cook. The boy went crawling to the bathroom and accidentally fell into the big bucket that was full of water. An officer from Bhoiwada police station said, “When the boy’s mother started looking for him, she found him in the bucket. They took him to the hospital where he was declared dead. The hospital authorities informed us. With the statement of the woman and on further investigation, we registered an accidental death report in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oneyearold-boy-drowns-to-death-at-home-in-bhiwandi-101641224011890.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||3 arrested for gang raping woman in Ambernath||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly gang raping a 21-year-old woman in Ambernath on January 2. The woman was lured out of her house by her friend, who took her to some shanties and raped her with two of his friends.The three were drunk and threatened to hit her with a beer bottle. They also physically assaulted her for over two hours while she tried to escape.The accused are in the age group of 21-25 years and live in the same neighbourhood as that of the survivor. One of the accused is a close friend of the woman and was interested in her. On the evening of January 2, the woman was returning home from some work when the accused asked her to come along with him for a party. The accused took her inside a shanty in Shivaji Nagar, where his two friends and he himself raped her by threatening her to kill with a broken beer bottle. They didn’t leave her for two hours and later fled the spot.Senior police inspector of Shivaji Nagar police station, M Bhoge, said, “The woman later reached home on her own and narrated the incident to her family members. They came to the police station to file a complaint. We immediately formed three teams and after searching all possible hiding places, we arrested them on Monday morning. A case has been registered under IPC 376. The woman is doing fine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-for-gang-raping-woman-in-ambernath-101641222991457.html
03-01-2022||Pune||35-year-old rider killed in hit-and-run in Pashan||PUNE An unidentified car driver was booked for killing a two-wheeler rider in a hit-and-run in the early morning hours of Januay 1. The deceased was identified as Gangadhar Tanikonda, 35, a resident of Ganeshnagar colony in Vijaywada, Andhra Pradesh. Tanikonda was riding with another man identified as Mangesh Jathar. The car driver rammed into the two-wheeler head-on at around 1:50am on January 1 near a petrol pump close to Chavannagar police lines along Pashan road, Pune. The driver left his car on the spot and fled, allegedly leaving the injured and the deceased man on the road. However, the police have not yet identified or arrested the driver. A case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act at Chaturshungi police station. Assistant police inspector Vishal Pawar of Chaturshringi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35yearold-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-pashan-101641222810936.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Survey on Pune Metro Phase II commences||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has started a door-to-door survey on public transport as it is in the process of preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Pune metro’s 82.5 km project under Phase II.As the first phase of work is near completion and operations are slated to start soon on priority sections, Pune Metro has started the preparation for the second phase of the metro.Brijesh Dixit, managing director, Maha-Metro, said, “Maha-Metro had appointed agencies to conduct the DRP on 82.5km stretch. Officials would visit housing societies, commercial complexes and various small and big business houses to understand and listen to the expectations of Punekars from the public transport body.”Maha-Metro is carrying out the survey through UMTC Limited and Data Corp Traffic Private Limited which are affiliated with Maha-Metro.Officials said, “Questionnaire for residents include frequency and modes of travel by people and the overall opinion about public transport among others.”Maha-Metro has appealed to people to participate in the survey and provide information as it will help to include residents say while finalising the DPR.The Maha-Metro will prepare the DPR and submit it to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and later it will be submitted to state and central government.As the metro work is undertaken at a good speed, there is a demand to execute the project in various parts of the city. The general body of the PMC and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) accepted various routes suggested by the elected members.The PMC had already given a nod to the extension of the metro route between Swargate and Katraj. As it is the extension of the first phase, Swargate to Katraj would become the extension of the first phase.As per the central government’s policy, if there is an extension of any route, the Centre gives only ten per cent of project cost funding. Now as all these extensions would get submitted in the second phase, it is the policy of the central government to give a 20 per cent share of the total project cost, said Metro officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/survey-on-pune-metro-phase-ii-commences-101641222571320.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 12,160 Covid infections; Mumbai has 40 of state's 68 new Omicron cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 12,160 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths, pushing the total caseload to 67,12,028.The state also reported 68 cases of the fast-spreading Omicron variant. Of them, 40 were from Mumbai, 17 from Pune, four from Nagpur, three from Panvel, one each from Navi Mumbai, Raigad, Satara and Kolhapur. The new detections took the total number of Omicron cases to 578. Of these, 259 patients have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.The capital city of Mumbai registered 7,928 new cases and two fatalities. This pushed the total number of cases to 8,06,359.Earlier in the day, the BMC shut schools for classes 1 to 9 and 11. Online classes will continue, while students between the age group of 15-18 years will be called to school for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-12-160-covid-infections-mumbai-has-40-of-state-s-68-omicron-cases-101641221853000.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Omicron variant weak, just like common viral fever: Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that the Omicron variant of Covid-19 was weak, just like “common viral fever”, but people should exercise caution even then.“It is true that Omicron spreads rapidly, but it is also true that as compared to the second wave (of the pandemic), the Omicron variant is quite weak. This is just like common viral fever, but caution and precautions are necessary in any disease. There is no need to panic. The fight that started on March 25, 2021, is in its decisive phase. All will be free from the century’s biggest pandemic,” the CM said while launching the vaccination drive for children between 15 and 18 years of age from Lucknow’s Civil Hospital. He said nearly 1.4 crore children (15-18 age group) in UP would be inoculated within a set time limit beginning Monday. So far, UP had administered over 20 crore doses of Covid vaccine.The CM thanked the Prime Minister for providing vaccine doses free of cost and asked people to remain cautious against the virus. Adityanath visited the vaccination booth, saw children being inoculated and also met those waiting for their turn and some of the children after they got their dose.“The virus is getting weak, but it is important to remain alert and cautious. Of the total 2,261 active cases in the state, over 2,100 are in home isolation. Of the eight who tested positive for Omicron till now, three have tested negative,” said the CM. “During the second wave of the pandemic (in March and April, 2021), patients took 15-20 or even 25 days to test negative, which is not the case now. There were post-Covid complications too,” he said while reiterating that precautions must be ensured. “The state government thanks the PM for providing Covid vaccine doses for children also free of cost,” added Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-variant-weak-just-like-common-viral-fever-yogi-101641222211169.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Farmer kills wife over suspicion of extramarital affair||PUNE A 59-year-old farmer was remanded to police custody for strangling his wife with his bare hands over suspicion of an extramarital affair in Pune, said officials.The deceased woman has been identified as Sandhya Shinde, 51, while the accused man has been identified as Suresh Dagdu Shinde, 59, both residents of Shindemala in Nagadwadi area of Kandali in Junnar, according to the police.The man was remanded to police custody till January 6 by a court in Pune. The man was arrested hours after he killed his wife in their house on Sunday, said officials.“They are farmers by profession and lived together. He started doubting her and it led to a fight between them. He strangled her to death,” said Police sub-inspector Sanil Dhanve of Narayangaon police station who is investigating the case.A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code against Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/farmer-kills-wife-over-suspicion-of-extramarital-affair-101641222151065.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Uncle’s almirah: A treasure trove of miniature antiques||Having lived a little less than a century, uncle Rattan Singh Lather passed away two years ago. My father and he had met soon after Partition, in the refugee camps at Karnal, as service volunteers, where they became friends for life. They bonded so well that we, the children on either side, thought of us all a family. My father trusted his friend, Rattan, and my aunt Durga Chachi, still alive and kicking at 92, to the extent that he left me in their care for a few years, for studies. Besides being an interesting man, uncle Rattan pursued his passions in life like constitutionals. He had a knack for preserving things, something I learnt from him in particular. He had an almirah of 5x3 feet, which was the most loved spot for me in their house. Generally, none in the house had access to it except with a rider that anything taken out would have to be deposited back in the same condition. I was fond of many articles preserved by uncle and each one had a special history and appreciable antiquity to it. I remember a view-master, which looked like a camera, in which disc-shaped celluloid films were fixed to be viewed against a translucent screen. The film frames, when seen through the view-finder, gave a three-dimensional view. One could mark the characters in a frame with their standing position and distance from one another. I would take out the view-finder, enjoy the still images-viewing, and put the thing back at its fixed place in the almirah. Uncle had a Three-D set of printed sheets as well, which did not make any sense to the eye, unless seen with special dark glasses that he kept in a separate box. A small pack of cardboard had some collar bones, which uncle invariably used; also, some transparent coloured buttons, which probably were just for safe-keeping. He had a pack of playing cards with which he tricked us. These cards had some unnoticeable signs and hints on their back, which only uncle knew. My favourite item was a German harmonica, which uncle purchased during his college days in Lahore. He had special love for it and played it well. I also picked up playing the harmonica tutored by him. There were two albums: One for photos, and the other for negatives. The photos were professionally processed. They were fixed with shiny corners to hold photos typical to albums. These showed scenes from Bombay, especially Victoria Terminus (VT), Hanging Gardens and the Boot-House; Delhi monuments such as Qutub Minar, Red Fort; Kashmir’s Dal Lake and snow peaks; sunset and sunrise at sea and tribal men and women. I liked the Lutyen’s Delhi illuminated pictures of North Block, South Block and Vijay Chowk. Some tools were also part of uncle’s treasure trove, which included a soldering-iron kit, tablet-breaker, a hold-back-dropper and a metalled spirit lamp. There was his boys scout days whistle. There was a pocket-watch with a long silver chain. I marvelled at not only uncle’s collection and possessions but his narration of the details in his quintessential raconteur like manner. I wish uncle had left me all those articles in his almirah, since having learnt from him only, I too am given to preserving things and being emotionally attached with them. There was yet another secret box that always had a small numbered-lock, of which uncle only knew the code. Yes, I did try to open it, but in vain. rajbirdeswal@hotmail.com The writer, a retired IPS officer, is a Panchkula-based advocate-author||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uncles-almirah-a-treasure-trove-of-miniature-antiques-101641221790961.html
03-01-2022||Pune||MPSC declares exam schedule; postponed exams to be held on Jan 23, 29, 30||The Maharashtra Public service Commission (MPSC), on Monday, declared the schedule for three exams which were earlier postponed due to Covid and other issues. Now, as per the new exam schedule, the exams which were going to be held on January 2, 2022, will now be held on January 23, 2022. Two examinations of the MPSC paper 1 and paper 2 for the posts of police sub-inspectors will be held on January 29 and 30, respectively. All these exams will be held in offline mode at various centres across the state and as per Covid safety protocols issued by the central government. These exams were postponed as several aspirants had crossed the legal age limit due to the Covid delays. Taking this into consideration, the state government decided to give such candidates one more opportunity and accordingly this new schedule has been announced. The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s (MHADA) recruitment exams scheduled for January 29 and 30 they have now been postponed. This will aspirants a chance to appear for all these competitive examinations. “We are happy that MPSC has now announced its exam schedule and it would be held this month only. The worry is Covid cases and if there is a sudden increase and more restrictions are imposed, then again exams will be cancelled,” said Rajesh Chavan, an aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-declares-exam-schedule-postponed-exams-to-be-held-on-jan-23-29-30-101641221551346.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Students protest as inauguration of Savitribai Phule statue at SPPU gets cancelled||PUNE After a heated and aggressive tussle between the various student organisations and security guards at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Monday, the formal inauguration of the Savitribai Phule statue on her birth anniversary was not carried out.Earlier, state cabinet minister Chagan Bhujbal announced the inauguration of the statue on January 3, with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari in attendence. However, the governor was not able to visit the city, leading to the cancellation of the eventAround 25 to 30 students from various student organisations and groups gathered near the statue which was covered up in the university premises on Monday morning. There were SPPU security guards and also policemen around to handle the situation. Students shouted slogans against the university administration and the state governor for not inaugurating the statue.“Seven years ago, this university was given name of Savitribai Phule and till now there was not even a single statue of her. After many years, a statue was constructed but is waiting to be inaugurated. Earlier it was declared that the statue will be inaugurated on her birth anniversary, January 3, but as the governor could not come it was cancelled. So, we decided to inaugurate the statue on our own on behalf of the students, but the security guards stopped us,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation.The statue was in the making for the past two-and-a-half-months. It is 12.5 feet and is made out of 1,500 kg bronze. The work was completed on December 27, however, the authorities still citied ‘work incomplete’ as a reason to not inaugurate the statue. However, student organisations allege that the event was postponed by a week as the governor was not present.Meanwhile, in the afternoon minister Chagan Bhujbal visited the SPPU and took review of the statue work, he said, “Today I took the review of the statue work of Savitribai Phule on her birth anniversary and the statue will be inaugurated by the state governor next week. We sent him the invite late, and he was not able to make it. This led to a confusion among students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-protest-as-inauguration-of-savitribai-phule-statue-at-sppu-gets-cancelled-101641221130336.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Waterleak at Sangamwadi RTO puts citizens’ lives at risk; civic authorities play blame game||It’s been a daily hurdle for hundreds of commuters using the railway underpass near the Sangamwadi Regional Transport Office (RTO) as a major waterleak is causing thousands of litres of water to go to waste, with commuters at risk of slipping and falling. Both the governing bodies – the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pune railway division are playing a blame game, with no action forthcoming. Nilesh Mahajan, a Pune resident, complained about the leak to the PMC and the Pune railway division a month ago and has been continuously following up the issue. “I travel through this underpass daily for my work and there is not a single day when I have not seen water leaking at this spot under the railway bridge near the Sangamwadi RTO. Daily there is a continuous flow of water and waterlogging happens. Water is wasted and moreover, several accidents have happened. As a responsible citizen, I decided to complain and get the repairs done. First I complained to the PMC water supply department, met their engineers and a spot survey was done. Then they said is the work of the railway officials,” said Mahajan. “The Pune railway division maintenance and repair department also surveyed the spot. The frustrating part is that both these governing agencies and their senior officials sent letters to each other instructing that the water leakage be repaired. As citizens we just want the water leakage to stop,” he added. Mahajan has copies of letters were sent by the governing bodies to each another. The latest letter dated on December 21, 2021, was sent by OP Patel, assistant divisional engineer from the Pune railway division maintenance department to PMC’s executive engineer, Water supply department. The letter states: “Leakage in the water pipeline has been seen at RTO chowk near Height guage, due to which water is spreading on the main road resulting heavy traffic jam in the said location. We have received complaint in this regard. Also there is no Railway water connection at this location. Therefore you are requested to depute your staff to attend to the said complaint in the above location at the earliest, to avoid traffic jams”. Whereas an earlier letter from the PMC water supply department to the Pune railway division on November 16, 2021, read: “There is a leakage near coaching complex, in front of your gate near Pune RTO. As this area is under your jurisdiction, please carry out the water leakage repairing work as early as possible. There are chances of mishap on turning road due to heavy traffic. So please stop this leakage at the earliest, otherwise you will be responsible for any loss to life and property”. The spot where water leakage is going on continuously is the road connecting Junna Bazaar towards RTO. “For the last several months I am seeing this water leakage and once I saw a two-wheeler rider fall down as her bike slipped. PMC or Railways should repair it immediately,” said Bipin Dharmadhikari, a daily commuter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/waterleak-at-sangamwadi-rto-puts-citizens-lives-at-risk-civic-authorities-play-blame-game-101641219395620.html
03-01-2022||Pune||Pune to experience cool days, warmer nights: IMD||PUNE The chill factor of winter will not be experienced for the next few days as Pune city will have cooler days and slightly warmer nights across January, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday. The weather pattern will be consistent as December last year. On Monday, Pune reported a night temperature of 14.5 degrees Celsius. At 11 degrees Celsius, Washim was the coolest place on Monday. Speaking about the probability forecast for January, DS Pai, who heads the climate research and services at IMD, Pune said that as per the weather forecast given by IMD, the days will report cooler than normal day temperature. “The chill during the day is likely to continue in January as cloudy weather will be seen over Maharashtra and Pune city. And as a result, the overall day temperature will be cooler than normal. Our probability forecast for January also shows the same data,” said Pai. He added that while days are cooler the night temperature may be slightly warmer than normal. “This means that night temperature will be higher than normal which may keep the winter chills at bay. A similar trend was observed in December as well,” he said. As per the forecast issued by IMD officials, in some parts of the city, night temperature is likely to touch 20 degrees Celsius in the next few days. Also, the day temperature will be 30 degrees Celsius or less in the next few days. In December last year, the lowest minimum temperature for the month was reported on December 20 and December 21 at 11.3 degrees Celsius. This minimum temperature was warmer than normal resulting in the night temperature to remain on the higher side. However, the city experienced cooler days in December. The warmest day temperature reported last month was 32.1 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-to-experience-cool-days-warmer-nights-imd-101641218431354.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Districts in Maharashtra to submit revised list of wetlands by Jan 15||Mumbai: The State Wetland Authority, (SWLA) chaired by cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, has directed all district collectors to submit a fresh assessment of wetlands in their jurisdiction by January 15, officials privy to the development confirmed. The directions were given at a meeting of the SWLA on December 9, according to the minutes. Environmentalists agree that the development is a positive step, but caution that the move may be too little too late, given the extent of wetlands in Maharashtra, particularly the coastal wetlands, that has shrunk in the last five years due to anthropogenic activities.The fresh assessment was announced during a webinar on World Mangroves Day in July 2021 by the forest and environment departments, and the revised brief documents were to be submitted by the districts in September last year. “But there has been a delay on account of Covid-19, therefore the timelines were extended for all districts,” said an official familiar with the matter, seeking anonymity. The official also added that the wetlands will be inventorised based on the union environment ministry’s 2017 Wetland Rules, a move that has drawn opposition from environmentalists.In February last year, the environment department had submitted to the Bombay High Court (HC) that the number of wetlands in Maharashtra has shrunk from 44,714 in 2010, to 15,865 in 2020, on account of a change in the definition of wetlands in the Central legislation.“Other than this definitional exclusion, there has been a lot of physical wetland reduction between 2015 and 2018, just as the new wetland rules were coming into play. Wetlands in Palghar, Vasai-Virar and in Uran are prime examples. The state government should have drawn up a wetland atlas of its own back in 2013 when it was asked to do so by the HC. If you are going to stick with the 2017 definition of wetlands in the fresh assessment, there will be many others that are at risk of becoming declassified, like Panje or TSC-NRI wetlands in Navi Mumbai,” said Stalin D, director of environment NGO Vanashakti, who is a petitioner in two cases relating to wetland protection, in the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court (SC).Stalin also pointed to the relevance of two orders from 2015, one by the Supreme Court and another by the Bombay High Court, which upheld the validity of the National Wetland Atlas of 2010, drawn up by the Space Application Centre in Ahmedabad. “Even the National Green Tribunal in an unrelated matter has come forward and said that the National Wetland Atlas needs to be followed while identifying wetlands. Between 2018 and 2019, the Maharashtra government did carry out its assessment, but the HC found it to be incorrect. While this process has been delayed, whole wetlands have been reclaimed and buried, like in Uran for example,” Stalin added.The government official cited above confirmed that this was the case. “There was a lot of ambiguity in the older reports, which is why the state government is now carrying out this fresh assessment. However, as the Central government has gone ahead and notified the 2017 wetland rules, that is the document we have to follow in our assessment,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/districts-in-maharashtra-to-submit-revised-list-of-wetlands-by-jan-15-101641217530834.html
03-01-2022||Pune||PMC to start gunthewari regularisation process from January 10||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to start regularising gunthewari homes (structures on small plots) from January 10 and the entire process will be online.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne announced the decision on Monday.The city has at least one lakh guntewari homes which are mainly in the outskirt areas. Residents will need to submit the proposals in the next three months. Later municipal administration will start the scrutiny of the proposals and approve them.Maharashtra government had given a nod to regularise such homes last year, but PMC was avoiding the process despite political pressure on the administration.Mohol said, “The process would be online and as per the guidelines issued by the state government. Homes located in the green belt, water bodies, bio-diversity park area and others would not be regularised.”“Citizens would need to submit the proposals online. The civic body has also fixed the rates for architects and engineers fees as residents would not need to pay more,” he said.Maharashtra government issued a letter on October 21 to PMC and other municipal corporations to regularise gunthewari and framed the guidelines for the same.Mayor held a meeting with the municipal commissioner, additional municipal commissioner and city engineer Prashant Waghmare on Monday and it is decided to start the process immediately.As municipal elections are ahead all the political parties were aggressive to start the process.All political parties welcomed the decision. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “I followed up the issue with state government and later instructed the office bearers in PMC to decide on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-gunthewari-regularisation-process-from-january-10-101641215432235.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Mithibai College to hold PG exams offline, students unhappy||Mumbai: Despite repeated appeals by the postgraduate (PG) students of Mithibai College in Vile Parle to conduct their examination in the online mode, the management of the institute is going ahead with the offline examination for semester 1 and 3 PG students, starting January 4. This, amid spiralling Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the fear of a third wave. Unhappy and sad with the management’s decision, students share their concerns. “The exam schedule was announced in October last year and no one complained then because Covid cases were low. By December, cases started rising and we brought out concerns to the attention of the college management, but to no avail. At present, most of us are scared for our own health and that of our family members,” said a student seeking anonymity. He added that repeated emails and queries to the college principal and vice-principal are receiving no response of late.Nearly 300 PG students are scheduled to appear for physical exams between January 4 and 13. The college student council also raised objections to the management, hoping for respite in this matter. “Undergraduate exams are held online but we PG students have to appear for exams offline. To our queries, the only response we have received so far is that this schedule was announced in advance and that as yet, the University of Mumbai or state government have not announced anything against physical/hybrid classes, so exams will go on as per schedule,” said another student.In October last year, state education minister Uday Samant announced the reopening of colleges in hybrid mode and to bring back students for physical classes in a phased manner starting October 20. All MU affiliated colleges have been conducting hybrid classes since then and a handful of institutes are now pushing for offline exams for smaller batches.While the principal of the institute Krutika Desai refused to share comments on this issue, a senior official said the college is abiding by all social distancing rules in order to conduct exams. “Just like hybrid classes, these exams will be held following all Covid safety protocols. Students need to understand that online exams cannot be conducted forever,” said the official.
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Passengers to face 15 min delay between CSMT and Kalyan||MUMBAI: Passengers travelling by local trains on the mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan on the Central Railway (CR) network will face inconvenience till Friday.Local train services between CSMT and Kalyan railway stations will operate with a delay of 15 minutes. The delay will be due to speed restrictions that have been imposed by the Central Railway on its different locations.After the 24-railway block between Kalva and Diva railway sections on January 2, the railway authorities undertook cut and connection work of the railway lines at three locations including Kalwa Kharigaon level crossing, Nutan Tunnel and at Diva railway station.A 6.5 km railway track along with the commissioning of a new railway flyover and platforms at Mumbra railway station was also undertaken.Owing to the major construction work, the Central Railway has imposed caution speed restrictions on its suburban railway network.“After a 24 hours mega block on Thane - Diva slow line, few temporary speed restrictions have been imposed for safety reasons for the next 3-4 days. Trains on the mainline will run late by 10-15 minutes. We will relax these speed restrictions as soon as possible.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. The 24-hour block was taken for the construction of the fifth and sixth railway line between Thane and Diva railway stations. The fifth and sixth railway lines project between Thane and Diva is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP 2B) that got approval in 2008. Post the construction of the new railway lines, 100 new local train services can be introduced on the Central Railway mainline between CSMT and Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/passengers-to-face-15-min-delay-between-csmt-and-kalyan-101641212970415.html
03-01-2022||Pune||No water supply to peths, Shivajinagar, Kothrud among other areas on Thursday||PUNE There will be no water supply to some parts of the city on Thursday (January 6), read a statement from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned electric and construction related activities at Parvati, Wadgaon and Cantonment water treatment plants on Thursday. Hence, areas that depend on these water treatment plants will not receive water supply.Aniruddha Pawaskar, department head, water supply department, Pune Municipal Corporation, issued a press statement announcing water supply closure in most parts of the city on Thursday.According to the statement, all peth areas, Shivajingar, Lokmanyanagar, Swargate, Mukundnagar, Bhavani peth areas, Pune Cantonment, Hadapsar, Magarpatta city, Solapur road, Mundhwa, Uruli Devachi, Hingne, Anandnagar, Katraj, Ambegaon, Bharti Vidyapeeth and Kondwa areas will not have water supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-peths-shivajinagar-kothrud-among-other-areas-on-thursday-101641211950372.html
03-01-2022||Bangalore||On stage, Cong MP DK Suresh, Karnataka minister Ashwathnarayan have a heated exchange | Watch||A clash erupted between Karnataka Congress MP DK Suresh and state minister CN Ashwathnarayan in the presence of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai during an event in Ramanagara on Monday.Suresh, brother of Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar, could be seen walking towards Ashwathnarayan, who was addressing the event, following which the minister made a move towards the Congress MP.ಕಾಂಗ್ರೆಸ್ ಸಂಸ್ಕೃತಿ ಎಂದರೆ ಗೂಂಡಾ ಸಂಸ್ಕೃತಿ ಎಂಬುದಕ್ಕೆ ಇದಕ್ಕಿಂತ ಬೇರೆ ಉದಾಹರಣೆ ಬೇರೆ ಬೇಕಿಲ್ಲ.ಒಬ್ಬ ಸಂಸದರಿಗೆ ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಮುಖ್ಯಮಂತ್ರಿ ಇರುವ ವೇದಿಕೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಹೇಗೆ ವರ್ತಿಸಬೇಕೆಂಬ ಪರಿಜ್ಞಾನವಿಲ್ಲದಿರುವುದು ವಿಪರ್ಯಾಸ.ಯಥಾ ರಾಜ ತಥಾ ಪ್ರಜಾ ಎಂಬಂತೆ ಕಾಂಗ್ರೆಸ್ ನಾಯಕರು, ಕಾರ್ಯಕರ್ತರು ವರ್ತಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವುದು ಖಂಡನೀಯ. pic.twitter.com/pp9GhdUIzlAs the exchange of words turned into a heated one, police and other people present on the podium intervened and separated the two men.The ruling BJP camp said the Congress’ culture was synonymous to “goon culture”. “ It is ironic that an MP does not know how to act on the platform of the Chief Minister of the State,” the party said in a tweet, sharing a video of the incident.Also read | Row erupts over move to free temples from Karnataka govt’s controlThe issue started with some Congress workers and supporters who walked on to the stage where CM Bommai was sitting and raised slogans supporting Shivakumar. They waved black flags as a sign of opposition to the CM before the event started.Ashwathnarayan said, “Is this how you behave when a chief minister comes? Should you shout like this to ruin the district’s reputation? If you are a man, show it in your work. You create problems by bringing some people to the function. Show what you have done with your work. We did not come here to cheat people, we came here to work.”Bommai also signaled Ashwathnarayan to stop the remarks, but it seemed too late by then as Suresh had already started walking up to the minister asking him to stop his speech.Later, Ashwathnarayan continued his address as Suresh sat in protest on the stage against the minister.The incident came days ahead of a planned march by the Congress in support of the Mekedatu project in Cauvery river, which the party claims that the BJP is trying to stall.The event in Ramanagara was organised to unveil two statues of BR Ambedkar and Kempegowda by the CM. Health minister K Sudhakar was also present during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/on-stage-cong-mp-dk-suresh-karnataka-minister-ashwathnarayan-have-a-heated-exchange-watch-101641211166449.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Omicron: Delhi sees 28% spike in new Covid cases, DDMA to meet on Tuesday||Delhi recorded 4,099 confirmed fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and one related death in the last 24 hours, according to the daily health bulletin. The national capital reported a spike of around 28 per cent in new Covid cases after it witnessed 3,194 infections on Sunday. The active cases of the virus in Delhi current stand at around 11,000, with 6,288 patients currently in home isolation.As per the latest Delhi government data, 307 Covid patients are admitted in hospitals, of which 94 are on oxygen support and four patients are on ventilator support. As many as 195 Covid patients are being treated in dedicated Covid care centres.Delhi stares at more curbs as minister warns of positivity rate reaching 6.5%Delhi's health minister Satyendra Jain earlier said that 84 per cent of Covid-19 cases recorded in the last two days in the national capital were of the highly contagious Omicron variant of coronavirus. “84% of the Covis-19 cases reported in Delhi in the past two days were of the Omicron variant. Delhi's expected to report around 4,000 cases today with the positivity rate rising to 6.5 per cent,” Jain told reporters on Monday.The worrying spike in new Omicron cases and the positivity rate hovering around 6.5% can prompt the government to announce further curbs under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will meet on Tuesday morning under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to review the prevailing Covid situation in Delhi. It is likely to discuss the need for more curbs in the national capital to contain the virus. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will also take part in the meeting, which will be held through virtual mode.The ongoing restrictions were implemented after a yellow alert was issued last week as Delhi reported over 1.5% Covid positivity rate for two consecutive days. Under the yellow alert, cinema halls, theatres, and other places of gathering are closed. The night curfew from 10pm to 5am is also in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-delhi-sees-28-spike-in-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-646-101641209023568.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Unmasked, unfazed: How Delhi welcomed 2022!||New Delhi Between December 31 and January 1, Delhi reported 2,716 new Covid cases, which is being reported as the highest single-day spike since May 2021. And it’s around the same time that Delhiites decided to throng some of the historical monuments and public parks in the city, throwing caution to the wind! Of course, the occasion of ringing in the New Year and celebrating the moment to the hilt, seemed to be more overpowering. As if the visuals of crazy crowds at popular city markets and malls, in December, weren’t enough that you get to picture this — queues at places such as Humayun’s Tomb, Sunder Nursery and Lodhi Garden. With the New Year, the footfall at Delhi’s historical monuments and public parks almost doubled up. For many, picnicking at these spots on January 1, it seemed to be a revenge for not being able to throng cinemas, multiplexes and malls, due to the restrictions as per the yellow alert in Delhi. Spotted with food baskets placed on bedsheets spread over the green lawns, many a Delhiites welcomed 2022, while being unmasked, paying little thought to social distancing, and certainly collecting in large numbers! One would want to believe that the spike in Covid cases would have discouraged people from visiting public places, but the situation was the opposite. Ranajit Roy, a tourist guide at Humayun’s Tomb, informs us that the footfall nearly doubled, of what he saw in last December end, and claims that the weekend made New Year revellers hurdle at the 16th century monument. “Many temples are closed, the malls are allowing limited entry, and cinemas are completely shut. So people are turning up at monuments like these. I can surely say that the number of visitors are definitely double than what I saw in November last year. Some people are following Covid rules, but many are visibly not interested.” Manpreet Singh, another guide at Humayun’s Tomb, adds, “If this is how it’s going to get crowded, then there should be more ticketing windows so that those coming in don’t have to wait for too long, and are able to get a ticket within five minutes. When there is a delay in getting the tickets, then it starts getting crowded right from the entry point itself. Many visitors have been tell us that they had to struggle in procuring online tickets, and then we see them come here and not even follow social distancing.” According to an official statement, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), recently said: “This time of the year usually sees an increase in footfall, since people like to spend year-end festive time and holidays at heritage monuments. Our data shows an increase in footfall. This time, we are requesting all visitors to follow all Covid norms. Our staff has placed sanitisers in the monuments premises, and regularly urges people to mask up and socially distance.”That is, however, not really how the visitors at historical monuments are behaving. Nikhil Gupta, who we met while he was on his way to buy tickets for his wife and himself, for an entry to Humayun’s Tomb, tells us, “It sure is difficult to control a huge crowd. Iska toh koi kuchh nahi kar sakta. Bahar red light par Covid violations ke challan kat rahe hain, and inside the monuments people can be spotted with their masks casually pulled down. Me and my wife aren’t taking off our masks, even for a second! We do want to enjoy the rest of the year in a healthy way, and not fall prey to the virus.” And Bittu Pandey, a Delhi-based college student, who was visiting the Bada Gumbad in Lodhi Garden, says, “I’ve come here with my friends. We’re all from different colleges, and are meeting to celebrate the New Year. We’re not very fearful because we are following all Covid protocols. We are only taking our masks off to click photographs.” Many like Pandey were spotted picnicking at this popular spot, and Manish Sharma, a guard on duty at Lodhi Garden, says: “Ek toh New Year ho gaya, phir Saturday-Sunday ho gaya. Sabko relax karna hai, enjoy karna hai, isiliye yahan aa rahe hain. Par Covid se pehle wale time se tulna karo toh jitne log aye hain iss saal New Year par, woh kam hain, par kaafi log ho gaye hain, bheed badane ke liye.” Devika Sakhuja, a city-based wedding planner says, “I came to Sunder Nursery with my friend Disha, in the morning, to have a relaxed. But as soon as the clock struck 2, we saw the crowd getting swell inside the nursery, and in quite a haste we walked out. Thank God we left before an encounter with such a crowd, and exposing ourselves to so many people at the same time. It’s purely by chance that we timed our visit well!”One good thing is that the crowd is helping small businesses stay afloat. Dev Singh, an autorickshaw driver who usually plies around the area of Humayun’s Tomb, informs, “Abhi tak toh business kaafi down tha hum logon ka. Par December ke last week se logon ka yahan aana badha hai. Abhi utne log nahi aate jaise corona se pehle aate the, par uss time bheed hoti bhi thi toh safe tha bahar nikalna. Saal ke pehle din toh sawari achchi mil gayi, bas sabki sehat bhi achchi hi bani rahe. Sab bhagwan bharose hai.” Footfall doubles at Delhi’s monuments As per the ticketing data from Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Humayun’s Tomb saw a footfall of more than 2,300 adults, on one of the days between 20 to 27 December 2021. At Qutub Minar, the highest footfall has doubled and gone up from 2,600 during the same week in November to 4,900 in December. Even at the Red Fort, most of the last week of November saw a footfall under 1,500 adults. But come December end, and most days witnessed a footfall well above that point, touching 2,000 and even reaching 3,655 and 3,803 on two days in December’s last week.Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unmasked-unfazed-how-delhi-welcomed-2022-101641209739103.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai shuts schools again for classes 1-9 till January 31 as Covid spreads fast||Schools will remain closed for classes 1 to 9 in Mumbai till January 31 in view of the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, the city’s civic body said on Monday. Classes will continue as scheduled for classes 10 and 12, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, adding online mode of classes will continue.Students belonging to the age group of 15 to 18 will be called to schools only for vaccination against the coronavirus, the BMC said.Maharashtra | Mumbai schools for classes 1 to 9 to be closed till 31st January, in view of rising COVID19 cases. School for classes 10 & 12 to continue: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMc)The city civic body’s decision came a day after the city reported a huge spike of 8,063 new Covid-19 cases, largely attributed to the new Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant. Latest data from the BMC showed that 89 per cent (7,176) patients were asymptomatic and the city still had only 10 per cent of the total hospital beds occupied. The active caseload stood at 29,819.Also read | BMC shares list of centres administering Covid vaccine to teens in MumbaiSchool had reopened in Mumbai on December 15 for classes 1 to 7 after remaining shut for more than 20 months due to the pandemic. It was initially planned to be reopened on December 4, however, was postponed due to the advent of the much dreaded Omicron variant in the country.The decision to shut schools came on a day when the country’s immunisation programme was thrown open to children between 15 and 18 years of age. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday urged the Centre to include children above 12 years of age in the inoculation drive.“We have congratulated the central government for starting the vaccination of the 15-18 age group. But, at the same time we have placed some demands to tackle the virus spread. We have urged the central government to also undertake the vaccination of children in the 12 to 15 age group,” news agency PTI quoted Tope as saying.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 50 new Omicron cases taking the state’s tally to 510. Of the new cases, 36 were reported from Pune City, eight from Pimpri Chinchwad and two cases each from Pune Rural and Sangli districts. Mumbai and Thane added one case each to the state’s tally.So far, the state has reported 66,99,868 Covid-19 cases with 11,877 being recorded on Sunday. The death toll reached 141,542 with nine more fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shuts-schools-for-classes-1-9-till-january-31-as-covid-spreads-fast-101641206296903.html
03-01-2022||Patna||Mob sets bus afire after it crushes girl to death in Bihar||A mob set a school bus afire and prevented a fire tender from extinguishing the blaze after the vehicle crushed a girl to death at Mirganj in Bihar’s Gaya district on Monday. A cousin of the girl, who was playing with her outside their house, had a miraculous escape.Residents said they informed the police immediately after the accident but they reached the spot half an hour late. The delay angered the mob that set the vehicle on fire. Later, an additional police force was rushed to the stop to pacify the mob as the traffic in the area was disrupted for two hours.Gaya’s senior police superintendent Aditya Kumar said that they sent a team to the spot immediately after the accident and a First Information Report had been registered against the bus driver. He said that the police team sent the girl’s body for post-mortem immediately. Kumar said that the driver and cleaner of the bus have been absconding since leaving their vehicle behind after the accident.
03-01-2022||Pune||Monday Musings: Politics, drama and power co-op bank polls has it all||PUNE The elections for District Central Cooperative (DCC) banks would otherwise go unnoticed given the limited financial clouts these institutions hold. It wasn’t really the case this time.If the defeat of Shashikant Shinde and some other local leaders made headlines during these polls in Satara in November, last week saw elections for Sindhudurg DCC bank polls dominating the news cycle with Union minister Narayan Rane and his younger son Nitesh under focus from media.The media went overboard, some may say, in covering the elections. But there was politics, drama, and conflict - some of the basic determinants to make a good story.But beyond that, there was a stiff tussle from both sides to take these DCC banks under control. The same was at display in Satara where Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Shashikant Shinde suffered defeat for the post of board of directors at DCC bank by one vote from nearest rival and NCP rebel Dyandev Ranjane. As the news of poll loss reached, a group of Shinde supporters reached the NCP office in Satara city and pelted stones.At Sindhudurg, just before the polls, Nitesh, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Kankavali, was booked in an attempt to murder case after the assault on Santosh Parab, who was among those leading the charge of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the district bank polls. A local court had rejected his anticipatory bail plea even as Nitesh was still missing. Rane senior took things in his control and ensured his panel surges ahead. Finally, the BJP led panel having loyalists of Rane won 11 out of 19 seats, regaining the control of the bank that lends money to farmers, fishermen, mills and other industries.The violence for an election witnessing heated contests followed by police action and underlying politics offered everything that journalists would have looked up to. So why in such polls do we see battles that the upcoming state elections may also witness?The polls for cooperative banks are crucial as these institutions play an important role in funding various businesses including cooperative sugar mills and other industries controlled by political leaders.So, if a particular politician controls the bank, lending finance to other institutions or businesses under him becomes easier. This is what has happened in Maharashtra over the decades. In a way, control of the cooperative framework meant a consolidation of political, economic and social power. The stronger the grip over cooperative banks, sugar mills, credit societies, the more are chances to sway voters, who are also the shareholders in these institutions.The Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) action against Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana, a sugar mill located in Satara district, is a classic case in point. The ED in June 2021 had attached a sugar mill, linked to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and over ₹65 crores were attached under the anti-money laundering law after it was alleged that the mill was fraudulently sold by the then officials and directors of Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank at throw-away prices to their relatives. The bank was then controlled by directors who were mostly politicians with Pawar being one.The bank lent money without following due procedure to several sugar mills including Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana and then sold them to their kith and kin at throw-away prices when they were unable to repay the loans, thus causing loss to the bank. Pawar has denied all the charges saying there were illegalities and the mill was sold as per High Court’s directions.This is not a one-off case in Maharashtra where a politician controlling bank, which has financed sugar mills or other businesses without following due procedure. The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank- the apex bank of 31 district co-operative banks - has seen a series of investigations in the past eight years—a National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development report, state government inquiries, and a private complaint.The political nexus is unmissable. This has been on for decades as cooperative barons perfected the model of wielding political power through farm co-operatives and district co-operative banks. Yashwantrao Chavan, Vasantdada Patil and, to a lesser extent, Shankarrao Chavan were stalwarts of the cooperative political economy. The Marathas dominated the sector. In the past three decades, Pawar became its symbol. Before the 2019 state assembly polls, an ambitious BJP keen to deepen its footprint in rural Maharashtra tried to ensure several defections among NCP and Congress whose leaders switched loyalties overnight.In most instances during the past three decades, co-operatives had chairmen who had contested or won parliamentary or assembly elections. Having a stronger grip over sugar co-operatives help politicians rise in the party and governmental hierarchy, which in turn get them nominated to the boards of other co-operatives, especially banks. Thus, a “two-way” relationship guarantees money and political power.The members of cooperative banks or sugar mills are however mostly poor to middle-income farmers. They are often a captive vote bank for the politician-co-operative chiefs.
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Ex-Cong leader Lalli Majithia among five new AAP candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday announced five more candidates for the Punjab assembly elections, taking the total number of nominees named so far to 101. Also read: Ready to offer Punjab home ministry at Sidhu’s feet, says Dy CM RandhawaSukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, who switched from the ruling Congress to the AAP two days ago, has been fielded from Majitha assembly constituency from where Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia is the sitting legislator. Lalli Majithia had contested against the SAD leader as the Congress nominee in 2017 and lost to him by 22,884 votes. A confidant of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, he resigned from the chairmanship of Pungrain and joined the AAP last week. According to the list signed by AAP state president Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, Dr Ajay Gupta has been fielded from Amritsar Central, Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal from Tarn Taran, Surinder Singh Sodhi from Jalandhar Cantt and Dr Baljit Kaur from Malout constituency. In the 2017 Punjab assembly elections, the Congress had won an absolute majority by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after 10 years. The Aam Aadmi Party had emerged as the second-largest party, winning 20 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats, while the BJP secured three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ex-cong-leader-lalli-majithia-among-five-new-aap-candidates-101641203789674.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ready to offer Punjab home ministry at Sidhu's feet, says Dy CM Randhawa||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday said he was ready to give up his home minister’s chair to Congress state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu if the latter wishes to.Stating that the cricketer-turned-politician had been unhappy ever since Randhawa was made the home minister, the Dera Baba Nanak legislator said he would put the ministry at Sidhu’s feet within a minute if he wants the same.The deputy CM’s comments came amid a growing cold war between Sidhu and the state government led by own party with the former often indulging in its criticism.“Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been upset with me ever since I became the home minister. If Sidhu wants the home ministry, then I will put it at his feet in a minute,” Randhawa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Speaking about Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the NDPS Act recently, Randhawa said police teams were on a lookout for him. “Since he has no government security, it is wrong to say that police have knowledge about his whereabouts,” he said.Randhawa added that as per his information, Majithia is not in Punjab. “These videos and photos (showing him at Golden temple) are fake. If he is spotted anywhere in Punjab, he will land in jail within a matter of minutes,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ready-to-offer-punjab-home-ministry-at-sidhu-s-feet-says-dy-cm-randhawa-101641200688085.html
03-01-2022||Bhopal||Need to hold vaccination on war footing, says CM Chouhan as jabs for teen begin||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan laid emphasis on conducting vaccination against the viral infection on a war footing as the drive to inoculate children in the 15 to 18 years age group began on Monday.Chouhan also sought the participation of the elected representatives, volunteers and religious leaders to encourage children to get vaccinated. The vaccination for this age group is to be held in the premises of schools only, the CM said in a statement. “We have to hold the vaccination drive on a war footing. Crisis management committees, MPs, MLAs, social workers, volunteers, religious leaders, all are requested to appeal to the children to get vaccinated,” he said. 
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi stares at more curbs as minister warns of positivity rate reaching 6.5%||National capital Delhi is expected to record another huge spike in the number of daily Covid-19 cases on Monday, health minister Satyendar Jain said. He also said that 84 per cent of Covid-19 cases recorded in the last two days in Delhi were of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus.“84% of the Covis-19 cases reported in Delhi in the past two days were of the Omicron variant. Delhi's expected to report around 4,000 cases today with the positivity rate rising to 6.5 per cent,” Jain told reporters.Currently, 202 patients are admitted in various hospitals in Delhi, he added.The number of cases in Delhi have been increasing at a rapid pace in the past few weeks.On Sunday, Delhi reported 3,194 new Covid-19 cases, up from 2,716 cases reported a day earlier. While Sunday’s tally was the highest single-day rise in since May 20, the test positivity rate stood at 4.59 per cent.Delhi’s active cases increased to 8,397 on Sunday from 6,360 recorded until a day before, according to the government’s daily health bulletin.The national capital is under restrictions implemented as part of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), which has kept Delhi in ‘yellow’ alert category. In this, cinema halls and theatres are closed, and so are other places of gathering. Night curfew is also in place, from 10pm to 5am.According to GRAP, if Covid-19 positivity rate crosses the five per cent mark and stays above it for two consecutive days, Delhi will be put under ‘Red’ alert.Also Read | What will happen in Delhi if Covid positivity crosses 5%This means that there would be total curfew – night as well as weekend – on movement of people. However, there will be certain exemptions based on the categories decided by the government.Shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods and services will be closed. Malls and weekly markets will also be shut down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-stares-at-more-curbs-as-minister-warns-of-positivity-rate-reaching-65-101641199268973.html
03-01-2022||Other||Gurugram aims to vaccinate 7.7k children aged 15-18 years today||As the Covid-19 vaccination for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years is set to start from Monday, the Gurugram health department on Sunday said that the inoculation drive will be conducted at 77 government sites with 100 slots available at each centre. The vaccination will be carried out from 10am to 5pm at 38 government health centres, and 39 government and private schools, officials said, adding that 10 private hospitals in the city will also administer Covid-19 vaccine to the teens. The officials said that children can register both online and at the vaccination centre for taking the jab. At all vaccination centres, 50% slots can be booked online and the rest are for walk-in registrations, they said. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, appealed to the residents of the district to get their children vaccinated and strengthen the fight against the pandemic. “The way the residents made the vaccination campaign above 18 years of age a success, they must also help in making the vaccination campaign for 15-18 years a success by getting their children vaccinated at the earliest. This will help us in the fight against the current surge of Covid-19 cases,” said Yadav. The schools where vaccination camps will be set up include DAV School Khandsa Road, Sanskriti School, DAV School Sector 49, Government School Basai Enclave, CD International School, Lions Public School, Bal Bharti Public School IMT Manesar, Government School C Block Palam Vihar, GSSS Daultabad, Government School Ghata, and Johri School (GSSS Wazirabad). At all sites, Covaxin doses will be administered to the children, the officials said. Dr MP Singh, district surveillance officer, said, “For the vaccination camps being set up in private schools, only those who are students of a particular school will be given the vaccine at that centre after showing their identity cards. If there are schools which have a smaller number of beneficiaries, then the two centres can be clubbed.” Paediatric experts said that children should come forward and take the vaccine, but if any child has a comorbidity, then parents must consult with a physician first. Dr Manish Mannan, head of department for paediatrics and neonatology at Paras Hospital in the city, said, “Vaccination for the 15-18 age group is starting from Monday and this is the only way to avoid Covid-19 while following all safety protocols. Some things that parents have to keep in mind is that if a child has a comorbidity, an infection or a fever, then before vaccination, they should contact a doctor before going for vaccination.” “If a person has recently taken another vaccine, such as the flu vaccine, then there should be a gap of at least four weeks so that both the vaccines are effective. The beneficiaries must also wait at the centre for half an hour after vaccination, so that immediate action can be taken if any side effect is observed,” he added. Meanwhile, on Sunday, 9,376 people received Covid-19 jabs, of which 3,185 took their first dose and 6,191 the second dose, according to data from the health department. With this, over 4.28 million doses have been administered in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-aims-to-vaccinate-7-7k-children-aged-15-18-years-today-101641199469570.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Chakka jam: Sisodia jabs BJP, says new excise policy stopped theft||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia took a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday for staging a “chakka jam” against the city government's new excise policy. Sisodia said the BJP was rattled as the new excise policy aims to curb the sale of illegal liquor being done by the party at many places."BJP people in Delhi are furious with new excise policy because @ArvindKejriwal ji stopped theft of ₹ 3500 crores in Delhi. This money is now being received by the government for the work of the people, earlier this money used to go to the pockets of BJP leaders and liquor mafia," Sisodia said in a tweet posted in Hindi.Notably, as part of their protest, Delhi BJP workers blocked roads at different locations in the national capital on Monday, leading to traffic snarls at important stretches including at the ITO, near the Akshardham temple and on the Ring Road.BJP always had a link with alcohol mafia. Illegal alcohol was sold at many places by BJP. With CM Kejriwal's schemes stopped ₹3500 crores of money from being stolen, so BJP is in pain: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia, on BJP's "chakka jam" against Delhi Govt's new excise policy pic.twitter.com/dupM7tJpnHThe protest near the Akshardham temple was led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. "The Delhi government is opening liquor shops illegally across the city under its new excise policy. Shops are being opened near residential and religious places. Our protest will continue until the policy is rolled back," news agency PTI quoted Gupta as telling reporters.He said liquor shops will not be allowed to operate near religious places, schools and residential areas.Key roads that were affected by the protest include the ITO crossing, Vikas Marg from Laxmi Nagar to ITO, the road near Akshardham temple, National Highway 24, Noida-Delhi Link Road, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Mother Dairy Road and the Signature Bridge road.The traffic police, however, maintained that the congestion was cleared from important stretches.Under the new excise policy, 849 premium liquor vends are being opened across the city. The policy was implemented in the city from November 17, 2021.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chakka-jam-sisodia-jabs-bjp-says-new-excise-policy-stopped-theft-101641196889286.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Cold wave conditions abate, air quality in ‘very poor’ zone||NEW DELHI: Cold wave conditions in Delhi have abated as the city recorded a minimum temperature of 7 degrees Celsius on Monday while the Air Quality Index (AQI) was 391 at 7am - in the “very poor” zone. The AQI was 404, meaning “severe”, on Sunday. A combination of low temperatures and the bursting of crackers on New Year’s Eve led to the deterioration in the Capital’s air quality.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Sunday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, and the maximum 22.4 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal.A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below the normal, or when it drops to 4 degrees or lower. Delhi recorded cold wave conditions on December 30 and 31. The lowest minimum temperature of the season was 3.2 degrees Celsius on December 20.Shallow to moderate fog was expected in the region on Monday morning, with the maximum likely to hover around 19 degrees Celsius. A fresh western disturbance was expected to bring light showers later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cold-wave-conditions-abate-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-101641196769247.html
03-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC shares names of centres administering Covid vaccine to teens in Mumbai. Check complete list||India has begun vaccinating its teenagers aged 15-18 from Monday in a significant step towards the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The only vaccine being administered to this age bracket is Bharat Biotech's indigenously-made ‘Covaxin’.Mumbai's civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has released guidelines listing the names of public CVC's that will administer vaccine doses to the 15-18 age group in the city and also mentioned other important details regarding the vaccination for the said group.Check complete list of vaccine centres for young adults in the city of Mumbai:Richardson and Cruddas Centre, Byculla Ward ENESCO jumbo centre Phase 1, Goregaon (E) Ward P/SNSCI Dome Jumbo Facility, Worli Ward G/SBKC Jumbo Covid Centre, Bandra Ward H/EKanjurmarg C and G Jumbo Centre Ward SMalad Jumbo Covid Centre Ward P/NMulund R and C Jumbo Covid Centre – 1 Ward TDahisar Jumbo Centre, Dahisar Ward R/NSomaiya Jumbo Centre, Sion Ward F/NDr. Babasaheb Memorial GH, Byulla (State) Ward EVaccination guidelines for 15-18 age group:Children born in or before 2007 are eligible.School ID/Aadhaar card mandatory.Parents are requested to accompany children. BMC school students will be accompanied by teachers.Covaxin will be administered.Both on-site & offline registration facility available.Register through existing accounts (parents) or self-made accounts on Cowin.#MyBMCVaccinationUpdatesVaccination for kids between ages 15-18 will be available from tomorrow.Detailed guidelines and list of dedicated centres can be found here: pic.twitter.com/KjLG9KxcnwThe process to vaccinate children has commenced amid concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has advised states and union territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queue and different vaccination teams for this age group to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines.On Sunday, Maharashtra logged 11,877 fresh Covid-19 cases, 2,707 more than the day before, the state health department said in a bulletin. Of the new cases, 7,792 were reported from Mumbai.Maharashtra has reported 510 cases of the Omicon variant so far, remaining the state which has the maximum number of cases of the new variant in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-shares-names-of-centres-administering-covid-vaccine-to-teens-in-mumbai-check-complete-list-101641189228548.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||One of Lucknow’s oldest mosques is set to get a facelift||Asafi Masjid, one of Lucknow’s oldest mosques which is a part of the iconic Bara Imambara, is set to get a facelift. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has allocated ₹75 lakh for the maintenance and repair of the 18th-century monument covering the mosque and a 163ft balcony of its Persian Hall. ₹50 lakh has been allocated for the maintenance and repair of the inner walls of the mosque, said a letter dated December 31 from ASI director general V Vidyavathi. The letter added ₹25 lakh has been allocated for the restoration of the balcony.S Mohammed Haider, a lawyer and a heritage activist who first raised the issue of the maintenance work of the heritage building, said the restoration work of the Asafi Masjid and Persian Hall was long pending. “I am grateful that ASI has allocated funds for the maintenance work.”The restoration work is expected to attract tourists, whose movement on the balcony was restricted in 2019 because of its dilapidated condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-of-lucknow-s-oldest-mosques-set-to-get-facelift-101641191789200.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Week after joining BJP, Sri Hargobindpur MLA back in Congress||A week after joining the BJP in Delhi, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Ladi returned to the Congress fold on Sunday night. Also read: Punjab polls: Congress campaign committee meets to discuss strategyHis son, Harry Singh, confirmed the development on WhatsApp, though Ladi was not available over phone. His son also shared a photo in which Ladi was seen receiving the Congress letter of rejoining. On December 28, Ladi and Qadian Congress MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa joined the saffron party in the presence of Union Jal Shakti minister and the party’s Punjab affairs in-charge, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in New Delhi ahead of the Punjab assembly elections. According to sources, the two leaders had joined the BJP since they were unlikely to be given the Congress ticket in the elections. The sources said Ladi had returned after getting assurance of the ticket from the constituency that is reserved for Scheduled Castes. Ladi is a confidant of Fateh Jung and conquered the traditional Panthic seat of Sri Hargobindpur in 2017 by defeating Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s Manjit Singh Manna Mianwind. 
03-01-2022||Kolkata||Amid surge in Covid cases, vaccination begins for teenagers in Kolkata||Teenagers will get Covid-19 vaccines at all medical colleges, 37 urban health primary centres, and 16 schools in Kolkata as the vaccination for the 15-18 age group begins on Monday amid a surge in infections in the city. One in every three people getting tested has been found positive for the disease in the city.“There are around 250,000 children in the city who fall in the 15-18 years age group. We would start with 16 schools but this number would be scaled up almost every day. All schools have been urged to send their students to the vaccination centres. Children who are not attached to schools would also get jabs,” said Firhad Hakim, mayor, Kolkata. West Bengal has reported a 14-fold rise in Covid-19 cases in seven days.Also Read | Covid-19: No tokens to be issued in Kolkata Metro starting todayAcross the state, 479 schools have been identified in as many blocks and urban local bodies along with 338 hospitals where the vaccinations would be done.The government on Sunday reimposed stricter restrictions till January 15 to check the Covid-19 spread. Apart from closing schools and colleges, it limited the workforce at offices and restricted flights from Delhi and Mumbai.“All academic activities in schools, colleges, and universities will remain closed from January 3. Government and private offices will continue with 50% of the workforce at a time. Local trains will operate with 50% of the seating capacity up to 7 pm,” said chief secretary HK Dwivedi on Sunday.While 439 Covid-19 cases were reported on December 27, the number jumped to 6,513 on Sunday. Kolkata’s weekly (December 24-31) positivity rate was 23.4%. “Even though cases have shot up, there is no need to panic. We have reviewed the health infrastructure, including hospital beds and oxygen support. There is no shortage,” Dwivedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/amid-surge-in-covid-cases-vaccination-begins-for-teenagers-in-kolkata-101641181828232.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Red alert, total curfew: What will happen under GRAP if Delhi's Covid positivity crosses 5%||National capital Delhi has been witnessing a large number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases over the past few weeks. The surge has been reported after the emergence of the Omicron variant, which has a high transmissibility rate and is believed to be more resistant to existing vaccines.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government implemented measure of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) after the positivity rate crossed 0.5 per cent and stayed above it for two days. Under this, the capital was put under yellow alert – the first level or restrictions – which led to night curfew, closing of schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms.But there is increased concern about further spike in the positivity rate due to rising number of Covid-19 cases. It currently stands at 4.59 per cent.What will happen if the positivity rate goes beyond 5 per cent?According to GRAP prepared by the government, if Covid-19 positivity rate crosses the five per cent mark and stays above it for two consecutive days, Delhi will be put under ‘Red’ alert.This means that there would be total curfew – night as well as weekend – on movement of people. However, there will be certain exemptions based on the categories decided by the government.Shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods and services will be closed. Malls and weekly markets will also be shut down.The restaurants and bars will be closed, and delivery of only essential items will be allowed. Hotels and lodges will be allowed to remain open, but with condition that no banquets/conference will be organised. However, room service to in-house guests will be allowed.While cinema halls, banquets, spas, yoga institutes are already closed under the current yellow alert, barber shops and beauty salons too will be asked to down their shutters.Also Read | West Bengal reimposes restrictions, limits flights from Delhi, MumbaiThe government offices too will be closed, except those providing essential and emergency services. Such establishments will be allowed to remain open with 100 per cent staff attendance, according to GRAP. Same will be applicable for private offices.The limitation on gatherings for weddings and funerals will be further brought down to 15, from the current 20.The GRAP norms will also lead to closure of most other places, as well as Delhi Metro, which is currently operating with 50 per cent capacity.Also Read | Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate nears 5%, cases mildOn Sunday, the city reported 3,194 new Covid-19 cases, up from 2,716 cases reported a day earlier. Delhi’s active cases increased to 8,397 on Sunday from 6,360 recorded until a day before, according to the government’s daily health bulletin. Sunday’s tally was the highest single-day rise in since May 20.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, however, said that there is no need to panic because most of the cases are mild or asymptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-alert-total-curfew-what-will-happen-if-delhi-s-covid-positivity-crosses-5-101641173290591.html
03-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana: Death toll in Bhiwani mining incident rises to 5||One more body was pulled out from under the debris at a mining site in Dadam here, taking the death toll to five in an accident triggered by a landslide.Four bodies were recovered on Saturday after the incident. Two people were injured.A BJP MP from the area alleged violation of mining parameters at the site.Meanwhile, officials said the rescue operations will continue for the time being to clear the debris and to rule out the possibility of any other person being trapped there."The body of a worker was pulled out from under the debris late Sunday evening," SHO of Tosham police station Sukhbir said over the phone.The victim was about 50 years of age and belonged to a village near Rohtak.Speaking to reporters in Bhiwani after visiting the accident site, ruling BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendergarh Dharambir Singh alleged violation of several laid down norms for mining at four sites in the Dadam mining zone.He said he will urge Chief Minister Manohal Lal Khattar to order a thorough probe into the landslide and its reasons so that such incidents are not repeated.Speaking to reporters in Panchkula on the sidelines of an event, Khattar, however, said he has directed the mining department to find out whether there was any violation of laid down parameters for mining at the site."If any violation is found, action will be taken," he said.Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner Rippudaman Singh, who visited the site and had been regularly taking stock of the rescue operation, had earlier in the day said the rescue operation at the site was still going on and it was being led by the NDRF.Before the body of the fifth man was pulled out from under the debris, SDM Manish Phogat had said, "At least one more person continues to be trapped under the debris."The SDM had not ruled out the possibility of one more person such as a helper being trapped as their records may not have been maintained."The rescue operation is likely to continue until Monday afternoon," Phogat said. Shifting big boulders was consuming time, he said.After the incident around 9 am on Saturday, police had said around half a dozen dumper trucks and some machines were buried under the debris.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had said several rescue teams, including those from the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and the Army, were pressed into service.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja Sunday demanded a judicial probe, monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge.In a statement, Selja, a former Union minister, alleged that illegal mining was going on in Dadam and deep digging was going on at the site without permission.She said the Congress demands a financial assistance of ₹25 lakh for the next of kin of each of those killed in the incident and ₹10 lakh to those injured.Holding the BJP-JJP government responsible for the incident, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda had on Saturday alleged that there had been a "scam of thousands of crores" in the Dadam mining zone."Even the Supreme Court has made a serious remark on this matter and illegal mining is being done in this area by flouting all rules but the government is not conducting a fair investigation. The opposition demands that there should be a judicial inquiry into the entire scam," Hooda had said.Senior Congress leader and MLA from Tosham, Kiran Choudhary, has demanded an independent probe, alleging that the mining in the area has been going on in an illegal manner.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala too had alleged that the illegal mining was going on under the Khattar regime and asked the BJP government who was responsible for these deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-death-toll-in-bhiwani-mining-incident-rises-to-5-101641171983621.html
03-01-2022||Kolkata||Covid-19: No tokens to be issued in Kolkata Metro starting today||The Kolkata Metro will stop issuing tokens from Monday in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is part of the strict curbs announced by the West Bengal government after a 14-fold rise in Covid-19 cases in just seven days.The restrictions on Metro were issued under the provision under Disaster Management Act 2005 on Sunday (January 2). The number of tokens will be reduced till further notice in order to operate with 50 per cent capacity as per state government's directions.Only smart card holders will be able to travel in the Metro as the counter will only issue these cards and the cardholders will be able to recharge their cards like before.Further, there will be no change in Metro service hours, Kolkata Metro authorities said.The state government has also closed schools and colleges, limited the workforce across offices and restricted flights from Delhi and Mumbai where Covid-19 caseload is high.The restrictions on flights will come into effect from January 5, while schools and colleges will be closed from Monday.“All academic activities in schools, colleges and universities will remain closed. Government and private offices will continue with 50% of the workforce at a time. Local trains will operate with 50% of the seating capacity up to 7 pm,” chief secretary HK Dwivedi said on Sunday.A night curfew is also in place from 10pm to 5am.Kolkata has seen a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few days. Data available with the Union health ministry indicated that its weekly (December 24 – 31) positivity rate stood at 23.4 per cent.On Sunday, West Bengal reported 6,153 new Covid-19 infections, 1,641 more than the previous day, with Kolkata accounting for 3,194 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-no-tokens-to-be-issued-in-kolkata-metro-starting-today-101641170364143.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar gets books from Japan Foundation||Khattar gets books from Japan Foundation Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is taking a three-month online certificate course in Japanese, has received Japanese books as a new year’s gift from Japan Foundation, New Delhi, director general Koji Sato. Kurukshetra University (KU) vice-chancellor Som Nath Sachdeva handed over the gift to Khattar on Sunday. The books are a guide to Japanese language, art, culture, society, religion and mythology. He also received a letter penned in Hindi. Thanking the Japan foundation, the chief minister advised students to learn at least a foreign language, or extra skill to increase their employability. HTCIndri MLA’s son suffers cardiac arrest, dies 
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Farmers will carry out tractor march on R-Day:Tikait||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday announced that farmers will carry out a tractor march on Republic Day.Speaking at a khap mahapanchayat at Bhiwani’s Kitlana toll plaza, Tikait said the Union government was not fulfilling the promise it had made to the five-member committee of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which had spearheaded the year-long agitation against the three contentious farm laws.“The government has neither formed a committee on minimum support price (MSP) nor has it withdrawn the cases filed against the farmers during the farm agitation. We have not ended the agitation but called it off for some time. We have called a meeting of SKM leaders on January 15 to discuss the future course of action,” he said.Meanwhile, Dadri independent MLA Sombir Sangwan, who organised the khap mahapanchayat, said adults should concern their parents before getting married to a partner of their choice. Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik, who was the chief guest, was not able to attend the mahapanchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-will-carry-out-tractor-march-on-rdaytikait-101641169467083.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhiwani landslide: At least one person still trapped, say officials||A day after four persons were killed, and two others were injured after a landslide struck the Dadam mining site in Bhiwani district, officials on Sunday said that it is feared that at least one person is still trapped under the debris, and efforts are on to unearth his body. “As per rescue teams, the person still trapped under the debris used to drive a machine at the mining site,” said Bhiwani superintendent of police Ajit Singh Shekhawat, adding that one of the two persons injured in the landslide had been discharged.Tosham sub-divisional magistrate Manish Phogat did not rule out the possibility of more people, such as helpers, being trapped as their records may not have been maintained in the daily register. “ The entire area near the site has been cordoned off,” the SDM said.Hurdles in rescue opsNational Disaster Response Force deputy director BR Meena said the teams had a tough time carrying out the rescue operations on Saturday night and Sunday morning due to the fog.“We also faced difficulty removing a big boulder. So far, we have pulled out two excavators and four dumpers from the rubble. However, another dumper is still trapped in the debris. We have started drilling and have to break the ceiling of a seven-tonne rock which is 40 feet long and 30 feet wide. The rescue operation will continue till Monday. We have called in mining experts, and explosions are being carried out in small areas to avert another landslide,” Meena said.Team formed to probe matterThe SP said, “The deputy commissioner has constituted a team to investigate the matter, and check whether any norms were violated while mining. So far, there is no evidence that illegal mining was carried out at the Dadam mining site.”A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the mining contract had been given to Yamunanagar-based Govardhan Mines, which pays ₹9 crore to the state each month. “The company has to utilise 10% of the mining profit on developing Dadam village. However, it is yet to launch any developmental project in the region, and owes nine instalments, amounting to nearly ₹81 crore,” he said.On the second day of the rescue operation, teams of the NDRF from Ghaziabad, and State Disaster Response Force team from Madhuban, and an army unit of Hisar joined the rescue operation.Large-scale mining operations are carried out in the Khanak and Dadam hills in Bhiwani’s Tosham assembly constituency.BJP MP blames illegal miningBJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendergarh parliamentary Dharambir Singh alleged that illegal mining was being carried out at the Dadam mining site. “The contractors never allowed the common man to enter the site. They have been extracting the stone being used in building material by violating all norms. They have been extracting stone below the permissible limit. The contractors had extracted stone from a depth of around 400 feet, which is not permitted he said.Two months ago, mining work had been banned on site due to rising pollution levels. Work had restarted on December 31, a day after the National Green Tribunal allowed resumption of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhiwani-landslide-at-least-one-person-still-trapped-say-officials-101641169226984.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana needs 10 lakh more Covid vaccine doses: Vij||With vaccination of the 15-18 age group kicking off on Monday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Sunday said the state needed 10 lakh more coronavirus doses. Vij, who was speaking to Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya during an all-state meeting on ‘Covid Review And Vaccination,’ said preparations had been completed to vaccinate around 15.4 lakh eligible teenagers. “Around 98% people in the state have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 70% have received the second dose,” he said, adding that the state had enough medicines and ventilators to tackle the pandemic. Mandaviya assured Vij that the state will be provided the vaccine doses it required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-needs-10-lakh-more-covid-vaccine-doses-vij-101641168926881.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana can handle a 3rd Covid wave: CM Khattar||With the spectre of the third wave of the coronavirus looming large, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the state has sufficient resources to deal with another wave of the virus.The chief minister also directed deputy commissioners to fine those found violating Covid-related guidelines, and only allow fully vaccinated people in public places.Individuals found flouting Covid norms will have to pay ₹500, while institutions will have to pay ₹5,000 as penalty.  Reviewing Covid preparedness, Khattar asked the officers to strictly observe movement between 11pm to 5am. “Bus stands, mini secretariats, malls, gyms, and other public places should be kept under surveillance, and that entry of people without vaccination certificates should be restricted.”In wake of the spike in cases, the Haryana government had on January 1 ordered the closure of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat districts till January 12. Schools, colleges, polytechnics, industrial training institutes, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes (government as well as private), anganwadi centres and crèches under the woman and child development department have also been closed until further orders. Impressing upon the importance of taking precautions, the CM said, “A vigil should be kept on travellers coming from abroad till it is established that they are asymptomatic. Omicron is rapidly spreading and the delta variant is also active.” Haryana logs 577 fresh cases (BOX) Haryana recorded 577 fresh Covid cases on Sunday. However no new Omicron case was detected. So far, Haryana has recorded 62 Omicron cases, of which 23 are active. Gurugram recorded 358 cases; Faridabad, 83; Panchkula, 32; Ambala, 27; Panipat, 12, Karnal and Kurukshetra 10 each and Hisar three. The new cases have taken the number of active cases in the state to 2,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-can-handle-a-3rd-covid-wave-cmkhattar-101641168688588.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: A working life||The man in the black hat is walking silently along the roadside, and yet he is attracting a great amount of notice. Heads are turning towards him almost instinctively. May be it is the peculiarity of his walking style. His arms, legs, and neck are moving jerkily in short mechanical movements. While the cane in his hand appears to have a life of its own—at one moment whirring into a blur, then slowing down, and picking up velocity yet again. The man’s painted face is frozen into a wide smile.Sikander Nath is a joker—that is the word he uses to describe himself. “My business is to make public laugh… today I’m being Charlie Chaplin.” In his spare time outside of assignments, Mr Nath walks through parts of the city, performing comic acts on the way, and accepting whatever cash people give him for the entertainment. In fact, this is exactly what he is doing today in Gurugram’s New Railway Road. This afternoon, a long traffic jam has clogged up the dusty road, and the “public”—stuck up inside stationary cars and buses—is looking fascinated as Mr Nath carries on with his act.“It is my khandani pesha (hereditary profession),” he says. “My father worked as a joker, my grandfather worked as a joker.” Like Mr Nath, they too have been Chaplin mimics. The family’s repertoire, however, is varied. “We have been Laila Majnu… my dada used to be Jaani Dushman, and also Kroor Singh… I’ve played Motu Patlu in children’s birthday parties.”Expressing satisfaction with his profession, Mr Nath does not expect his children, two sons and one daughter, to continue with the family legacy. “They are in school, they are studying, they will not work as a joker… they will do something else.”Like what?He thinks for a few moments and says, “They will educate themselves, they will find other work, they will earn good salaries… may be they will work in wedding bands, may be they will play the dhol.”Mr Nath now goes back to his work. He starts performing a Chaplin-style mime without uttering a single word. It is like watching a silent movie. Wading into the stranded traffic, he crosses the road, a frozen smile plastered on his painted face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-working-life-101641167410087.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three vehicle lifters caught, 8 two-wheelers seized||With the arrest of three persons, the city police have busted a vehicle lifters’ gang and recovered eight stolen two-wheelers from the possession of the accused.The accused were identified as Chetan Kumar of Haibowal; Ansh Verma of Shiv Puri; and Munsi Kumar of Krishna Nagar.The Division Number 8 police caught the three accused following a tip off.According to the police, inputs were received that three habitual vehicle thieves were present in Saggu Chowk and riding a stolen bike.Acting swiftly, the police installed a check post at the said site and arrested the accused with the stolen vehicle. On further investigation, the police later recovered seven more vehicles. An FIR against them under the provisions of the IPC was registered at the Division Number 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-three-vehicle-lifters-caught-8-two-wheelers-seized-101641162626597.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Har Ghar Pakki Chhat: Ludhiana Central MLA distributes cheques||Ludhiana Central MLA Surinder Dawar distributed cheques worth ₹12,000 at several places in the constituency on Sunday as a part of ‘Har Ghar Pakki Chhat’ campaign to provide a pukka roof for all households. He distributed about 1,000 cheques at numerous places in the constituency, including ward number 61, ward number 8, ward number 20, ward number 59, in addition to other wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/har-ghar-pakki-chhat-ludhiana-central-mla-distributes-cheques-101641162571030.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 40, Ludhiana district reports six-month high for single-day increase in Covid cases||Ludhiana The district on Sunday reported 40 new Covid cases, topping the six-month high of 37 new cases that were reported in a single day on Saturday. The district had reported 18 and 11 cases on Friday and Thursday respectively.Among those who tested positive were three doctors and two international travellers, one from the United States and one from Australia.The district also reported the death of a 52-year-old man from Lohara, who was undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).The number of active cases climbed to 144, a five-month high. The last time that the district had a higher number of active cases, at 148, was on July 16. The highest single-day jump prior to Sunday, meanwhile, was on June 25, when the district saw 43 new cases. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh maintained that no case of the Omicron virus has been reported in the district so far.Sampling number come downThe department had been conducting sampling of around 10,000 people each day, but due to the strike by National Health Mission (NHM) employees, only around 2,000 to 3,000 samples are being collected in a day now. Highlighting the same, a department official said the Covid would report much higher figures if the government was to increase the sampling.The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 87,885, of which 85,623 people have recovered so far. Out of the total active cases of 144, 141 are under home isolation and three patients have been undergoing treatment at private hospitals.As per the administration the district has achieved the 100 percent target of vaccination for people in the age group of 18 years and beyond. A total of 26,35,480 people have received the first dose, while 13,00,433 have been completely inoculated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-40-ludhiana-district-reports-six-month-high-for-single-day-increase-in-covid-cases-101641162569579.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Car crashes into a stationary car; 1 died, 7 injured||A speeding Maruti Swift with four occupants and a driver crashed into a stationary car with three Dugri based residents sitting inside, near Fortis Hospital on January 1 at around 11pm.The car was heading towards Kohara from Samrala Chowk side when the accident took place.The witnesses said the car flipped several times before hitting the stationary car parked on the side of the road.Anil Kumar, 33, of EWS Colony, driving Maruti Swift died in the incident, while seven others were injured.Anil lost control over the wheels and the car flipped after hitting a divider just outside Fortis Hospital and smashed into another car which was parked along the road side.Immediately after the incident, the passerby turned up to rescue the victims. They rushed the victims to the Fortis Hospital from where four persons, who were along Anil, were later shifted to CMC Hospital and Anil was declared dead.The police from Jamalpur Police Station reached the spot and initiated an investigation.Assistant sub-inspector Varinder Singh, investigating officer, said as of now, an inquest proceeding under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated. “No complaint has been lodged so far in the incident. The case will be registered after receiving a complaint,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-car-crashes-into-a-stationary-car-1-died-7-injured-101641162567511.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Kotli inaugurates a slew of development projects in Bibipur and Hol villages||Ludhiana State cabinet minister Gurkirat Kotli on Sunday inaugurated a slew of development works in Bibipur and Hol villages in Khanna.The minister announced the laying of sewer lines, recarpeting of streets and installation of interlocking tiles, establishing a park in Bibipur village, while also announcing the commencement on the work for establishing a new building of Bhagat Ravidas Dharamshala and re-carpeting of streets in Hol village.Speaking on the occasion, Kotli said he had been working to take development works in the villages and bring them at par with cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-minister-gurkirat-kotli-inaugurates-a-slew-of-development-projects-in-bibipur-and-hol-villages-101641162566153.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Special Task Force arrests man in Ludhiana’s Industrial Area with 1.5kg heroin||Ludhiana The Special Task Force (STF) on Saturday arrested an individual for the possession of one and half kg of heroin near Jassal Factory, Industrial Area. Authorities also recovered an electronic weighing machine, empty polythene pouches from the accused’s Tata Safari car.The accused, identified as Akashdeep Singh, 20, who had been residing in Valmiki Colony, has been sent to a three-day police remand by a local court.The STF in-charge inspector Harbans Singh said his team had installed a check post at the Industrial Area following a tip off, adding that they discovered the heroin under the driver’s seat after stopping the accused for checking.The officer said the accused had been peddling drugs for the last two years and brought the heroin from the Ferozpur border area.A case under section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused at the STF police station in SAS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-task-force-arrests-man-in-ludhiana-s-industrial-area-with-1-5kg-heroin-101641162511605.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Commissioner of police of Ludhiana reviews security at District court complex ahead of reopening||The commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, accompanied by senior police and judicial officers, on Sunday reviewed the security arrangements in the District Courts Complex ahead of its January 4 reopening.Bhullar said a thorough review of the security arrangements had been carried out in view of the December 23 blast at the court complex.He said the authorities reviewed all of the complex’s entry points, while also sealing any unofficial entrances, before giving assurances to lawyers, judicial officers and residents that the police was keeping a close tab on the security of not only the court complex but all areas falling under their jurisdiction.Notably, the passage and the main entrance of the regional transport office (RTO), which led to the district court complex, had already been sealed on December 27. The door was primarily used to present persons facing trial under Sections 107 (which pertains to the powers vested with an executive magistrate who may order detaining a person, he thinks, could commit a breach of peace or disturb the public tranquillity), and 151 (prevention of commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).A notice was pasted on the wall redirecting litigants to appear from the main door of the police commissioner’s office. The door leading from the district excise and taxation department towards the district court complex was also sealed. It was primarily used by excise and taxation lawyers.On December 29, all passages leading to the police commissioner’s office from the deputy commissioner’s office were also sealed.The public has been directed to only use the main entrance of the deputy commissioner’s office, where a door frame metal detector has been installed. Similar security arrangements have been made at the entrance of the district court complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/commissioner-of-police-of-ludhiana-reviews-security-at-district-court-complex-ahead-of-reopening-101641162510276.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lockdown-like situation in New Delhi leaves Ludhiana’s hosiery and textile sector staring at losses||Ludhiana The hosiery and textile sector in the city has been impacted by the lockdown-like restrictions in New Delhi, amid rising cases of Omicron, with industrialists reporting up to a 50% drop in sales.The industrial representatives on Sunday said the sector was slowly beginning to recover from the damage suffered due to the pandemic in the last two years, but the recent restrictions in the national capital, including a cap on gatherings in weddings, night curfew, odd-even scheme to open shops, had again created a sense of fear in the minds of traders, which has led to a nosedive in the demand of hosiery and textile. Knitwear and Apparels Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana (KAMAL) president Sudarshan Jain said, “If the weddings will not take place, the sales of garments/textile will ultimately go down. We have already seen about a 50% drop in sales. Once restrictions are imposed by the government, the public also stops spending on garments etc and starts to save money for emergencies.” “We are not against the restrictions as the health of the public should be in priority, but the government should not immediately act strict at once as it inculcates fear in the minds of the public, which is not good for business and economy. The restrictions can be imposed in phases after looking at the number of cases,” he added.Industrialists said a large proportion of manufactured products are sold in wholesale markets in New Delhi, adding that the low demand, non-payment of dues, suspected sales return have all become major concerns. Low sales this year due to relatively high temperatures being witnessed during the winter season and pandemic-related restrictions have added to the woes, the representatives added. Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club president Darshan Dawar said, “Around 30-35 percent of the business has already been impacted as different restrictions have been imposed in Delhi. Fear has grown in the minds of traders due to which they are not stocking the products. Already 25% of the products manufactured by industry have not been sold due to low demand in the market, as comparatively high temperatures are being witnessed. The sector is going through a tough time.”With lockdown-like restrictions being imposed in other states including Haryana and West Bengal as well, the industrialists said the condition will further deteriorate and owners of many units will be forced to shut down operations.Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Association president Harish Dua said, “It is a very critical situation for the sector and the situation might further deteriorate as the payments might get stuck and the manufacturers also suspect sales return. The government should consider the economic impact of imposing the restrictions as many of the units are already on the verge of collapse. The market is already moving through a slump and this has added to the misery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdownlike-situation-in-new-delhi-leaves-ludhiana-s-hosiery-and-textile-sector-staring-at-losses-101641162508622.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | NHAI kicks off work for pedestrian overpass at Sahnewal , more projects in line||After installing a pedestrian overpass at accident prone Sherpur Chowk, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has initiated the work of putting in place another pedestrian overpass at Sahnewal. The move comes following reports of rising number of accidents involving pedestrians.Besides, proposal for Ladhowal- Phillaur bypass including construction of new eight-lane bridge on Satluj River are also under consideration.Overpass was the need of hour“Yes, the projects are under pipeline to ease traffic chaos as Ladhowal area is emerging as a bottle neck. Further, there was a dire need to put in place an overpass to help migrant labourers and residents residing on both sides of the village and help them cross the road cross the highway without putting their life at risk,” said Virendra Singh, project director, NHAI.He further said besides pedestrian overpasses, other projects of public convenience were being carried out to ease the problem being faced by commuters.  ₹300 crore expenditure already doneVirendra Singh added approximately ₹300 crore expenditure has been done in the last one year on road repair, gantries, signages and other maintenance works. The target is to spend around ₹500-600 crore more in the next two years on this highway. 3rd rainwater harvesting system underway“While the rainwater harvesting system installed at Dhandari, Giaspura has started functioning from the second week of December, the construction for a third rainwater harvesting system was underway near Sherpur Chowk. Moreover, the damaged wall of Khanna Flyover has been repaired using the latest techniques minimising the trouble to road users,” said Singh.At both the spots there was a serious problem of water logging which was resulting in damage to the road.He said that six laning of GT Road NH-1 (new NH-44) Panipat-Jalandhar was allotted to a private company in 2009 but due to the poor maintenance of the highway, the NHAI has terminated the contract and since last one year, it is maintaining it directly through its agencies.He added that the road users have suffered a lot of inconvenience during the last eight-nine years due to abnormal delays in construction and poor maintenance.“However, after taking over the project, a lot of work has been done to improve the condition of the highway,” said Virendra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nhai-kicks-off-work-for-pedestrian-overpass-at-sahnewal-more-projects-in-line-101641162506145.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Chronic issues being ignored’: Ludhiana Smart City Ltd director wants Punjab CM to intervene||Raising concern over the ‘ignored’ chronic issues of the city, including traffic congestion and shortage of parking space, one of the directors of the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), Sanjay Goel, has sought chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi’s intervention into the matter. Goel, who is also the chairperson of The Indian Institute of Architects (Punjab Chapter), has written a letter to CM Channi, urging him to convene a meeting with architects and officials of special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed under the smart city mission to resolve the problems. He stated that the cities of the state, including the upcoming smart cities like Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar, are struggling due to traffic congestion and lack of parking space is further taking toll on the public. Different proposals have been made in the past to build multi-storey parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market, Books Market, near Aarti Chowk and other areas, but nothing has been done at the ground level, he added. “No doubt development projects are being taken up, but the chronic problems are being ignored. There is a dire need of establishing at least 10 multi-storey parking in the city. Apart from the old city areas, shortage of parking space is also a major issues in Ghumar Mandi, Model Town and Gol Market,” Goel said. “Encroachments on road sides are also a major issue. A lot of time and fuel is being wasted in traffic jams and public is facing harassment. Also, it adds to pollution. These issues need to the redressed on priority and special committee should be formed to tackle the problems related to traffic congestion and parking. The CM should call a meeting at the earliest,” he added. “Covering of parking space in building due to illegal construction is also a major concern and the government is working to regularise such unauthorised buildings by proposing one-time settlement policy, which is not good. The government and administration need to act strictly as similar issues are being faced in other cities of the state too. There are many other issues, including solid waste management and no proper rainwater harvesting,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chronic-issues-being-ignored-ludhiana-smart-city-ltd-director-wants-punjab-cm-to-intervene-101641162386238.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||LIP will form an alliance with a pro-Punjab party, Bains says at Ludhiana rally||Amid political developments being witnessed in Punjab ahead of the assembly elections and speculations about the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), LIP president Simarjeet Singh Bains said they will enter in an alliance with a pro-Punjab party that would work for the betterment of the state. But no final decision has yet been taken, he added. There are two MLAs of the LIP — Simarjeet Bains from Atam Nagar constituency and his elder brother Balvinder Bains from South constituency. The statement was issued during the ‘Lok Jagao, Punjab Bachao’ rally organised by the LIP near Flower Enclave Chowk on 200ft road (Gill constituency) on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, Bains slammed the traditional parties and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for trying to “befool” the public and making tall promises by announcing freebies even when the state was under a huge debt. He also criticised the AAP for not paying the water bills to the state even as the same was promised by its convener Arvind Kejriwal during 2017 elections. “All parties are announcing freebies for the voters ahead of the elections, but no one has put forward the action plan about how they will do so as the state is already under a debt of ₹3 lakh crore. Even if the government stops illegal mining in Punjab, the state can earn around ₹1 lakh crore revenue annually and the debt can be repaid. But the traditional parties are looting the public exchequer, while the people have been suffering,” Bains said. “We are two MLAs in the LIP and the number will increase with the support of the public. It will not be possible for any party to form its government in the state without the support of the LIP in 2022,” claimed Bains while adding that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress were trying to “tarnish” his image through fake rape complaints. But the public knows the truth and will support the LIP in the upcoming elections, he said. ‘Rape victim’ stages protest near rally siteThe rape victim, who had been sitting on a protest outside the office of police commissioner since February last year to seek the arrest of Bains, reached near rally site and staged an agitation in the presence of cops. The complainant alleged that the Congress had been protecting Bains, even as an FIR has been lodged against him and he has been issued non-bailable warrants.Bains, however, said that issuance of warrants was a judicial process and the case was subjudice. “We have full faith in the judicial system and I believe that justice will be served,” he added. ‘ PM Modi should write off debt of state and farmers’Speaking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state on January 5, Bains said the BJP was in alliance with the SAD for around 25 years in Punjab, but it did nothing concrete for betterment. “Now when the PM is visiting Punjab, he should write off the debt of the state and farmers. Also, Chandigarh should be transferred to Punjab,” he added. Covid norms go for a tossAt a time when cases of Covid are rising and concerns over Omicron variant are mounting, safety norms went for a toss at the rally with hundreds of participants seen without masks and not adhering to social distancing guidelines. Sunny Kainth is party candidate from Gill constituencyDuring the rally, Bains announced Gagandeep Singh Kainth (Sunny) as the party’s candidate from Gill constituency. Kainth is the state president of the LIP’s youth wing and was appointed as in-charge of Gill constituency in the past. He was once considered a close aide of sitting Congress MLA from Gill constituency, Kuldeep Vaid. Former district vice-president of Youth Congress, Kainth had left the party in 2019 after he was reportedly sidelined. He had accused Vaid of corruption and promoting nepotism by trying to bring his family members into politics. Since then, Kainth had been targeting Vaid in the constituency over the problems being faced by residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lip-will-form-an-alliance-with-a-pro-punjab-party-bains-says-at-ludhiana-rally-101641162146341.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Seven more mobile phones recovered from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates||Ludhiana Police recovered seven mobile phones from four prisoners at the central jail.The authorities have been conducting drives on the jail premises ever since the recent Ludhiana court complex bomb blast incident. Notably, the police had also recovered ten mobile phones from the prisoners at the central jail on December 29. Eleven mobile phones were recovered from the jail inmates during a special checking on December 27.Central jail assistant superintendent Sukhdev Singh said while five mobile phones belonged to prisoners Harpreet Singh, Jatinder Singh, Parminder Singh and Raman Kumar, the other two remained unclaimed and an investigation had been launched to look into the matter.He added that a complaint was lodged with the Division 7 police regarding the same, following which the accused were booked under Section 52-A (1) of the Prisons Act.Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, investigating officer, said, “We have booked the accused and will bring them on the production warrant to know the sources that helped them to take the mobile phones inside the jail. The recovered mobile phones will be sent to lab for detailed investigation. The accused have yet to be presented before court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-more-mobile-phones-recovered-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmates-101641161847406.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 8-year-old hit by canter, driver arrested||An eight-year-old girl suffered multiple injuries after being hit by a Tata canter on January 1 near Gurudwara Dukh Bhanjan Sahib, Jalandhar-Ludhiana bypass. The driver Hardip Singh of Jalandhar managed to flee the spot but police on Sunday arrested him, following the complaint of Meena, grandmother of the victim.The victim Shagun, admitted in Apollo Hospital, was accompanying her maternal grandmother to a cloth market when she was hit by the rashly driven canter.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causes grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Salem Tabri Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-8-year-old-hit-by-canter-driver-arrested-101641161845985.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Woman among nine booked for rioting, assault||Nine people, including a woman, have been booked for allegedly beating up and injuring two persons with sharp weapons in Mahadev Nagar on Tuesday, police said on Sunday. The victims are Sunita and her brother Shani. The latter sustained grievous injuries for which he is undergoing treatment at PGIMER in Chandigarh.Acting on the complaint of Sunita of Mahadev Nagar, police have booked Lal, Prem, Umesh, Bhagat, Vijay Shankar, Mantoo, Pintu, Maddu and his mother-in-law in the case. Sunita alleged that on December 28, when she returned from work and reached near her house in the evening, the accused used some racial slur against her. Sunita said when she confronted them, the accused hit her with an iron rod and bricks following which her brother intervened to rescue her. But he was beaten up too, she told the police. She further claimed that the accused snatched her purse carrying ₹1,300 and a pair of earrings, while threatening her with dire consequences.The accused are still absconding. “We will soon nab the accused as teams have been deputed on their manhunt,” said sub-inspector Deep Chand from Sahnewal police station. The FIR in the case has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-among-nine-booked-for-rioting-assault-101641161786268.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Contractual employees lay siege to NH-44||Members of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, Punjab, along with their families and various labour unions launched an indefinite protest and blocked the National Highway 44 (NH-44) in Khanna on Sunday. The protesters blocked the highway in front of the house of Punjab industry and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli. The police tried to pacify the them, but when they did not relent, cops diverted the traffic that resulted in a massive jam on alternative routes connecting the highway. The protesting union activists refused to lift dharna till their demands were met. The day also saw the death of an 18-month-old child, who was in an ambulance stuck in the traffic jam. The parents of the child are residents of Mohanpur village in Khanna.However, leaders of the protesting union said they were not responsible for the death. Varinder Singh Mohi, president of the morcha, said they had submitted a memorandum to the district administration nearly 15 days ago. He said that thousands of employees, along with their family members and children, were also bearing the vagaries of harsh cold weather. Khanna SDM Manjeet Kaur expressed regret over the death of the child. The SDM said she was informed that the child was seriously ill. “The reason of the death is being verified and it is being checked how and where the ambulance got stuck,” she added. In the meantime, the government is in talks with the protesting employees, she said. ‘Govt’s claim mere an eyewash’“The government’s claim of regularising the jobs of 36,000 contractual employees is mere an eyewash and a publicity stunt ahead of the elections. We have a simple demand. Enrol the daily wage employees on contract and regularise those working on contractual basis for a year,” said Mohi.He said that nearly 10,000 members of the union have arrived at the protest site so far and the number is likely to increase in the coming days. He said that each union member has been told to contribute for bedding and food arrangements.Commuters bear the bruntQueues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the highway in Khanna. While cars were being diverted to alternative routes, many passenger buses which were stuck cancelled their onward journey. Several private buses were diverted to Neelo Road, Samrala-Khanna road and Payal - Katani road, which led to a massive traffic jam at Katani Chowk and Samrala city.“We were heading towards Phagwara, but cops diverted the vehicles from Khanna. Now we are told to first go towards Morinda and from there take the connecting highway which leads to Phagwara. It is unfair to commuters and a sheer harassment. First, there should be no protest on the highways. And secondly, the authorities should make proper arrangements to tackle the problem if a prior announcement is made about the protest,” said Surinder Kumar from Karnal, who was visiting a relative in Phagwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-contractual-employees-lay-siege-to-nh44-101641161666174.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh clamps fresh restrictions as daily Covid cases reach 96||With the daily Covid-19 cases hitting the 96 mark on Sunday, a 37% spike from the 70 cases the day before, the UT administration announced a slew of restrictions to contain the spread of the infection.An order issued by UT administrator Dharam Pal stated that restaurants, hotels, cafes, coffee shops, eating places, marriage palaces and banquet halls can operate only at 50% capacity, and only fully vaccinated adults or those who are not due for their second dose will be allowed inside. This will be applicable to all adults, including employees.Earlier, the number of guests at these establishments was capped at 300 or 50% capacity, whichever is lower.Further, Sukhna Lake will remain closed for public on Sunday, and on all other days, it will be open only from 5am to 9am and 6pm to 8pm for morning and evening walkers. Police will ensure that visitors wear masks and maintain social distancing, and violators will be issued challans.Any breach of these orders will invite action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Owners of commercial establishments violating the orders will be fined ₹5,000 and will face action as per law on repeated violation.No access to public places without vaccinationReiterating its earlier order, the UT administration said that people who have yet to receive both doses of Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed in public places in Chandigarh and will face a ₹500 fine if caught.A notice issued by the administrator said, “In public places with large gatherings, like vegetable and grain markets, public transport, parks, religious places, malls, shopping complexes, markets and other similar places, only fully vaccinated adults will be allowed from January 1. In case any adult, with overdue second dose is found, they will be fined ₹500. Non-payment of the fine will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.”Daily tally highest since June 5Chandigarh’s 96 Covid-19 cases on Sunday were the highest single-day count since June 5 when 98 people had tested positive.The city has been witnessing a continuous uptick in cases for the past five days, leading to concerns of another surge.The positivity rate also shot up overnight from 4.75% to 5.5%, as 96 of the 1,744 people tested were found infected. As many as 18 of these were reported from Manimajra alone. As per the UT health department, 82 of the 96 people found infected on Sunday are fully vaccinated. As many as six had got only the first dose, while one has not received any dose. Besides, seven have not been vaccinated yet as they are aged less than 18.“Of the 96 patients, only two required hospitalisation due to their medical history. Most of the fully vaccinated patients are asymptomatic. Though vaccinated people can also get infected, the vaccine is certainly helping in controlling the severity of infection and lowering hospitalisation and fatality rates,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.Virus claims 60-year-old woman’s life in MohaliA 60-year-old woman from Sector 78 became the latest Covid fatality in Mohali on Sunday. She was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Mohali also reported 53 cases, while Panchkula logged 32, making tricity’s single-day tally 181, highest since June when the second wave had started waning.The positivity rate in Mohali was recorded at 4.2%, followed by 2.58% in Panchkula.With this, tricity’s active cases climbed to 614, including 321 in Chandigarh, 164 in Mohali and 129 in Panchkula.Eight areas sealed in ChandigarhThe Chandigarh administration also declared eight new micro-containment zones in the city.The affected areas are located in Sectors 26, 33-D, 37-B, 38-C, 43-B and 50 (Paradise Enclave), and Manimajra and Dadumajra village.UT district magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh said regular screening and monitoring will be done by medical teams, and frequent sanitisation of the area my municipal staff will be carried out. “Residents are advised to strictly follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-clamps-fresh-restrictions-as-daily-covid-cases-reach-96-101641158075906.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Christians in Chandigarh tricity area take out candlelight march||Aggrieved by the vandalism of a statue of Jesus Christ in Ambala and similar incidents in the country, members of the Christian community from across the tricity took out a candlelight march on Sunday evening. Starting from Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, around 450 people walked towards the Sector 17 Plaza.Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, who also participated in the march and later held a prayer in Sector 17 said, “We are troubled by the recent incidents in the country against the Christian community and churches. We sang hymns while moving in a peaceful manner, guided by the police. We held banners on the theme of ‘India is one’. Without forgiveness we cannot move on.”Lawrence Malik, president of the Tricity Churches Association, that had called the march, said, “Multiple vandalism and misbehaviour incidents on the occasion of Christmas were very unfortunate. We just want to go to church and worship in peace. Police must take measures to prevent such incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/christians-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-take-out-candlelight-march-101641158074477.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two days after stone-laying, GMADA cancels site for bus stand in Mohali’s Sector 77||Two days after Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra laid the foundation stone for the new bus stand in Sector 77 on December 31, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has cancelled the site, finding it unviable.The 14-acre site had been finalised along the Airport Road for the ₹150 crore bus stand project. But now stands cancelled, confirmed a senior GMADA official, privy to the development.“The site is not viable as a bus stand in Sector 77 will cause traffic gridlocks near the Airport Road. We are looking for an alternative site and will finalise it soon,” the official added.During the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the bus stand, Brahm Mohindra had said that due to its proximity to Airport Road, passengers would find it more convenient to travel to the Sector-43 Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) in Chandigarh and to other cities from there.In November last year, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had directed GMADA to finalise a new site for the ISBT near Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan in Sohana, where around 14 acres of land is lying vacant. Local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and GMADA chief administrator Vipul Ujwal had attended the meeting along with other senior officials.Mohali already has the region’s first air-conditioned ISBT along the Chandigarh-Kharar highway in Phase 6. Twelve years after its inception, the bus terminal, which also houses a commercial complex, has become partially operational, but the commercial project is stuck in the corporate insolvency resolution process.The demand for a new bus stand within the city was made by Sidhu, following which the CM had directed GMADA to finalise the site, said a senior official who was present in the meeting.When contacted, Sidhu said, “I am not aware of this development, but we will not allow this to happen, as the foundation stone has already been laid for the bus stand. I will take up the matter with the authorities concerned on Monday.”He said as the Mohali municipal corporation was set to launch a local bus service, a bus stand in the centre of the city was the need of the hour.“The new bus stand on the Airport Road will be convenient for local commuters as well. The present bus stand weighs heavy on the pockets of passengers, who have to pay additionally to reach it before starting their journey,” he said.
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shown the door by Congress, Devinder Babla joins BJP with councillor wife||Hours after he was expelled by the Congress following his verbal spat with city Congress president Subhash Chawla on Saturday, party’s vice-president Devinder Singh Babla and his councillor wife, Harpreet Kaur Babla, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Having served the Congress for over three decades, the couple joined the saffron fold in the presence of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Chandigarh member of Parliament (MP) Kirron Kher, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood and senior party leader Sanjay Tandon. With this, BJP’s votes in the MC House, ahead of the mayoral elections, have matched the Aam Aadmi Party’s tally of 14 elected councillors. Apart from BJP’s 13 councillors, MP Kher also has one vote in the House.Before Harpreet switched sides, the BJP had 12 seats in the House, the Congress eight and the Shiromani Akali Dal one.In the House of 35 councillors, the majority mark is 18 votes. With the Chandigarh MP’s vote, 19 becomes the majority mark out of total 36 votes.‘Humiliated several times’Lashing out at the Congress, Devinder said he had been feeling suffocated in the Congress after being humiliated several times. “Even during the MC elections, no senior Congress leader came to our aide and we were left on our own. I have joined the BJP without any condition and hope to revamp the city in the next six months,” he said, claiming that the remaining seven Congress councillors will also soon be joining the BJP.Taking a dig at AAP, Babla said it was a group of frauds, which won the 14 seats by befooling the people of Chandigarh: “Most of their promises before elections were fake.”Wife likely to be BJP’s mayoral faceAs per party sources, the BJP is likely to field Harpreet as its mayoral candidate. She had won the MC election from ward number 10, which was reserved for a woman candidate, with the highest winning margin of 3,103 votes.While welcoming the couple in the party fold, Kher said they will be given full respect in the party. “Tussi saade wehde aaye, tuhadda welcome (Your arrival at our house is welcome),” she said.AAP’s Chandigarh convener Prem Garg said, “Ever since the results of MC elections were announced, BJP has been indulging in horse-trading, which they have proved today. This is not good for the democracy. People should boycott such councillors, who are shifting loyalties right after elections as the public mandate should be respected.”Earlier in the day, Punjab and Chandigarh Congress in-charge Harish Chaudhary expelled Devinder from the primary membership of the party. Through a press release, Chaudhary stated that Devinder had been expelled following various complaints regarding indecent behaviour and anti-party activities.More voices of dissent against ChawlaEven as Devinder Singh Babla and wife Harpreet Kaur Babla joined the BJP, more Congress leaders are demanding the resignation of party’s Chandigarh chief Subhash Chawla.On Sunday, senior party leader Jagjit Singh Kang said it was due to Chawla’s decisions that Congress fared poorly in the MC elections: “He should resign from the party president’s post on moral grounds.”Justifying the verbal spat between Chawla and Babla on Saturday, he said the latter was right on his part.Another Congress leader Harmohinder Singh Lucky said they did not get any support from the leadership and after ticket allotment, candidates were left on their own.“There was a massive flaw in ticket distribution. The stage was set, the Congress was certain to return to power in the municipal corporation, but denying deserving candidates a chance to contest the polls proved to disastrous for the party,” Manoj Lubana, president of the Chandigarh Youth Congress, had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shown-the-door-by-congress-devinder-babla-joins-bjp-with-councillor-wife-101641158071763.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||GMADA rakes in ₹808 crore from sale of nine properties in Mohali||In its fifth and final auction of 2021, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) earned ₹808 crore from the sale of nine properties.As many as 21 properties were on offer in the 13-day e-auction that concluded on Saturday night. However, GMADA found no taker for eight booths and SCOs, two commercial sites in Sector 68, and a hospital and school site.In October, the authority had earned ₹520 crore after selling nine of the 61 properties on offer.In the latest auction, a housing site in Sector 67, measuring 12.6 acres, was the biggest gainer for GMADA, as it went for ₹294 crore against a reserve price of ₹283 crore.A six-acre commercial site in Aerocity, priced at ₹207 crore, raked in ₹281 crore for the authority. Another group housing site in Medicity, New Chandigarh, measuring 5.6 acres, was sold for ₹125 crore against a reserve price of ₹106 crore.Another big earner was a three-acre institutional site in Sector 88, as it brought in ₹33.63 crore against a reserve price of ₹23.80 crore.Priced at ₹41.8 crore, a one-acre commercial site in Sector 68 was auctioned for ₹42.84 crore, while an industrial site in IT City, measuring 2.17 acres, was sold for ₹18.29 crore against a reserve price of ₹18 crore.A half-acre site in IT City went for ₹8 crore against a reserve price of ₹5.7 crore.Out of a total of 10 booths and SCOs, GMADA was able to sell two SCOs in Sectors 53 and 56.Once again, there was no bidder for the school site in Sector 80, which was on sale for ₹28.7 crore. GMADA chief administrator Vipul Ujwal said, “We were able to sell most of our bigger sites, which shows the real estate market is bouncing back after a slump of almost one year.”Umang Jindal, CEO of Homeland Group, said looking at the trend over the past one year, most of investors were interested in projects on Airport Road.In the auction held in August, GMADA had sold only nine of the 44 properties and earned ₹405 crore. Before that, in April, the sale of 11 of 44 sites on auction helped it earn ₹301 crore. The year’s first auction in February had brought in ₹544 crore, while in the auction held in December last year, out of 78 properties, only 10 were sold for ₹134 crore.
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rainy week on the cards in Chandigarh||With two western disturbances (WD) likely to affect the region one after the other, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rain in the city from Tuesday evening onwards.An IMD official said, “Light to moderate rain is expected from Tuesday. The system will be at its peak on Wednesday, when more rain is likely. More precipitation is on the cards even after Thursday, as another WD will affect the region by the end of the week.”Meanwhile, the city’s maximum temperature went down from 21.5°C on Saturday to 20.8°C on Sunday, normal for this time of the year. On the other hand, the minimum temperature rose from 5.1°C to 6.2°C, one notch above normal. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain anywhere between 15°C and 21°C, while the minimum temperature will be between 7°C and 13°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rainy-week-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-101641158068451.html
03-01-2022||Other||Three booked for opening fire in Mohali on New Year’s eve||Two days after gun shots were fired in the air at Kumbran village, Sector 68, on New Year’s eve, the Mohali police on Sunday booked three men. The accused, Ravi, Jagtar Singh and their unidentified accomplice, all hailing from Sangrur, Punjab, were booked on the complaint of Jashandeep Singh, a native of Sirsa, Haryana. A student of DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, Jashandeep alleged that he and his friends had a physical altercation with Ravi’s group in an elevator of a commercial building in Kumbran village on December 31.Jashandeep alleged that when the elevator stopped on the ground floor, Ravi stepped out and took out a pistol, which he handed to his friend Jagtar. The group then surrounded them and opened fire in the air, threatening to kill them. He alleged that the accused were in an inebriated condition and fled in a Maruti Swift.Investigating officer ASI Jeevan Singh said on getting information about the incident, police reached the spot and found a bullet shell. He said the accused lived in a PG accommodation in Kumbran village, and after having dinner at a restaurant, they were coming down in an elevator in which Jashandeep and his friends were also present. On Jashandeep’s complaint, the accused have been booked under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Phase 8 police station. Police are conducting raids to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-booked-for-opening-fire-in-mohali-on-new-year-s-eve-101641158067252.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kharar man nabs snatcher trying to flee with mother’s gold earrings||A snatcher, who was trying to flee after ripping out an 82-year-old woman’s gold earrings in Kharar on Sunday, was nabbed by her alert son. The accused was identified as Parvinder Singh, a resident of Patiala.Investigating officer Narinder Singh said the victim, Jaswant Kaur, was sitting in her courtyard in Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar of Kharar around 3.45pm on Sunday. The accused arrived at her house on a motorcycle and tried to flee after snatching her gold earrings, leaving her bleeding. The victim raised the alarm, alerting her son, Lakhveer Singh, who chased the snatcher and caught him, before handing him over to the police. The earrings were recovered from the accused, who has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Kharar City police station. According to police, the accused was using a fake number plate on his motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-man-nabs-snatcher-trying-to-flee-with-mother-s-gold-earrings-101641158065964.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air pollution climbs, back in ‘severe’ zone||The Capital recorded its first ‘severe’ air day of the year on Sunday, worsening to that zone for the first time since December 26, showed data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).On Sunday, Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 404, considered to be in the ‘severe’ zone, in a deterioration from 362 (very poor) the previous day.The city’s AQI was last ‘severe’ on December 26, when the Capital’s pollution gauges hit 459.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Sunday’s AQI spike was due to accumulated pollutants over the last two days, caused by combination of low temperatures and cracker bursting on New Year’s Eve and January 1.Forecasts by Safar, the air quality monitoring body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, predicted further deterioration in air quality till Tuesday, owing to firecracker emissions and cold wave conditions.“Cold wave and emissions from crackers will continue to impact Delhi’s air till Tuesday, after which there will be a slight improvement. The major cause of this dip in air quality is low temperature,” Safar’s air quality forecast read on Sunday.Met officials said temperatures in Delhi are expected to rise from Monday, which will eventually bring the city some respite from the high pollution levels.There is also a forecast of a fresh western disturbance impacting Delhi and the neighbouring states from January 5, which will also result in light rain and improved wind speed in the region, facilitating dispersion of pollutants.“Wind speeds will start improving from Tuesday and the accumulation of pollutants will clear off slightly. On Monday, the AQI will slip back to the very poor zone,” said a senior IMD scientist.Meanwhile, temperatures in the city are likely to increase in the coming days, IMD said.On Sunday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the base station for Delhi, was 5 degrees Celsius, two below what is considered normal for this time of the year.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature was 20.4°C, a notch above normal.“From Monday, temperatures will start increasing and from January 5 to January 8, minimum temperatures could touch 10°C,” the Met forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-pollution-climbs-back-in-severe-zone-101641150202335.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha chairs high-level meeting to review Covid situation||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday chaired a high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation, Omicron, vaccination for 15-18 age group and preparedness of health infrastructure across the J&K UT.While chairing the meetings with the Covid task force and DCs, SPs, the LG issued directions for ensuring the functioning of oxygen plants, availability of requisite medicines, audit of ICU and oxygen supported beds across all hospitals in the UT in view of the new variant and rise in the cases across the country.He directed deputy commissioners and health officials to ensure the infrastructure beginning from the panchayat level is strengthened and optimally utilised. Health teams in the districts were directed to focus on prompt contact tracing, audit of oxygen cylinders and concentrators as well as availability and functioning of ventilators.The meeting discussed the time-bound implementation of the action plan of Covid vaccination drive for the 15-18 year age group to be started on January 3.Enquiring about the modalities and preparations done for the smooth administering of Covid vaccine to the 15-18 age group, Sinha directed for ensuring observance of the mandatory monitoring period of 30 minutes of each inoculated person.District-wise status of Covid containment measures was sought from the respective deputy commissioners where they informed the chair about the implementation of Covid protocols and awareness campaigns being run to sensitise people regarding the danger of the Omicron variant.The LG directed the health department and district teams to keep their men and machinery ready, health infra, testing and vaccination capacities up to the mark and undertake a dry run of PSA oxygen plants and other health equipment for effective management of any emergent situation.Reviewing various parameters of Covid analysis, the LG underlined the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour, which includes maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. He directed the district administrations to ensure proper implementation of Covid protocol.Directions were also issued to directors of health services, Jammu, and Kashmir, to conduct a meticulous mock drill for preparing their resources to deal with any emergent situation.He asked the deputy commissioners and CMOs to submit a joint report enlisting the steps of preparation and status of health infra and human resources in their respective districts to effectively deal with any emergent situation.He also congratulated the people of Anantnag and Budgam for completing 100% coverage of 2nd dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-chairs-high-level-meeting-to-review-covid-situation-101641155431733.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sub-junior badminton tournament: Sanskruti, Aneri record wins||Sanskruti Satarkar and Aneri Kotak won their qualification girls’ singles U-17 round two matches on the first day of the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, on Sunday. The tournament is being organised by Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, under the aegis of Haryana Badminton Association.In other qualification girls’ singles U-17 round two matches, Aarti Chougale beat Zenith Abbigail 15-10, 15-9; Padmini Revilla Reddy ousted Naga Sahithi Mandaleeka 15-9, 15-10; Srimeenakshi K. beat Sanjana Sharma 15-5, 15-9 while Anusanjana Murali outplayed Mihika Jagdale 15-4, 15-12 to surge ahead. Ketaki Thite defeated Tanvi Gupta 15-10, 19-17 and Muskaan Khan got the better of Aadhira Rajkumar 15-4, 15-13. In the boys’ U-17 singles qualification round one matches, Hursh Singh Thokchom pipped Aryan Epte 15-11, 16-14; Suryanshu Tripathi routed Krishna Sharma 15-12, 15-8, Pranav Krishnamurthi Vamsi beat Krishna Jarugumilli 15-5, 15-6 and Harshit Dahiya overpowered Aaryan 15-1, 15-1. Sugi Sai Bala Singha G also recorded an easy win over Soham Shilimkar 15-8, 15-6 and Sparsh Seth Kanishk beat Kiran Bengre 15-3, 15-7. Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar while inaugurating the tournament said the department of sports and youth affairs has been directed to conduct mapping as per the specialisation of sports in each district so that necessary infrastructure could be upgraded accordingly. He also announced to give ₹11 lakh to the Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, from his discretionary fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subjunior-badminton-tournament-sanskruti-aneri-record-wins-101641155430236.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir reports 165 fresh Covid infections; Srinagar logs highest cases||Jammu and Kashmir reported 165 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, an official health bulletin said.Of the total cases, 99 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 66 infections.The union territory reported the highest 41 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 31 cases in Jammu and 18 in Baramulla. As many as 15 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 444 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 313 and 148 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 133 with active positive cases reaching 1,429.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 55,509 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.870 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,35,665 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.25%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,41,624 and the death toll has reached 4,530.The officials said that 62,778 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,157 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 883 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-165-fresh-covid-infections-srinagar-logs-highest-cases-101641155367445.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi tragedy: Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha chairs meet with shrine board officials||A day after a stampede left 12 pilgrims dead and 15 others injured at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine on Saturday, the lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, chaired a meeting of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board on Sunday.Sinha, who is also the chairman of the SMVDSB, took several decisions to ensure the safety of the pilgrims.“Chaired a meeting of SMVD Shrine Board. Several decisions have been taken to ensure the safety of pilgrims. Besides ₹10 lakh announced as an ex gratia, additional amount of ₹5 lakh to be given to the next of kin of the pilgrims who lost their lives in the unfortunate tragic incident,” he wrote on his Twitter handle.Directions were issued for physical and systematic improvements wherever required after critical examination, augmentation of infrastructure, online booking to be made 100%, he wrote further.Sinha informed that steps, including decongestion of the entire track, appropriate use of technology for effective crowd control and queue management besides RFID tracking, shall be put in place. Members of the shrine board will monitor the implementation.Survivors of the stampede have demanded a CBI probe and booking officials of the shrine board, administration and the police department under Section 302 of the IPC.Meanwhile, divisional commissioner, Jammu, Dr Raghav Langer issued a public notice regarding Vaishno Devi stampede incident.He has sought evidences, leads and clues that led to the stampede.“Any person, who desires to furnish any facts, statements, evidence may share the same on email Id: divcomjmu-jk@nic.in or at WhatsApp number 09419202723 or at landline number 0191-2478996 by or before January 5. Any person who desires to meet in person, may appear before inquiry committee in person on January 5 between 11 am to 1 pm at divisional commissioner’s office, Rail Head Complex, Panama Chowk, Jammu,” read an order issued by him.The LG has already constituted a probe panel headed by home secretary Shaleen Kabra. It has two members--ADGP Mukesh Singh and Raghav Langer.The committee has been constituted to examine in detail causes/reasons behind the incident, point out lapses, fix the responsibility, and suggest appropriate standard operating procedures (SOPs) and measures for preventing the recurrence of such incidents in the future.“This committee shall submit its report within a week’s time to the government,” reads the order issued by the general administration department, J&K government.
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kashmir to get 5 more police stations raising Srinagar’s strength to 31||The Jammu and Kashmir government has sanctioned five additional police stations or posts in Kashmir, four of them in the summer capital Srinagar and one in the central district of Budgam.Besides, it has also ordered the upgrading of three police posts of Srinagar to police stations.Currently, Jammu and Kashmir has at least 203 police stations and posts of which the highest 27 are in Srinagar followed by 26 in the Jammu district. With the establishment of new police stations and posts, Srinagar’s strength of police stations and posts will go up to 31 and that of Budgam to eight.The sanction came on Saturday by the home department, government of Jammu and Kashmir, which also gave a nod for the creation of 310 posts of assistant sub-inspector, constable and follower.The government notification provides for the creation of police units in Srinagar’s Shalteng, Sangam, Khimber, Tengpora and Budgam’s Mouchwa.It also provided for the upgradation of three police posts in the Bemina, Chanapora and Ahmed Nagar areas of Srinagar to police stations.The government further sanctioned the creation of 310 posts of various ranks, with 49 new posts for assistant sub-inspector, 246 for constable and 15 for follower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-to-get-5-more-police-stations-raising-srinagar-s-strength-to-31-101641155307302.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Army: Infiltrator killed in J-K’s Kupwara, Pakistan’s BAT bid foiled||The Indian army on Sunday accused Pakistan of breaching an ongoing ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) and claimed to have foiled an infiltration bid after killing an armed person on Saturday in north Kashmir’s Kupwara sector.The army said that the infiltration or action by Pakistan’s Border Action Team (BAT) was attempted by an individual in the Keran sector of Kupwara on Saturday which was foiled by the army leading to the killing of the intruder.“In a complete breach of the ongoing ceasefire understanding between the two armies across the Line of Control, an infiltration or BAT action was attempted in the Keran Sector of Kupwara district on January 1. Swift action by the troops deployed at the Line of Control foiled the bid and eliminated the terrorist, identified as Mohd Shabbir Malik, a Pakistani national,” said Maj Gen Abhijit S Pendharkar, GOC, 28 Division, in a press briefing at Kupwara.“This clearly establishes that Pakistan continues to sponsor cross border terror. A hotline communication has been made to the Pakistan army asking them to take back the body of the killed individual,” he said.According to officials, BAT is said to be a mix of regular Pakistani soldiers and militants who are known for attacks on the Indian army on the border. Pakistan has always denied these allegations.Pendharkar said that the infiltrator was equipped with weapons, ammunition and warlike stores.“The incident site is located on the Pakistani side of the Anti-Infiltration Obstacle System, kept under surveillance by the Indian army to effectively counter any nefarious activity by the infiltrators or Pakistan army,” he said.In February, Indian and Pakistan’s militaries had agreed to strictly observe a ceasefire agreement along the LoC after years of tumultuous relationship on the border between the two armies.Pendharkar said in complete breach of the ceasefire understanding arrived at between the DGMOs, the armed intruder dressed in Pathani suit and a black jacket was detected moving from areas under the control of the Pakistan army across the LoC on Saturday.“Ambushes were laid along likely routes that could be adopted by the intruder and movement was followed. The ambush was sprung at the opportune moment and the infiltrator was eliminated. The body of the slain infiltrator was recovered along with one AK 47 and a large quantity of ammunition, including seven grenades,” he saidThe army said that the surveillance of the area is in progress, denying any “exploitation” of the bad weather condition prevailing in the area.“A search of the belongings revealed Pakistani national’s identity card and vaccination certificates (issued by the ministry of national health services regulation and coordination, Government of Pakistan) identifying him as Mohd Shabir Malik. The belongings also include a photo of the infiltrator in army uniform,” he said.In response to a question, the officer said that the intelligence inputs of these areas are always there from where infiltration may be attempted by some terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-infiltrator-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kupwara-pakistan-s-bat-bid-foiled-101641155305448.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur inaugurates winter carnival in Manali||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated a five-day national-level winter carnival by offering prayers at the Hadimba Temple in Manali and flagging off the carnival parade from the Circuit House, Manali. He inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of developmental projects of ₹41 crore and also inaugurated the Swarnim Van Mahotsav.He inaugurated the Bhekhli-Jindaud-Biasar road from Ramshila highway constructed at a cost of ₹16.93 crore, Mari-Gadherni-Shaleen road constructed at a cost of ₹3.97 crore, a bridge over Haripur nullah constructed at a cost of ₹1.78 crore, artificial rock climbing wall of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Mountaineering and Allied Sports Institute, Manali, and Manali Range Office constructed at a cost of ₹50 lakh. He also inaugurated the Nature Park Beas-Bihal constructed at a cost of ₹3 crore and Swarnim Vatika Kothi constructed at a cost of ₹26 lakh.Jai Ram Thakur laid the foundation stone of the Hamta-Chikka Forest Inspection Road to be constructed at a cost of ₹30 lakh, jeepable bridge over Khanaura Nullah to be constructed with an expenditure of ₹89 lakh and motorable bridge over the Beas river at Bahang to be constructed at a cost of Rs12 crore.The CM also inaugurated a cultural programme at Manu Rangshala.Later, while addressing the public meeting, the CM said that with the construction of new bridges and roads, various places would be developed as tourist places, which would boost tourism in the area. He said that the rock climbing wall would facilitate adventure sports enthusiasts and strengthen adventure tourism activities in Manali. The Beas Bihal Nature Park would provide a clean and beautiful natural environment to tourists, besides providing employment opportunities to the local people.He said that keeping in view the importance of forests, the state government is laying emphasis on the expansion and strengthening of forest areas. As many as 4,38,12,000 saplings have been planted during various Van Mahotsav organised during four years in the state.Jai Ram Thakur also observed the tableaux presented by Mahila Mandals, various departments and institutions on the occasion.He announced ₹2.50 crore for the construction of bridge over Kathi Nullah, ₹1.22 crore for a bridge to be built in Grahan village, upgradation of Government High School, Jindaur, to senior secondary school and the upgradation of Government Middle School, Meha, to government high school. He also honoured Anchal Thakur of Manali for winning a bronze medal in the International Skiing Competition held in Montenegro, Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-inaugurates-winter-carnival-in-manali-101641155252409.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mumbai woman killed, 17 injured in road accidents in Himachal||A woman was killed and 14 others were injured after two tourist buses met with an accident in Bilaspur district on Sunday, while three others, including a driver, sustained injuries in another accident at Sundernagar in Mandi.The accident took place at Garha Morha on the Chandigarh-Manali national highway. The tourist bus bearing (PB 01 A 9912) number was on its way from Manali to Chandigarh. It was carrying 45 passengers. A preliminary investigation revealed the driver of the bus could not negotiate a curve due to over-speeding. Soon after the accident, a woman passenger in the bus, who was helping injured students to carry their luggage on the roadside from the bus that had turned turtle, was crushed to death by another bus. The bus lost its control and veered off and hung from the edge of the road after hitting the parapet. The bus was carrying 42 passengers. Police personnel had signalled the second bus to stop but the driver could not apply breaks in time, said superintendent of police, Bilaspur, Saju Ram Rana.The deceased is a resident of Mumbai. The injured were shifted to Nalagarh hospital.“One of the passengers identified as Ruksin Madon (23), a resident of Mumbai, was helping the injured passengers when the second bus crushed her to death. There were three buses plying one after another. All the three buses belonged to the same tour and travel company, he said, adding that the travellers were returning to Chandigarh after celebrating New Year. Most of the passengers were students. In another mishap, three persons, including the driver of the bus, sustained injury. The mishap occurred near Sundernagar on the Manali – Chandigarh highway. The bus was on its way from Manali to Chandigarh. The driver of the bus lost control over the vehicle and the bus rammed into the main gate of the Dehar powerhouse near Salaparh. The condition of the bus driver is stated to be critical. He was taken to Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College at Ner Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mumbai-woman-killed-17-injured-in-road-accidents-in-himachal-101641155245457.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Excise and Taxation Department collected ₹342 crore under GST in December||The Excise and Taxation Department has collected ₹342 crore under the GST in December. The GST collections in the current financial year up to December 2021 stands at ₹3,157.26 crore vis-a-vis ₹2370.45 crore during the same period of the last financial year which is 33 % more than the last financial year.A spokesperson of the department said a number of initiatives of the department include capacity building of tax officers, nudging non-filers after the last date of filing of returns, performance monitoring of field functionaries, verification of e-way bills and input tax credit are some of the factors which have led to the improvement in collections.The spokesperson said the department plans to organise a tax haat programme in the near future to further improve the performance by way of voluntary compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-excise-and-taxation-department-collected-rs-342-crore-under-gst-in-december-101641155186679.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Private varsity in Solan sold 50,000 fake degrees: SIT||With the investigation into multi-crore fake degree scams on the conclusive stage, sleuths have come across 50,000 bogus degrees sold by Manav Bharti University in Solan. “From the records we have so far concluded that 45,000 fake degrees were sold by the university and its touts spread in various states. The number could be more. About 5,000 more degrees are being scrutinised,” said an official of the Special Investigating Team (SIT). “The numbers could be more. We have come across lots of digital evidence suggesting that more degrees were sold,” he said.The probe revealed that each degree related to technical subjects was sold to students within and outside Himachal Pradesh from ₹1 lakh to ₹3 lakh. The SIT team during the investigation rounded up a Jammu-based agent of the university who struck deals locally for selling the fake degrees. The SIT headed by additional DGP (CID) N Venugopal has four teams looking into the financial part -- land procurement, digital evidence, inter-state linkages as well as identification of fake degrees. The sleuths scanned more than 60 hard disks to acquire information.They found that the manager of Manav Bharti University sold degrees outside the state through “agents” who in return got handsome commissions. In a majority of cases, buyers paid cash for degrees to these agents who provided details of the candidates to the university for making the fake degrees. Sleuths were sent to seven states, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. Visits were also made to Jammu, Delhi, Chandigarh and Kashmir to trace the whereabouts of the agents. The probe found that the university enrolled more than 95,000 students in different courses. The fake degree scam was unearthed in February 2019, a year after the University Grants Commission (UGC) received an anonymous complaint about the alleged sale of more than 5 lakh degrees by two private universities in HP, MBU in Solan and APG in Shimla. The UGC then apprised the state government of the matter and sought appropriate action against the institutes. A case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against university officials for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy on March 3. Manav Bharti University chairman Raj Kumar Rana, registrar of the university KK Singh, two university officials, Anupama Thakur and Munish Goel, were arrested in March 2021.Of the ₹440-crore properties belonging to Rana and his family, those valuing ₹194.74 crore are linked to the proceeds of the crime and have been attached. His wife and daughter are in Australia. Investigating agencies have stepped up efforts to bring them back to India. 
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF World Juniors tennis tournament: Deep, Niyati qualify for main draw||Top seeds Deep Munim and Niyati Kukreti won their matches in the boys’ U-18 and girls’ U-18 final qualifying round, respectively, to enter the main draw of the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium, Sector 10, on Sunday. Deep Munim outplayed Krish Tyagi 4-6, 7-6(1) [10-4] while Niyati Kukreti routed Sreenidhi Reddy Amireddy 6-4, 6-3.Resultsof singles final qualifying roundBoys’ U-18: Deep Munim [1] bt Krish Tyagi 4-6, 7-6(1) [10-4]; Akarsh Gaonkar [6] bt Aryan Arora 6-4, 6-1; Kabir Chhabria [5] bt Arunava Majumder [3] 6-0, 6-3; Senthil Kumar R [4] bt Hitesh Chauhan [8] 6-3, 1-6 [10-8].Girls’ U-18: Niyati Kukreti [1] bt Sreenidhi Reddy Amireddy 6-4, 6-3; Janani Ramesh [5] bt Hitakamya Singh Narwal 3-6, 6-4 [10-5], Suryanshi bt Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-world-juniors-tennis-tournament-deep-niyati-qualify-for-main-draw-101641155065663.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: SAD (Sanyukt) president meets protesting truckers||Rajya Sabha member and president of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, on Sunday met truck operators who have been on strike since December 6 at Chhat light point on Airport Road, demanding revival of truck unions.Dhindsa assured the protestors that if they come into power, they will revive the truck unions in the state. He told the truckers to unite and elect the government which will fulfil their demands.He said that during the SAD regime, truck unions were functional and he will also take up the matter with Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and help solve their other issues also.He added that his party had supported the farmers during their agitation against the farm laws and now they have decided to be part of the alliance with the BJP to address their issues.Union district vice-president Amandeep Singh, said: “After the 2017 assembly elections, all truck unions in the state were dissolved by Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. As Charanjit Singh Channi is at the helm now, we demand that he should revive them. We also demand that transportation rates be increased, as truck operators are suffering from an economic downturn.”SAD (Sanyukt), Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and BJP have formed an alliance to contest the assembly elections scheduled in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-sad-sanyukt-president-meets-protesting-truckers-101641154825424.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana governor urges journalists to report on basis of facts||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Sunday called upon journalists to refrain from adding their views to news items and report on the basis of facts.Dattatreya was presiding over the Patrakarita Gaurav Puraskar Samaroh organised by Haryana Patrakar Sangh in Panchkula. He also presented awards to a number of journalists during the programme. He said that journalists have to unite with inclusive thinking and work for each other’s interests in a professional manner. “This will increase sensitivity towards the media, which is the fourth pillar of democracy, in the government and administrative system,” he said.He said that journalists should work fearlessly and with complete independence, so that the government can function better.“Today is the age of social media, so the meaning of the word press has widened. The impact of social media in the press cannot be denied. In such a situation, there is also a challenge with regard to the authenticity of information. In this age of social media, the responsibility of mainstream media has increased,” he said.He added, “In this era, the media should do its work by maintaining a balance between moral values and materialism. Journalism is a clean and pious profession and journalists have to set an example for the coming generations, while keeping in mind the priority of the nation and society,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-governor-urges-journalists-to-report-on-basis-of-facts-101641154645476.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Mohali youth duped of ₹9.13 lakh in lieu of visa to Switzerland||A 24-year-old from Mohali was duped of ₹9.13 lakh in lieu of a study visa for Switzerland. The owner of Overseas EDU Services, based in Sector 8, Chandigarh, Kamal Kumar Bhumbla, has been booked for cheating by the Sector 3 police.The victim, Atinder Singh of Naraingarh village, Mohali, said had paid ₹9.13 lakh to Bhumbla and his wife for the visa. But, they neither gave him the visa, nor returned his money.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. The accused haven’t been arrested yet.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSBatteries of 4 cars stolenThe batteries of four vehicles parked near Shivalik Garden in Manimajra were stolen on the night of New Year’s Eve on Friday. The complainant, Kartar Singh of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, said that someone had broken the windowpanes of cars belonging to him, Balbir Singh, Jagjit Singh and Puneet Kumar and stolen their batteries . A theft case has been registered.Aryans College of Law organises fest Aryans College of Law, Rajpura, organised Law Fest-2021, where speech, essay-writing and moot court competition were organised. During the felicitation ceremony, winners and participants were honoured with medals and certificates by Anshu Kataria, chairman of Aryans Group. PU non-teaching staff to mark black dayThe non-teaching staff at Panjab University (PU) has decided to mark Monday, the first working day of 2022, as a black day and hold a protest march to press for their demands. Members of Panjab University Non Teaching Employees Federation (PUNTEF) have been protesting since last Monday at the campus over the deferment of compassionate appointments and non-implementation of 6th pay commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-fraud-mohali-youth-duped-of-9-13-lakh-in-lieu-of-visa-to-switzerland-101641154345275.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Teachers’ strike: No clarity on PU exams; students in a fix||With university and college teachers’ strike over non-implementation of UGC pay scales entering its second month, students of Panjab University (PU) and affiliated colleges are confused over when the semester exams will be held.The exams were earlier scheduled for December, but had to be deferred amid the strike. Even the practical exams were postponed after teachers suspended all the academic activities from December 1 onwards.Nethala Janardan Karuna Tejesh, a law student at PU, said, “Students are in a state of confusion as we do not know when the exams will be conducted and we have received no update on the schedule. My exam was scheduled to start from January 1 and I waited till the last day of December for any announcements.”The students said that they are majorly affected due to the ongoing strike, as they have no clarity on when it will end. They are also apprehensive of their academic session getting delayed. “The students are the main victims of the ongoing agitation of teachers and has left us stressed. Those who are from other cities are confused over where they should stay,” said a student of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, Chandigarh.PU’s controller of examination, Jagat Bhushan said, “We are ready to start the semester exams as soon as the agitation gets over, with a short notice to the candidates.”Left with no option: Teachers’ bodyThe teachers say that they are left with no option but to suspend academic activities, as their demands have not been fulfilled even after a month since they started the protest. Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “It is painful for us to disrupt the exams. The Punjab government should immediately resolve the matter so that students do not suffer.”Teachers across five universities, over 150 colleges (government and aided) in Chandigarh and Punjab, under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), had declared an indefinite protest on December 1 to demand immediate implementation of the revised scales as per the seventh pay commission and withdrawal of Punjab government’s decision to delink the pay scales from UGC. They have suspended all academic activities since then. 
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs in Haryana might be made stricter in coming days: Anil Vij||With fresh Covid restrictions in place from Sunday onward in five districts of Haryana, including Ambala and Panchkula, state health minister Anil Vij said the curbs that were imposed in view of the surge in Covid cases in these areas and might be made stricter in the coming days. Vij said that teams constituted by deputy commissioners of respective districts will conduct inspections at public places and offices to take action against non-vaccinated residents and employees.A state-level event will be organized at Ambala Cantonment’s SD College on Monday, where Vij will launch the vaccination for the 15 to 18 age group. Officials said that he will also chair a virtual meeting of civil surgeons of the state and address them on the issue.In Ambala, all markets remained closed after 5pm in adherence to government orders. The district currently has 135 active cases, with 27 fresh infections reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-in-haryana-might-be-made-stricter-in-coming-days-anil-vij-101641153505098.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Chandigarh sees 400% increase in daily vaccinations||Amid an uptick in Covid-19 infections and restrictions imposed on entry of partially vaccinated people in public places, the vaccination drive in Chandigarh has started picking up pace.On an average, around 11,640 people were vaccinated daily in the past one week from December 27 to January 2. In the week ending on December 26, 2,301 people were getting inoculated.In the past week, against the target of 8.4 lakh, the health department has administered the first dose to 9,95,025 (118%) people, which includes migrants, and both doses to 7,61,882 (90%). On Sunday, 9,126 people got jabbed in UT, of which 6,603 got their second dose. UT health secretary Yashpal Garg, said, “Around 10 days ago, only 2,000 to 2,500 people were getting vaccinated in Chandigarh per day. Over 1 lakh people who had taken their first dose had not turned up to take their second jab, even after completion of the recommended vaccine time gap. However, after the UT administration announced the ban on partially vaccinated people from entering any public place in Chandigarh, people have started coming forward.”“The overdue cases are also decreasing and if the daily vaccination average remains the same, UT will soon accomplish its target of fully vaccinating its eligible population”, Garg said, adding that the first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus, especially with variants like Omicron spreading fast.“The vaccinated people, especially those who have completed their vaccination cycle, are not getting severe complications even after getting infected with the virus. The hospitalisation and fatality rate have drastically come down as vaccination is helping in controlling severity and transmission of the virus”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-chandigarh-sees-400-increase-in-daily-vaccinations-101641153266849.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Follow Covid appropriate behaviour: Lucknow administration||Lucknow: District magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Sunday flagged off 30 vans to spread awareness about Covid-19 and preventive measures to stay safe. He also launched 12 sanitisation vehicles of Lucknow Municipal Corporation from GPO, Hazratganj and urged people to get vaccinated and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. “We cannot be negligent as the threat of Covid-19 is not yet over,” said the DM. He distributed pamphlets among people regarding vaccination of children, which is set to begin from January 3, at 40 centers in Lucknow. Apart from launching of the vans, the DM also formed a human chain of 110 Covid-19 awareness volunteers from 110 wards, and 20 civil defense volunteers. They pledged to inform people of their areas about Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and vaccination, especially for children. The district magistrate also visited markets located in Hazratganj and interacted with shop owners, their staff and customers. “All staff members should use masks and not allow customers to enter their establishments without wearing masks,” DM said, while giving strict instructions about Covid-19 precautions to be followed. He asked the staffers to paste pamphlets outside their shops, on which information regarding preventive measures and vaccination have been given. Inputs from Faara Nadeem||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/follow-covid-appropriate-behaviour-lucknow-administration-101641151405270.html
03-01-2022||Other||100-bed hospital with oxygen plant inaugurated in Prayagraj’s Bhagwatpur block||PRAYAGRAJ: In a major step to take on the third wave of Coronavirus outbreak, UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh along with Phulpur MP Keshari Devi Patel inaugurated a 100-bed hospital in Bhagwatpur block of the district, on Sunday. During the inaugural ceremony of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital, the minister said that the 100-bed hospital built during the Kumbh-2019 was praised by ambassadors of Australia and Germany who had visited it. “Since then, I was keen on having a permanent hospital here. OPD services have started at the hospital while rest of the facilities will begin soon,” he said. According to Singh, the construction work of the hospital was started during the Corona period. The special feature of this 100-bed hospital is that it has its own oxygen plant. Along with this, connection of oxygen pipe has been given to each bed to ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen or problem in supplying it to needy patients here, in case emergency situation arises. Till now the people of Bhagwatpur block had to depend on the Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beili) Hospital or SRN Hospital, both located in the heart of Sangam city around 20 km away, for proper treatment. Singh, who is the MLA from Allahabad West assembly constituency under which Bhagwatpur falls, said that the past 40 years of history of neglect of the area has changed in last the five years. He said that for 70 years since Independence, people of the 56 villages of Allahabad West had to cross the city and move to Kaudihar for the sake of better facilities as the area was severely neglected.“But in 2017, I had stated that if you sow caste and religion, you will reap the same, but if you sow development and progress, it will come to you and I have kept my promise,” he added. He shared that under Bamrauli cluster, four parks, e-rickshaw stands, beautification of 10 ponds and construction of a mini bus stand had been done in Bhagwatpur at a cost of around ₹100 crore. “A vegetable market for the farmers and a multipurpose hall will be built, in which the farmers will have a seed center. A government girls inter college will also be constructed soon,” Singh said, adding that development would not stop. Prayagraj CMO Dr Nanak Saran informed that at present two doctors, one pharmacist and a staff nurse had been posted at the hospital. Staff and facilities would be increased at the hospital in coming weeks, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100bed-hospital-with-oxygen-plant-inaugurated-in-prayagraj-s-bhagwatpur-block-101641150865014.html
03-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan orders closure of school for classes 1-8 in Jaipur till January 9||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Sunday ordered all government and private schools in Jaipur to remain closed for classes 1 to 8 from January 3 till January 9 in view of an increase in Covid-19 cases in the state capital. In other districts of the state, the district collector has been authorised to make a decision on continuing educational activities after discussion with the additional chief secretary who oversees the education department, according to fresh Covid-19 guidelines notified by the Rajasthan government on Sunday.The fresh order was issued after chief minister Ashok Gehlot held a meeting with religious leaders, political parties and NGOs regarding prevention and precautions of increasing cases of Covid-19 new variant Omicron.Jaipur has reported the bulk of the fresh Covid cases in the state. Of the 355 fresh cases reported by Rajasthan on Sunday, 224 were from Jaipur, followed by 34 from Jodhpur, 24 from Ajmer, 12 from Pratapgarh, 11 each from Alwar and Kota, and six each from Bhilwara and Udaipur.Regular teaching activities in all government and private schools of Jaipur Municipal Corporation area (Greater/Heritage) for classes I to 8 will be closed from January 3 to January 9, said a state government statement.School authorities will also need to get written approval of parents to let students of other classes come to school. They have been barred from pressuring parents to send their children to school for offline classes and told to encourage students to opt for online classes.Universities will have to ensure that students and faculty have received the two vaccine doses.The government has also introduced a cap of 100 people who can attend any marriage ceremony, public, social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, and religious functions and gatherings.Besides, it is mandatory to organise video-recording of the wedding. The recording will need to be produced before the authorities in case of complaints of violations. In case there are violations, the premises where the event was held is liable to be sealed for seven days.The guidelines cap the number of people allowed in a funeral at 20.Religious places where there is a system of online darshan will continue. There will be a ban on carrying flowers-garlands, prasad, chadar, and other worship materials to religious places.Domestic travellers arriving in Rajasthan will have to produce double vaccine certificates or RT-PCR negative test reports not older than 72 hours, the guidelines stated.The government also directed all commercial establishments to ensure double vaccination of all staffers by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-orders-closure-of-school-for-classes-1-8-in-jaipur-till-january-9-101641150804985.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 417 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Sunday reported three Covid-related deaths with one person each succumbing to the infection in Mohali, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur districts, according to a medical bulletin.With this, the state’s death toll has reached 16,648. The state also reported 417 fresh infections as against 332 cases a day earlier. The number of fresh Covid cases have seen spike in the past few days, taking the infection tally to 6,05,509. At 133, Patiala alone accounted for 32% of the new infections reported in past 24 hours, followed by Pathankot (78), Mohali (55), Jalandhar (45) and Ludhiana (40). The state’s positivity rate has also spiked to 3.01%. Pathankot saw the highest positivity rate 13.64% whereas it was 8.92% in Patiala.Patiala records highest single-day spike of 133 cases Patiala: In the highest single-day spike in the season, Patiala reported 133 coronavirus cases on Sunday.Of total cases, 120 were reported in Patiala city, five in Rajpura, three in Nabha and six in rural areas of the district.Civil surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said there are 351 active cases in the district. “The figures are quite alarming and can surge further if people continue to violate Covid norms,” he said.Covid situation: Sonia calls up ChanniSharing her concern over recent surge in the Covid cases throughout the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has directed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to be fully prepared to combat any eventuality arising out of the Covid pandemic especially in the wake of new variant of Omicron. The Congress president further said that there should be no complacency in this regard and concerted efforts should be made to face any possibility of emergency efficaciously, according to an official release here. Channi said that the testing had already been intensified coupled with ramping up the available primary and secondary medical services to provide the best possible treatment to patients infected with Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-417-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101641150565040.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||UP excise department to launch campaign on responsible alcohol consumption||LUCKNOW: Concerned over rising deaths and injuries due to drunken driving, the excise department has decided to launch a campaign to sensitise people on responsible alcohol consumption. The state’s new excise policy that was announced on Saturday provides separate fund for this campaign that would create awareness among people against drunken driving and about responsible alcohol consumption. The period of this drive is yet to be announced. In 2020, Uttar Pradesh (UP), as per the national crime records bureau (NCRB), was among the worst states in terms of deaths and injuries due to drunken driving, with at least three deaths daily. “The situation hasn’t improved much in 2021 too and now, as we enter 2022, there is a need to make people aware about the hazards of drunken driving,” an official said. Additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said that the campaign would focus on underage drinking, drunken driving and promote responsible liquor consumption. “A provision of ₹1 crore has been set aside for this,” the official said. The timings of the country liquor, foreign liquor, beer and model shops have been left unchanged in the new policy. It means that the liquor shops would continue to adhere to 10 am to 10 pm time, he added. “Overall, it remains to be seen how far the new excise policy has been received by the liquor sellers but as far as supporting the policy to promote responsible consumption is concerned, we are going to back the government,” said Devesh Jaiswal, an office bearer of the Liquor Sellers Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-excise-department-to-launch-campaign-on-responsible-alcohol-consumption-101641150444791.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: Punjab agri dept chalks out protocol to protect cotton crop in next season||BATHINDA: After facing a massive cotton crop loss to the pink bollworm infestation in the last kharif season, the Punjab agriculture department has devised a triple-tier field management protocol for crop protection ahead of sowing in the 2022-23 season.According to the action plan prepared in consultation with farm experts from the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR), the core focus of the state authorities would be on the complete disposal of existing cotton crop residue and timely sowing from April 15.Officials said teams of the agriculture department will start working at village, block and district levels from Monday for the implementation of the new protocol at all cotton ginnery and oil extraction units and the field level.Agriculture director Gurvinder Singh said the crucial pest management exercise in the pre-sowing would be over by March. Singh said real-time monitoring would be done at the state level where the officials would interact directly with the farmers to audit the effectiveness of the sensitisation programmes.“Huge pest population that devastated crop last year is in hibernation in the residue stocks, used as firewood, lying in the villages. It is crucial to eradicating sticks before the deadly pest starts reproduction at the congenial climatic conditions in the next two months. Half of the pest management success depends upon only the timely burying the leftover dried bolls,” he said.The director hopes that the area under cotton would not drop in the next season even as farmers faced financial losses due to the infestation. “Coordinated efforts would be made to achieve success as was done after widespread whitefly infestation in 2015,” he added.In 2021-22 kharif season, 3.25 lakh hectare area was under cotton cultivation and authorities were expecting production of 50 lakh quintals. But owing to the first-ever devastating attack of the bollworm, crop production was severely hit in the major cotton-growing districts of Bathinda and Mansa.Till January 1, Punjab recorded a purchase of 13.64 lakh quintals as the purchase of the non-perishable cash crop may continue till March.SK Verma, head of the Sirsa-based CICR, a central organisation, said the state should ensure that ginning and oil extraction units have pheromone traps in its vicinity to monitor traces of the moth population.“Experience in the last two seasons in Bathinda says the moth larvae reached Punjab with cottonseed consignments brought from south-west states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka. It is important that these factories complete end operations by March-end and sanitise their premise after complete destruction of waste material,” said Verma.The state government has planned to discourage staggered sowing and ensure that farmers complete the sowing of cotton by May 15.“Coordinated efforts would be made to ensure sowing starts from April 15 and is completed within a month. Delayed sowing is more susceptible to bollworm attack. In case of a pest attack, it is easy and effective to use pesticides when the crop growth has a uniform stage,” said the director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-punjab-agri-dept-chalks-out-protocol-to-protect-cotton-crop-in-next-season-101641150265020.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Commando cremated with full military honours in Lehragaga||SANGRUR: Constable Varinder Singh, 25, a commando of the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, was cremated with full military honours in Lehragaga town of Sangrur district on Sunday. Singh was killed in an encounter with Maoists in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Friday.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir, Lehra former MLA Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and former SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal, besides CRPF IG Moolchand Pawar attended the cremation. The markets remained closed as a respect to the brave heart. Varinder was recruited in the CRPF in 2017 and after training in Odisha, he went to Madhya Pradesh and he was currently on duty with a team of the 208th CoBRA unit.Bhattal said that the state government will construct a chowk at the entry point of the town and Varinder’s statue will be installed there. She added that the Lehra-Nadampur road will be named after him and the government will give ex gratia and other facilities for the next of kin as per law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/commando-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-lehragaga-101641150084842.html
03-01-2022||Noida||Man arrested for snatching cellphones from commuters in Noida, aide on the run||A 20-year-old man was arrested in Noida on Sunday for allegedly snatching cellphones from commuters, said police officials. Police have also recovered a stolen cellphone and a motorcycle from his possession. The suspect was identified as Priyanshu Tiwari, a resident of Bisrakh.Vinod Kumar, station house officer (SHO) Sector 58 police station, said that the police got a tip about the movement of two people travelling a motorcycle, who snatched cellphones from the commuters, near Amrapali Crossing in Noida Sector 62 on Sunday.“A police team stopped the suspects for checking, and found a stolen cellphone, a motorcycle, and a countrymade gun from the possession of the arrested suspect. His accomplice, Pintu (22), however, managed to escape,” Kumar said. Police said that on December 31, 2021, the suspects snatched the seized cellphone from a person in Noida Sector 58. A case was registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 (robbery) at the Sector 58 police station that day. The arrested suspect told the police that he had been committing such crimes in Noida for the past one year. “Two months ago, he snatched a cellphone from a person in Noida Sector 62 and sold that to another in the Khoda Colony for ₹2,000... The arrested suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” Kumar added. Police have launched a search to arrest the absconding suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-snatching-cellphones-from-commuters-in-noida-aide-on-the-run-101641150024950.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress campaign committee meets to discuss strategy||Chandigarh :The Punjab Congress campaign committee headed by former state chief Sunil Jakhar met in Chandigarh on Sunday night to decide the party’s campaign strategy and themes for the upcoming polls. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu were present in the meeting in which the committee discussed the district and block-level campaign strategy, plans for big rallies, slogans, jingles, etc. “The meeting was held in a very cordial atmosphere. All the leaders put their heads together in planning for the campaign. There were no fireworks,” said a party leader who was present in the meeting. The panel has already decided to centre its election campaign on the government’s achievements in the past five years. The meeting was held in the backdrop of growing discord within the state Congress over the chief ministerial face of the party. Though a decision has been taken to go into the polls under “collective leadership”, Sidhu is making a strong push for naming him the CM face before the elections, besides targeting the party’s government on a daily basis. His ways have riled several leaders, including ministers, who are demanding that the state chief be disciplined by the central leadership. Besides Sidhu and Channi, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, joint secretary Krishna Allavaru, cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Pargat Singh, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and former Punjab Youth Congress Amarpreet Singh Lally. The Congress screening committee headed by national general secretary Ajay Maken will hold a meeting in Delhi on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-congress-campaign-committee-meets-to-discuss-strategy-101641149966254.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pending Bill: Guv raises queries, puts ball back in govt’s court||Chandigarh: A day after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi threatened to stage a sit-in against him for not clearing a Bill for regularising the services of 36,000 contractual employees, Punjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit on Sunday put the ball back in the government’s court, asking it to reply to six queries relating to pending court cases, reservation and funding raised on the proposed legislation. Calling the chief minister’s claim as “factually incorrect”, the governor, in a written statement, said the file regarding the regularisation of the services of contractual employees were reverted to the office of Punjab chief minister with six queries, which need to be clarified by the state government. “This file was duty received by the CMO on December 31 and the reply is awaited,” he said. Channi, while addressing a press conference on Saturday on completing 100 days in office, alleged that the governor was holding up the file under pressure from the BJP-led central government. “If the governor does not clear the file, I will sit on dharna with my cabinet colleagues against him,” he warned. Responding to the chief minister’s threat, the governor advised him to give reply to queries raised on the file. “Once the reply comes, the Bill will be re-examined at governor’s secretariat,” he said. The Bill regarding regularisation of the services of contractual employees was passed in the state assembly on November 11. The governor’s office also said the file regarding the Bill was sent to Raj Bhawan on December 1 and the governor was on tour to various districts of the state last month. The governor concluded the tour on December 21 and thereafter, on December 23, the CM came and met him at the Punjab Raj Bhawan. The file was duly studied and reverted with observation/queries to CMO on December 31,” reads the statement. In its queries, the Raj Bhawan has asked the state government about the pending court cases in which “The Punjab Adhoc, Contractual, Daily wages, Temporary, Work charged and Outsourced Employees Welfare Act 2016”, which the current Bill seeks to repeal and replace, was challenged, their current status and the details of interim or final orders of judicial courts in such cases. Referring to the Punjab and Haryana high court order of 2017 directing the state government to examine the legality aspect of the Act in the light of the decisions of the Supreme Court in secretary, state of Karnataka, Vs Uma Devi (2006) case, it has asked the state government to clarify whether the current bill is not in contravention of these decisions. Another query relates to the opinion given by the Advocate General vide his letter number 237 on August 25, 2021, mentioning several aspects of the bill that are in contravention of the 2006 case and that this bill continues to remain vulnerable to legal challenge. The government has been asked to clarify how these specific views of the AG have been addressed in this bill and for what reasons some aspects are not being considered by the state government. The Raj Bhawan has also asked the Punjab government that since the contractual employees have been recruited at various times without following the reservation rules, how it proposes to fulfil the shortfall in the reserved posts that may arise due to such regularisation of contractual employees without being in contravention with the decisions of the apex court in State of Karnataka Vs Uma Devi case. Similarly, the government has also been asked to explain how it proposes to meet the annual burden of ₹827.87 crore arising on account of regularisation of 32,166 employees in government departments and another ₹974 crore on 34,007 such employees in boards and corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pending-bill-guv-raises-queries-puts-ball-back-in-govt-s-court-101641149844925.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||One more arrested in Lakhimpur violence case||A day after making two more arrests in connection with the killing of two BJP workers and a driver during the October 3 Tikunia violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, the special investigating team (SIT) made another arrest on Sunday. All three arrests have been made under FIR number 220. In a communication released to press on Sunday night, the SIT officials disclosed the identity of the arrested youth as Gurpreet Singh of Banshinagar under Palia kotwali limits. The special investigators have arrested seven people so far under FIR number 220 which pertains to the killing of BJP workers Shubham Bajpai and Shyam Sundar and a driver Hariom. While Kamaljeet Singh and Kanwaljeet Singh were arrested on Saturday, Vichitra Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh were arrested earlier. The FIR number 220 was lodged by a BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal with Tikunia kotwali on October 4. In this FIR, Jaiswal had accused unidentified miscreants of having killed the BJP workers.Violence had erupted at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 last year when farmers were protesting the visit of deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to a neighbouring village where Union MoS, home, Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra had organised a ‘dangal’ (wrestling) contest. Eight people, including four famers, had lost their lives there that day. ---Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-more-arrested-in-lakhimpur-violence-case-101641149789502.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi assembly to convene 2-day special session from today||The Delhi assembly will convene a special session on Monday, which is scheduled to last until Tuesday, unless extended further by the Speaker, the government said on Sunday. “Hon’ble members are informed that the fourth part of the second session of Seventh Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi will commence on Monday, January 3, 2022, at 11am in the Assembly Hall,” a bulletin issued by the Assembly secretariat said. Though the sessions have been tentatively fixed for January 3 and 4, the bulletin said the session may be extended if required.Two bills--one related to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and another related to specialised schools--are on the agenda, said assembly officials. On December 20, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the Delhi cabinet approved the setting up of a Delhi Teachers’ University and that a bill on it will be placed before the assembly in the coming session.In view of the Covid threat, officials said assembly members will be required to wear a face mask and practice social distancing. “They will sit according to a plan to ensure proper physical distance between them,” the bulletin said. Leader of Opposition in the assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the opposition will seek answers from the government on the rising cases of Covid-19 in Delhi. “We will also raise questions on public transport and the newly implemented liquor policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-to-convene-2-day-special-session-from-today-101641149787890.html
03-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: Woman killed as truck hits motorcycle in Dadri, driver on the run||A 30-year-old woman died while her husband and daughter were injured when a speeding truck allegedly hit the motorcycle they were riding in Dadri on Saturday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Parul Singh, a resident of Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr. Manish Singh, 32, and his daughter Gargi, 5, escaped with minor injuries, police said, adding that the truck driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle on the spot.Manish later filed a complaint at Dadri police station, and a case was registered against unknown person under sections 304-A (death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 388 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code, police said, adding that Manish, along with his family, was returning to Sikandrabad after visiting his in-laws’ place in Jarcha.According to Manish’s friend Omkar, who visited Greater Noida after getting information about the accident, Manish’s wife and daughter were at Birpur village in Jarcha. “My friend, along with his wife and daughter, left for Sikandrabad at 2.24pm. The woman was riding pillion with the child. Near Luharli toll plaza in Dadri, a truck loaded with gas cylinders hit the motorcycle from behind. The three persons on the motorcycle were dragged a few metres,” he said. Omkar said that Manish escaped with minor injuries as he was wearing a helmet. “Parul was not wearing helmet at the time of the accident. The mother-daughter duo was admitted to a private hospital where the woman was declared brought dead. The child is undergoing treatment and she is stable,” he said. Sanjeev Kumar, station house officer of Dadri police station, said, “A police team visited the spot after getting the information. We have seized the truck. We will soon arrest the truck driver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-woman-killed-as-truck-hits-motorcycle-in-dadri-driver-on-the-run-101641149664699.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Man killed for resisting robbery at bus stop in Delhi, one held||Two men allegedly stabbed a 38-year-old man to death for resisting their robbery attempt at a bus stop near Badli Mor in northwest Delhi, where he was waiting for a bus on Saturday night, said police. According to police, after stabbing the man, the suspects fled with his mobile phone and a bag. One of the suspects was arrested on Sunday evening, after the northwest district’s special staff team scanned nearly 50 CCTV cameras in 1km radius of the crime spot and identified the suspects, said police. “The arrested suspect has been identified as Babul (22), a resident of Jhuggi number-15 in Shalimar Bagh. Our teams are conducting searches for the other suspect, who is homeless but is involved in some crimes,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.The DCP said around Saturday midnight, the Shalimar Bagh police station received a call from Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital about an unidentified man who was brought dead by a patrolling van. There was a deep cut at the man’s left thigh and he died of excessive bleeding. “The staff of the patrolling van told the local police that they found the man unconscious and bleeding at Badli Mor bus stand on the Ring Road. Accordingly, a case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up,” said Rangnani.“The members of the special staff team visited the crime scene but did not find any eyewitness. Inspection of the bus stand and the amount of blood found at the spot indicated that the man was stabbed by someone. His mobile phone was also missing. Through local enquiry, the deceased was identified as Gajender Singh, a resident of Mohan Garden in west Delhi. He is survived by his wife, a 10-year-old son and two daughters,” said an officer investigating the case. Police said Singh worked in a printing press at Bawana and took a bus to commute between his home and workplace. His family members and colleague told investigators that every evening, Singh boarded a bus from Badli Mor bus stand after finishing work. They also informed police that apart from his mobile phone, his bag was also missing.As there were no CCTV cameras near the crime spot, investigators started scanning cameras installed on all the adjoining routes leading to the nearby residential areas. In one camera, which was installed some 700 metres away from the crime spot, the police spotted two men running towards a slum in Shalimar Bagh with a bag that looked similar to the one that Singh carried. Through local intelligence, the suspects were identified and one of them, Babul, was arrested on Sunday evening.During interrogation, the investigating officer said, Babul disclosed that he, along with associate (name withheld by police since he is yet to be arrested), was wandering on the Ring Road when they spotted a man waiting alone at the Badli Mor bus stop. The duo went there, pointed a knife at the man and asked him to hand over his bag and mobile phone. “When the man resisted, one of the two stabbed him in the thigh. Thereafter, they robbed him of his bag and phone and fled, leaving the man bleeding at the spot. The crime took place around 10pm but since the area was deserted, no one spotted the injured man. He died of excess bleeding at the crime spot itself. The patrolling van staff spotted him more than an hour after the crime,” said the officer. 
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Varanasi: Criticism of “Hindutva”: Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti to hold conferences||Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti will hold “Sant Sammelans” at thirteen places to give a reply to those criticising “Hindutva” and Hindu society, said Samiti’s general secretary Swami Jitendranand Saraswati. He alleged that some people were continuously criticising Hindu society and “Hindutva” in debates on various platforms and termed it a conspiracy.As per Saraswati, the conferences will be held at Kashi, Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Bithoor, Vrindavan, Shukratal, Brijghat and Garhmukteshwar, Kachhla , Soron, Deoria, Naimisaranyam, Orchha and Vindhyachal.The dates were being discussed and the conferences would start from Naimisaranyam on January 11. The conferences will be organised by the Sant Samiti in association with Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Akhara Parishad and Vishwa Hindu Parishad.He said through these conferences, he will run a public awareness campaign against such “pseudo socialists” and leaders of the Congress party, who, as per him, were making unrestrained statements on Sanatan Hindus and their traditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-criticism-of-hindutva-akhil-bharatiya-sant-samiti-to-hold-conferences-101641149424734.html
03-01-2022||Noida||Yeida to take major decisions on Jewar airport, projects near Yamuna e-way today||Greater Noida: The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) is likely to take major decisions related to the development around the airport site in Jewar, and along the Yamuna Expressway on Monday, said officials on Sunday.Yeida will discuss the matter and may approve several developmental projects, including the bid document of the Film City, a heritage city project, costing of upcoming construction work, and issues related to farmers among others. As it will be the last board meeting during the present regime ahead of the Uttar Pradesh polls 2022, which are scheduled between February and March this year, the Yeida will take crucial decisions now because the next board meeting will be conducted only after the new government takes charge after the elections.“The board will discuss all the project proposals, and take important decisions related to the development along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.One of the most important project proposals will be to review progress made on the development of the Noida international airport project in Jewar. If required, the board will give requisite approvals on the developmental work such as road construction, pavement, park and other basic facilities, which is to be taken on the periphery of the airport.As the Uttar Pradesh government gave all requisite clearances on the projects on November 21, 2021, Yeida issued a global tender the same day to select a developer who will develop the Film City on 1,000 acres in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway. The move came after the Uttar Pradesh government gave a green signal to draft the bid document, which defines the agreement terms between the developer and the state government. The tender was published globally, so that a competent film production house or film company could be engaged in the development work of the project. At least 20 companies showed interest in the Film City project, and Yeida has taken a pre-bid meeting with these companies to explain the terms and conditions of the bidding process, and how the project will be developed. Subsequently the companies made some suggestions regarding the bid document, and the state government asked Yeida to make some changes in the bid document. Now, Yeida may take the revised bid document to the board for approvals, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-to-take-major-decisions-on-jewar-airport-projects-near-yamuna-e-way-today-101641149246203.html
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab govt for not arresting Majithia as his photos surface online||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday slammed the Charanjit Singh Channi government in Punjab for not arresting Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia who has been booked under the NDPS Act. Alleging that Majithia is “roaming around openly”, Chadha claimed that pictures of the Akali leader surfaced on social media on Saturday showing him paying obeisance at the Golden Temple. The AAP leader alleged the Channi government did not want to arrest Majithia as there was a “setting” between it and the Badals. Even as the Punjab Police is hunting for Majithia, booked under the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act, his pictures at the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar went viral on social media. Without mentioning when they were clicked, the Youth Akali Dal, the youth wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal, shared the leader’s photos on its official Facebook page on Saturday. The pictures surfaced at a time when the Punjab Police has been conducting raids to arrest Majithia, who is a former state minister. Last month, Majithia was booked under the NDPS Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state. He is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Chadha said nearly two weeks have passed since the registration of FIR against the Akali leader but he has not been arrested yet. It has been happening for the first time in the history of the country that an accused, whose anticipatory bail had been rejected, could not be arrested, he added. “The accused (Majithia) has been “roaming around openly”, alleged Chadha. “Yesterday, some pictures of Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia surfaced on social media, showing him paying obeisance at the Golden Temple,” he said. Despite CCTV cameras installed in and around the Golden Temple and the presence of the task force of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, police could not nab him, Chadha said. “The Channi government will neither arrest nor want to arrest Majithia as there is a setting between the government and the Badals,” he alleged. The AAP leader alleged that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had given directions to police not to arrest Majithia. He alleged that the registration of FIR against the Akali leader was an “election stunt.” AAP convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday had targeted the Congress government in Punjab, alleging that it does not have the courage to arrest Majithia. A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, had been issued against the former Punjab minister last month. After Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea was rejected by a Mohali court, he had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-punjab-govt-for-not-arresting-majithia-as-his-photos-surface-online-101641149244807.html
03-01-2022||Lucknow||Over four years after being set up, “Krashak Samridhi Aayog” to hold first meeting today||The “Krashak Samridhi Aayog” will on Monday mull measures to enhance income of farmers in Uttar Pradesh in its first-ever meeting after the expert body was established in the state in November 2017 with a view to doubling peasants’ income by 2022. The “Aayog” (commission) will, among other things, also give suggestions about introduction and promotion of cooperative farming, contract farming, collective farming or corporate farming in the state. As the Election Commission gears up to announce the assembly poll schedule for the state next week, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has called the commission’s meeting at his residence on Monday evening to discuss a seven-point agenda with the aim of increasing income of farmers. “The suggestions to be received at the meeting may be put to the Cabinet in the form of proposals the following day for its nod,” a senior official said.As per the seven-point agenda accessed by the HT, the commission will give recommendations on how to curtail the cultivation cost and increase the production, analyse reasons responsible for reducing farmers’ agricultural income and give suggestions for income augmentation, development of allied sectors such as animal husbandry, fishery, sericulture, agroforestry and establish coordination among these sectors.The commission will also make recommendations on soil improvement and give suggestions about cooperative farming, contract farming, collective farming or corporate farming, suggest long-term and short-term policies for production of various crops apart from giving suggestions on increasing efficiency cost effectiveness of agriculture related works and activities. Set up on November 10, 2017 with the stated objective of making agriculture and related sectors a profitable venture and double income of farmers by 2022, the “Krashak Samridhi Aayog” never had a meeting in the past drawing criticism from some quarters. Last year in February, one of the members, Dharmendra Malik, representing farmers even resigned from the commission saying that he was miffed over the fact that not a single meeting of the commission was convened after it was set up. He also urged the CM to brief the Centre of farmers’ apprehensions about the three farm laws (now repealed).“This is true the ‘Krashak Samridhi Aayog’ is holding its meeting for the first time after its constitution four years ago,” another official said. “Perhaps the need for holding the meeting was not felt because similar other bodies like the state council for agricultural prices already working for the same purpose,” he said. The commission headed by the CM comprises a dozen experts coming from various organisations besides some farmers’ representatives.
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ex-armyman, wife killed by daughter-in-law, aide in Hoshiarpur village||Hoshiarpur :A retired subedar of the army and his wife were murdered and their bodies burnt allegedly by their daughter-in-law and her accomplice at Tanda’s Jaja village late on Saturday. The police have arrested the accused and booked them under Section 302 (murder), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The victims were identified as Manjit Singh and Gurmeet Kaur.Victims’ son Ravinder Singh, who had recently returned from Portugal, told the police that last night when he reached home late in the night, the gate was locked from inside. He entered the house by scaling the wall and saw that his parents’ charred bodies were lying in their room while his wife Mandip Kaur was tied to a chair. Mandip claimed that some unidentified persons had locked her in a room and killed the elderly couple, Ravinder said.He suspected that his wife had killed his parents as they had come to know of her extramarital relationship and often reprimanded her for that.Tanda deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Raj Kumar revealed that after initial investigation, accused Mandip and her accomplice Jasmeet Singh, a resident of Sanghar village in Amritsar, had been arrested.“The duo smothered the couple with a cloth and stabbed them with a knife. Later they set the bodies on fire to eliminate evidence,” the DSP said.He said Jasmeet had also stolen cash and ornaments from the house which have also been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exarmyman-wife-killed-by-daughter-in-law-aide-in-hoshiarpur-village-101641149064772.html
03-01-2022||Noida||88 fresh Covid cases in Ghaziabad; district yet to achieve daily testing target||Ghaziabad on Sunday reported 88 fresh coronavirus disease cases amid a rise in the infections in the district, officials of the health department said.According to official records, the district reported 81 fresh Covid cases the previous day.With 280 active Covid cases at present, the total tally in the district has reached 56,017. The active cases include 171 patients in home isolation and five patients in facilities.Meanwhile, facility allocation for 104 patients is still pending. “The Covid cases are on the rise, and we have already put 58 hospitals on standby in anticipation of more cases being reported in the coming days as the patients may require hospitalisation. At present, most of the cases being reported are asymptomatic, and the remaining are showing mild symptoms. We are tracking contacts of the Covid-positive patients... We are also trying to get more VTM vials to increase the testing,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The daily testing has been at an average of 4,792 for the past 10 days as the district has also been facing a shortage of viral transport media (VTM) vials, which are being used for Covid testing, said officials familiar with the development.An officer from the district health department said that the shortage of VTM vials has also affected Covid testing in the district.“We have procured a lot of vials from neighbouring districts, and there is a shortage of VTM vials at present. Despite this, we are conducting more tests per day than other districts in the region,” said an officer from the health department, requesting anonymity. In the past 10 days -- from December 24, 2021, to January 2 this year -- the district has taken up a total of 47,924 tests, with a daily average of nearly 4,892 tests per day against the daily target of conducting 7,400 tests as directed by the Uttar Pradesh government. There has been a shortage of nearly 26,076 Covid tests being conducted in the district in the past 10 days, against the set target. Health experts said that the district should conduct more tests now on.“The district needs to trace more Covid cases, so that patients could be identified and treated at an early stage. Strict enforcement should be in place... The only plus point is that the latest Covid patients are showing mild symptoms, with the cases having a low severity... It is, however, expected that the Covid cases are likely to rise in the coming weeks,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Amid the increase in the number of cases in the district, the sample positivity rate in Ghaziabad has shot up from 0.19% on December 24, 2021 to 1.72% on January 2. The overall sample positivity in the district rate now stands at 2.68%.
03-01-2022||Delhi||No monkey business: Delhi Cantonment asks people to refrain from feeding simians||The Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) issued an order recently stating that people feeding monkeys near human habitation will be fined. The warning added that the incidents of man-monkey conflict are on the rise in various parts of Delhi.“The public is hereby warned not to feed monkeys in human habitation, particularly in residential colonies, and in the vicinity of religious places. Anyone found feeding the monkeys in human habitation will be challaned or fined in accordance with existing municipal laws,” the order issued by officer-in-charge (OIC), sanitation, Delhi Cantonment Board Gyanendra Singh said.Till now, none of the Capital’s other four local bodies have imposed a restriction on feeding monkeys. On Thursday, Singh confirmed to HT that fines up to ₹5,000 can be issued if anyone is found violating the order. “We are empowered to issue fines up to ₹5,000 as per the Cantonment regulations 2006,” he added.The Cantonment comprises an area of approximately 10,521 acres. It also covers residential areas and markets, such as Sadar Bazar, Shastri Bazar, Nangal Raya, Mehram Nagar, and Naraina village, besides ridge areas.Officials from the veterinary departments of the municipal corporations said that they have not issued any such order so far either.However, a senior forest official, part of a meeting held recently between the corporations and the Delhi Cantonment Board, said the forest department asked the corporations to look at penalising people who fed monkeys at spots which could be dangerous or increase their numbers. “There are provisions under the Municipal Corporation Act to prohibit the feeding of strays and monkeys. The officials have been asked to explore deterrents,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Despite relocating more than 21,000 monkeys to Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary over the last decade, Delhi still does not have any official count of monkeys in open areas or sanctuaries. The SDMC official said that the project has only led to an increase in the man-monkey conflict in South Delhi areas, as monkeys from all over Delhi are relocated to Asola Bhatti, which has no natural food source or boundary to prevent the entry of monkeys into residential areas.Ved Pal, councillor from Aya Nagar ward, situated next to the relocation area, said that the whole region has been facing an increasing number of monkey attacks over the last 10 years. “There is no natural food source in the sanctuary so monkeys enter kitchens. There have been complaints from several schools about attacks during lunchtime. Water tankers on several houses have been damaged. There are groups of hundreds of monkeys on roads along Asola,” he added.The region where there is increased conflict includes Aya Nagar, Tughlaqabad extension, Jaunapur, Fatehpur Beri, Asola, Dera Mandi and Bhati.The relocation of captured monkeys to the Bhati mines area started in 2007 after a Delhi high court order. Earlier that year, deputy mayor SS Bajwa died of head injuries after falling from the terrace of his house, following an attack by monkeys.The official relocation data for 2021 presented by municipal commissioners in November showed that the East Delhi Municipal Corporation managed to catch and relocate 45 monkeys to Asola Bhatti while the North MCD relocated 58 monkeys and the SDMC shifted 336 monkeys last year.An SDMC veterinary department official said that around 50-60% simians were caught from areas around the Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram when a Covid treatment centre was being operated at the site. The civic body offers compensation of ₹2,400 per monkey to monkey catchers for this job.“Despite providing the highest rates in the country, monkey catchers have been reluctant to work in Delhi due to fear of legal cases being filed against them. The pandemic has further worsened the situation. There are only three monkey catchers currently working with us,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, the forest department (under the Delhi government) and the municipal corporation’s veterinary department continue fighting regarding jurisdiction over the matter.“Several communications from the ministry of environment forest and climate change (animal welfare division) clearly state that monkeys are not stray animals, and catching, trapping or controlling the population of monkeys can only be done by the forest department. If we catch monkeys, we will be breaking the law,” a senior official of the veterinary department said.A senior official from the forest department, however, said the Delhi high court order of 2019 makes it clear the responsibility to capture monkeys lies with the corporations, not the forest department. “We have been asked to take care of the animals being shifted to Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, and, each month, we spend over ₹8 lakh on their food. The high court made it clear corporations will be the ones transporting the monkeys there,” he said.During May-June earlier this year, several cut-outs of langoors were placed in the Covid centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram to scare away the rhesus monkeys. This temporary solution also exposed the administrative failure in tackling Delhi’s simian menace.Ved Pal argued that the money spent on feeding monkeys could have been used to create a zone with natural fruit trees. “The area would be able to naturally sustain the monkey population and the annual expenditure on feeding may be saved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-monkey-business-delhi-cantonment-asks-people-to-refrain-from-feeding-simians-101641148944921.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||AAP demands north MCD mayor’s resignation over ‘dilapidated’ TB hospital||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday sought the resignation of North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Raja Iqbal Singh over the Rajan Babu TB Hospital, which it claimed is in a dilapidated condition and is putting the lives of patients taking treatment there at risk. Addressing a press briefing, AAP’s leader of opposition in the north municipality Vikas Goel said despite the BJP’s standing committee deeming the hospital building dangerous, it was still treating patients there. “The mayor, Raja Iqbal Singh, issued a statement on Saturday claiming that no one is being treated in the wards. On the other hand, the chairman of his own committee claims that 9-14 wards are operational and that certain patients are admitted and they are attempting to relocate them as soon as possible. The chairman of his standing committee has agreed that this structure is unsafe, and experts from IIT Roorkee have been asked to look into it. Raja Iqbal Singh should resign on moral grounds,” said Goel.Singh said that it’s a political design of AAP. “Only a portion of the hospital is unsafe, but they (AAP leaders) have been repeatedly claiming that the whole hospital campus is unsafe. The fact is that the Opposition wants to deprive common people of common medical facilities,” said the north MCD mayor. On Saturday, Delhi’s urban development minister Satyendar Jain ordered an inquiry into the allegations that the north MCD-run Rajan Babu TB hospital was operating out of a dilapidated building that the civic body itself declared dangerous for use. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation, however, described the order as “politically biased”, and argued that only a “small section” of the building, which is already empty, has been declared unfit. It said that ten other wards of the 700-bed hospital are in a fully usable condition.On Sunday, AAP leader Adil Khan said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has only given two gifts to Delhi in the 15 years of its rule in municipal corporations. “One is waste, and the other is corruption. You must have noticed that AAP senior leader Atishi ji and North MCD leader of opposition Vikas Goel Ji visited Rajan Babu Hospital in the past few days. The BJP-ruled MCD is forcing people of Delhi to die inside that building, while the MCD itself is saying that the building is dilapidated and can collapse at any time. AAP’s Goel has filed a written complaint with the police, and we thank the Delhi government for taking such a serious stance on this issue and ordering an investigation,” he said. In its response, the Delhi BJP demanded health minister Satyendar Jain’s resignation for the death of three children due to wrong medication at AAP’s mohalla clinics. “Before seeking the mayor’s resignation over a hospital building, the AAP leaders should tell when will health minister Satyendra Jain resign for the death of three children due to wrong medication at Delhi government’s mohalla clinics. The AAP has made it a prestige issue to get Rajan Babu Hospital shut and to satisfy its ego, Jain issued an unjustified order for an inquiry on Saturday,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-demands-north-mcd-mayor-s-resignation-over-dilapidated-tb-hospital-101641148648789.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Fourth runway, T1 upgrades: 2022 a crucial year for Delhi airport||A fourth runway, a revamped and expanded Terminal 1, as well as a significant upgrade in passenger handling capacity – 2022 is likely to be a significant year for the Indira Gandhi International Airport, which has seen its upgrade plans hindered several times over the past two years due to lockdowns and curbs on construction.The revamped T1, which is currently undergoing work to double its capacity from 20 million passengers per annum to 40 million passengers, will integrate the departure and arrival terminals under one roof. While the arrivals hall could be complete in 2022, a new T1 apron is also expected to be ready by the end of the year, said officials.The Delhi airport will also become the first in the country to have four runways. Officials aware of the matter said that while construction work for the fourth runway was complete, it will take several months to install requisite equipment, such as instrument landing system localisers or CAT gear, which is required for aircrafts to land during poor visibility, after which inspections and tests are expected to take up a significant portion of the year. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will approve the runway once these processes are completed.The fourth runway is expected to be around 4,400 metres long and 75 metres wide. It is slightly smaller than the third runway (known as 29/11).The airport also expects to make significant advances in its aim of becoming a ‘net zero carbon emission’ airport by 2030. A smart apron being built at T1 will not only increase the number of parking stands from 55 to 82, but will also have 22 ‘contact’ stands and eight Multiple Apron Ramp System (MARS) -- which can accommodate much larger aircrafts.So far, 19 new stands have become operational, after statutory approvals from DGCA in early December 2021, said the airport operator.The airport estimates that the new smart apron will cut carbon dioxide emissions by 70kg per flight. Once the 22 contact stands are made operational, officials said they expect a further reduction of 255kg of CO2 emissions per aircraft during the turnaround process for domestic airlines.“The new layout will facilitate improved air traffic flow and enhance airside safety. The creation of new contact stands will also lead to a reduction in the Ground Support Equipment required. This will ensure faster aircraft turnaround time and improve safety in the apron area, resulting in improved operational efficiency on the airside,” said a spokesperson of the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL).An airport official aware of the ongoing work said that while T1 is not expected to be fully complete this year, there is a good chance the new-look arrivals hall will be ready by 2022. However, work on the airport has seen a host of interruptions due to the Covid-19 lockdowns and constructions ban owing to the pollution spikes in Delhi.“Timelines have been impacted to an extent and work was delayed considerably last year. This year, efforts were made to regain lost time, but even this winter, the construction ban and to an extent, the second wave has impacted the expansion work,” said the airport official.“Despite these setbacks, we expect the fourth runway to be operational this year, as well as a new arrivals hall at T1 and a new smart apron for planes,” the official added.While construction work on the dual-elevated cross taxiway (ECT) is also expected to be completed by December 2022, it is only likely to become operational by 2023, DIAL said. The ECT will be built on the same lines as the elevated cross-taxiway at Singapore’s Changi Airport, allowing those reaching the airport a visual of aircrafts taxing above them as they approach Terminal-3.The 2.1km-long dual ECTs, along with the new runway are expected to help decongest the airport and reduce turn-around time for an airline, with passengers also having to wait inside the flight for a shorter duration of time after landing or during take-off.According to DIAL, once the ECT is complete, the distance covered by an aircraft after landing for taxiing will reduce from around nine kilometres to two kilometres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fourth-runway-t1-upgrades-2022-a-crucial-year-for-delhi-airport-101641148406091.html
03-01-2022||Noida||Noida crosses 100-mark of Covid cases reported in a day, 1st time since May 2021||Noida: With 117 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Noida on Sunday, the daily infection caseload in the city crossed the 100-mark for the first time since the last week of May 2021, said officials of the district health department.The active Covid cases in Gautam Budh Nagar now stand at 335, they added.The caseload in Gautam Budh Nagar nearly doubled within a day, as the total infections reached 178 -- 117 cases reported on Sunday and 61 cases on Saturday. Cases reported in the first two days of January 2022 are already two-thirds of the total cases (261) reported in December 2021. The Covid-positive patients include three male travellers -- one each from the United Kingdom (UK), Singapore and Russia. Nearly 15 travellers have been identified in the district, however, no confirmed case of the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’ has been reported yet. Two inmates from the Luksar Jail in Noida are also among those who tested positive for the virus on Sunday. One of them is lodged in the jail, and another person was tested before being lodged in the prison. Both the inmates have been admitted at the Noida Covid hospital. According to the health officials, 10 patients are in institutional care and 325 others are in home isolation. Those in hospital include one inmate from the Luksar Jail, another one under trial, three international travellers, one pregnant woman, and four other people were identified during random sampling. “The inmate was taken to the jail on December 26, 2021, and his rapid antigen test had come negative. His RT-PCR test was conducted on December 30 last year, and his report came positive on January 1 this year. He has been admitted to the hospital and his contacts in the jail are being tested. All the patients have mild symptoms and are not on any kind of support,” said Dr Tritya Saxena, medical superintendent of Noida Covid hospital. Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “We have increased the Covid testing and tracking in the district, and have prepared a database of the available hospital beds, which can be used in the time of need. As of now, Noida Covid Hospital and Kailash Hospital in Noida are notified for treating coronavirus patients. We will increase the numbers of beds and hospitals according to the requirements. 99% of the patients are asymptomatic.”The Covid patients in institutional care need to be isolated mandatorily according to the government norms, but none of them needed oxygen or any other medication yet, said the officials.The district has increased Covid testing to nearly 4,000 per day as the positivity rate increased to 3%, from a total 65,000 tests (approximately 2,097 per day) in December 2021 when the positivity rate was less than 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-crosses-100-mark-of-covid-cases-reported-in-a-day-1st-time-since-may-2021-101641148404745.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Five years on, Katputli Colony residents in Delhi wait for promised homes||Five yearsafter their homes were demolished for the Capital’s first in-situ redevelopment project at Kathputli colony, close to 2,800 families are still waiting to move into their new houses. The Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) redevelopment project, which was to be completed by March 2019, has missed several deadlines and is slated for completion in 2022.While the families were moved to a transit camp in west Delhi’s Anand Parbhat, a few kilometers away from where the new housing complex is being constructed, they are running out of patience due to the inordinate delay.Patasi (65), a Rajasthani folk artist and local leader of Bhat community (one of the many communities at Kathputli colony), said, “We were to get our flats within two years after demolition of our houses. But it has been over five years and we have no idea when we will be able to finally have a house of our own.”She said that each family has just one room and has to share the toilet at the camp. “Each family has 6-10 members. It is difficult to live in one room. We want to move into our own flats. We had a meeting with DDA officials last month and requested them to complete the work at the earliest,” she said.Dilip Bhat, another resident, said, “No timeline has been given to us about the project. They (DDA officials) keep extending the deadline.”While facilities are being provided at the transit camp, residents say they want to have a house of their own. “How long can one live here? There are around 500-odd families, which have been living here for the past eight years. DDA should give us a clear timeline,” said one of the beneficiaries, who didn’t wish to be named.In 2016, the DDA started large-scale demolition at Kathputli Colony in a bid to implement its first in-situ redevelopment project on public private partnership (PPP) model. Under the project, the private developer is supposed to provide housing to 2,800 families and in exchange will be allowed to develop a commercial complex to recover the cost of construction and make the project financially viable. There are 16 15-storey towers proposed at the location to accommodate 2,800 families.Though the project was conceived in 2008, it couldn’t be implemented due to stiff resistance from locals.In December 2016, the DDA finally started the demolition exercise amid protests from locals and civil society members. It took DDA almost a year to clear the land parcel. The construction work started in April 2018 and the first batch of houses were to be given by March 2019. “We got the permission to clear encroachments from a large piece of land at the site in April last year. Due to this, the work got delayed,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.The ban on construction activity followed by the Covid pandemic, DDA officials said, led to the inordinate delay. “The construction work was affected due to the ban. We are hopeful of completing a few towers by the end of this year. We will soon have a meeting with the developer and get a new timeline,” said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-years-on-katputli-colony-residents-in-delhi-wait-for-promised-homes-101641147870605.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi University entrance tests to FYUP: A year of reform beckons||With the Delhi University (DU) giving its approval to a number of key decisions in 2021, this yearpromises to be a year of change for the university, which for the first time will admit students into the newly structured undergraduate programmes with the help of an entrance exam that the varsity will either conduct itself or will be conducted by the National Testing Agency. Until last year, admission to undergraduate courses at DU was done on the basis of cutoff marks. All applicants who met the cut-off criteria were eligible for admission. However, a case for review of the admission process was felt as sky-rocketing cutoffs, including 100% in the first list, started becoming a regular feature. At least eight DU colleges announced 100% marks as the eligibility criteria for admission to 11 graduation programs last year. The challenges posed by over-admission and under-admission also necessitated the need for a review of the admission mechanism. In October last year, DU constituted a nine-member committee to deliberate on undergraduate admission reforms. Subsequently, the university’s academic and executive council passed a proposal for the introduction of a common entrance test for admissions to undergraduate courses in December. While the modalities of the common entrance exam are still being worked out, DU has made it clear that admissions to different undergraduate courses in the 2022-23 academic session will only take place through the CUCET or Delhi University Common Entrance Test (DUCET). DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh told HT last week that the university will opt for the CUCET, if it’s conducted. In a situation where the CUCET is not conducted, the university will conduct its own entrance test--the DUCET. The admission will be based entirely on the entrance exam while the Class 12 scores will serve as a qualifying factor. DU registrar Vikas Gupta said that the entrance exam is in the interest of students. “In the past few years, we have seen students getting exorbitant marks, which in turn was leading to very high cutoffs. The entrance exam from this year will bring some relief to students. The pressure of high cutoffs will not be there. They can focus on specific subjects for preparation,” said Gupta. He said the university was awaiting details on the schedule of the CUCET. “If the CUCET is conducted, it will be in the interest of students since they can appear for one exam over multiple exams,” said Gupta. Besides the phasing out of the cutoff-based admission format, the university will be implementing the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) along with other provisions laid down in the National Education Policy, 2020, including enrolling itself in the Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) system and allowing students to opt for Multiple Entry-Exit Scheme (MEES) for increased flexibility in higher education. Under the new structure for undergraduate courses, DU will allow students to opt for a three-year honours programme or a four-year honours in a discipline or a four-year honours in a discipline with research. In addition to the courses that exist in the current honours programme, the new programme shall include a number of additional courses in the first three years of the programme. These courses will focus on social and emotional learning, innovation and entrepreneurship, extracurricular activities, ethics and culture and multidisciplinary research. The Academic Bank of Credits (ABC), proposed under the NEP, allows students to earn credits for different courses and then transfer them to their academic bank. The MEES allows students to transfer and carry forward credit from one university to another. The two schemes allow students to gain credits as per their learning, store them in a digital vault, and use them to switch courses and resume their study at any point if they have to exit the course after the first, second, or third year. Last week, two frameworks for the proposed NEP course structure were also sent to colleges for feedback. Gupta said the university was in the process of finalizing the modalities of the course structure as part of an ongoing process and feedback was also being sought from necessary stakeholders. “Many changes are being introduced keeping in mind the larger interests of students this year,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-entrance-tests-to-fyup-a-year-of-reform-beckons-101641147564731.html
03-01-2022||Delhi||How Covid killed the calendar||It is afternoon on New Year’s Day, and Babu Lal, a retailer of calendars in Delhi’s Nai Sarak, home to some of the country’s biggest calendar companies, is waiting for customers. Early January is peak business season, but he says there are few takers for his vast range of wall and desk calendars.“The pandemic has killed calendar sales. Earlier I used to sell 500 calendars a day in December and January; now I am lucky if I sell 50 a day. Many of my old customers for whom buying a calendar was an annual ritual for decades have not shown up in the past two years,” says Lal.He is not the only one—calendar manufacturers and dealers at Nai Sarak say sales of paper calendars, which survived the digital age, have suffered a massive drop in the past two years, what with the pandemic causing unprecedented disruptions in the social, personal and professional lives of people, rendering calendaring not- so- necessary.“My orders are down by 60%, and it has to do with the fact that a lot of people have worked from home with few personal and professional engagements to keep in the past two years, ” says Gulshan Kumar, who runs Sunshine Enterprises, a manufacturer and wholesale dealers of calendars at Nai Sarak.“Besides, businesses that bought calendars worth lakhs of rupees every year from us have suffered heavily and have not wanted to spend on calendars and planners in the past two years, ” adds Kumar, who, this year, has also produced a range of desk calendars with Covid-19 themes, with messages on the need for masking, taking vaccines and washing hands and others. “ These reflect the times we are living in and are selling slightly better than others.”In fact, over the past two decades, Delhi-NCR has emerged as a major hub of calendar manufacturers. Calendar companies, which have printing presses in areas such as Okhla, Naraina, Kundli and Sahibabad, start printing calendars in August for the sale season that starts during Diwali. “In 2020 and 2021, I had to trash thousands of unsold calendars, suffering a huge loss. Unsold calendars have no use and have to be trashed, ” says Prakash Chandra Gilotra, who runs Subhash Calendar Co, one of the biggest calendar manufacturers and dealers in Delhi. The walls of his first-floor shop at Nai Sarak are adorned with new 2022 calendars of various sizes, featuring gods and goddesses. “ Looks like Omicron, the new variant of the coronavirus will kill the sales for the third year running,” says Gilotra.Ranjeet Singh, one of the most celebrated contemporary calendar artists in Delhi, is equally worried. Singh says he used to produce about 40 new artworks for calendars – paintings of gods and goddesses such as Shiva, Ganesha, Vishnu, the Buddha--in a year. “ But I have not received a single commission from calendar manufacturers since the pandemic began two years ago. This has never happened in the 73-year history of our art studio,” says Singh, who runs Rangroop studio with his artist brother. The studio, famous for calendar art across the country, was set up by his father in 1951. “Calendar manufacturers are using old paintings for the few calendars they are printing during the pandemic,” he adds.He feels that the coronavirus has dealt a severe blow to calendar art, an essential art of India’s visual culture and tool of advertising.Indeed, in the 1920s and 1930s, brands such Sunlight Soaps, Woodwards Gripe Water, and British Alizarine Company were among the first to bring out calendars featuring the art of Raja Ravi Varma. Later, Vasudev H Pandya, who was known for his paintings of Krishna, was commissioned by many brands for calendar art.“New art is key to sales of calendars and we commissioned artists to do fresh paintings every year, but during the past two years we have not done commissioned any new art,” says Ankit Jain, who runs Jain Calendar Company at Nai Sarak. “ Last year even the Central government stopped bringing out new year calendars. I just hope the companies do not take a cue and turn to digital calendars in a big way”.In January 2021, the Union ministry of information and broadcasting launched an Android and iOS mobile application for a digital calendar and diary, doing away with its decades-old practice of bringing out GoI (Government of India) paper calendars and diaries. “Every year we printed close to 1.1 million calendars and 90,000 diaries, but we have gone digital this year,” said Prakash Javadekar, then information and broadcasting minister while unveiling GoI digital calendar. “Last year, around ₹7 crore was spent in printing the calendars and diaries. This year the ministry has gone digital and the cost is ₹2 crore,” he added.But compared to over a million paper calendars the government printed, so far, there have been only about 50, 000 downloads of the official Government of India Calendar-Diary’s Android App.Proponents of paper calendars say digital planners and calendars are no match for the good old paper calendars—one of the cheapest and most effective means of advertising for businesses of all sizes and a way for brands to make and maintain their social and commercial connections since the early 20th century.“I used to receive at least five desk calendars but this year, I am yet to receive any, which is a very strange feeling. I still have many calendars from 2019, which makes me feel I am caught in a time warp; these old calendars also keep reminding me that there was a normal, happy pre-corona world, ” says Suhani Gupta, 34, a graphic designer.“I love this analogue way of time management and hope that calendars will soon stage a comeback. It is only a matter of time, ” says Gupta.
03-01-2022||Lucknow||PM Modi keeps promise, meets sportspersons in UP’s Meerut||In his formal interaction with Tokyo Olympics-bound Indian athletes in July last, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised race walker Priyanka Goswami to meet her at her home in Meerut when she asked for more facilities for sportspersons there.Goswami, who finished a creditable 17th at the Tokyo Games, was surprised to meet the PM on Sunday in Meerut where he laid the foundation stone of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University that will be Uttar Pradesh’s first sports university.“Yes, PM Sir fulfilled his promise which he had made to me before the Tokyo Olympics,” said Goswami who comes from a humble background. Her father works as a bus conductor. “Even PM Sir had reminded me of his promise during a breakfast meeting with all the Indian Olympians in New Delhi in August. It’s like a dream come true when I along with my parents met him. PM Sir asked me about my further plans in sport,” Goswami said.She also hailed the laying of foundation stone of a sports university in Meerut. “It’s going to be a big positive step for sports and sportspersons of the state. The university will help stop migration of UP sportspersons to other states,” she said. Goswami wasn’t alone as it was also a big surprise for young hockey drag flicker Shardanand Tiwari when he found PM Narendra Modi in front of him at Meerut, asking about his journey in the game of hockey. “How do you people manage your day, play, fooding and other things etc” were the common questions the PM asked him and his 17 other teammates.“This could all be made possible only after we won the junior national title after a gap of 30 years and it was a great honour for all of us,” Tiwari said. Tiwari, who scored a match-winning goal against Belgium in the quarterfinal of men’s junior world cup in Bhubaneswar last month, said he had never imagined meeting the PM ever in his life. He said a historical win at the national championship at Kovalpatti in Tamil Nadu last month made it possible.Tiwari, who has a silver medal at the Sultan Johar Cup event at Malaysia in the past, has a gold medal at the Khelo India and a silver medal at the junior national championship. Son of a home guard in the state capital, Tiwari said he could play hockey and attain success in his life because of the full support of the Uttar Pradesh Sports Directorate.“Whatever I am today is because of hockey and I feel proud to have played an important role in UP’s win at the junior nationals after 30 years as I was told that UP could never emerge champion at the nationals after 1990,” he said, adding, the PM spent almost 20 minutes with sportspersons today (Sunday).”Other members of the hockey team who were introduced to the PM included Prateek Nigam, Vikas Gaur, Haaris, Manish Sahani, Amit Kumar Yadav, Aditya Singh, Vishnukant Singh, Aamir Ali, Ankit Singh, Rajan Gupta, Sujeet Kumar, Uttam Singh, Samarth Prajapati, Zaid Khan, Saurabh Anand, Arun Sahani, coach Vikash Pal and manager Rajesh Kumar Sonkar.Besides them, Olympians and Paralympians at Tokyo like Lalit Upadhyay, Shivapal Singh, Priyanka Goswami, Anu Rani, Satish Kumar, Suhas LY, Praveen Kumar, Jyoti, Vivek Chikara, Ajeet Singh, Deependra Singh and Akash too met the PM in Meerut.“It was a great moment for all the leading sportspersons, including Olympian and Paralympians of the state, to meet PM Modi Ji. Everybody is impressed with the way PM discussed their sporting culture and history of the state,” said director, sports, Uttar Pradesh, RP Singh.While talking about the sports university, Singh said it was going to be a big milestone in the history of UP’s sports as now the youth of the state could look for a different way of life in sport. “Certainly, UP’s sports standard will touch new heights in future,” he said. It is learnt that the Yogi government recently honoured all the Olympians and Paralympians who won medals at the Tokyo Games with cash awards.
