04-01-2022||Kolkata||60 new Covid-19 cases in IIT Kharagpur; 3 IIM-C hostels are containment zones||KOLKATA: More than 60 people including students and faculty members at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Kharagpur have been detected with Covid-19 since December 31.“At least 62 people including students, professors and family members have been detected with Covid-19 between December 31 and January 2. The numbers have definitely shot up…,” said a senior official at IIT Kharagpur.At the Indian Institute of Management campus in Calcutta about 150km from Kharagpur, three hostels have been declared as containment zones after at least 35 people tested positive in the last two to three days, officials said. Most of the Covid-19 patients have mild symptoms and have been quarantined.“The state government has already declared three hostels - Ramanujan Hostel, Lake view Hostel and New Hostel – and the Tata Hall, where infected patients have been quarantined, as containment zones.The four locations are among the 25 containment zones identified across 144 wards of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation area. In Howrah and North 24 Parganas, the state government has earmarked 41 locations in each district as containment zones. “Even though the containment zone list includes slums, flats and high-end housing complexes, most of the cases were detected in upper middle-class areas. Around 80% of the cases are asymptomatic. Only 3% need hospitalization,” said Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim.On Tuesday, West Bengal reported 9,073 new Covid-19 cases, up from the daily count of 6,078 reported on Monday. In Kolkata, 4,759 new cases were reported on Tuesday, the highest among all districts in the state. North 24 Parganas with 1,391 fresh cases came next.Kolkata’s civic body has already urged shopkeepers in various markets not to sell products to customers coming without masks. “The police and civic officials who are going to the markets to raise awareness have told shopkeepers that their shops would be closed down if they sell their products to customers without masks,” said Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/60-new-covid-19-cases-in-iit-kharagpur-3-iim-c-hostels-are-containment-zones-101641320709040.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: CM Charanjit Channi skips Congress screening committee meeting||The Congress screening committee, constituted under party’s national general secretary Ajay Maken, discussed the names of probable candidates for the Punjab assembly elections on Tuesday evening in the absence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Channi could not attend the meeting in Delhi due to the state cabinet meeting held in Chandigarh around the same time. “The screening committee again went over the names of probables for 50-odd seats where there is consensus and not more than two serious contenders are in the race in order to recommend their names to the central election committee. However, no decision was taken as the chief minister was not present,” a party leader privy to the deliberations said. Besides Maken, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and joint secretary Krishna Allavaru were among those who attended the meeting. The committee will hold another meeting in a day or two to finalise its first list of recommendations to the central panel. Earlier, amid growing internal bickering in the state Congress, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Pargat Singh and Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh met Congress general secretary KC Venugopal at his residence in the morning. They are learnt to have discussed the situation arising out of the rift and Sidhu’s statements that have left the party deeply divided. Randhawa and Ashu have aired their differences with the PPCC chief, with the latter hitting out at him for throwing a spanner in the government efforts and creating confusion in the party by repeatedly questioning the decisions and announcements of the state government. The state chief has also hit back at the two ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cm-charanjit-channi-skips-congress-screening-committee-meeting-101641319506459.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||UP CM opens e-bus charging stations for Kashi via video link||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday launched several projects under Varanasi Smart City through a virtual medium. Varanasi Smart City Ltd public relations officer S Nathan Sonthalia said the CM inaugurated e-bus charging stations built in Gaur Madhukar Shahpur, Mirzamurad in Rajatalab areas of Varanasi district for charging 50 air-conditioned e-buses being operated in the temple town.With the aim of reducing pollution and promoting green public transportation, state urban development department has introduced 700 e air-conditioned buses in 14 smart cities, including Varanasi. “In the newly constructed e-bus charging stations, two sub-stations of 160 kVA each have been set up in which a total of 30 e-buses can be charged at a time. On an average, it will take 60-90 minutes for an e-bus to charge after which the e-bus will be able to cover a distance of 120 km,” said Sonthalia.“A maintenance shed, substation building, construction of charging point, toilet, lighting system, drinking water, guard room, meter and pump room as well as rainwater harvesting have been provided in the e-bus charging station. Efficient operation of e-buses in Varanasi city is definitely beneficial in making urban transport easy and environment friendly,” he added.
04-01-2022||Pune||NCP dominates Pune District Central coop bank polls||PUNE The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has continued to hold sway over the Pune District Central Co-operative bank. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has been leading this bank for the last many years. Now, on Tuesday, apart from Ajit Pawar, two NCP ministers were elected unopposed to the board of the district co-operative bank: home minister Dilip Walse-Patil and Minister of state for forests, Datta Bharne. Of the 21 seats for elections, 15 have been elected unopposed. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Pradip Kand is the only non-NCP member to be elected to the bank’s board. Kand was earlier with the NCP but he then left the party and joined the BJP two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-dominates-pune-district-central-coop-bank-polls-101641319149397.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Cong women marathon: 4 girls hurt , NCPCR directs Bareilly DM to lodge FIR||Lucknow: Four minor girls were injured when a stampede-like situation occurred during a women’s marathon organised by the Congress in the western Uttar Pradesh district of Bareilly on Tuesday morning. The event was organised by the district unit of the Congress under its ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’ (I am a girl and I can fight) poll campaign in UP, where assembly elections are due this year. The injured girls were sent to a nearby hospital from where they were discharged after getting preliminary medical treatment. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took suo motu cognisance of the incident and directed the district magistrate of Bareilly to lodge an FIR regarding the matter. , Later, district magistrate of Bareilly Manvendra Singh directed the police administration to lodge FIR under relevant sections for violation of Covid-19 protocols against organisers of the marathon .“Prime-facie, the use of children in such political activities appears to be violation of sections of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and also violation of Covid Protocol guidelines issued by the government. Therefore, in view of the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that you look into the matter and initiate necessary inquiry to ensure the welfare and safety of children, by lodging an FIR at the first instance, under Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and relevant sections of IPC,” reads the letter addressed to DM of Bareilly Manvendra Singh by principal private secretary to chairperson,NCPCR Dharmedra Bhandari“An Action Taken Report with regard to status of treatment of injured children in the said incident may please be furnished to the commission within 24 hours and a detailed fact-finding enquiry report may also be shared with the commission, within 7 days of receipt of this letter,” the letter added.Videos that have emerged from the site show some girls in front tripping and falling to the ground while running, forcing those coming from behind to stop suddenly. This led to a commotion in which some of the participants were injured. Most of the participants are seen without masks and not following any Covid-19 guidelines. Reacting to the mishap, Congress leader and former Bareilly mayor Supriya Aron said there was nothing to worry about. “When a stampede can happen in Vaishno Devi, these are just girls. It is human nature. But I want to apologise.” She said that it could also be a conspiracy against the Congress, due to its increasing mass base ahead of the elections. According to local police, the incident occurred at the beginning of the marathon. No police complaint has been lodged regarding the matter. As per local Congress party leaders, close to 10,000 girls had registered for the marathon. The prizes included a scooter, smart phones, smart watches and medals. Geeta Shakya, the women’s wing chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh (UP), described the Bareilly marathon incident as unfortunate, while slamming Congress leaders over their “irresponsible” statements. “First the Congress leaders lured these girls, using them for political gains and then after the incident, the way they reacted on the incident was shameful. They did not provide first aid to the injured girls and later on, held them responsible for the incident. The Congress leaders shamelessly compared the incident with the stampede at the Vaishno Devi temple. BJP cadres and local administration helped the students but the Congress leaders were only seen trying to cover up their mistake,” Shakya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-women-marathon-4-girls-hurt-ncpcr-directs-bareilly-dm-to-lodge-fir-101641318964393.html
04-01-2022||Pune||Sharad Pawar moots hybrid ethanol and sugar production model||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, on Tuesday appealed to the sugar industry to adopt a hybrid production model to switch between ethanol and sugar depending on the price of the end product. Pawar was addressing the Vasantdada Sugar Institutes’ annual general meeting virtually on Tuesday. This is the second year the general body meeting was held virtually because of Covid-19. Pawar said, “Major sugar producing countries like Brazil, have adopted the hybrid model and keep switching production between ethanol and sugar depending upon prices. India has enough sugar production, around 305 lakh tonnes. If we consider export of sugar, then also the industry has enough sugar which can be diverted for ethanol production.” Pawar added, “Central government is promoting ethanol aggressively. Industry must participate to maintain its own economics.” He said that the differential price system has been introduced for ethanol-based sugar on whether it is produced directly from cane juice or from molasses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sharad-pawar-moots-hybrid-ethanol-and-sugar-production-model-101641318844256.html
04-01-2022||Pune||PMC appoints agency to conduct pre-feasibility report on tunnel connecting Pashan-Panchwati-Kothrud||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed an agency to conduct a pre-feasibility report for a tunnel on the Pashan-Panchwati-Kothrud route. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The tunnel is earmarked in the development plan and various agencies have been given permission to conduct an environmental impact assessment and pre-feasibility report.” The tunnel will allow easier access from Pashan, Baner and Aundh to Kothrud. Rasane said that total project cost is expected to be ₹250 crore and the survey through drones has already been completed after getting permission from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO). After a pre-feasibility report, PMC will submit the proposal to the forest department and defence for final approval. The PMC has appointed Monarch surveyor and engineering consultants at a cost of Rs72.70 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-appoints-agency-to-conduct-pre-feasibility-report-on-tunnel-connecting-pashanpanchwatikothrud-101641318664699.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||UP PCS-2022 notification by January end: UPPSC chairman||Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) will release the notification and advertisement for Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services Examination-2022, commonly known as PCS-2022, in the last week of January. Giving this information while talking to select media persons on Tuesday, UPPSC chairman Sanjay Srinet said, “Along with this, UPPSC has also taken several decisions to ensure fair and transparent conduct of recruitment exams held by it for various posts. The steps have been taken in wake of the recent incidents of paper leak that surfaced in the state.”“We will be issuing the advertisement for recruiting male nurses in the second week of January 2022 and that of PCS-2022 in the last week of this month,” he added. He also said the commission had taken several steps to improve the work culture because of which results of several recruitment processes had been announced in a record time. “We in the process of making an arrangement following which the candidates of different recruitment exams, conducted by the commission, would be able to know the name of their exam centre just 48 hours prior to the day of the exam. Before declaring the name of the exam centre, the candidate would only know the city in which the exam centre would be located (for example Gorakhpur 1 or 2, 3 etc) and prior to 48 hours of the exam, the commission would inform candidates about the exact name of the centre through an SMS, mail and via UPPSC’s official website,” the UPPSC chairman. He further said the commission now followed its annual calendar for both conducting the recruitment exams and announcing its results in a given time. “Besides, numbers of steps have been introduced in respect to examination centres and the commission would ensure that only those schools and institutions are made exam centres which fulfilled our norms,” he added. In another important decision taken by the commission, the chairman said in future all exams conducted by UPPSC would be two-layered and the concept of single exam or direct recruitment would be done away with. “This will eliminate the chances of any gang or unscrupulous elements getting involved in recruitment process,” he added. He said the commission had also decided to rope in support from Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). “UPSC is a higher body and has a spotless track record for its work culture. Thus, we have decided that UPPSC will take support from it and follow it to improve ourselves,” said the UPPSC chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-pcs-2022-notification-by-january-end-uppsc-chairman-101641318485031.html
04-01-2022||Pune||Bus bay, rickshaw stand at each Metro station to enable quick connectivity||PUNE To enable more connectivity with the Metro, Maha-Metro and the Pune municipal corporation have agreed to create a bus bay and an autorickshaw stand at each of the Metro stations in Pune.Maha-Metro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “PMPML buses and autorickshaws would work as a feeder service to the Metro. As the Metro is elevated, it has been decided that a bus bay and autorickshaw stand will be present at the Metro stations. Citizens would not require to use their personal vehicles to reach a Metro station. They can take public transport and reach the station.”Maha-Metro gave the media a tour of metro stations in PMC and PCMC.Dixit added, “We are prepared to launch the Metro service in Pune and 95 per cent of the work is completed. The remaining work will get competed in the coming days. The political leadership will take a call on the inaguration and launch of Metro in Pune.”Pune Metro’s commercial operations are expected to start soon and the final date depends on Prime Minister Narendra Modi responding to an invitation to inuaugrate the Metro. Maha-Metro, on Tuesday, claimed that 95 per cent of the priority section between PCMC and Phugewadi and Vanaz and Garware college has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bus-bay-rickshaw-stand-at-each-metro-station-to-enable-quick-connectivity-101641318245474.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||State sees massive surge with 18,466 new cases||Mumbai In a massive surge that officials said is being driven by the Omicron strain of the virus, the number of Covid patients in Maharashtra rose to 18,466 on Tuesday from a lower 12,160 on the previous day. The state also saw 20 deaths and 75 new Omicron cases. Of the new Omicron cases, 40 are from Mumbai, while nine are from Thane city and eight are from Pune. Panvel makes up for five cases, followed by Kolhapur and Nagpur (three each), Pimpri Chinchwad (two) and Bhiwandi Nizampur, Ulhasnagar, Satara, Amravati and Navi Mumbai (one each). So far, a total of 653 patients infected with Omicron have been detected and out of these, 259 have been discharged after a negative RT-PCR test.Mumbai tops the Omicron caseload at 408, followed by Thane at 71 and Pimpri Chinchwad at 38. The Omicron cases in Mumbai include 26 patients from outside Maharashtra, nine foreign nationals and those from other districts of the state.Apart from Mumbai, a high number of Covid patients was also reported from cities in the larger Mumbai metropolitan agglomeration like Thane city (1,354), Navi Mumbai (1,116), Kalyan Dombivali (457), Panvel (584), Vasai Virar (450) and Mira Bhayender (455). Pune city too reported 1,113 cases.“It seems that the Omicron strain is responsible as is evident from the rapid rise in the number of cases. This seems to be an Omicron driven surge… but the severity of the infection is mild, so the number of cases is not accompanied by a corresponding rise in hospitalisations,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer. He added that the spread of a mild variant could serve as a “blessing in disguise,” by ensuring herd immunity.“But vulnerable people are at risk. This includes those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, cancer or are immunosuppressed due to medical treatment. We should develop a strategy of the focussed protection of the vulnerable population,” said Awate. Just around 10 per cent of the 66,308 active cases have been hospitalised. The state has around 2.75 lakh dedicated Covid beds, which can be increased in phases. Of these, 3.5 to 4 per cent are occupied. Similarly, of the 98,000 oxygen beds, only 2.12 per cent are occupied.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that they expected the active caseload in Maharashtra to touch 80 lakh in the third wave. This wave is expected to peak in mid-February or the end of that month, after which the graph is expected to taper.Meanwhile, Vijay Wadettiwar, minister for relief and rehabilitation, indicated that while some restrictions would be tightened considering the Covid surge, lockdown would be a last resort. He noted that around 13 ministers and 70 legislators had tested positive, and added that some restrictions on events like marriages had also been imposed. 2,49,834 teenagers jabbedBy 8:45 PM on Tuesday, around 2,49,834 beneficiaries in the 15-to-18-years age group were vaccinated. This was the second day of the vaccination drive for them. On Monday, 1,83,259 had been administered the Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-sees-massive-surge-with-18-466-new-cases-101641318184183.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||CISCE asks schools to encourage parents for eligible teens’ vaccination||As the drive to vaccinate youngsters in 15-18 age group against Covid-19 has got under way across the country, the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) has advised heads of all schools affiliated with it to encourage parents and guardians to get their wards vaccinated at the earliest. “This is indeed heartening and a positive step in the right direction for the students in the examination classes of 10 and 12. It will ensure their safety and protection while leaving the safe confines of their homes to travel to school, either to attend classes, do practical work or to appear for the semester 2 examinations,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, said in a press statement on Tuesday.In Lucknow, vaccination centres were set up in a number of schools affiliated with the CISCE. Hundreds of students got their first dose on their school campuses. Prominent schools where students got vaccinated included La Martiniere Girls College, several branches of City Montessori School, a couple of branches of St Joseph group of institutions and many others.
04-01-2022||Pune||1,649 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths; Pune city’s positivity rate at 16.19%||PUNE On Sunday, Pune city recorded a Covid positivity rate of 16.19% for the first time since the second Covid-19 wave ebbed about two months ago.During the second Covid19 wave the city’s positivity rate had risen to 35%, said civic officials.On Tuesday Pune city reported 1,113 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the positivity rate to 16.19%. Rajesh Tope, state health minister said, “In the first wave Pune saw 200,000 Covid-19 cases and in the second wave this went up to 400,000. In the third wave we might report close to 800,000 Covid-19 cases.”As of Tuesday Pune district reported 1,649 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.17 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, the death toll stands at 20,194 and 4,202 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 198 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 370,411 and the death toll stood at 7,043 as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 1,113 new Covid19 cases which took the progressive count to 529,072 and the death toll went up to 9,273 as five more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 338 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 272,085 while the toll stood at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1649-new-covid-19-cases-and-5-deaths-pune-city-s-positivity-rate-at-1619-101641318004190.html
04-01-2022||Pune||2,804 violations of Covid norms at marriage halls, nightclubs and gyms in 2021||PUNE Between February 17 and December 31, 2021, there have been as many as 2,804 cases of violation of Covid norms recorded by the Pune Municipal Corporation at gymkhanas, nightclubs, and marriage halls in the city, officials said on Tuesday. Of these total cases registered, 2,500 violations took place on August 31 alone and post that, there have been only six cases reported at gymkhanas, nightclubs, and marriage halls, according to data provided by the PMC.Madhav Jagtap, PMC deputy municipal commissioner said the PMC does not have a bifurcation of cases in terms of violations at gymkhanas, nightclubs, and marriage halls respectively There have been 1,377 violations of Covid appropriate behaviour in restaurants, 32 cases in cinema halls, and 3,652 aat shopping malls or retail outlets between February 17 and December 31, 2021. A total of 30,336 sites were levied with fines in 2021 and ₹95 lakh collected in penalties; 340 sites were levied with fines in the last month of 2021 when Covid cases surged in the city. December 28 recorded the highest such cases with 58 sites violating Covid norms, followed by New Year’s Eve, with 38 such sites. However, not a single case of non-compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour was recorded by PMC in December in restaurants and cinema halls, and only five instances at gyms, nightclubs, and marriage halls violating Covid norms were registered. “The pubs and restaurants had all complied with the Covid guidelines on December 31 in the Koregaon Park area,” said Sagar Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 2. “There were no cases of violation recorded in my zone,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2804-violations-of-covid-norms-at-marriage-halls-nightclubs-and-gyms-in-2021-101641317828925.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||UP can give free electricity to farmers: Consumer body chairman||Pointing out that electricity was free for farmers in around six states in the country, the UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad, a power consumers’ body, on Tuesday, suggested a formula for making power free of cost for farmers in UP. “The government can easily provide free electricity to farmers with a little or no financial burden on the exchequer,” parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma said, amid various political parties talking of subsidised or free power before the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. He said states including Andhra, Karnataka, Punjab and Telangana are providing free power to their farmers, while in Haryana the electricity is as cheap as 10 paise per unit. “On the contrary, in UP, farmers have to pay ₹170 per horsepower (HP) of the tubewell motor if they are unmetered consumers and ₹70 per HP plus ₹2 per unit energy charges if they have meters on their tubewells. In urban areas, the tariff is even higher at the rate of ₹130 per HP with ₹6, as per unit energy charge,” he pointed out. According to him, in UP, there were 1316399 agricultural consumers with 794170 kW connected load. Around 14006 units of electricity worth ₹1845 crore is consumed by the farmers in a year, and the state government gives an annual subsidy to the tune of ₹11,000 crores to the UPPCL to give cheaper power to the farmers. “The government can provide free power to farmers just by giving around ₹2,000 crores additional cash subsidy to the UPPCL in advance as provided under section 65 of the Electricity Act 2003,” Verma pointed out. He said the government could provide free power to farmers without bearing any subsidy burden too, through cost-cutting and other measures like stopping power from expensive sources. “We can submit a detailed plan to the government if it wants us to,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-can-give-free-electricity-to-farmers-consumer-body-chairman-101641317404479.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||With 992 fresh cases, Uttar Pradesh sees Covid surge again||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh witnessed a major surge in Covid cases on Tuesday, with 992 fresh cases reported within 24 hours. The tally of the active cases crossed the 3,000 mark and rose to 3,173, close to the number of active cases on June 26 when there were 3,197 active cases in the state. The state also recorded increase in the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Within 24 hours, 18 fresh cases of Omicron were reported in the state, taking the total tally to 26. The state government had stepped up the genome sequencing of samples to identify the new variant, said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. According to the data from the state health department, UP’s active caseload crossed the 1000-mark on Saturday, 2000-mark on Monday and 3,000 on Tuesday. The spread of the Covid cases in the state can be gauged from the fact that on December 15, there was no active case in 42 districts and no new case was reported in 70 districts. Within 20 days, Covid cases have been reported in 73 districts. In the past 24 hours, no fresh or active case has been reported in merely two districts of Bundelkhand region- Chitrakoot and Mahoba. Again, the urban hubs registered spike in cases with Gautam Buddha Nagar reporting new cases taking the tally of the active cases to 597, Ghaziabad reported 174 fresh cases with 561active cases, Lucknow reported 150 new cases with 309 active cases, Meerut had 102 new cases with 112 active cases, Agra reported 24 fresh cases with 108 active cases, Varanasi reported 32 new cases and had 104 active cases, Prayagraj reported 37 fresh cases and had 73 active cases and Kanpur reported 35 fresh cases and 55 active cases. Expressing concern over the surge in Covid cases, health experts urged the state government to take strict measures to check the spread. Former president of Lucknow branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr PK Gupta said cases were doubling up and this could be an indication of a third wave. The coming 15 days might see surge in the Covid graph in the state as being witnessed in Delhi and Maharashtra. The people should take utmost precaution and follow the Covid protocol to protect themselves from infection. Any event that required mass gathering should be restricted across the state. The state government should activate the logistics in the health facility in government and private hospitals, he said. “A total of 1,66,033 Covid samples were tested in the past 24 hours and 992 new cases were reported,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health in a press statement. Uttar Pradesh had tested 9,36,00,940 Covid samples and the infection rate was 1.83% with a total 1,71, 4096 samples testing positive till now. The recovery rate in UP was 98.5%. In the past 24-hours 77 patients recovered and a total 16,88,007 patients had recovered till now, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-992-fresh-cases-uttar-pradesh-sees-covid-surge-again-101641317044002.html
04-01-2022||Pune||Offline classes for Class 1 to 8 shut till January 30: Ajit Pawar; says “Covid explosion” expected||PUNE Barely two days after schools reopened following the Christmas break, the district administration in Pune announced on Tuesday that offline classes will once again be shut for Class 1 to 8, till January 30. These classes will instead resume online from Wednesday in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and the rest of the district, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, after reviewing the Covid situation in Pune on Tuesday. The schools restarted for the first time on December 16, and there was then a winter break for most. The latest decision was taken as Covid-19 cases have been increasing in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts of the district.As of Tuesday Pune district reported 1,649 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection.“The offline classes for standards 1 to 8 will remain shut as the number of new cases continue to increase each day. As students from Class 9 onwards are eligible to get the vaccine under the 15-18 age group category we have offline classes as it will be easier to give them the shots. However, the younger students are not yet eligible for vaccination and so we have taken this decision to shut offline classes for Classes 1 to 8,” Pawar said during a press conference after the meeting. Pawar also said that the decision was taken after communication with Mumbai civic commissioner IS Chahal who also announced that classes in Mumbai for primary and secondary classes would remain shut. “I have also spoken to ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava who approved of the decision now that the positivity rate of the district is hovering around 18-20%. There are predictions that the number of Covid-19 cases could explode in the coming days,” said Pawar. The decision is also applicable to rural areas as most teaching staff in rural areas commute to and from the city to nearby villages, which means they could be potential spreaders, said Pawar. In the last two days since the central government approved the Covid-19 vaccination for teenagers aged between 15-18, Pune has been outperforming most districts. On the first day, Monday, close to 21,000 got Covaxin, of which 14,899 are from Pune rural.On Tuesday up until 5:30 pm at least 26,000 got the vaccine of which 19,000 are from rural areas of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/offline-classes-for-class-1-to-8-shut-till-january-30-ajit-pawar-says-covid-explosion-expected-101641316983847.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Golden Temple sacrilege: No headway yet, autopsy report of lynched accused still awaited||It’s been over half a month since the sacrilege bid inside the sanctum sanctorum at the Golden Temple, but the Punjab Police have not made any breakthrough or identified the suspect who was lynched on the gurdwara premises following the incident. A day after the incident on December 18, deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) under Amritsar DCP (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal and asked it to complete the probe within two days. The SIT went through all CCTV footage of the Golden Temple complex and streets that lead to the shrine, and found that the accused paid several visits to the area before the day of the incident. However, it failed to establish his identity, despite making his picture taken from the CCTV footage public. After no one came up to claim his body, police cremated it. “We have not got any further clue about the accused despite persistent efforts,” said Bhandal, adding that the man’s postmortem report is still awaited. Earlier, the SIT had said that any action against those who lynched the accused would be taken only after receiving the postmortem report. Meanwhile, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have accused the police of cremating the accused’s body in haste, even as it was crucial evidence in the alleged conspiracy. SGPC forms 7-member probe panel The SGPC on Tuesday constituted a seven-member panel to conduct an internal investigation into the sacrilege bid as well as throwing of a gutka (books of hymns) in the sarovar at the Golden Temple. SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami issued orders to form the panel. “Sri Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple) granth Giani Gurminder Singh, Damdami Taksal chief Baba Harnam Singh Khalsa, Shiromani Panth Akali Budha Dal chief Baba Balbir Singh, SGPC senior vice-president Raghujit Singh Virk, member Bhagwant Singh Sialka, member Gurcharan Singh Grewal and Sikh scholar Inderjit Singh Gogoani will be members of the panel,” said Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, media assistant secretary of the apex gurdwara body. He said SGPC secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli will be the coordinator of the panel. 
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Entire SP would begin seeing Lord Ram, Shiva too in their dream: Sidharth Nath Singh||LUCKNOW: After chief minister Yogi Adityanath, other senior BJP leaders also targeted Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav over his ‘Lord Krishna comes in my dream’ remark that he had made on Monday. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya hit out at Yadav, saying if the Lord did come in his dream, he should promptly commit to a grand Krishna temple in Mathura. “Akhileshji, if you believe in Lord Krishna why don’t you support Krishna temple in Mathura? Do that, if Lord Krishna actually came in your dreams. Actually, Akhileshji must commit that he would get a grand Krishna temple made,” said Maurya. UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said: “It’s nice that after talking Babur and Jinnah, Akhilesh Yadav has now started seeing Lord Krishna, albeit in his dreams. Wait for another five years and the entire Samajwadi Party would begin seeing Lord Ram, Lord Krishna and Lord Shiva too.” The Krishna controversy had started on Monday when the SP chief, while responding to a development about BJP Rajya Sabha MP writing to his party’s national president JP Nadda requesting him to field Yogi from Mathura, had said: “From wherever he contests, he will first have to answer people’s questions on unemployment, Covid deaths, law and order, electricity, businesses and the promise of doubling farmers’ income.” Quipping on the BJP MP’s letter in which he wrote that “Lord Krishna had inspired him to write the letter,” Akhilesh had said: “Lord Krishna comes to my dream and says that this time SP will form the government. And not just one day, Lord Krishna comes in my dream every day and says that SP will form the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/entire-sp-would-begin-seeing-lord-ram-shiva-too-in-their-dream-sidharth-nath-singh-101641316743906.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Spike in Covid-19 cases: LU to ensure 100% vaccination of students, staff||Amidst growing Covid-19 cases and threat of Omicron variant, the Lucknow University administration on Tuesday said it would ensure complete vaccination of students and staff along with setting up measures, including the use of thermal scanners in all the departments. As per an order issued by LU registrar Vinod Kumar Singh the vaccination certificates of all the staff members and students will be checked to ensure complete coverage. The university administration is working on developing a system wherein vaccination status could be checked in a short span of time. The notice was issued following a state-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation. The meeting was held in Lucknow and chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The order also asks all the staff and students to wear masks at all times while on campus. “Every department in the university will also make use of thermal scanners to spot people with Covid-19 symptoms,” reads the order. The university staff has also been asked to follow social distancing measures while on campus. Arrangements are also being made to make sanitisers available across the campus for the use of staff and students. “The university will do its best to implement all the Covid-19 protocols laid down by the state government, to the fullest in the university campus. We also expect support from teachers, students and other staff in ensuring it,” said LU Spokesman Durgesh Srivastav. The university administration officials declined to comment on upcoming semester exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/spike-in-covid-19-cases-lu-to-ensure-100-vaccination-of-students-staff-101641316563836.html
04-01-2022||Pune||Passenger footfall at Shirdi airport reaches 1 million||PUNE Shirdi airport saw a passenger footfall of more than one million on January 3, highest since the airport commenced operations. Deepak Kapoor, vice chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC),took to social media and wrote , “BIG news ! On 3 rd Jan , 2022 , Shirdi Airport successfully crossed the target of serving more than 1 MILLION HAPPY PASSENGERS with more than 13000 aircraft movements . We shall work even harder to keep our valuable passengers happy.” (sic)“The facilities have improved at the Shirdi airport and in the last few days heavy rush of passengers are coming from Bengaluru,Chennai and Delhi. The traffic could have increased more if there was no Omicron threat” said a Shirdi Airport official.Leaving visibility problem in the initial days, airport has seen seamless flow of flights. “System has improved at the airport so now it does not face much problem. We are trying to make it world class,” added the official.The authorities are focusing on completing work for night landing facilities. “Night landing facilities as well as runway expansion from 2,400 metres to 32,00 metres is in the process of getting DGCA approvals which are expected soon We shall work even harder to improve passenger amenities,” said Kapoor.“Shirdi is already better equipped in comparison to other similar airports. In 2019 total 24 flights were diverted due to low visibility and this figure reduced to just five in 2020 and to four in 2021.” a regular flyer from Shirdi posted on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/passenger-footfall-at-shirdi-airport-reaches-1-million-101641316084897.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs clamped on public, but politicians have free run in poll-bound Punjab||Even though the Punjab government has clamped Covid-19 restrictions in the state by closing educational institutions and imposing night curfew, politicians are having a free run as they are holding massive political rallies for the forthcoming assembly polls.Hours after the restrictions were imposed by the home department, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday held a massive rally of anganwadi workers in Morinda. Later, he attended a programme at a private university in Phagwara, where he even danced with the students. All Covid-19 guidelines were thrown to the wind at these events as people were without masks and did not maintain social distancing.Not only this, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a workers’ meet at Bathinda beside meeting people in Patiala while on his way to Bathinda. AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, who has tested positive for Covid-19, had also held massive shows of strength in Patiala and Amritsar, and even Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal is busy holding rallies. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to launch the BJP campaign by holding its maiden rally at Ferozepur.Even during his rally of anganwadi workers, CM Channi spoke about the threat of rising Covid-19 cases. He exhorted people to follow precautionary measures amid the recent surge in cases and said that the Punjab government already has a robust healthcare infrastructure in place to face any eventuality.“It’s totally unfair that restrictions have been imposed for the public, while politicians are having a free run, holding rallies and worker meetings. Restrictions have been clamped on hotels, clubs and gyms and educational institutions, but there is no bar on political gatherings,” said Naresh Kumar, a hotelier.“Why are laws and restrictions are only meant for the public. Why no restrictions on politicians?” questioned Badish Jindal, an industrialist. He said politicians, irrespective of their party, should be punished for spreading Covid-19 through their rallies. AAP leader Dr Balbir Singh said the party workers will follow all guidelines, and already they have been asked to comply with the Covid-19 protocol while canvassing. BJP leader Subash Sharma said the PM’s programme is a government function, which was planned before any restrictions were imposed.Meanwhile, medical education minister Raj Kumar Verka said the government is seized of the matter and more restrictions will be imposed after reviewing the situation.
04-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC issues fresh guidelines for international arrivals at airport. Details here||Amid an alarming rise in daily Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra, including cases of the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the civic body of Mumbai, on Tuesday announced fresh guidelines for international passengers arriving at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA).Also Read | Mumbai makes 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR mandatory for UAE returnees amid Covid alarm“Kindly note the latest protocol, for those arriving at Mumbai International Airport from abroad,” tweeted Kiran Dighavkar, an assistant municipal commissioner with the BMC.
04-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: BJP starts drive to seek public suggestions for manifesto||Ahead of 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seeking suggestions from people of the state to prepare the party’s manifesto.An aspiration box (suggestion box) has been kept at all BJP shakti kendras of the state, said Kashi region BJP spokesperson Navratan Rathi.“Public can pen down their suggestions on how to make UP number 1 on a paper and drop them in the suggestion box. Later, these suggestions will be sent to the BJP headquarters in Lucknow,” said Rathi. Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Shrivastava said under the “your suggestion, our resolution” drive, the BJP workers of each booth and mandal are taking suggestions from the people for the mission of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to make UP number 1. “Suggestions are being taken from every section of the society, including businessmen, intellectuals, doctors, engineers, workers, women and youth. All suggestions will be taken seriously. They will be compiled and used for preparing our manifesto,” he said.Srivastava said he had sought suggestions from people in Maldahiya area in which traders had suggested simplification of GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-bjp-starts-drive-to-seek-public-suggestions-for-manifesto-101641315727955.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj police to probe if ex-MP Atiq Ahmad using phone inside Ahmedabad jail||Police are on the alert after it has come to fore that Prayagraj-based property dealer Zeeshan aka Janu was forced to talk to mafioso-turned-politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad, who is currently lodged in Ahmedabad Jail, over phone. Police would now investigate whether Atiq was using phone inside jail and with whom he was in contact with in Prayagraj and then forward a report to senior officials.In his FIR lodged against Atiq’s son Ali and his accomplices, property dealer Zeeshan aka Janu has claimed that Ali forced him to talk to his father on his phone on Friday. The person on the other side (Atiq) threatened Zeeshan to transfer his property in the name of Shaista Parveen (Atiq’s wife) or else give cash ₹5 crore as extortion. Atiq instructed Ali to assault Zeeshan when he refused to give in.While police arrested two assailants Ali, Asaad and other accused are still at large. SHO Kareli Anurag Sharma said investigation in this connection is being carried out and call details of Ali’s mobile were being scanned to check if any calls were made or received by any number from Gujarat. Continuous raids were being carried out and more arrests will be made soon, the SHO added.Shaista has denied involvement of Ali in the case and claimed that it was part of a conspiracy against her husband to defame him. AIMIM leaders have also defended Atiq and his kin and claimed that the family was targeted as its members were expected to contest from different seats in upcoming polls on AIMIM ticket.Two cases in which Atiq has been accused of abducting realtors and assaulting them at Deoria Jail is already pending. One of the case involving realtor Mohit Agarwal of Lucknow is now been investigated by CBI in which Atiq’s son Umar is absconding. Another case was lodged by builder Zaid Khalid of Bamrauli area of Prayagraj. In both cases, it was alleged that the victims were abducted and taken to Deoria Jail where they were assaulted by Atiq and his aides and forced to transfer their properties in his name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-police-to-probe-if-ex-mp-atiq-ahmad-using-phone-inside-ahmedabad-jail-101641314883612.html
04-01-2022||Ranchi||Ex-BJP MLA escapes Maoist attack; one bodyguard killed, another missing||Former BJP legislator from Manoharpur, Gurucharan Nayak, on Tuesday narrowly escaped a Maoist attack but the red ultras reportedly killed two of his three official bodyguards and managed to loot their arms in the ambush after dusk under Goilkera police station in West Singhbhum district. The attack happened in Jhinaruan village when the former legislator was visiting the place to attend a football match as a guest, police said. While Nayak managed to flee the spot along with one of his three bodyguards and reached Goilkera police station to report the matter, the two other bodyguards were reportedly killed by the ultras and their arms snatched. “As per the latest confirmed information, one Jharkhand police jawan with the former MLA has been killed. Another bodyguard is missing while the third managed to escape along with the legislator. One AK-47 and two Insas rifles were looted by the attackers from the three guards,” said Neeraj Sinha, director-general, Jharkhand Police.The DGP said extra forces have been deployed at the incident spot and the body of the jawan was yet to be recovered. While Nayak could not be contacted for his comment, the DGP said the former legislator had not informed local police despite his late movement in the area. Nayak had a similar narrow escape when he was attacked by Maoists in the Anandpur police station area in the district in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/exbjp-mla-escapes-maoist-attack-one-bodyguard-killed-another-missing-101641313923399.html
04-01-2022||Patna||Covid-19: Nitish Kumar orders night curfew in Bihar, cancels Samaj Sudhar Yatra||PATNA: The Bihar government on Tuesday decided to impose night curfew from 10pm till 5am with effect from January 6 for a fortnight till January 21, and shut down parks, gyms, swimming pools and malls in the state in view of rising cases of Covid-19 in the state.Chief minister Nitish Kumar also decided to cancel his ongoing Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reforms campaign) - it started on December 22 and was scheduled to conclude on January 15 - and the weekly Janata Darbar . On Monday, 11 people at the chief minister’s weekly town hall meeting tested positive for Covid-19. They included six people who had come for grievance redressal and five members of the catering staff.The decisions were taken at the crisis management group (CMG) meeting chaired by chief Nitish Kumar late Tuesday evening.The meeting, however, decided against imposing lockdown. The state reported 893 new infections on Tuesday, more than double the cases reported the previous day , taking the number of active cases to 2,222, said officials. Patna reported 565 cases.The state government, which had already announced closure of schools up to classes 8, has decided to continue classes for students of class 9 to 12 with 50% attendance. Schools have been allowed to continue online teaching for students up to class 8. The government has also ordered coaching institutes not to hold in-person classes, and capped attendance in government and private offices at 50% . Visitors have been barred from entering office premises.The government has also closed religious places to devotees and told hotels and restaurants to operate with 50% capacity and put a cap of 50 people for weddings and 20 persons at funerals. All shops have been told to close by 8 pm.The government has allowed social, religious, cultural functions with 50% capacity with an upper limit of 50 people.On Tuesday, the ruling JD (U) shut its office after five office staffers tested positive. The JD(U) national president and MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh has also tested positive.
04-01-2022||Ranchi||Tribal man finds his name on wanted Maoist list, seeks CM’s help||A 43-year-old tribal man in Bokaro district of Jharkhand on Tuesday urged chief minister Hemant Soren for help, alleging he has wrongly been framed and branded as a Maoist by the local police which is asking him to surrender as he carries a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head. A local rights activist tweeted a letter on behalf of the man, Birsa Majhi, who is uneducated and works as a labourer. In the letter, Majhi, father of four children, has claimed he fears for his life and wants his name to be cleared. Majhi is a resident of Charpania village under Jogeshwarnagar police station of Bokaro district. Sunil Baski, 20-year-old son of Majhi, told Hindustan Times on Tuesday that his father was summoned by the police station in-charge last month and asked to surrender since he was a “wanted Maoist and carries a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head”. “We are not educated. We don’t even know in which case he has been named as a Maoist. The policemen at the station told my father that he could also get some money if he surrenders,” said Baski, adding that a few villagers and activists were helping them in the matter. Siraj Dutta of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a rights group which is helping Majhi, said the man is innocent and that it seems to be a case of mistaken identity. “Majhi is facing a trial in an old case of witchcraft in 2006. Like other accused in that case, he will also be acquitted as he is innocent. And out of nowhere, he has now been branded as Maoist. In 2018, all his belongings at his home were attached by police when Majhi was in Andhra Pradesh for work. His family was not even served a proper notice and they don’t still know in which case that action was taken. We demand the CM to intervene in the case and provide relief to this poor tribal,” said Siraj. Lakshmi Prasad, who appeared for Birsa Majhi in the 2006 case, said he is innocent and is likely to be acquitted. “Six of the other accused in the case have been acquitted as the charges could not hold. This man is still on trial just because he could not appear for hearings as he is poor man wandering for work,” Prasad said. On the new charges, Prasad said they have no clue in which case police wants Majhi to surrender. Jogeshwarnagar police station in-charge Kanhaiya Ram dismissed allegations that he had directed Majhi to surrender. “I did not summon him and I have not even met him. Would I have allowed him to walk free if he is a Maoist carrying a reward of ₹1 lakh? Only he can say who did he meet at the police station,” said Ram. About allegation of his property being attached in 2018 without any notice and whether any case is pending against Majhi in his police station, Ram said, “I will have to check the records as this police station was established only a few years back and many files are still in record room with Mahuatand police station from which Jogeshwarnagar station was carved out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/tribal-man-finds-his-name-on-wanted-maoist-list-seeks-cm-s-help-101641313568309.html
04-01-2022||Patna||AIIMS curbs OPD services, spike in Covid cases in Bihar||The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has restricted the number of new patients for outdoor consultation to 50 per department given the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, as the state reported 893 new infections, more than double the cases reported a day before, taking the number of active cases to 2222, said officials. The restrictions on the number of new patients in the outdoor patient department (OPD) will come into effect from January 7, said Dr CM Singh, medical superintendent of AIIMS-Patna who issued the order late on Tuesday evening. The institute also put in place a system of taking prior telephonic appointments for OPD consultation. “Prior appointment for OPD consultation will be mandatory for patients and can be taken telephonically on 9470702235, 9430008936, 9430008970, 9470702184 and 0612-2451070 between 8am and 4pm on working days,” said Dr Singh. Old patients can, however, visit the department concerned directly, he added. “We shall also extend consultation through telemedicine. The number for teleconsultation is 0612-2451923 and our Skype ID is aiimspatnatelemedicine,” added Dr Singh. As many as 17 doctors and three healthcare workers at the AIIMS have already tested positive for Covid-19, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS, Patna. “One resident doctor is hospitalized at our institute while the others are under home isolation,” said Dr Kumar. “As many as 11 doctors and three healthcare workers tested positive today. Six doctors had tested positive a couple of days before that. The doctors include three faculty members in the rank of assistant professors while the remaining are resident doctors,” added Dr Kumar. Around 170 doctors and medical students are believed to have tested positive for SARS CoV-2 at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital while 20 have been infected at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, both in Patna. The state health department and the IGIMS have cancelled leaves of all health officials, including doctors and healthcare workers, till February 28.
04-01-2022||Patna||Bihar seeks special financial assistance from Centre||The Bihar government has sought special financial package from the Centre and modification in fiscal norms, state’s finance minister and deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad said on Tuesday. Prasad said the state urgently required the financial assistance for infrastructure development and capital expenditure owing to unavoidable natural calamities. He made a formal demand for the same during the pre-budget meeting of finance ministers of different states with union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamam in New Delhi last week. “We have offered sufficient arguments to justify our demands, which include revisit of revenue sharing pattern in the Centrally sponsored schemes,” said the deputy CM. Recently, chief minister Nitish Kumar and many of his cabinet colleagues had trashed the Niti Aayog’s report on multi-dimensional poverty index, in which Bihar was ranked at the bottom of development with regard to education, health and ease of living. The CM had questioned the authenticity for the report and the state government had sent a formal protest against it. Declining to elaborate on the CM’s assertion about the Niti Aayog’s report, Prasad said the Bihar government had asked for review of revenue sharing pattern in the Centrally sponsored schemes as the Centre’s share in them had been on decline over the past few years. “We have asked the Centre to increase the fiscal deficit limit to 5% of the state’s GDP against the present 3%, besides raising the borrowing limit,” said the deputy CM. Prasad said that prior to 2015-16, the Centre’s share in various centrally assisted schemes was 90%, 75% or 60%. “But in recent times, Bihar has enhanced its spending on various schemes as the Centre had slashed its share considerably. The state’s share in the Central taxes has also been decreased,” said Prasad, adding that the state had to spend a substantial share of revenue to pay salary to school teachers and pension of retired employees. The Opposition, however, was quick to attack the state government over the issue. “Earlier, the government promised special status to Bihar, jobs to two crore people every year and recovery of black money, but nothing happened,” Congress leader Ajay Kumar Singh said.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said social welfare schemes had become a den of corruption. 
04-01-2022||Patna||19 more NMCH doctors test Covid positive; JD (U) office closed after 5 more cases detected||As many as 35 more people, including 19 doctors of the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of infected doctors at the NMCH to 178 in the past three days, a doctor from the hospital said. “Today, 35 people have tested positive, of which 19 are doctors. At least 27 new patients have been admitted to the hospital in the last 24 hours. The infected doctors have been asked to isolate themselves,” Dr Mukul Kumar Singh of the NMCH said.“The remaining infected persons are from various localities of Patna and Patna City, such as Gaighat, Alamganj, and Gur Ki Mandi. All of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are in isolation. The doctors were infected after attending a function of Indian Medical Association (IMA) a few days ago,” he said.On Monday evening, 72 doctors of the NMCH had tested positive for Covid-19, Dr Binod Kumar Singh, Medical Superintendent of NMCH, had said.Meanwhile, a day after 11 people tested positive for Covid-19 at chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Darbar on Monday, the JD (U) office was closed on Tuesday after five more positive cases were detected among the office employees. JD (U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh on Tuesday informed through a tweet that has also tested positive for Covid-19. Following the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department on Tuesday cancelled the leaves of doctors till February 28, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/19-more-nmch-doctors-test-covid-positive-jd-u-office-closed-after-5-more-cases-detected-101641313563606.html
04-01-2022||Patna||Two teens gets Covishield shots instead of Covaxin in Bihar’s Nalanda district||Following a faux pas, wherein two teenagers in the 15-18 years age group were administered Covishield instead of Covaxin at a vaccination centre in Nalanda on Monday, the district administration on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the nurse who had administered the vaccine, officials in the state health department said.“The teenagers, both brothers, have not reported any adverse event following the immunisation (AEFI). They had mild fever and body pain last evening but are doing absolutely fine now. We are taking regular feedback from the parents,” said Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar.“We kept the children under observation for 90 minutes and have assured the parents, who came to meet me, to extend all possible medical help in case of any eventuality. I have shared my official mobile number as well as that of the district hospital and asked them to contact us in case the children face any medical issue,” said Dr Kumar.Terming it a ‘huge negligence’, the civil surgeon said, “I have issued a show-cause notice to the GNM trainee concerned and will also ask the deputy superintendent of the district hospital under whose guidance the vaccination session sites are being run, to explain how the lapse took place.”The two brothers, Aryan Kiran, 16, a student of class 10 in Nalanda, and Piyush Ranjan, 17, of class 11 in Bishop Scott’s Boys School, Patna, took the vaccine shots at the Indian Medical Association (IMA) hall, which was a vaccination centre for adults.“My children got their vaccination centre at the IMA Hall in Biharsharif at the time of pre-booking on the CoWIN portal on Sunday. My husband, Priyaranjan Kumar, even enquired with the staff at the vaccination centre who told him that Covaxin was being administered. I became very nervous when I later got to know that Covishield had been given to both my children. They had developed fever, pain and slight dizziness last evening, but are now doing fine,” said the mother of the teenagers Poonam Kumari. “My biggest worry now is to get the vaccination certificate of my children corrected that mentions Covaxin. I have spoken to the district health officials but they have not given me any assurance,” the mother added.Talking about the faux pas, the civil surgeon said the auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM), who was administering the vaccines on a regular basis turned Covid-19 positive and was off duty. In the haste of making an alternate arrangement, the officials deputed a general nursing midwife (GNM) trainee, who was possibly ignorant about the government directive to administer only Covaxin to children,” said Dr Kumar.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in his December 28 letter to the chief secretary and administrator of all Indian states and union territories, had written that the option for vaccination of children would only be Covaxin as this was the only vaccine with emergency use listing (EUL) for the age group 15-18.The WHO had issued Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin emergency use listing in November, last year. WHO’s EUL procedure assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines and is a prerequisite for vaccine supply.There have been a few instances of goof ups in Covid vaccination in Bihar in the last one year.Earlier, on June 21 last year, an ANM at the Urdu Middle School temporary vaccination centre in Barhampur village of Saran district had administered a shot to a youth without any vaccine in the syringe. The Bihar government had suspended the nurse after the video went viral.On June 16, a sexagenarian woman, Sunila Devi, was given a shot each of Covaxin and Covishied at an interval of 5 minutes at the Utkramit Vidyalaya, a rural vaccination camp in Beldarichak village of Punpun block under Patna district.Instances of vaccine mix-up have also been reported from Bihar’s Purnia and Samastipur districts.Madan Lal Modi, 50, claimed he was vaccinated Covaxin instead of Covishield in the second shot at the Kasba community health centre, Purnia, on May 11. Its medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar Singh had then attributed it to “human error”.Ankit Sharma, 32, claimed his provisional vaccination certificate, after the first jab, mentioned Covaxin though he was administered Covishield at the Middle School, Harpur Alloth village, Samastipur, on May 16.
04-01-2022||Patna||Covid curbs back in Bihar, night curfew from Jan 6-21||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Bihar government on Tuesday decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm till 5 am with effect from January 6 till January 21 and close all parks, gyms, swimming pools and malls. The decision was taken at a meeting of crisis management group (CMG) chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday evening. The meeting decided against imposing a lockdown.The CM’s ongoing statewide tour as part of his social campaign reforms campaign and his weekly Janata Darbar have also been cancelled, said officials. On Monday, 11 people who attended CM’s Janata Darbar were tested positive for coronavirus. The state government, which had already announced closure of schools up to classes 8, has decided to allow classes for students of class 9 to 12 with 50% attendance. However, classes for students of up to class 8 can be held online. Coaching institutes will remain shut but can conduct classes online. The meeting also decided to cut down the attendance to 50% at government and private offices and outsiders would not be allowed in offices. Shops will remain open till 8 pm.Religious places will remain closed for devotees while hotels and restaurants will operate with 50% capacity. A cap of 50 people for marriage ceremonies and 20 people for last rites functions will be in force. The government has allowed social, religious, cultural functions with 50% capacity, to a maximum of 50 people. 
04-01-2022||Mumbai||13-year-old girl kidnapped from Thane rescued in Delhi||Thane Police have rescued a 13-year-old girl, who sold flowers at Thane railway station, from Delhi a week after her parents reported her missing.The girl had told her family that she was going to attend nature’s call on December 29. But, she never returned. The police suspected that she was allegedly kidnapped by a 20-year-old woman whom the girl’s family recently provided shelter and helped in getting a ticket for her hometown. The police claimed that she lured the girl with the promise of a luxurious life. The victim, however, on learning the accused’s intention, was smart enough to escape and seek help to contact her father. The Naupada police in Thane sent a team to Delhi to get the girl back and registered a kidnapping case against unknown persons.The girl, identified as Tulshi Butia, resides in Kalwa and sells garlands and flowers with her family at Thane station.A police officer from Naupada said, “The family met the woman who identified herself as Jyoti on December 27. She told them her ordeal and asked for help to reach Gujarat, her hometown. The Butia family allowed her to stay with them and on December 29 gave her some money to buy a train ticket.” On the same day, their daughter went missing. The officer added, “The woman lured the girl with the promise of a smartphone, luxurious life and several other comforts, and convinced her to board the train with her. After reaching Dwarka, she took the girl to a red light area and the two slept in an auto rickshaw for the night. The next day, when the accused did not take her home, Butia was scared and asked her to give her the phone so she could call her father. Jyoti refused. That’s when the girl got a chance to escape and run away. She approached a security guard on the way and called her parents from his phone.”Senior police inspector, Sanjay Dhumal, said, “Both of them vanished at the same time. Therefore, we realised the accused might have taken the girl along with her. We sent a team to Gujarat to find the girl. Meanwhile on January 1, the girl’s father got a call from the person who found the girl crying in Delhi’s Dwarka railway station. We sent our team and brought her back on January 2. The Dabadi Police in Delhi tried to look for the other woman who dropped the girl there but could not find her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13yearold-girl-kidnapped-from-thane-rescued-in-delhi-101641313505703.html
04-01-2022||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: Females sweep elections for district boards posts||Female candidates in Bihar have swept the elections for the coveted posts of chairperson and deputy chairperson of district boards, the apex body of the three-tier rural local bodies, as per results declared late Monday evening. Of the total 38 district boards, 29 posts of chairperson and 24 posts of deputy chairperson have been won by females in an indirect election in which the newly elected ward members in panchayats form the electorate, as per data compiled by the State Election Commission (SEC). For the post of chairperson, females have beaten their male counterparts in at least 11 district boards where there was no reservation for women nominees. They have fared equally well in winning 24 posts of deputy chairperson despite there being no reservation for female candidates for the post. The margin of victory for winners has varied from 42 votes to as small as six votes in different district boards, indicating the close contest. There are 18 district boards where the post of chairperson is reserved for women, including seven from SCs/STs and backward classes, as part of the policy to give 50% reservation for women in seats in panchayat bodies asz provisioned in the panchayati raj act. “This is a welcome change. It indicates the change in social milieu and breaking of traditional mould,” said State Election Commissioner Dr Deepak Prasad. Another striking aspect of the election for district board chairpersons is that several old faces, including some having strong political background, have lost. For instance, Rani Bharti, daughter of Bima Bharti, a former minister and JD(U) MLA from Rupauli, lost the election for the post of chairperson of Purnia district board to Wahida Sarwar by 19 votes.“In at least 28-29 district boards, new faces have been elected as chairperson and deputy chairperson,” said an official in the SEC. The panchayat election in Bihar to fill up 2.55 lakh posts were conducted in 11 phases, from September 24 to December 12 last year.
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Resident doctors call off strike, to resume services from today||Mumbai: The Central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) on Monday called off their strike late evening. A statement was released after a virtual meeting between members of the resident doctors’ association and Dr Deelip Mhaisekar, director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).“We’ve been assured recruitment of house officers/medical officers in all government and corporation hospitals. This is being done in view of the delay in postgraduate medical counselling,” said a member of central MARD. The protests were triggered on account of delays in placing doctors at government hospitals, as the Supreme Court (SC) is considering a policy to increase the share of seats reserved for underrepresented communities. This has resulted in a stay on admissions to postgraduate medical courses, leaving an entire batch of first-year PG students missing in 2021. In addition to the delay in NEET-PG counselling, the city’s resident doctors are also demanding the waiver of their academic fees and a risk incentive for services rendered during the pandemic, which was promised to them by the civic body. Post the meeting with Mhaisekar, students have now been assured that “runanubandh bhatta” (allowances) will be released soon for medical colleges. “DMER director has also assured us that irregularities of stipend at few medical colleges will be addressed soon,” read the statement by Central MARD.Meanwhile, SC on Tuesday said it will hear the EWS matter a day in advance. Originally scheduled to be heard on January 6, the SC will now hear the petition on Wednesday, January 5. “Advancing the hearing by one day after a four-month delay makes no difference. However, the focus should now be on avoiding any further delay and starting the counselling process at the earliest,” said a resident doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-call-off-strike-to-resume-services-from-today-101641313443355.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat trader shot dead by unidentified miscreants||A trader was allegedly shot dead by unidentified miscreants in Samalkha town of Panipat district, police said.According to police, the deceased has been identified as Raj Kumar, 45, of Samalkha. He was a trader of edible oils.The incident took place on Mata Puli road late on Tuesday evening when he was going home. Three miscreants chased him on a bike and opened fire at him.He sustained a bullet injury and fell on the ground while miscreants took his bag and fled the spot, said an eyewitness.The trader was rushed to a nearby hospital but later, he succumbed to the injuries. Soon after getting the information, a police team led by DSP Pradeep Kumar reached the spot and started investigation.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said the man was shot dead and as per initial investigation, the reason behind the murder cannot be ascertained yet.He said police teams have been deputed to arrest the accused. Police are also examining CCTV footage from the locality to get a clue about the assailants.Officials associated with the investigation said the body was sent for postmortem and an FIR will be registered as per statement of the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-trader-shot-dead-by-unidentified-miscreants-101641313265440.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||I-T raids on 4 shoe exporters of Agra, Noida-based realtor||AGRA/MEERUT The income tax department on Tuesday raided multiple premises linked to a Noida-based realtor, who is said to have political connections, and four Agra-based footwear exporters as part of a tax evasion investigation, official sources said.They said offices and other locations of the realtor and footwear exporters in Agra, Noida and Delhi were covered as part of the searches.The action was an outcome of heavy investments in real estate and purchase of properties in prime locations by the footwear exporters in recent times, but the quantum of seizures was not revealed, they said. The raids took place at different spots including the exporters’ residences in Agra’s posh localities of Bharatpur House, Lajpat Kunj and Vijay Nagar Colony apart from the locations in Delhi and Noida. The operations were led by additional director of income tax (investigations) Neelam Agrawal, and assistant director of income tax (investigations) Ashima Mahajan. The raids began around 7am and were continuing when reports last came in. In Agra, the premises of Om Exports, Tara Innovations and Nuova Shoes were raided but officials of these firms were not available for comment. I-T sleuths, however, refused to make any comment. Meanwhile, the Noida-based builder’s house was raided by the I-T department’s team in his native village Mehrampur in Baghpat at 5am on Tuesday. Deputy director of Income Tax Rajeev Prasad was leading the team.The team faced mild resistance from villagers but the police managed to keep them away and the team searched the house. The builder was said to be close to the Samajwadi Party. The realtor is stated to have developed commercial and residential projects in Noida, Greater Noida and some other locations in the National Capital Region, said sources.Samajwadi Party leader and former member of state planning commission Sudhir Panwar described the raid as a “targeted operation” and accused the ruling BJP of violating ethics to win the elections.Panwar raised questions over the timing of the raid, and said: “The BJP grossly misused government agencies to win elections, which is against democratic values of the country.” He said the raids would pave the way for victory of SP in forthcoming UP Assembly elections, as similar operations in West Bengal and Rajasthan resulted in the success of non-BJP parties. “What is there to fear if none has done any wrong? It’s true that the Samajwadi Party and its leader are little bewildered these days as the fragrance of the Samajwadi perfume has turned into a stench,” said Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy chief minister, UP. “The BJP is trying to terrorise opposition parties by using CBI, ED and other agencies. But they are mistaken. These only show the BJP’s desperation,” said Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party leader Om Prakash Rajbhar, whose party has inked a pre-poll pact with the Samajwadi Party. Earlier while commenting on I-T raids on some of his party leaders, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav too had said that these operations only showed how desperate the BJP was. “Now, income tax has come and shortly enforcement directorate and the CBI would come too,” Yadav had said while accusing the BJP of misusing central agencies for poll gains. I-T agencies had previously raided Kannauj businessman Piyush Jain, who BJP leaders claimed, was connected with the launch of Samajwadi ‘itar’ in Lucknow in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/it-raids-on-4-shoe-exporters-of-agra-noida-based-realtor-101641313264073.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Acknowledge farmers’ deaths, pay relief to kin: Harsimrat to PM||Former Union cabinet minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to acknowledge the loss of more than 700 lives during the agitation against central farm laws and compensate the affected families. The Shiromani Akali Dal leader, who was campaigning for SAD-BSP candidates at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, said the three farms laws that have now been repealed not only affected the entire farming community but also the economic structure and social bonding of the state. The Bathinda MP also asked the Prime Minister to transfer Chandigarh to Punjab, which is a long pending demand of the state. Targeting Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has announced schemes for women if the party gets elected to power again, the SAD leader questioned that what was stopping him from implementing just one such scheme right away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/acknowledge-farmers-deaths-pay-relief-to-kin-harsimrat-to-pm-101641312903755.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane Guardian Minister Shinde, 2 Sena MLAs test positive for Covid||THANE
04-01-2022||Pune||Uday Samant chairs meet with collectors, VCs to assess situation in colleges||PUNE Given the rising cases of COVID-19 in the state and in Pune, Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant on Tuesday chaired a meeting with all divisional commissioners, collectors and all vice- chancellors to discuss and evaluate Covid-19 situation in educational institutions and ways to implement Covid-19 protocols.The meeting comes at a time when Pune is recording high number of cases , which are estimated to go up, according to the authorities. The important decision regarding offline classes and examinations will soon be taken by Samant.“Today (Tuesday) an online meeting with all the divisional commissioners, district collectors and state university chancellors was held to take the review of Covid situation of each district. Also, the inputs from students, parents and faculties were taken and reviewed and accordingly on Wednesday, the final decision on college and university campus opening or closing down will be taken, “ said Samant.As the schools in Mumbai and now in Pune are been closed down due to fear of the increasing Covid cases, similar decision regarding college campus and offline studies will be declared soon.Senior officials from the state higher education department requesting anonymity said, “As the Covid cases are on rise in the state, schools have been shut down again and now in today’s meeting review of students from universities and colleges was taken. Most probably the university and college campuses will also shut down till January 31 but the official announcement is yet to be made.”However, students are unhappy with the college campuses closing down, Rakesh Khaladakar a student said, “I came back to Pune last month to join back offline classes and have rented out a flat along with four other friends. If The college is shut down again, then our financial condition will be affected, as my parents have already taken loan for my studies and for my accommodation and other study related work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uday-samant-chairs-meet-with-collectors-vcs-to-assess-situation-in-colleges-101641311882507.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: CM Channi promises 1 lakh jobs within one year||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced to provide one lakh jobs to the state’s youth within a year, if voted again into power. Addressing a gathering after launching the Punjab Government Rozgar Guarantee for Youth Scheme (PRAGTY) at a private university in Phagwara, Channi said it was not merely an announcement but a commitment backed by a decision of the Punjab cabinet to be passed later in the evening. The CM said that the first decision of the Congress government after being voted to power in the forthcoming assembly elections will be to provide these jobs. He said all those who have completed Class 12 will be eligible for jobs under this scheme. Free coachingChanni said the scheme will also ensure free coaching to students preparing for competitive exams to enter civil services and armed forces. He said apart from it, the state government will also provide free coaching for IELTS, TOEFL and PTE to enable the youth to go aboard easily.Interest-free loans “To facilitate the youth in going abroad and save them from clutches of fake travel agents, Punjab government will soon embark on a programme,” said Channi, adding that the government will provide interest-free loans for this purpose. Similar interest-free loans will also be extended to youngsters who are desirous of opening their own ventures, said the CM, adding that the state government will initiate startup courses across all state universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cm-channi-promises-1-lakh-jobs-for-youths-101641311823146.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Family of Karnal youth accuse his sister, travel agent of plotting his murder||The family of a 25-year-old man, Vikram, held protests at Karnal mini-secretariat alleging that he was murdered in Greece.They accused the Kurukshetra-based sister of the youth and her aide, who is a travel agent, of plotting his murder on pretext of sending him abroad.The family alleged that Vikram’s elder sister was married in Shahbad but had an illicit relationship with a travel agent and with his help hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Vikram.They said Vikram had gone to Greece in August last year but they could not communicate with him after August 26. On Monday, they came to know that Vikram had died in Greece after a relative sent his photo to them. They have demanded action against his sister and the travel agent.They met Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia and demanded action against the accused. They have also requested the government to make arrangements to bring back his body.The SP said family of the youth submitted a representation to his office and it has been forwarded to the Union ministry of external affairs. But the death cannot be confirmed till they get confirmation from the ministry.He said police are verifying the allegations and action will be taken as per the findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/family-of-karnal-youth-accuse-his-sister-travel-agent-of-plotting-his-murder-101641311763164.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Compliance of new Covid guidelines remains a challenge for Haryana authorities||Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise in Haryana, compliance of the new preventive guidelines remains a challenge for authorities.Following government’s guidelines, schools and colleges are closed but there are reports of private coaching centres not following the norms, especially those located in the small towns.Officials are conducting surprise visits at private coaching centres and many of the coaching institutes were found open on Tuesday. The officials found around 100 students at a centre which trains students for competitive exams at Ladwa town of Kurukshetra district.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said coaching centres are not allowed to operate in view of the recent guidelines. “If there are any violations, we will take action. Enforcement teams have been tasked to ensure compliance,” he added.In Karnal, deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav and superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia visited many public places and strict directions were issued to police to ensure that people wear masks at public places and unvaccinated people should not be allowed to enter government offices.The DC said required steps are being taken to ensure 100% compliance of the Covid guidelines. Officials have been deputed at the entrance of government offices and nobody is being allowed to enter the premises without showing vaccination certificate.SP Punia said over 1,000 people have been fined for not following Covid guidelines and wearing face masks in the past three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/compliance-of-new-covid-guidelines-remains-a-challenge-for-haryana-authorities-101641310983234.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Residential school in Bhiwandi sets up isolation ward after 28 students test positive for Covid||Following 28 students and two staff of Bhiwandi Ashram School (residential school) testing positive for Covid, the school administration has set up an isolation ward for the students in the school as many parents were reluctant to send their children to the government-run Covid centres.The parents of the students have desired to isolate them at home rather than sending to Covid centres. However, the school is trying to convince them to send them to the isolation ward to ensure that the family members were not infected.Apart from the 28 students, no other student tested positive. As per the district health department, the students of the school located at Chimbipada in Bhiwandi showed symptoms like cold and fever over the last few days following which their antigen tests were carried out by the Chimbipada primary health centre.“After the 28 students tested positive, their parents were reluctant to send them to the civic Covid centres. They took their children home. However, we have now set up an isolation ward that can accommodate 100 students. We have made a list of students with their contact and address details and will approach their parents to send the students to the isolation ward at the school to avoid further spread of the virus,” said Ravindra Chaudhari, school principal. Most of the parents are from tribal belts of the district and could not be reached for comment.Chaudhari added, “Along with the health department, we are personally visiting the houses of the students infected and are asking them to come to the ward where there will be dedicated doctors to look after them. Meanwhile, the health department is also looking after testing the remaining students at the school as more than 400 students were present.” As per the school administration, there are 602 students in the school, out of which 476 were present. A total of 187 students reside in the school, out of which 140 were present. The testing of 175 students was carried out till now. Soon after the tests were carried out on Monday, parents took away their children to their homes in panic, claimed the school administration.“We have taken help from the tribal community leaders to convince the parents to send the children to the isolation ward at the school itself or at the primary health care centre. Our doctor and nurses will be at the ward to look after the students. Our team is also working on reaching out to the students and bringing them to the isolation ward at the school,” said Madhav Waghmare, health officer, Bhiwandi taluka.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP will end mafia raj in Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday promised to end the “mafia raj” in Punjab and provide facilities to the people with the revenues generated.Mann was in Faridkot to campaign for AAP candidate Gurdit Singh Sekhon. Addressing a rally, he alleged the previous Akali-BJP and present Congress government encouraged sand, cable and drugs mafia and partnered in their illegal trades.“We do not take any share in the mafia, but we do share the pain and sufferings of people,” he said. “The AAP has only one policy: facilitate people with the public money. We have done the same in Delhi and will do it in Punjab too when voted to power. We’ll provide good education, health facilities, free electricity and water,” he said. Slamming Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Mann said he is imitating AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal by promising ₹2,000 per month to women besides free LPG cylinders and other freebies. “Now, Sidhu should tell from where this money will come. Have they got any note printing machine now?” asked Mann. Calling the Congress government very weak and unstable, he said it was leading to sacrilege incidents and blasts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-will-end-mafia-raj-in-punjab-bhagwant-mann-101641310143190.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||In Haryana, 50% staff below under-secretary level to work from home||The Haryana government on Tuesday decided that 50% employees below the under-secretary rank posted in different departments, boards, corporations and educational institutions will work from home till January 20, in yet another preventive step taken by the government to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases.The state government’s decision to restrict attendance of government employees coincided with Haryana recording 1,132 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, besides one fatality each in Panchkula and Kaithal districts.The number of active cases has also gone up from 1,417 on December 31 to 4,036 on January 4 (2,619 new cases in four days).Gurugram recorded the highest of 634 cases, Faridabad 141, Karnal 44, Panchkula 94 and Ambala 69. A record 4,15,454 people were vaccinated across state and no new case of the Omicron variant was detected in state on Tuesday while the total active Omicron cases climbed down to 10. Total Omicron cases in Haryana so far is 71.“The physical attendance of government servants below the level of under-secretary will be restricted to 50% of the actual strength, while the remaining 50% employees are to work from home. A roster may be prepared accordingly by all departments concerned,” the state government said in a letter sent to all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, commissioners of all divisions, deputy commissioners, and registrars of all universities.The matter regarding regulating attendance of state government employees was reviewed. All officers of the level of under-secretary, equivalent and above will attend office on regular basis. Officials residing in containment zones will be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is de-notified.Persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees will also be exempted from attending office. However, they will have to work from home. And to avoid the rush in commuting, lifts and corridors, all officers who attend office will stagger entry and exit timings.The government has said officers and staff not attending office and working from home should be available on telephone and other electronic means of communication at all times.The government has advised the officials that the meetings, as far as possible, should be conducted on video conferencing and avoid personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest.“The entry of visitors and outsiders to the government office shall be curbed appropriately,” the letter says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-haryana-50-staff-below-under-secretary-level-to-work-from-home-101641309851094.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Mangrove Foundation deploys app to streamline data collection on Olive Ridley turtles||MUMBAI: The Mangrove Foundation - an autonomous society under the Maharashtra forest department’s mangrove cell - on Tuesday launched a mobile application named M-Turtle to help streamline collection of data on the nesting patterns of Olive Ridley turtles in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad districts where they are known to lay eggs between December and March.The app was created in collaboration with Chiplun-based NGO, Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra, which has been working with the Mangrove Foundation on sea turtle conservation in Maharashtra, and which is the first organisation in the state to start a sea turtle conservancy programme in Ratnagiri’s Velas village.The application will be used by about 55 qualified nest managers, who conduct regular patrols along the coast to identify Olive Ridley turtle nests and transport the eggs to hatcheries where they are kept safely until the hatching season in April-May, after which the hatchlings are released into the ocean.“During this process, we collect a lot of data ranging from the number of nesting sites, nests and eggs; to measuring turtle track marks on the beach; to the hatchling success rate; to the survival rate of the hatchlings. Doing this manually is a lot of effort, and there have been issues in the past due to the data not being uniform. The M-Turtle app eliminates any extra work, and all the information that we need as researchers becomes available to us on the cloud,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.M-Turtle was first commissioned by the Mangrove Foundation in early 2020 and has been in testing over the past one month to remove bugs and respond to queries from nest managers. “Our nest managers in Raigad and Ratnagiri are already using the app, and have given positive feedback. We are conduting a training workshop in Sindhudurg on Wednesday. The nest managers deal with a large amount of data so it can get very tedious for them to note down everything manually and then input it on a computer,” Karve added.The Mangrove Foundation is planning to add more functionality to the M-Turtle app in future. For example, the foundation is considering equipping all nest managers with thermometers and asking them to log the temperatures of Olive Ridley turtle nests, along with the sand around the nesting site. “This plays an important role in determining the sex of the hatchlings. The data won’t be perfect but it will give us a rough baseline for future studies, and it can be reflected on the app in real time,” Karve explained.This nesting season, nest managers have so far identified only 10 Olive Ridley turtle nests in Maharashtra including one at Araavi beach in Sindhudurg district, a hitherto unknown nesting location. Officials from the Mangrove Foundation said that they have conducted awareness drives among the locals and are currently keeping a watch out for other Olive Ridley turtle nests in the area. While there are four species of sea turtles recorded in Maharashtra, Olive Ridley turtles are the only species that nest in the state and have the widest population distribution. Globally, their populations have been declining, and they have been listed as ‘vulnerable’ in the IUCN Red list of threatened species.In 2021, the number of turtle nesting sites along Maharashtra’s coastline had doubled as compared to 2020. During nesting season, a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded through field observations, up from 288 during the corresponding period last year. In fact, data shows a significant increase in the number of nesting sites over the past six years. In 2017, for example, only 75 nests were recorded across these three districts. That figure has shown steady improvements, year on year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangrove-foundation-deploys-app-to-streamline-data-collection-on-olive-ridley-turtles-101641309182895.html
04-01-2022||Pune||14K law seats remain vacant after first CAP round||PUNE After the completion of the first Common Admission Process (CAP) round of various professional courses in the state on Tuesday, 2,191 seats for Master of Education (M.Ed) and 14,179 seats for law three years remained vacant. The admission process of state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell professional courses is still going on, due to which students are not able to go for their career choice options.“There has been a delay in the admission process of law, M.Ed and M.Ped courses, as only the first CAP round is completed till now. A couple of rounds of this admission process is still left and students who had applied for it are not able to go for any other career options. Already a year has passed , and this admission process will go on till next month,” said Prof Ketan Pawar a law professor from a prominent college. However, students are unhappy with this delayed admission process. Jyotsana Manvi who has applied for the law three years course said, “I have completed my graduation and want to do further studies in law, but as the admission process is going on very slow, I am not able to continue my academic year. Also there is pressure from home by parents to get married, if I get the admission early then I can come to Pune to continue my studies,”As per the data statistics given by the state CET cell, till now the first CAP round of these professional courses of education, physical education and law have been completed. The highest number of seats vacant are with law three year course with 14,179 seats vacant, followed by law five years course with 7,430 seats vacant. While there are few takers for Master in Physical Education (M.Ped) and Master of Education (M.Ed) course as compared to available seats very few students have taken admission. Ravindra Jagtap, Maharashtra state CET cell chairman said, “Due to the pandemic the overall admission process was conducted carefully and with taking care of all Covid protocols. Though the process is bit slow but in next few weeks all the rounds of admission will be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14k-law-seats-remain-vacant-after-first-cap-round-101641308582703.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||72-year-old beggar killed as building collapses on him in Bhiwandi||A septuagenarian was killed after a part of a ground-plus-two storeyed building collapsed in Khoni village, Bhiwandi, on Tuesday afternoon.As per the fire officials who reached the spot, the gallery of the building collapsed and fell on the 72-year-old who was begging outside the building.“The building included a hotel on the ground floor while the staff resided on the first floor. On Tuesday afternoon, the gallery of the first floor of the building, which is facing the road, collapsed all of a sudden,” said an officer of the fire department of Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation.The man who died in the incident was identified as Shida Dadu. Local police who also rushed to the spot have initiated action against the building owner. “We will take the needful action against the hotel owner for negligence. An investigation has been initiated,” said an officer from Nizampur police.
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt directs major private hospitals to keep 40% beds for Covid cases||The Delhi government on Tuesday directed all private hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital with 50 beds or more to reserve at least 40 per cent of their total bed capacity for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The directorate general of health services in its order cited the high transmissibility of Omicron variant of coronavirus and exponential rise in new infections."The keepers of all private hospitals/nursing homes having total bed capacity of 50 beds or more are directed to reserve at least 40% of their total bed capacity (i.e. 40% of Ward Bed capacity and 40% of ICU bed capacity) for COVID patients," the order read.As daily Covid cases witnessed a decline in June last year, the Delhi government allowed all private hospitals and nursing homes with a total bed capacity of 100 beds or more to reduce their reserve capacity for Covid oxygenated beds to 30% of their total bed capacity. Delhi may see 5,500 Covid cases today, curfew is not lockdown: Health minister JainIn view of rising cases of vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria in October last year, the government allowed those private hospitals and nursing homes to further reduce their reserve capacity for Covid oxygenated beds to 10% of their total bed capacity.The fresh order related to reserve beds after an upsurge of Covid cases in Delhi in the past four days as the positivity rate rose from 2.44% on December 31, 2021, to more than 8% on January 4, 2022. On Tuesday, the Delhi government imposed fresh curbs, including a weekend curfew in the national capital to contain the virus. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said the weekend curfew being imposed in view of rising Covid cases should not be considered a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-directs-private-hospitals-to-keep-40-of-bed-capacity-for-covid-cases-101641307074421.html
04-01-2022||Pune||Man gets five years rigourous imprisonment for molesting partner’s minor daughter in 2018||PUNE A court in Pune has sentenced a man to five years of rigorous imprisonment for molesting two minor children in 2018. Besides, the judge also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the convicted man, identified as Amit Suresh Aher, 39, a resident of Khadki area of Pune. Upon failure to pay the fine, the man will be subject to an additional year of rigorous imprisonment, according to the court order.The conviction was awarded by district Judge KK Jhagirdar with public prosecutor Arundhati Bramhe and investigating officer police sub-inspector Namrata Daware. The victims in the case are siblings and were 14-year-old and 16-year-old at the time of registering of the case in 2018.  Aher is currently out on bail in the case. He was the live-in partner of the survivors mother and lived in the same house as the minor girl, said officials. “There were two victims. The man was known to them. One of them turned hostile and the second one was from 2014 so there was substantial delay in filing of the FIR. But conviction was granted. Sexual assault cases do not come to light as much as they should due to pressure from relatives and lack of complainants’ and their relatives’ will. But if such convictions are awarded, it will encourage other survivors to come forward and curb the abusers’ tendencies to commit such crimes,” said prosecutor Bramhe. With one witness hostile, the prosecution examined six witnesses in the case including the investigating officer. The two sisters lived in a hostel and used to visit home during vacation days. It was during one such vacation in 2014 that the man molested the elder sister. The girl cried herself to sleep but did not tell her mother about it fearing backlash from her. The man repeated the crime in 2018 as the girl was sleeping. It was then that she told one of her maternal aunts about the incident. A second aunt then reported the incident to the police. At the time, the younger sister also claimed to have been molested but retracked her statement during trial.The police had arrested the man in 2018 for molesting two girls since 2014. He was arrested in March 2018 and had been in Yerawada central jail since March 27, 2018. However, he was granted bail on ₹15,000 personal bond on April 18, 2018 by additional sessions judge PC Bhagure.In his bail order, the judge had asked the man to stay away from the survivors and not try to establish any contact.The conviction was awarded under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of children from sexual offence act (POCSO) registered at Bhosari police station. The man was found not guilty under sections of 7 and 11 of POCSO which were invoked in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-gets-five-years-rigourous-imprisonment-for-molesting-partner-s-minor-daughter-in-2018-101641307142609.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Congress demands property tax waiver with retrospective effect||Mumbai After the state government decided to waive off property tax on residential units up to 500 square feet in Mumbai, Congress has demanded that the decision be applied with retrospective effect, and a tax holiday be granted to flats that measure between 501 and 700 square feet.“This is a historic decision to waive off property tax on residential units up to 500 square feet. But our demand to waive off 60 per cent property tax on flats between 501 to 700 square feet has not been fulfilled,” said Bhai Jagtap, president of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC), adding that the waiver should be implemented with retrospective effect from 2020 instead of April 2022. Jagtap urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to take this decision and added that Congress had been demanding this since January 2021.The Shiv Sena, which controls the cash-rich Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is the richest civic body in Asia, had promised this in its manifesto for the 2017 polls. This will lead to the BMC foregoing revenues to the tune of around ₹462 crore every year. The decision, which will be placed before the state cabinet for ratification, will come into effect from 1 April 2022 for the 2022-23 financial year.Jagtap demanded that the BMC administration revoke its decision to convene meetings through the virtual route, and asked for physical meetings to be resumed to ensure that elected representatives can get issues addressed more effectively. The MRCC president also sought that the vaccination for those between the 15 to 18 years age cohort is conducted in their respective educational institutions to make the drive more effective and focused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-demands-property-tax-waiver-with-retrospective-effect-101641306482698.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Randhawa has no right to interfere in Panthic affairs: SGPC chief||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami on Tuesday hit back at Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over his letter to Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh.Randhawa, in the letter written on Monday, had taken strong exception to the jathedar’s call to strengthen the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) at an event held in the Golden Temple last week. The Congress leader had also appealed to the jathedar to instead act against the Badals for their alleged “anti-Panthic” activities.“Randhawa has no right to interfere in the Panthic affairs because his party Congress had unseemly attempted to end Sikh Qaum (community) by committing genocide of Sikhs in 1984,” Dhami said in a statement.Telling the Congress leader to “first look under his own cot”, the SGPC chief said: “This sacrilege committed by Congress has become a forever mark on Sikh psyche and the coming generations will never forget this too.”Dhami said the Akal Takht Sahib is supreme and the dignity of its honourable jathedar is very high. “But these Congress leaders are on the path of undermining the traditions of Akal Takht Sahib. Their aim is to create confusion between the Qaum. An example of this is the appearance of these leaders while standing on the road in front of self-proclaimed jathedars in the recent past. These people are doing such practises, only with the intention of weakening the Panth,” said Dhami.Giani Harpreet Singh during the Sunday event had said the Sikh community would not tolerate any interference in its religious affairs and urged it to strengthen the Akal Takht and the SGPC. “The SAD will get stronger automatically,” the jathedar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-has-no-right-to-interfere-in-panthic-affairs-sgpc-chief-101641304444343.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Yoga in yellow alert: Delhiites make the most of outdoor sessions||With gyms shut in the city, as per the restrictions under yellow alert, it’s yoga in the open that is more or less the only option left for residents to be able to work out and stay fit. Most yoga centres, in the Capital, have been shut as per the guidelines of the Government. But private trainers are allowed to conduct yoga outdoors, and Delhiites are making the most of this option.“There are more bookings for private sessions coming in now, as this is the only form of exercise that has been allowed, and that too in the open and not indoors. Some people are booking yoga sessions with us, specifically for their kids. People want to concentrate on their health and work out as well, and yoga is undoubtedly the best option to do so at this point,” says Nidhi Bhanot, from Yog Nirvana Yoga Classes, Model Town.Echoing similar thoughts, Anuj Bangari, a yoga teacher from Pitampura, says, “The response in the number of queries and enrolments has been phenomenal in the past few days, and roz fresh enquiries bhi aa rahi hain. Ek toh sirf yoga allowed hai toh log fitness angle se soch rahe hain. But in addition, they know that yoga has many benefits and just practising breathing exercises can help them strengthen their lungs and subsequently build their immunity. So this is another reason why a lot of people are of late wanting to take up yoga, seeing the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. Log chahte hain ki woh fully prepared rahe Covid ko harane ke liye!” But only yoga, without Covid precautions, isn’t going to be of much help in such times, says Bangari, adding, “I’m taking one on one classes, and those too are conducted in the open. No group sessions are allowed as of now because I feel it’s utmost important to maintain social distancing, to defeat the corona virus.” And another yoga instructor, Hari Om, who conducts personalised sessions across Delhi-NCR shares, “Humari offline individual classes bhi chal rahi hain, but we are ensuring to take in only vaccinated students. The instructors are also vaccinated, and we organise these classes in the open, while ensuring a six to eight feet distance between the students and us. Instructor mask pehne rakhte hain. Aur pehle jaise we would hold a student and guide them in striking the correct pose for an asana, but now we are making sure that we don’t even go close. We only give verbal instructions and guidance.”The set up seems to be working for people wanting to stay fit. “The results are so amazing that those who had enrolled themselves earlier, are this time getting their family members as well as friends to join in,” says Mandeep Duggal who runs Delhi Yoga Classes in Rohini. And Ruby Sharma, a homemaker from Shalimar Bagh says, “Yoga is really helping me as the news of Covid cases going up, drove me to join solo classes, and I am so happy with my decision. I’ve a medical condition in my lungs, and just coming for the class in the outdoors is making me feel so much better. I was anxious as I cannot take a chance with Covid, but the fact that only yoga is open, motivated me to join. At least there is some form of work out that we can do to stay healthy.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yoga-in-yellow-alert-delhiites-make-the-most-of-outdoor-sessions-101641303233186.html
04-01-2022||Ranchi||Mandatory free Covid test upon arrival at Ranchi airport. Check who are exempted||Ranchi airport on Tuesday announced new guidelines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test requirement amid rapid spread of Omicron variant. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) for Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport said that all air travellers entering Jharkhand would require to undergo a free Covid-19 test upon arrival.Travellers carrying a negative RTPCR report obtained within 72 hours from arrival will be exempted from the Covid-19 test at the airport. Those with a fully vaccinated certificate received at least 15 days prior to travel will also not require to undergo the free Covid test.“All passengers coming to the Jharkhand needs to undergo Free COVID Test on arrivals@aaiRanchiApt,” the official handle of AAI for Ranchi airport tweeted.“If traveler carry -ve RTPCR Report (within 72 hrs.)/Fully Vaccination Certificate (Atleast 15 days earlier), they'll be exempted for the latter test,” it added.The announcement comes a day after the Jharkhand government imposed fresh restrictions in view of rising Covid cases. All educational institutions, high footfall places like gyms, parks, swimming pools and tourist spots will remain closed while markets, barring medical shops, bars and restaurants, will be shut after 8pm."The recent surge in the cases are very worrying. Actually we don't know what form this new wave would actually take. Certain decisions have been taken today in meeting chaired by the chief minister to contain spread of the virus. Any further decision would be taken as per the new developments," state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta told reporters after a meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren.The educational institutions, however, would be allowed to do administrative work with 50 per cent attendance. The state government has also capped participation in weddings and funerals to 100 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/mandatory-free-covid-test-upon-arrival-at-ranchi-airport-2-groups-exempted-check-details-101641302400459.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Cops above 55 years to stay away from direct public contact: DGP||Mumbai With an increase in Covid cases across Maharashtra, the Director-General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey has issued a circular instructing all police commissioners and district superintendents of police to take special measures to ensure that police personnel over the age of 55 years are not called for duty at police stations. The circular stated that the police personnel suffering from comorbidities such as diabetes, heart ailments, high blood pressure and those who have undergone angioplasty or treatment for cancer or such other serious health issues, should not be assigned duties at the station house, so as to avoid their direct contact with the members of the public. The circular adds that irrespective of age, policemen with co-morbidities should be given office work or work at other places, where they do not come in direct contact with the public in general, thus reducing the possibility of them contracting the deadly virus. Wherever possible they should be allowed to work from home, it added. Pandey has also instructed police personnel to take all the precautions and ensure that they are not at the risk of getting infected and police stations, police colonies and police vehicles are frequently disinfected and policemen on duty are provided with appropriate face masks and sanitiser. The circular further stated that the police stations should also be equipped with temperature measuring instruments. Similar concessions were given to policemen between 55 and 58 years of age and those with co-morbidities during the first and second waves in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-above-55-years-to-stay-away-from-direct-public-contact-dgp-101641302572193.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Game on for waste segregation! Golf to snakes and ladders, there’s lots to play||Don’t be surprised if you spot a cute cartoon character explaining to you the concepts of waste segregation at a popular market in the city. A host of Delhi-NCR based NGOs have come up with games and other innovative methods to explain the concept of waste segregation and ill effects of single-use plastic. “We are planning to hold parades, puppet shows, magic shows in SDMC markets; to explain these concepts. But of course, all the plans depend on the Covid situation,” says Ruby Makhija, from Why Waste Wednesdays, adding, “We recently had a very successful event at a city mall, where one of our volunteers dressed like a Santa Claus, engaged the children as well their parents and grandparents. The idea was to spread awareness on waste segregation at the source, and control single-use plastic bags at a popular mall. We had cards with names of various items mentioned such as left over food, cans, plastic bottles, vegetable peels, syringes, expired medicines, cardboard boxes etc. Three dustbins were placed — one each for wet, dry and hazardous waste — and the children or adults had to put the card given by Santa Claus in the correct bin.” “Games are the best way to explain such concepts,” says Rukhsar Gauri, from Gurugram-based NGO, Saahas, adding, “We conduct these awareness games with the help of RWAs, in residential societies. In one game that involves golf, we make a path and put coloured glasses at the end. These are coloured in segregation colours — green for wet waste, blue for dry waste, black for domestic hazardous waste and yellow for electronic waste. The one playing it, needs to use a golf stick to put the ball in the right bottle; depending on the card they pick... People are so interested in these games that the kids start fighting as to who will play first. This is way better than showing people some power point presentation, or giving them a lecture.”And if you talk of games, then how can snakes and ladders be left behind! One waste segregation game, based on snakes and ladders, and darts, by Dwarka-based NGO, Rise Foundation. In the process of coming up with more innovative games, Madhukar Varshney from the foundation, says, “In the waste segregation snakes and ladders, if you do a good thing, then keeping the concept of waste segregation in mind, you move ahead. The other game we make people play is a waste segregation magnetic dart game. This one has a chart paper with numbers corresponding to the colour where the dart lands, and each number has a message about waste segregation. This makes it exciting for the players, and helps us put across the message that’s much needed to keep our city clean.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Twitter and Facebook||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/game-on-for-waste-segregation-golf-to-snakes-and-ladders-there-s-lots-to-play-101641302212407.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Congress to deploy 10k Gandhidoots to counter fake news in cyberspace||Mumbai In a bid to improve its social media outreach and fact-check propaganda about its party and leaders, the Congress is appointing 10,000 social media warriors as ‘Gandhidoots.’ This will help the grand old party counter the influence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in cyberspace. The Congress is also working at creating a social media structure from the state-level down to every assembly segment to serve as a force multiplier. “We are looking at boosting the numbers of our social media volunteers across the state. These Gandhidoots will be appointed in each assembly constituency and will be trained in the party’s ideology and the credo of Mahatma Gandhi. They will take the message to the people through Whatsapp and social media,” said Vishal Muttemwar, general secretary, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) and chairperson of the party’s social media department. “We want to build a narrative… and we need supporters on the ground for it,” he added.At present, the Congress social media cell has a strength of around 425, including a core team of about 10. It also has a leader in charge of a district and an assembly segment. However, it is looking at a quantum leap in the numbers of its social media warriors by appointing around 40 to 50 volunteers in every state assembly constituency for focussed messaging on social media.In February, Congress had issued an appeal calling for volunteers, and around 17,000 people had responded in this missed call-based campaign. However, the second wave of the pandemic had delayed the rollout. Now, a fresh campaign has been launched and the party will utilise the responses from both drives to create a database of respondents and reach out to them. A total of 10,000 volunteers will be appointed as ‘Gandhidoots’ after an interview process that will be completed by February. Their social media trials and history will also be checked to assess their ideological and political leanings.Muttemwar said that these ‘Gandhidoots’ will draft and disseminate content, posts and memes and will be involved in fact-checking and debunking fake news. “They will also present the correct version of history... We will create a content bank to counter deliberate distortions of history about our party and its leaders like Pandit Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel,” he explained. “The internet and social media have a lot of fake content against icons like Mahatma Gandhi. The idea is to ensure that the younger generation gets to know the facts through a manner that is rational and scientific,” explained a Youth Congress leader. “Apart from fact-sharing and sharing party propaganda, we will also disseminate messages over issues like unemployment, womens’ safety, law and order and the state of the farmers,” said another leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-to-deploy-10k-gandhidoots-to-counter-fake-news-in-cyberspace-101641302152008.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||After MV Act amendment, traffic cops collect 65% more fines||Mumbai After the 2019 amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, came into force in Maharashtra on December 12, 2021, the fine amount shot up by 65 per cent, even as the violations decreased by over 20 per cent. Before December 12, an average of 51,584 challans were issued to traffic violators across Maharashtra every day. After the amendment, the number of traffic violations went down to a daily average of 40,245, but the average fine levied on motorists has gone up from a daily average of Rs. 1.98 crore to Rs. 3.28 crore. Maharashtra traffic police officer take the sharp decline as an indication that the enhanced fines have a deterrent effect. “It may take time to further discipline motorists, but looks like the increased fines will surely prove to be more effective in the near future. Maximum drivers are aware of the amendment and are more cautious now,” said BK Upadhyay, additional director general of police (traffic), Maharashtra. Although the amount of fines levied on violators has increased in numbers, traffic police officers said, unless the drivers pay their challans, the amendment will not be actually effective. According to statistics provided by the traffic police department, between November 27 and December 12, a total of 8,06,218 challans were issued to traffic violators, out of which only 1,62,412 were paid, leaving a staggering 5,96,161 challans unpaid. The number of fines recovered in this period was Rs. 4,40,91,750 – only 16.93 % of the total levied fine amount of Rs. 26,04,07,850. After December 12, in all 7,30,857 challans were issued and 1,08,038 of them were realised, leaving 6,22,819 challans as unpaid and the total amount the violators owed the government was ₹92,39,13,384 out of which ₹37,61,57,084 were paid and ₹54,77,56,300 was unpaid amount. Traffic police officers said that they have been conducting regular checks and also sending notices to drivers who had not paid their challans, to be present before the Lok Adalat. “This step has proved to be quite effective as we had recovered the amount of ₹6,76,75,150 out of ₹135,05,37,951 till November this year,” he said.Experts said that although the increase acted as a deterrent, but the agencies also need to improve road markings so that the driver or riders are not confused and commit an offence unintentionally. “The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and other road maintenance authorities need to mark pedestrian crossings and stop lines on the roads more clearly so that a driver does not unintentionally commit an offence like crossing the stop line and then getting a challan,” said Sudhir Badami, traffic expert. Some experts also think that the difference of 20 per cent in challans issued within 15 days of the amendment is not too much. “There could be many reasons of the this 20 per cent difference like less enforcement etc. but due to social media and news agencies, awareness of the amendment has reached almost every driver in the state and it will act as a deterrent,” said Dhaval Ashar, senior manager with the Integrated Transport team at the World Resources Institute (WRI). GRP traffic branch fines 2,053 violatorsIn the past 15 days, the traffic branch of the Government Railway Police (GRP), which has been restarted after a gap of 12 years, has caught 2,053 traffic violators and recovered a fine of ₹11,19,300 from them. Police Inspector Suresh Bhale, in charge of the GRP traffic division, said they have opened five traffic chowkies across outside of major railway stations - Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai Central Terminus, Bandra Terminus, Dadar and Kurla LTT (Lokmanya Tilak Terminus). One ASI and two constables have been posted at every terminus along with an e-challan machine. Bhale said after a week-long awareness session for auto and taxi drivers, asking them to wear uniforms, badges and keep driving licenses and insurance documents with them while on duty, from December 15 they started penalising the violators. He added that in the past 15 days, they have fined 950 drivers for obstructing vehicular traffic at the terminus, 447 drivers for not wearing uniforms, 10 drivers for refusal to ply and 38 for number plate related issues.According to statistics provided by the traffic police department, between November 27 and December 12, a total of 8,06,218 challans were issued to traffic violators, out of which only 1,62,412 were paid, leaving a staggering 5,96,161 challans unpaid. The number of fines recovered in this period was Rs. 4,40,91,750 – only 16.93 % of the total levied fine amount of Rs. 26,04,07,850. After December 12, in all 7,30,857 challans were issued and 1,08,038 of them were realised, leaving 6,22,819 challans as unpaid and the total amount the violators owed the government was ₹92,39,13,384 out of which ₹37,61,57,084 were paid and ₹54,77,56,300 was unpaid amount. Date Challans issued Challans paid Challan amount unpaidNov 27 to Dec 12 8,06,218 1,62,412 ₹21,63,16,100Post Dec 12 7,30,857 1,08,038 ₹54,77,56,300||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-mv-act-amendment-traffic-cops-collect-65-more-fines-101641301731989.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||As Cordelia cruise returns to Mumbai, BMC sets these rules for patients and others||The city civic body of Mumbai on Tuesday set new guidelines for the 2,000-odd passengers onboard the Cordelia luxury ship that was returning from Goa with 66 Covid-19 patients and others.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will conduct screening of passengers on arrival and put the 66 patients under isolation at designated facilities.All other passengers will undergo RT-PCR test and will be allowed to disembark from the ship only after receiving a negative test report, the BMC said.The decision to send the luxury cruise liner back to Mumbai was taken after some of the infected passengers refused to get admitted to a medical facility in Goa.The first case of the viral disease was detected in a crew member, following which samples of all the passengers were tested. Thereafter, as many as 66 passengers on board tested positive for Covid-19.Govind Pernulkar, manager of operations at JM Baxi and Co, a local ship agent, said as many as 27 of the passengers who tested positive refused to get admitted to a Covid-19 facility in Goa.“Only six crew members out of the total 66 who had tested positive were disembarked (in Goa),” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The cruise company has suspended its operations for now. “Due to change in safety protocols with prevailing Covid-19 restrictions and in compliance with government authorities, we will be suspending our sailing for January 3, 2022 and January 5, 20’22. We deeply regret the inconvenience caused,” the company said in a statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-cordelia-cruise-returns-to-mumbai-bmc-sets-these-rules-for-patients-101641300971807.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai app: Engineering student arrested in Mumbai, woman held in Uttarakhand||MUMBAI: Vishal Kumar, the 21-year-old engineering student detained on Monday from Bengaluru, was placed under arrest by the Mumbai cyber police on Tuesday in connection with its probe into two apps where images of Muslim women were posted in an attempt to “auction” them, police said.A second-year civil engineering student, Vishal Kumar was questioned for 20 hours before the police decided to arrest him on Tuesday.Kumar was running one of the Twitter handles used to upload the content from the app, an officer from the Mumbai cyber crime cell said.“Vishal Kumar was apprehended from Bengaluru on Monday afternoon and he was brought to Mumbai in the evening. He was questioned and several facts were verified and after his role was found involved in the crime, he was arrested,” said joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe (crime).“The accused was taken to the Bandra court around 4pm for his custody remand for further investigation,” added Bharambe. The judge remanded him in police custody till January 10.Vishal Kumar’s lawyer D Prajapati said he was innocent. “My client is falsely implicated in this case,” he told reporters after the court hearing, according to news agency ANI.The Mumbai police have also detained a woman in Uttarakhand in connection with the case. Police officers, however, refused to divulge details about the woman.The Mumbai cyber police started a fresh probe into the offensive apps after registering a first information report (FIR) under sections 153A, 153 B, 295A, 354D, 509, 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 67 Information Technology Act against unknown persons on Sunday.The case was based on statements of some women who complained that their photographs were among the hundreds that were uploaded by an unidentified group on an app using the online platform ‘GitHub’ for an ‘auction’ and were shared with the term, ‘Bulli deal of the day’.In 2021 too, pictures of many Muslim women and girls were uploaded on the same ‘GitHub’ platform under the name “Sulli Deals”.While the latest app came to light on January 1 after women who were targeted approached police, the previous app was floated in July last year. The Mumbai police’s Intelligent Fusion and Strategic Operations Unit (IFSO), which deals with major cybercrimes, registered the FIR in the first case in July.The police have sought information from GitHub, the platform used to make the app and Twitter, where links to the app were posted on several accounts which are now deactivated. “We are yet to get a reply from Git Hub in the first case. The case can only proceed once they share the IP address of the users,” the above-mentioned officer of the IFSO, who asked not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-app-engineering-student-arrested-in-mumbai-woman-held-in-uttarakhand-101641298611696.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports 5,481 new Covid cases, 3 deaths; positivity rate touches 8.37%||Covid-19 cases in Delhi rose by 5,481 on Tuesday as the national capital continued to report a massive surge in its daily figures. According to the daily health bulletin, three persons succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the related death toll to 25,113.With this, the positivity rate surged to 8.37 per cent – the highest since May 17, last year, when it stood at 8.42 per cent.At present, Delhi has a total of 14,889 active cases, while the cumulative caseload has reached 14,63,701. The fatality rate stands at 1.72 per cent, the government data showed.As many as 531 patients are admitted in various hospitals. with 14 on ventilator support, while 168 patients with moderate symptoms on oxygen support.A total of 308 patients are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and are without oxygen support.The Covid-19 trajectory in Delhi is on an upward trend over the last two weeks with an emergence of the highly transmissible Omicron variant.In view of the latest surge, the city government has imposed a number of restrictions, including night and weekend curfew. The government has also asked private offices to function at 50 per cent capacity, while government offices have been asked to work from home.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tested positive for the viral disease during the day. Taking to Twitter, the chief minister said he has mild symptoms and urged those who came in contact with him to get tested immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-5-481-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-positivity-rate-touches-837-101641293279234.html
04-01-2022||Pune||PMC garbage collector killed in hit-and-run in Mohammadwadi||PUNE A garbage collector working for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was killed in a hit-and-run on Monday morning while on duty. The deceased man was identified as Rambhau Jadhav, 50, who was collecting garbage with his colleague Krushna Gaikwad, 40, a resident of Mondhwa. The two were walking around 9:50am on Monday near a Vitthal temple on the road connecting Mohammadwadi with Undri, according to the police. “He was standing in one of the two containers that are attached to the garbage trucks for dry and wet waste. He was inside the container when a dumper truck rammed into it and he fell on the road due to the impact. He was rushed to a local government facility and then a private hospital where he was declared dead and then taken to Sassoon hospital,” said assistant sub-inspector Pratap Doifode of Kondhwa police station. The dumper truck rammed into the two men who were standing near the garbage collection unit. Jadhav fell on the road and sustained injuries on his head which caused his death. The dumper truck, meanwhile, fled the spot without stopping. A case under Sections 279, 304(a) and 338 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 132(1)(c) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-garbage-collector-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-mohammadwadi-101641295296344.html
04-01-2022||Pune||History sheeter sets vehicles ablaze at Chikhali police station||PUNE A history sheeter set ablaze a police official’s two-wheeler and caused damage to a car parked adjacent to the vehicle at Chikhali police station. A total of three vehicles, a car and two two-wheelers, were damaged in the blaze. The damaged vehicles included those seized by the police and a two-wheeler belonging to a police official. The man has beenidentified as Nikhil Kangane, 22, who lives on the streets of Pimpri-Chinchwad area. “He is a man on record for house break-ins and theft cases. He is addicted to alcohol and is often seen in the police station. The car’s bonnet has suffered some damage but our staff member’s vehicle is completely damaged. We are looking for him,” said senior police inspector Satish Mane of Chikhali police station. Additionally, the man also damaged two CCTV cameras and tore open the seats of a few vehicles before smashing glass windows of the police station from outside. On December 31, Kangane came to the police station and got into a fight with the police officials. He stood in the way of a female police official and stopped her from entering the police station while yelling expletives. He is suspected to be under influence of alcohol as he got into a physical fight with the staff. In the early hours of January 2, the man returned to the police station and set a policeman’s vehicle on fire. He was allegedly caught on CCTV camera while doing so, said officials. A case under Sections 353, 436, 336, 285, 427, and 504 of Indian Penal Code was registered against the man at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/history-sheeter-sets-vehicles-ablaze-at-chikhali-police-station-101641295056271.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra may see nearly 100,000 cases a day during the third wave peak||Mumbai: Maharashtra on Monday recorded 12,160 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally of active cases in the state to 6,712,028, even as the state health department’s internal projections — prepared based on inputs by the state Covid-19 task force and projections from the Central government to help governments ensure that preparations do not fall short — indicate that daily cases may go up to 100,000 cases at the peak of the third wave anticipated in February. In such a scenario, the tally of active cases may also go up in the peak. Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary for health said that going by projections prepared by the state health department, by the third week of January, active cases may reach up to 200,000 and breach 300,000 by the first week of February.Though Vyas said that it would be too early to say definitively that the daily caseload would reach 100,000 in the peak, as cases are rising only in some districts and not in the entire state, he said that active cases are likely to cross 200,000 by the third week and 300,000 by the first week of February.“We are likely to cross two lakh (0.2 million) active cases by the third week of this month and by the first of February the active cases are likely to cross three lakh (0.3 million) in the state. But we can’t say one lakh (0.1 million) will be reported during the peak as it is too early to predict because only Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nagpur are showing an increase in cases but other districts are silent. It will also create unnecessary panic,” Vyas said.At present, Maharashtra has 52,422 active cases (including Monday’s figures) and going by the projections, over 100,000 active cases will be added to the tally in the next two weeks. Maharashtra was hit by the second wave in February 2021 and experienced a peak two months later. In the second wave, the highest one-day tally was 68,631 cases reported on April 18, and highest tally of active cases went up to 699,858 reported on April 22.The additional chief secretary said that around 20% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals and among them over 69% are asymptomatic. “Till yesterday of the 7,500 cases admitted in various hospitals across the state, over 69% are asymptomatic, close to 20% are on oxygen support and close to 11% are critical. We are hoping that the trend will remain the same and even if more people require hospitalization we are prepared for it,” Vyas said.The state also reported 68 cases of the Omicron variant of concern (VOC) on Monday. Of them, 40 are from Mumbai, 17 from Pune, four from Nagpur, three from Panvel, and one each from Navi Mumbai, Raigad, Satara and Kolhapur. The total number of Omicron cases recorded in the state now stand at 578. So far, 259 cases have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.“Omicron is much more transmissible than Delta. In eight days, it has crossed 12,000 daily cases from around 1,500 cases which shows it spread much faster than the old variants and thus by the third week, the state will have over 0.15 million active cases. By February, a peak in daily cases will start which will go up to one million cases a day,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.He said that the projections are based on mathematical models which can succeed only if there is a rise in cases. “We cannot get the mathematical model of the entire state because of no rise in many of the districts. It can succeed only once it starts increasing,” Vyas explained.State health experts also believe that the rise in cases would be exponential as the doubling of cases is between 1.5 to three days, which means that the daily tally of 11,000 cases would go up to 22,000 within three days.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force said, “My own prediction is that a peak will start in Mumbai by January 15 while for the state, it will come between January 15 and February 15. But the rate of rise would be exponential because the doubling rate is between 1.5 to three days.”Since December 27, the state has recorded a rise of 41,981 active cases, from 10,441 to the current 52,422 cases.Joshi said that the third wave will be predominantly by Omicron as it has already replaced 90% of Delta variant cases in the state, thus the number of patients who require hospitalization is very low at the moment. “The bed occupancy is very less as more than 90% beds are vacant. Hardly any Omicron infected patient needs oxygen and ventilator patients are also extremely few. Most of them who are on ventilators were infected by the Delta variant. We are hoping hospitals should not be overwhelmed by a large number of patients,” he said. Since the outbreak of Omicron variant, the state has seen a surge of cases, prompting state health officials to declare that we are likely in the midst of a third wave. The state has imposed fresh restrictions to control the situation. It has restricted the number of people who can attend weddings, social, political and religious gatherings to 50 irrespective of venue. The number of people attending funerals has been restricted to 20.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that they will have to impose a lockdown if bed occupancy reaches 40% and daily consumption of oxygen touches 700 metric tonnes.“We have determined a norm for lockdown for Maharashtra, according to which if bed occupancy reaches 40% and daily consumption of oxygen goes up to 700 MT then lockdown will be imposed,” the health minister said.At present, the bed occupancy in the state is around 20%.The total number of beds in the state is now 1,052,184, according to the state health department. Since March 2020, the number of Covid-19 hospitals have increased to 6,451 from 214 while the isolation beds have been increased to 439,733 from 11,380 beds; ICU beds now stand at 38,870 and there are 15,582 ventilator beds.The state recorded 11 deaths on Monday, taking the tally to 41,553. Over 6,514,358 people have recovered -- 1,748 on Monday -- while 69,370,095 tests have been conducted in all, including 110,477 on Monday.The state administered 721,042 doses on Monday bringing the total doses administered to 134,805,871 till date, according to data on the Co-Win portal.
04-01-2022||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Water eco-restoration efforts||A bright blue kingfisher patiently surveyed the area from its vantage point on a tree branch. A grey or yellow wagtail caught the eye with its bobbing tail, as it walked about a stream bed in Satarnagar, in south-eastern Pune. As we watched these birds, Shramik Shevate, engineer with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) explained about two water harvesting and restoration initiatives from pre-Covid times coming to fruition now. Dr Himanshu Kulkarni, director, Advanced Center for Water Resources Development and Management (Acwadam) and water management expert Shashank Deshpande guided the effort taken up in association with United Way, Bengaluru. Ravindra Sinha and Vaishali Patkar from Bhujal Abhiyan coordinated the initiative with the local corporator Pramod Nana Bhangire and PMC officials who facilitated implementation. Stream restoration Originating to the east of the Mohammadwadi forest area, this stream flows past the JSPM pharmacy college. As it drains almost a square kilometre of area near its origin, it soon changes from a little trickle to a 30 metres wide bed with a seasonal stream that flows during the rains. A few dug wells along the stream and an old stone weir across it show that the stream has been an asset for water management before urbanisation took hold here. The wells are functional and nearby apartments and a few remnant farms in the area draw water from them. The site is located on a natural recharge zone identified through Acwadam’s initiative on mapping Pune’s aquifers over the last five years. Over the years, and especially with building and road construction in the area, a lot of silt has been deposited in the stream bed. As part of the restoration effort currently underway, garbage, weeds like lantana and congress grass, and accumulated silt have been removed from the bed. The silt is used to stabilise the banks which will be re-vegetated. As native plants take hold even while some erosion occurs, the banks will slowly regain gentler slopes.A little walkway is planned over the existing stone weir. It will provide a view of the stream bed and dense tree canopy downstream, perhaps like what the kingfisher could see. The stream restoration effort is expected to improve rainwater recharge, storm water carriage, conserve biodiversity and provide a beautiful recreational space for the neighbourhood. Percolation pond A water percolation pond at the Dada Gujar school in Mohammadwadi has also been revived by the PMC. This pond receives water from the western side of the Mohammadwadi forest area and built-up neighbourhood. The PMC road department officials came across the pond during road construction work in the ward. The need for space for a footpath was extended into an opportunity for the revival of the percolation pond and creation of a unique public open space around it. The footpath was created on a cantilever along the bund. When the pond was de-silted, two springs were uncovered. These are now protected. A stone and sand filter has been created to receive and harvest rainwater run-off from the now built-up neighbourhood. Recharge wells will enable percolation into the deeper aquifer when the pond is full during the monsoons. Sinha says “The pond rejuvenation effort has already shown results with improved groundwater availability in the nearby areas.” Children from the neighbourhood were busy playing at the stone steps and sitting area, bringing their energy to this urban environment asset that our city surely needs more of. Both the initiatives have not been without challenges. The multiple needs of different infrastructure such as roads, stormwater drains, sewage lines, and the protection of the natural assets of streams, aquifers, recharge areas are often at cross-purposes. While a city-wide urban watershed and aquifer management plan is needed, the constant excavation, and construction activities, the increase in built-up spaces, and the provision of other services often interfere with natural environmental assets. These initiatives in Mohammadwadi show how with some careful thought and collaboration, it may be possible to synergise the different needs. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-water-eco-restoration-efforts-101641292840957.html
04-01-2022||Bangalore||Special measures needed to contain Covid-19 in Bengaluru: Karnataka minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday insisted upon special measures for Bengaluru amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. Stating that the third wave of Covid-19 has set in, Sudhakar predicted that the state capital will be an epicentre of the latest outbreak. "Taking special steps in Bengaluru has become very necessary. Bengaluru is an epicentre. It was an epicentre in the first wave and second wave. It will be the epicentre during the third wave as well," Sudhakar told reporters here. Explaining the reasons behind taking special steps for Bengaluru, he said the city has an international airport where many people arrive from abroad. Hence, we need to take special measures, the minister added. Sudhakar said the infections went up to 1.6 per cent from a mere 0.4 per cent in the state, of which 90 per cent were reported in Bengaluru. "If you look at the national figure, maximum cases are coming in the metropolitan cities. Almost 90 per cent are in those cities. Hence, we are concentrating on Bengaluru with focus on formation of micro-containment zones and screening at the airport," the minister said. To a query, the minister said the third wave of Covid-19 has begun. "What's the present scenario? Isn't it the third wave? For six months, Karnataka did not have 0.1 per cent cases. If it has gone up to 1.6 per cent on a single day, this is the beginning of the third wave," Sudhakar said. According to him, it has already started in a few states such as Telangana and Maharashtra. Vaccinating children between the age group of 15 and 18 is one of the measures taken by the government. "Yesterday, we (the government) vaccinated 4,22,252 children, though our target was 6.38 lakh. We could achieve 66 per cent on the first day. We were in the fourth place in the country in vaccinating teenagers. We want to increase more vaccinations," he said. According to him, there are 43 lakh children in the state within the age group of 15 to 18 and the state government wants to vaccinate them all in 10 to 15 days. I am confident that we will achieve it, he said. When asked about the second dose to the children, the minister said he is waiting for the Centre's guidelines. To a query on the possibility of lockdowns, Sudhakar asked reporters not to use "strong words". "Don't use strong words like lockdown. Recently, the public life is returning to normality. If we start talking of it, then it will disrupt lives," he added. Regarding the Congress' Karnataka unit's march from Mekedatu in Ramanagara district to Bengaluru on January 9 demanding the construction of a contentious balancing reservoir across Cauvery river to fulfill the drinking water needs of Bengaluru and neighbouring districts, he appealed to them to refrain from going ahead with it because the huge congregation will only lead to more infections. The state saw 1,290 cases and five deaths on Monday of which 1,041 infections and three fatalities were in Bengaluru itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/special-measures-needed-to-contain-covid-19-in-bengaluru-karnataka-minister-101641289164295.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Badal seeks package for state on eve of PM Modi’s Punjab visit||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce an economic, political, agricultural and territorial package for Punjab on the eve of his rally in Ferozepur. Also read: PM Narendra Modi to lay stone of PGI satellite centre at Ferozepur on Jan 5Modi will be visiting the border district of poll-bound Punjab on Wednesday to lay the foundation stones of projects worth ₹ 42,750 crore, including the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway, four-laning of the Amritsar-Una highway, new rail line connecting Mukerian and Talwara towns, satellite centre of Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research at Ferozepur and medical colleges in Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. The Prime Minister is visiting Punjab after two years. In November 2019, he had toured the state to open the Kartarpur Corridor on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. “A prime ministerial package will lend credence and respectability to your (Modi’s) visit. As PM, you will earn goodwill and my personal gratitude if before coming here you announce a package to meet the demands of the Punjabis,” Badal said in a press statement. He also drew the PM’s attention towards the Sikh families awaiting justice for the massacre of 1984. Modi’s rally, being held almost two months after the revocation of the farm laws, is being seen as an opportunity for the BJP to show its strength. His visit ahead of the assembly elections is crucial for the saffron party, particularly when old ally Badal’s Shiromani Akali Dal has snapped ties and the BJP has decided to contest in alliance with the Akali splinter group led by Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and the Punjab Lok Congress, floated by former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh after he was unceremoniously removed from the CM’s post by the Congress high command. The SAD has tied up with Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party for the elections. Badal demanded an agricultural package to pull Punjab farmers out of a crisis into which they have sunk due to indebtedness. “It would be a great gesture if you announce an inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court into the conspiracy behind the series of sacrilege incidents against the Sikh faith,” Badal said. He demanded the transfer of Chandigarh and other Punjabi-speaking areas to Punjab and the resolution of the river waters issue as per the riparian principle. Drawing Modi’s attention towards the loss of lives during the farm agitation, Badal sought help for their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-seeks-package-for-state-on-eve-of-pm-modi-s-punjab-visit-101641290375924.html
04-01-2022||Bhopal||Woman raped during family outing in Madhya Pradesh, 2 arrested: Report||A woman was allegedly raped during an outing with her family members in Madhya Pradesh's Rajgarh district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Sunday following which the police arrested two persons, they said.In a police complaint, the woman said she had gone out in a car with her husband and children. While they were returning home, two persons signalled them to stop the car on Aron Road in Raghogarh police station area, Superintendent of Police Rajiv Mishra said. After they stopped the car, one of the persons allegedly held her husband at gun-point while other one took her to the nearby bushes and raped her, he said. According to the complainant, the accused were addressing each other as Sonu and Sumer, the official said. Based on the complaint, the police launched a search and arrested two persons, identified as Sonu Yadav (32) and Sumer Singh Parmar (30), he said. The two accused were booked under relevant sections, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-raped-during-family-outing-in-madhya-pradesh-2-arrested-report-101641288050241.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi to impose weekend curfew amid spike in Covid-19 cases||NEW DELHI: A weekend curfew will be imposed in the national Capital while work from home for at least 50% of the staff of all private offices has been mandated amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. The announcement came following a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The DDMA has decided against sounding a red alert under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) even as Delhi breached the 5% positivity rate mark on Monday. It has allowed state-run buses and the Delhi Metro to operate with 100% seating capacity to avoid crowding at transport hubs such as bus stops and Metro stations. Standing passengers are unlikely to be allowed, transport officials said even as a detailed order was awaited.The DDMA has lieutenant governor Anil Baijal as its chairperson and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Tuesday, as the vice-chairperson. It also includes All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS, New Delhi) director Randeep Guleria and Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava as experts.Also Read | With 37,379 new cases, India’s Covid tally rises for 7th straight day; Omicron count nears 2,000Sisodia cited rapidly increasing Covid-19 cases in the Capital, but said the good thing with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is that the severity of infection is fairly low compared to previous variants. “Delhi has nearly 11,000 active cases and only about 350 Covid-19 patients are in hospitals, of which 124 are on oxygen support and seven are on ventilators,” Sisodia said. “But since cases are increasing swiftly, the DDMA has decided to take certain preventive measures to contain the spread of infections in the city.”He added that only essential activities such as taking a patient to the hospital will be allowed over the weekends. “The night curfew on weekdays shall continue. In addition, all government employees have been asked to work from home or online. Private offices will have to ask at least 50% of their staff to work from home,” Sisodia said.Government departments catering to essential services such as Covid-19 management will work, as usual, a DDMA member said.Sisodia said overcrowding at bus stops and Metro stations was discussed at length at the DDMA meeting. “Since the highly mutated Omicron variant spreads much faster than the older variants, we cannot allow transport hubs to turn into super spreaders. The recent decision of the DDMA to restrict passengers in buses and the Metro to 50% of the seating capacity is leading to excessive crowding and, therefore, it is being revoked. Buses and the Delhi Metro will now be allowed to operate with full capacity.”On Monday, Delhi reported 4,099 Covid-19 cases, up from 3,194 a day earlier, a rise of 28% in 24 hours. The case positivity rate surged to 6.46% from Sunday’s 4.59%. With this, the cumulative case count of Delhi shot up to 14,58,220.On December 28, the DDMA sounded a yellow alert under GRAP leading to restrictions including night curfew between 10 pm and 5 am and shutting of educational institutions, gyms, and cinemas. Markets and malls were allowed to operate on an odd-even basis. Delhi then had a positivity rate of 0.89%.A day later, on December 29, at the last DDMA meeting, an “amber alert” was issued for testing, tracking, and treating for checking the transmission of the virus including its Omicron variant.GRAP spells out four levels of restrictions based on the positivity rate. The first level, classified as a yellow alert, is activated after the positivity rate remains above 0.5% for two consecutive days. The highest level is a red alert, which comes into play when the positivity rate breaches 5% and stays there for two consecutive days.
04-01-2022||Delhi||Parents of minor consented to Rahul Gandhi tweeting photo: Twitter to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Twitter has informed the Delhi high court that the parents of a minor Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi’s cantonment area last year, had consented to their photo being shared by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on the microblogging site. The photo in question was later removed in accordance with the country’s laws.In a response to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on August 13 last year, Twitter had said that it received confirmation that the minor’s parents had approved the sharing of the image on the site. The social media platform also said that Gandhi had filed a formal appeal against the suspension of his Twitter handle.The NCPCR had earlier written to Twitter on August 4, asking it to take action against Gandhi for revealing the identity of the minor victim’s parents.“We are, however, in response to your legal request (NCPCR’s request), withholding the reported content in India under our assessment of the applicable local laws, which we do acknowledge disallow disclosure of such information, including the referencing of the parents of the victim, which cannot be disclosed under authorisation. Accordingly, we have withheld the reported content in India,” Twitter told the NCPCR in an email.The mail was a part of an affidavit filed on November 29 in reply to a plea by a social worker seeking action against Gandhi for posting a picture of the parents.Social activist Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar had alleged that by posting the photo of the victim’s parents, Gandhi violated the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which prohibit the disclosure of identity of minor victims of sexual offences.On October 5, Twitter had told the court that the tweet was removed and the Congress leader’s account was operational without the objectionable post.The court had then asked Twitter to file an affidavit stating the facts after the petitioner’s counsel objected to the submissions made by Twitter’s counsel. In response, the social media platform said it restored Gandhi’s Twitter account following an appeal from him.“I state that Respondent No. 1 (Rahul Gandhi) failed to delete the tweet and filed an appeal with Twitter against the suspension of his account. However, based on the legal request issued by Respondent No. 2 (NCPCR), the answering respondent (Twitter) withheld the impugned content in India… Thereafter, Respondent No. 1’s account was restored based on the appeal filed by him in accordance with Twitter’s policy. As mentioned earlier, the reported content continues to be withheld,” the document read.Twitter has said that it had suspended Gandhi’s account on August 8 and the content in question was no longer available on the platform since then. It said that the action was taken on the basis of the potential risk of harm to the parents of the minor child over the disclosure of their identity in the content tweeted by Gandhi.The matter is expected to be heard on January 28.The Dalit girl, 9, died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 while her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a priest at a crematorium in southwest Delhi’s Old Nangal village.According to the contents of the FIR filed by the girl’s mother, on the evening of August 1, the child went to fetch cold water from a cooler at the crematorium. Then at around 6pm, the priest and three employees of the crematorium informed the child’s mother that her that her daughter died from electrocution.The alleged rape and murder case triggered protests in the Delhi cantonment area. Several political leaders such as Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the victim’s family and assured their support in pursuing the matter and getting justice.
04-01-2022||Delhi||Covid reaching Delhi CM not big deal, spreading among people is a concern: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reaching the chief minister of the Union territory is “not a big deal” but its spread among the people of the city is a “matter of concern".Jain added that people of the national capital need to be “extremely cautious” in wake of the massive spike in single-day Covid-19 cases in Delhi, which is believed to be caused by the new Omicron variant.“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has only mild symptoms. Covid reaching the CM is not a big deal, but spreading among the people is a matter of concern. We need to be extremely cautious,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and CM Kejriwal took to Twitter on Tuesday morning to inform that he has tested positive for coronavirus. He added that he has mild symptoms and has commenced isolation at home.“Those who came in touch with me in [the] last few days, kindly isolate yourself and get yourself tested,” he wrote on the micro-blogging site.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Four of family found dead in railway quarters in Ludhiana||Four members of a family were found dead in a room at the railway quarters at Mullanpur Dakha in Ludhiana district on Tuesday morning. Also read: As Covid-19 spreads, Punjab imposes night curfew; schools, colleges shutDeputy superintendent of police Jatinderjit Singh said that the four bodies were found on beds and there were no signs of struggle. “There were no visible injury marks. The cause of death is being ascertained as the bodies have been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy. The police will act according to the autopsy report,” he said. Sukhdev Singh, 56, employed as a railway gangman, his son Jagdeep Singh, 28, daughter-in-law Jyoti, 26, and granddaughter Jot, 2, were found dead around 7am. Jyoti was seven months pregnant. Kulwant Singh, the elder son of Sukhdev Singh, said that his father had organised a path (prayer meeting) of Sukhmani Sahib in his quarter on Monday and invited relatives over. While the other relatives left on Monday itself, his sister Reena and her husband Soma Singh stayed over for the night. His mother, Balbir Kaur, Reena and Soma Singh were sleeping in the adjoining room and learnt about the incident on Tuesday morning and alerted the police. Gangmen are the foot soldiers of the railways and maintain vigil of tracks in the area allocated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-family-found-dead-in-railway-quarters-in-ludhiana-101641283776073.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||'Lockdown in Mumbai if…': Mayor issues warning amid Covid-19 surge||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar warned on Tuesday that a lockdown will be imposed in the city if daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cross the 20,000-mark. The number of Covid-19 cases has seen a rapid increase in Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai is among the leading contributors in the state-wide tally.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 8,082 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count since April 18, 2021, and two deaths. In the last one week, the metropolis has logged a 10-fold rise in fresh cases of the viral infection.For now, the civic body has decided not to put any restrictions on suburban train travel. Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner at Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said on Monday that the Maharashtra government will take a decision on the issue in consultation with the state task force on Covid-19, if needed.The BMC has issued fresh guidelines in view of the surging cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai. It has directed sealing of buildings if more than 20 per cent of the occupied number of flats has Covid-19 patients.The guidelines came into effect from Tuesday (January 4).The BMC further notified that Covid-19 patient and contacts shall strictly follow the current guidelines of home isolation and hygiene etiquettes while in home quarantine.Maharashtra’s infection tally on Monday reached 6,712,028 after 12,160 fresh cases were recorded within a span of 24 hours.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary for health said that going by projections prepared by the state health department, by the third week of January, active cases may reach up to 200,000 and breach 300,000 by the first week of February.He, however, said that it would be too early to say definitively that the daily caseload would reach 100,000 in the peak, as cases are rising only in some districts and not in the entire state.Maharashtra was hit by the second wave in February 2021 and experienced a peak two months later. In the second wave, the highest one-day tally was 68,631 cases reported on April 18, and highest tally of active cases went up to 699,858 reported on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-mumbai-if-mayor-issues-warning-amid-covid-19-surge-101641282880274.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Ship turns back, Covid patients on board refuse to get admitted to Goa facility||PANAJI: The Cordelia cruise ship has left the Mormugao port for Mumbai a day after 66 passengers out of 2,017 people on board tested positive for Covid-19. The passengers who tested positive and were isolated on board declined to be admitted to a facility in Goa and prompted the ship’s management to turn back towards Mumbai. The passengers will now disembark at the Mumbai port, where the ship is expected to dock at around 5pm on Tuesday.The cruise company has suspended its operations for now. “Due to change in safety protocols with prevailing Covid-19 restrictions and in compliance with government authorities, we will be suspending our sailing for January 3, 2022 and January 5, 20’22. We deeply regret the inconvenience caused,” the company said in a statement.The director-general of shipping has ordered an inquiry while port officials have been asked to review Covid-19 protocols.Also Read | 66 of 2,000 people on board Goa cruise ship tests positive for CovidA crew member aboard the ship was the first to be taken ill. A rapid antigen test found she was positive for the coronavirus disease. Further tests found six more crew members were Covid-19 positive, the ship’s doctor later informed the port authorities. The crew members were allowed to disembark and were isolated at a Goa hospital.The ship waited as the authorities sought time to decide what would be the best way forward. It was later decided that the ship be allowed to berth and all the 2017 passengers and crew be tested. By Monday afternoon, it emerged that 66 of the passengers and crew were Covid-19 positive.The infected crew disembarked and isolated. But the passengers, including those who tested negative, were not allowed to disembark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ship-returns-as-covid-patients-on-board-refuse-to-get-admitted-to-goa-facility-101641282755481.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Amid Covid rise, weekend curfew imposed in Delhi, non-essential movement curbed||To check the Covid-19 spread in Delhi, being driven by Omicron, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided to impose a weekend curfew in the city. No non-essential movement will be allowed during the weekend curfew.As per the orders, government offices, barring essential services, in the city will have to implement work from home for employees and private offices will operate at 50 per cent capacity. Buses and metro will run at full seating capacity to avoid crowding outside metro stations and at bus stops, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced.Also read | Kejriwal tests Covid-19 positive with 'mild symptoms', goes into self-isolationThe decision came after a meeting of the DDMA, which was chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. The issue of imposing more restrictions in Delhi was discussed in the meeting as the city has been witnessing a massive surge in Covid-19 infections from the past few days.Also read | 50 doctors at Delhi's AIIMS in isolation as Covid-19 cases spiral into hospitals, winter break cancelledDelhi reported 4,099 new Covid-19 cases while the positivity rate jumped to 6.46 per cent, the city government's health bulletin showed on Monday.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain informed on Monday that Omicron is now the dominant variant of Covid-19 in the capital, as 81% of the samples sent for genome sequencing found evidence of the heavily mutated virus.Meanwhile, a yellow alert under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) has already been sounded in the city under which many restrictions, including night curfew between 10pm and 5am and shutting of educational institutions, gyms and cinemas, among others, have been imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-view-of-covid-19-surge-ddma-imposes-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-no-non-essential-movement-allowed-101641280502198.html
04-01-2022||Patna||Truck overturns, crushes 3 policemen to death in Patna||Three policemen were crushed to death and two others injured when a speeding truck overturned and fell on a parked police vehicle in Patna’s Beur on Tuesday. Police said that the accident took place around 4.30 am.Five policemen were in the vehicle when the truck overturned. As the truck fell, it caught fire. Three policemen died on the spot and two others received injuries in the incident, police said.A police officer said a police team from the Gardanibagh police station rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to a local hospital, where the injured policemen have also been admitted to. A fire tender was pressed into service to douse the fire.Arun Kumar, the station house officer of the Gardanibagh police station, said that three policemen died and two policemen sustained burn injuries in the incident. He added that the police have seized the truck but the driver managed to escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/truck-overturns-crushes-3-policemen-to-death-in-patna-101641279274597.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Elderly woman assaulted during robbery||Ludhiana Two individuals on Monday morning assaulted and held a 60-year-old woman captive in her Rani Bagh residence in Mundian Khurd, before robbing her of ₹36,000 cash, jewellery and a mobile phone. The incident came to light in the afternoon, with the victim managing to establish contact with the neighbours.The victim, Harcharan Kaur, had been living alone in her house following the death of her husband six months ago, her daughter Jaspreet Kaur said. Narrating the ordeal, she said two masked men assaulted her while she was out to fetch milk in the morning. The victim added that one of the men punched her on her face and dragged her into the house, where they restrained her with wire and locked her up in a room.“When I gathered some consciousness, the robbers had already left the house. I managed to open the door and crawled to the main gate of the house. The neighbours noticed and rescued me,”she added.“The robbers have robbed ₹36,000 in cash, jewellery and mobile phone from the house. The robbers had an idea where I had kept the cash and jewellery,”she added.The Jamalpur police have initiated investigation into the incident and are going through CCTV footage to identify the accused.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dalbir Singh, in-charge of the Mundian police post, said the police reached the spot immediately after being informed about the incident. The police suspect some acquaintance was behind the robbery. An FIR has been lodged against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-elderly-woman-assaulted-during-robbery-101641273576530.html
04-01-2022||Patna||Prisoners’ meetings with relatives suspended amid Covid surge in Bihar||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Bihar Prisons department on Monday suspended the prisoners’ meeting with their relatives. During the pandemic earlier, family members were allowed to speak to prison inmates through video calls via a system called e-mulaquat for 15 minutes each.Earlier in March 2020, the Bihar prison department suspended physical meetings. They were resumed on October 28 after hundreds of inmates of the Beur central jail went on a hunger strike.There were over 66,307 inmates in Bihar prison as of December 31.Beur jail superintendent Jitendra Kumar said that they have again started virtual meetings between inmates and their relatives/lawyers through mobile video calling and conferencing.Inspector general (prisons) Manesh Kumar Meena cited the rising Covid-19 cases and added that the physical mulaqats of all inmates have been suspended from Tuesday till January 31. “The situation will be reviewed again on February 1,” he said.
04-01-2022||Delhi||6 doctors test Covid positive at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital||Six resident doctors at Safdarjung Hospital’s paediatric department in New Delhi tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Over the last week, 23 junior doctors at the hospital have tested positive for the virus.A doctor at the hospital said, “These are not Omicron cases. Symptoms are mostly minor and no hospitalisation is required for any case. They are all isolating themselves.”Delhi has reported a surge in Covid-19 infections, with the cases rising to 4,099 on Monday.Health minister Satyendar Jain said over the last few days, 152 people have tested positive for the Omicron variant. “Omicron is now the dominant variant in Delhi; around 81% of cases in Delhi are of the variant. The people arriving at Delhi Airport from abroad are being tested and being sent to isolation facilities if tested positive and are being treated accordingly,” said Jain.He said the government has made adequate arrangements to handle the surge.“There is no need to panic. The best way to stop coronavirus is to wear a mask at all times and follow all the Covid appropriate protocol at all times.”Jain said the hospital occupancy in Delhi is low. “Almost 96% of the Covid beds in Delhi are available and only 4% are occupied. Furthermore, we are preparing over 37 thousand beds additionally in Delhi,” the Delhi government said in a statement on Monday.
04-01-2022||Uttar||'Lord Krishna comes in my dreams every night...': Akhilesh on winning UP polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that Lord Krishna comes in his dreams every night to tell him that he would form the government in Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming polls.The SP supremo made the claim in a lighter vein during a function held for the induction of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bahraich MLA Madhuri Verma into his party on Monday, reported news agency PTI.Yadav also said the day his party comes to power, the ‘Ram Rajya’ will be established in the state."The way to Ram Rajya is through the path of Samajwad (socialism). The day 'Samajwad' is established, the “Ram Rajya” will be set up in the state,” PTI quoted him as saying.He went on to add, “Lord Sri Krishna comes to my dreams every night to tell me that our government is coming up (in UP)."#WATCH | "Lord Sri Krishna comes to my dream every night to tell me that our party is going to form the government,” said Former UP CM and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav yesterday pic.twitter.com/rmq1p8XgwTYadav also used the opportunity to attack Yogi Adityanath, saying he has “failed” as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister.On BJP's allegation of his party having several criminals and gangsters, Akhilesh Yadav retorted, “It is the allegation of a party which made a man facing several heinous criminal cases the UP chief minister.”"I wonder if the BJP has brought a washing machine to cleanse all its criminals and mafia elements,” he wryly said.Also read | SP’s free power promise gave BJP the ‘severest shock’: Akhilesh“There were many veteran leaders in the BJP who strengthened the party for years with their blood and sweat. Even they say at times that it was they who sweated it out for the party but don't know where did Adityanath come from and was forced upon them," Yadav added.In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the Samajwadi Party could win only 47 seats out of 403 in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly. The BJP and its allies won 325 seats and formed the government under Yogi Adityanath.The state is headed for assembly polls this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/uttar-pradesh-assembly-election/lord-krishna-comes-in-my-dreams-every-night-akhilesh-on-winning-up-polls-101641267580890.html
04-01-2022||Kolkata||Local polls to be held as per schedule in Bengal despite surge in Covid-19 cases||KOLKATA: Elections to four municipalities in West Bengal will be held on January 22 as per schedule with curbs on roadshows and rallies amid a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, state poll panel officials said.“There would be no change in dates of the civic elections. WBSEC (West Bengal State Election Commission) has issued some Covid-19 protocols. These are similar to the ones issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in April 2021 when assembly elections were being held in five states, including West Bengal,” said an official.The protocols prohibit roadshows, bike, and cycle rallies. During door-to-door campaigns, candidates may take four other persons and security guards along.Meetings in open spaces have been allowed with maximum participation of 500 people. Only 200 people would be allowed at meetings organised in conference halls. The campaign will end 72 hours before the polling day.Also Read | West Bengal imposes fresh Covid-19 restrictions, here’s all you need to knowIn December, the WBSEC announced the schedule for civic bodies polls including in Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, and Chandannagar on January 22. Counting will be held on January 25.Covid-19 cases and positivity rates in the state have shot up over the last week. Over 6,000 Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday. The positivity rate was nearly 20% meaning one out of every five samples was found to be positive.In April, the Madras high court criticised the ECI when the daily count of Covid-19 cases shot up after the assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, and Puducherry. In West Bengal, the daily count reached a peak of over 20,000 cases daily in May 2021 after the elections.Sukanta Majumdar, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief, said they doubt how far people would come out and vote due to fear of Covid-19. “I do not know why and how the WBSEC would conduct the polls amid so many restrictions. If people do not come out to vote and the voting percentage drops, then I do not think it would be considered as a successful election.”The government on Sunday reimposed stricter restrictions till January 15 by closing schools and colleges, limiting the workforce across offices, and restricting flights from Delhi and Mumbai.State minister Sobhandeb Chatterjee said if the guidelines are followed, then there is nothing to fear. “BJP has only one thing in mind and that is criticism. But you would never see them hitting the streets and actively taking part in making people aware of the Covid-19 norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/local-polls-to-be-held-as-per-schedule-in-bengal-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101641267816394.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains ‘very poor’||Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Monday morning even as it was expected to improve in the next 24 hours with two back-to-back western disturbances likely to bring rain from Tuesday night to Saturday. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 390 (very poor) at 7 am. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI was 387 (very poor) on Monday.R K Jenamani, a scientist at India Meteorological Department, said the first western disturbance will influence the region from Wednesday when the peak rain activity was expected. The second is expected to influence Delhi from Thursday until Sunday, with peak rain activity on Friday.“Two back-to-back western disturbances will lead to a cloudy week... rain (is expected) on almost all days from Tuesday until Saturday. The intensity will be highest on Wednesday and Friday, with rain and gusty winds touching 20-30 km per hour,” said Jenamani. He added the wind direction has switched to easterly in Delhi.Delhi’s minimum temperature was expected to hover around 7 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, compared to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Monday. Jenamani said the minimum temperature could touch 10 degrees Celsius by Wednesday, while the maximum is expected to drop to around 17 degrees the same day. The maximum temperature was expected to be 22 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said high winds and intermittent rains from Wednesday are expected to improve AQI significantly to the lower end of “very poor” through strong dispersion and wet deposition.An AQI between 101 and 200 is “moderate”, between 201 and 300 “poor”, between 301 and 400 “very poor” and over 400 “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-very-poor-101641266374320.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||As Covid cases rise in Delhi, DDMA meeting in few hours to decide on stricter curbs||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has convened a meeting today in wake of the consistent and huge jump in single-day cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and also case positivity rate exceeding 6%. It is expected that the national capital will see fresh restrictions due to the alarming situation.On Monday, Delhi reported as many as 4,099 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from 3,194 on the preceding day, which is a rise of 28% in 24 hours. The case positivity rate surged to 6.46% from Sunday's 4.59%. With this, the cumulative case count of Delhi shot up to 14,58,220.The containment zones in the city have climbed to a whopping 2,008 while the number of hospital beds occupied currently also witnessed an upward swing from 307 on Sunday to as many as 420 on Monday. According to the Delhi health bulletin, these patients also include the suspect cases of Covid-19.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters on Monday that 84% of the coronavirus cases logged in the city in the last two days are due to the Omicron variant.India has so far reported as many as 1,700 Omicron cases, after the variant was first detected in the country on December 2. Maharashtra and Delhi remain the leading contributors with 460 and 351 infections, respectively.The DDMA issued a yellow alert under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) on December 28 in which certain restrictions, including night curfew between 10pm and 5am and shutting of educational institutions, gyms and cinemas, among others, were imposed.Also Read | Delhi under strict Covid curbs as yellow alert kicks in: Full listA day later on December 29, Delhi's lieutenant governor Anil Baijal chaired a DDMA meeting, which was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, among other prominent figures. In the meeting, it was decided not to impose ‘ambert alert’ in the national capital and instead intensify the three T's - testing, tracking and treating to combat the transmission of the virus as well as the new Omicron variant.Alerts are issued in Delhi on the basis of the case positivity rate, overall Covid-19 cases and the number of oxygen beds occupied in hospitals. The yellow alert is the level 1 curbs under the GRAP, which is issued when the positivity rate remains above 0.05% for two straight days.Notably, since Christmas 2021, the daily caseload of Delhi has seen a massive jump with 249 infections logged on December 25. On December 28 when the yellow alert was imposed, the national capital logged 496 infections in 24 hours.Red alert, which is level 4 curbs, are imposed when the case positivity rate remains above 5% for two consecutive days. If this is implemented in Delhi, there will be complete lockdown with only certain exemptions as specified by the government. Restaurants and bars, which under yellow alert have been permitted to run with 50% seating capacity, will also be shut. However, delivery of essential items and services in general will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-will-delhi-go-under-stricter-curbs-today-ddma-to-take-a-call-101641258618171.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi expected to get first electric bus in February: 10 things to know||Delhi will soon get a fleet of electric buses. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday shared a photo of the first prototype which arrived in the national capital a day before.“Congrats Delhi! After a long wait, prototype of DTC's first 100% Electric bus has reached Delhi! Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal will soon flag off this Electric bus,” Gahlot wrote on Twitter.The first set of these electric buses are expected to be rolled out for mass public transport in February.Delhi currently has a fleet of 6,793 buses, of which 3,760 are run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and 3,033 are operated by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited through the state transport department.Here’s everything you need to know about these electric buses:• The DTC is initially procuring 300 e-buses whose delivery was due to begin in November last year. It was delayed due to various reasons, including the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.• These low-floor buses will be equipped with hydraulic lifts to enable passengers on wheelchair to board the bus.• They will also have GPS trackers, panic buttons and CCTV cameras among other features.• The prototype bus, which arrived on Sunday, is currently being tested by the state transport department and the vehicle manufacturer JBM Auto Limited.• There are 2,300 total electric buses in the pipeline. Out of these, 1,300 will be procured by the DTC and the rest 1,000 will operate under the cluster scheme.• It will be another six months before the cluster electric buses are rolled out.• Gahlot said on Monday that e-buses will be added in batches of about 50 every month after the first roll out in February.• The Delhi government will equip bus depots with charging stations for these e-buses. This will be done in phases.• Further, the DTC will build four “hybrid” bus depots, which will be a combination of electric and CNG buses. These will be the Subhash Place depot, Rajghat depot, Hasanpur depot and Bawana.• The plan to induct e-buses in Delhi was first announced in July, 2018. In the future, the Delhi government will procure only electric buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-expected-to-get-first-electric-bus-in-february-10-things-to-know-101641261071866.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: The roundabout actors||They all are speaking at the same time, speaking over each other, and so uninhibitedly and loudly that you will fear their lungs might explode any moment.Actually, these six young men are reading. They are reading aloud, randomly, from whatever they happen to be holding in their hands — which is either a newspaper or a book.Four of these men are sitting in a circle on the trimmed grass, here in this landscaped roundabout in central Delhi’s Mandi House. Another man is perched some steps away, as if diligently following the pandemic-era dictum of physical distancing. And the last man in the group is standing close to the busy road - reading Bhishma Sahni’s play Haanoosh.Members of the theatre group Aarambh Rang Manch, these solemn-looking folks are among the many stage actors who descend daily to this traffic island to rehearse for their forthcoming performances or some such pursuits. Being the heart of Delhi’s theatre district, the grassy roundabout serves as a makeshift stage for professional as well as amateur actors. The prestigious National School of Drama is within eyeshot, so is the statue of playwright Pushkin.This evening, “we are exercising our diction”, says “Guruji” Lokesh Verma, the group’s senior-most member. With a booming voice full of cadence and infectious earnestness, Mr Verma is engaged with the staging of Vijay Tendulkar’s play Footpath ka Samrat. It is to be performed at Akshara Theatre as soon as pandemic-related restrictions begin to ease. The aforementioned exercise is a part of the rehearsal. There are more actors in the play, but “this is just the second day of the new year, and many are still in holiday mood”.The current cast has assembled from disparate localities in the city. Vaibhav Dobhal and Sandeep Pal came from Lakshmi Nagar, Sahil Rana from Vijay Nagar, Amit Kumar from Munirka, and “Guruji” took the metro from distant Azadpur.All these college graduates are fully aware of a theatre actor’s struggles. The ongoing pandemic has added more challenges. Speaking for all his colleagues, “Guruji” says, “Haar jayenge, yaa paar jayenge (we’ll either lose or we’ll cross over to the other side)… but we’ll not be cowed down by the hardships.”Now the entire group huddles into a large circle to restart the reading exercise. Once again, each man’s voice is splitting from, and mingling with, the voices of the others. The rehearsal will continue till 8.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-roundabout-actors-101641259262980.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||As Covid-19 cases rise, Bombay HC to hold ‘hybrid’ hearings from today||The Bombay high court has decided to hold ‘hybrid’ hearings from Tuesday, January 4, 2022, in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across Maharashtra. The court, currently on its winter break, is set to resume its full schedule today in the form of these hybrid hearings – which will constitute both virtual and physical sessions. However, the court will be putting curbs on the entry of litigants and lawyers as required, a statement said.Justice AA Sayed, a senior judge of the Bombay high court, on December 31 presided over a meeting where it was decided that not all members of the Bar will need to come to the high court. They are not supposed to send their assistants and interns physically to the court unless absolutely required.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani and health commissioner Ramaswamy were also present at the meeting. They affirmed that both the Greater Mumbai municipal body and the state government are well-equipped to handle any potential crisis arising out of the growing number of Covid-19 cases, especially those of the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant.The standard operating procedure (SOP) issued during the meeting read, “The hearing of the matters in all courts will be through hybrid (virtual/physical) mode at the Principal Seat, Bombay High Court with effect from Tuesday, January 4, 2022, until further orders.”Moreover, it was also decided that from January 3 onwards, matters in court won't be entertained for physical mentioning unless they are of an absolutely urgent and immediate nature.For any fresh matter, the advocate or the petitioner has been asked to first file the matter with the respective department, get the stamp or lodging number, and then move the praecipe by setting out the urgency. Furthermore, any orders requiring legal documents to be circulated in the high court shall also be carried out virtually, the guidelines said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has reported 12,160 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, informed the state health department on Monday. As per the health bulletin, the active cases in the state stand at 52,422. The case fatality rate is 2.1 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-bombay-hc-to-hold-hybrid-hearings-from-today-101641257921050.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Omicron Delhi’s dominant variant, detected in 81% samples: Health minister Jain||Omicron is now the dominant variant of Covid-19 in the capital, as 81% of the samples sent for genome sequencing found evidence of the heavily mutated virus, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told the state assembly on Monday.Although the Omicron wave is spreading rapidly, hospitalisations are low as only 4% of beds kept aside for Covid-19 patients are occupied, he told lawmakers.Also Read| Delhi schools tying up with govt, pvt hospitals to get students Covid-19 shotsOf 9,000-odd Covid-19 beds in the national capital, over 8,600 were free on Monday, showed the state’s daily health bulletin. Further, of the 420 beds occupied, 66 were in use by patients suspected to have Covid-19As many as 152 samples out of 187 sent for genome sequencing were found to be infected with the Omicron variant. “There are adequate number of hospital beds available in Delhi and there is no need to panic,” Jain said.The health minister accused the central government of not acting swiftly to stop the impending wave. “The spread would have stopped if the central government had stopped the flights coming from abroad on time,” he said. “Even after repeated requests made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, no appropriate action was taken.”Delhi’s health infrastructure is prepared for any eventuality as almost 96% of the Covid beds in the capital are ready for service. “Furthermore, we are preparing more than 37,000 beds additionally in Delhi,” Jain said.The best way to stop Covid-19 is to wear a mask and follow Covid protocols at all times, the minister said. “People arriving at Delhi airport from abroad are being tested, and are being sent to isolation facilities if tested positive, and are being treated accordingly,” he said.Delhi reported 4,099 new Covid cases on Monday, Jain said. The positivity rate has breached 6%, indicating rapid spread.The Delhi government has failed to contain crowds in markets and public places, leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged in the assembly that began a two-day session on Monday.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Omicron variant causes very mild symptoms. Is such type of attitude of the government not inspiring negligence among the public?” Bidhuri asked.Also Read| Omicron: Delhi sees 28% spike in new Covid cases, DDMA to meet on TuesdayHe also said there was a shortage of mass transit, making commutes difficult. Buses and the Metro are allowed to operate only at 50% capacity to prevent overcrowding.“The public transport infrastructure has completely collapsed because the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government did not buy even a single bus, while it had promised to purchase 11,000 buses,” Bidhuri said. The government has failed to contain crowds outside liquor stores, he added.It is not a bad thing that the majority of cases are from the Omicron variant, which is milder than other variants, according to Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“People who escaped the previous two waves will definitely get this highly transmissible variant, which will act like a vaccine,” Dr Kishore said.“If there is no panic in the population, there would be less (hospital) admissions and lesser need of oxygen because they can recover at home. Some with comorbidities may still need to be admitted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/omicron-delhi-s-dominant-variant-detected-in-81-samples-health-minister-jain-101641256132221.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||15-18 year group: LG Manoj Sinha launches vaccination drive in Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive for persons aged between 15 and 18 years in Jammu and Kashmir. The drive started from Government Higher Secondary School (Boys), Gandhi Nagar, Jammu. “Vaccination is a critical tool to help end the Covid pandemic. It is my humble request to the young friends to get vaccinated,” the LG said. “Don’t be complacent after getting vaccinated. It’s crucial to continue following Covid protocols and guidelines,” he added. Sinha asked the health officials to keep the vaccinated children under mandatory observation period. The vaccination drive for the children in this age group will be carried out across the union territory. Online and walk-in registrations, besides other required facilities are made at the vaccination centres. The school education department has also been asked to encourage the children to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir on Monday reported 178 fresh Covid infections of which 108 were logged in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 70 cases. The highest 57 cases were registered in Srinagar followed by 46 cases in Jammu and 14 in Baramulla. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 109 with active cases reaching 1,498.The number of recoveries was 3,35,774 which prompted the recovery rate to reach 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have climbed up to 3,41,802 and the death toll stands at 4,530.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1518-year-group-lg-manoj-sinha-launches-vaccination-drive-in-jammu-101641252033247.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||In December, Jammu and Kashmir saw lesser Covid cases than November||Amid the looming threat of new variants, government data revealed that the monthly coronavirus cases and the test positivity rate (TPR) in Jammu and Kashmir decreased in the month of December as compared to November. The data shows that the pandemic so far is under control in the union territory despite a huge influx of tourists and visitors. A compilation and analysis of the government’s daily Covid figures brought to the fore that the UT recorded 4,438 infections in December against 4,603 in November – a decrease of 3.5%. From 153 average daily infections in November, it reduced to 143 average daily cases in December.TPR – the percentage of tests turning positive out of the total conducted – in December also decreased to 0.26% from 0.32% in November. The TPR was 0.20% in October, 0.27% in September, and 0.23% in August. If TPR is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in the community. The lower TPR in December can be attributed to highest number of tests conducted in the past five months. The authorities had conducted 16.87 lakh tests in December, 14.34 lakh in November, 13.47 lakh in October, 14.81 lakh in September and 16.54 in August. The data revealed that on an average, 54,443 tests were conducted daily in December against 47,817 tests in November, and 43,482 in October. About 49,374 average daily tests were done in September, 53,359 in August and 56,719 in July.Prof Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar, and nodal officer for Covid, said, “The situation is fine as of now. But if the Omicron variant spreads in India, the cases will rise in J&K as well. However the severity, morbidity, hospitalisation and mortality of the variant are very less. Even if there are more hospitalisations, our health institutions are very well equipped. We won’t be facing an overwhelming situation,” he said. 18% spike in deaths in December: DataCovid, however, took more lives in December in the past five months. As many as 52 people died in December while the number was 44 in November, marking an increase of 18%. In May 2021, when the second wave peaked, J&K had seen 1.14 lakh Covid cases and 1,625 deaths. There was, meanwhile, a slight decrease in vaccination rate in December. As many as 19.41 lakh vaccine doses were administered in December as compared to 19.85 lakh in November. Since September, the vaccination drive had been quite rigorous in the UT. Over one crore doses – first or second – have been administered collectively in September, October, November and December. Khan said in the second wave, most of the people became immunised naturally owing to the infection. “In Kashmir as well, our sero survey showed 90% of people with antibodies against Covid. That was in July. Now, almost all must be having antibodies,” he added. Kashmir contributed a substantial number of Covid cases and deaths than the Jammu division in December. However, in comparison to November, Kashmir’s Covid cases registered a decline and Jammu’s numbers increased in December.Kashmir saw 3,246 cases in December, logging a drop of 16% than November when the Valley had recorded 3,884 cases.The Jammu division witnessed 1,192 infections in December, clocking an increase of 65% than November, when the cases were 719. Of the 52 deaths in the union territory, the Valley saw 38 fatalities due to the virus while Jammu witnessed 14 deaths. On surge in cases in Jammu, Khan said there was nothing to worry as the increase was owing to tourists testing positive. “There were some 100 cases or more of outsiders testing positive for Covid there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-december-jammu-and-kashmir-saw-lesser-covid-cases-than-november-101641251793588.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||2.8 magnitude earthquake strikes Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti||A low-intensity earthquake measuring 2.8 on the Richter scale shook parts of the tribal Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. However, no loss of life and property was reported from anywhere. The tremors were felt at 12.39pm and lasted nearly 45 seconds while an aftershock was recorded too. The epicentre of the earthquake was in Kinnaur district bordering China at a depth of 5km below the earth’s surface, the meteorological office in Shimla said. Tremors were also felt in neighbouring Lahaul and Spiti district. The quake was recorded 2.5 on the Richter scale and its epicentre was said to be 10km below the surface. Kinnaur falls in the seismic zone 4 and 5. In the last 50 years, Kinnaur region has been hit 12 times by earthquakes of over 4 magnitude on the Richter scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-magnitude-earthquake-strikes-kinnaur-lahaul-and-spiti-101641251373604.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Over 90,000 teens get jabbed on Day 1 of vaccination drive||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday launched the statewide Covid-19 vaccination campaign for the age group of 15-18 years from Government Vijay Senior Secondary School in Mandi. A Class-12 student , Ravi Kumar, became the first recipient of the first dose of Covaxin in the state in this category. As many as 90,531 teenagers were vaccinated on Monday. Kangra, the biggest district in HP, led the way in vaccination by inoculating 20,895 youngsters, said health secretary Amitabh Awasthi. He added that while 14,429 were administered the first dose in Mandi district, 7,196 persons were vaccinated in Shimla.While interacting with the media at Mandi, the chief minister appealed the people to come forward to get their dose of vaccine against Covid-19, which he said was the only means of protection from this virus. He said that in Himachal Pradesh, about 3.57 lakh youngsters in the age group of 15-18 years would be administered the vaccine. Jai Ram said as many as 4,259 educational institutions would be covered under this campaign, which include 2,801 government, 1,402 private and 56 other educational facilities. He said that the state Government was keeping an eye on the new variants and all preventative measures would be taken to check spread of this virus. Enthusiasm was seen among the youngsters to get vaccinated as they waited in queues outside the centres. “It’s a good decision to vaccinate the younger generation. Today, I am feeling good. Vaccination will give me protection against Covid-19. We will be able to attend school in days to come without much fear,” said Priya, a student of government senior secondary school in Khalini. “We all need to motivate the students and youngsters. They should not have any fear or misconception regarding the vaccination,” said Tenzin Palmo. Health minister Rajiv Sezal said the government was vigilant on the quickly spreading Omicron variant of Covid-19. “We are spreading awareness and asking people to take due precautions,” he said, while admitting that there was a delay in the genome sequencing test of the patients suspected to be infected with the Omicron variant. “There is a rush for the genome sequencing in the laboratories. I am hopeful that situation will change in the days to come,” he added.  On Monday, the vaccination drive was slow in the tribal Lahual Spiti and Kinnaur districts. In Kinnaur, only 423 teenagers were vaccinated and the number was 283 in Lahual and Spiti. In Chamba district, 5,255 children were jabbed, and in Bilaspur, 3,915 were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-over-90-000-teens-get-jabbed-on-day-1-of-vaccination-drive-101641251193188.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet to deliberate on legalising hemp cultivation||Himachal Pradesh cabinet is likely to discuss and approve the government’s proposal to allow controlled cultivation of hemp to mobilise resources and jobs in the hill state. The move to legalise hemp has also come in the wake of growing unemployment and limited resources of income in the state. Covid had overarching effects in almost all the sectors of the economy. The state government aims to raise its finances from legalising cannabis cultivation as its debt burden has increased to ₹64,000 crore. The state government met its financial requirement in the first week of December and raised a loan of ₹2,000 crore. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had been blaming the previous Congress regime for the poor fiscal of the state. Jai Ram Thakur, during his last budget, had announced to legalise hemp cultivation on the lines of neighbouring Uttarakhand. “The proposal will be placed before the cabinet for its consideration,” said a government official. Under the NDPS Act, 1985, there are provisions for the cultivation, production, maintenance and transportation of cannabis. The controlled cultivation of cannabis will boost the economy as the government aims to earn ₹18,000 crore and provide employment to nearly 50,000 youngsters while directly benefiting 2.8 lakh families in the lower-income group. Growing unemployment has been worrying successive governments, but they did little to generate more avenues to employ youth. The number of unemployed youths registered with the employment exchanges in the state was staggering 8,63,717 (figures as of October 31, 2019). This is more than 13% of the total population of the state. Of the total number of registered jobless persons, about 43% are women. About 75,000 of them are postgraduate; 1.35 lakh graduates; 6.15 lakh matriculates to undergraduate; 40,000 under matric and 500 illiterate. As per estimates, more than 60,000 young men and women come into the job-seeking market every year after finishing their studies. Hemp grows in the wild, almost in all the districts across the state, barring Lahaul and Spiti. In the remote regions of Kullu district, hybrid hemp is sowed clandestinely to extract high-quality charas, which is sold at exorbitant prices in foreign countries as well as the key destinations in India. Traditionally, hemp was cultivated in the parts of old Himachal comprising Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Chamba, Sirmaur and inhabitants of this land-locked village used to make baskets, ropes and slippers from hemp. Hemp seeds were used in traditional cooking. In the 80s, foreign visitors taught villagers in the Kullu district to extract the intoxicant resin or charas from the hemp plant. Foreign drug mafia operated behind them and soon, scores of villages in Kullu started making a livelihood from charas extracted from the hemp or cannabis sativa plant. 
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get next mayor on January 8||Elections to pick the next Chandigarh mayor will be held on January 8.Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh here on Monday notified the election schedule for the election of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor.The election will be held at 11am on January 8 in the assembly hall of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) office in Sector 17. Secret ballot will be employed for voting. The last date for filing of nominations is January 4.BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu will be the presiding authority.Only woman councillors can file the nomination for the post of mayor, as it is reserved for woman in the first and fourth years of the five-year term of the MC House.Nomination papers, in addition to the candidate’s name, also must have signs of two other councillors as proposer and seconder.Detailed election programme will be issued by the MC secretary.Held on December 24, the MC elections threw up a hung House with no party getting a clear majority. In a three-cornered fight, debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) clinched 14 seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 12, the Congress eight and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) one.With ward 10 councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla leaving the Congress and joining the BJP on Sunday, the saffron fold’s tally increased to 13 councillors in the House of 35.The Chandigarh member of Parliament (MP) also has one vote, taking the full strength of the House to 36. With the MP, Kirron Kher, being from the BJP, the party’s vote tally stands at 14, equal to that of the AAP. The winning candidate would require 19 votes.The last six Chandigarh mayors have been from the BJP, which had a brute majority of 21 in the last House of 27.In the run up to the mayoral elections, parties have been fearing that this year too, with no margin between top two parties, cross votes may end up deciding the winning candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-next-mayor-on-january-8-101641249881803.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Always been a staunch Congressman, not joining BJP or Capt, says Balbir Sidhu||Rubbishing claims on social media of him joining the BJP, Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday said he had been a staunch Congressman from the beginning, will always remain in the Congress and will contest the Assembly elections on a Congress ticket only.Addressing mediapersons in Mohali, Sidhu said the rumours of him joining Captain Amarinder Singh or the BJP were all fake and were being spread by former mayor Kulwant Singh.He said he had won three times from Mohali on a Congress ticket, so there was no question of him leaving the party.Taking a dig at Kulwant Singh, who is Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) candidate from Mohali, Sidhu said he had been trying to get a Congress ticket from Mohali, but when he failed, he joined the AAP. “He has changed three political parties now, which shows he is not loyal to any party. Now he is resorting to false propaganda to tarnish my image. But the people of Mohali constituency are my own family and are aware of the conspiracy behind this game,” he added.Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, District Mohali Congress Committee president Rishav Jain and Kharar Market Committee chairman Harkesh Chand Sharma were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/always-been-a-staunch-congressman-not-joining-bjp-or-capt-says-balbir-sidhu-101641249879692.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s Covid cases shot up 274% in week gone by||With a whopping 547 cases in the week ending on January 2, the Chandigarh tricity area recorded a 274% spike in cases from last week.Besides, a virus-related fatality was also reported in Mohali. As the weekly tally is highest since the second wave started ebbing away in the area in June, medical experts believe that the ongoing upward trend of weekly infections can be regarded as the onset of the third wave.In the previous week, ending on December 26, the tricity had reported 146 cases and two fatalities owing to the virus, making it the third consecutive week when the Covid-19 infections were above 100.With the municipal corporation (MC) election rallies in Chandigarh and wedding season across the tricity, the sudden surge in cases was seen in all areas. Chandigarh reported 287 cases this week, against 71 cases last week, while the figure rose from 34 to 144 in Mohali and from 41 to 116 in Panchkula in the same period.As the tricity rang in the New Year, it logged 125 cases on January 1, the highest single-day tally in six months. A day later, 181 people tested positive, a jump of 38%. Dr GD Puri, dean, academics, and head of the Covid management panel, PGIMER, said, “The number of daily Covid cases is doubling every day, indicating arrival of third wave of the pandemic. Comorbid people are vulnerable to severe infection, even if fully vaccinated. People must exercise caution to prevent the situation from worsening.”At the peak of the second wave, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. With curbs on public movement in place across the tricity, the curve had started flattening thereon. The weekly tally had never crossed the 100 mark until the week ending on November 29, which saw 109 infections, and the weekly tally has continued to multiply gradually ever since.‘Infection spread restricted to close contacts’Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “Currently in Chandigarh, there is no cluster or hotspot, as the infection is being spread only within close contacts. As around 90% of the adults in Chandigarh are fully vaccinated, hospitalisation and severity among infected people is very less.”Yet, she cautioned the sharp increase in cases should not be taken lightly: “The cases have increased due to crowded gatherings in election rallies, marriage events and festivities, where people did not bother to follow safety protocols. People must get vaccinated at the earliest and follow guidelines to avert further surge.” Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur blamed public’s callousness for the spike in infections. “People have completely forgotten precautions. In public places, most people are out and about without masks and don’t maintain social distance,” she said.Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said the current trend indicated that the cases were going to increase further. Therefore, they had made adequate arrangements at the government health facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-covid-cases-shot-up-274-in-week-gone-by-101641249878230.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||India tapping space sector’s potential: Rajnath Singh||The Indian government understands the potential of space sector, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said here on Monday, while appreciating the crucial role played by the sector during the Covid-19 pandemic in keeping the world connected from testing to data-transfer and analysis. Speaking after inaugurating the Kalpana Chawla Centre for Space Science and Technology (KCCRSST) at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, Singh recalled the four major pillars of reforms in the space sector envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “These pillars are: freedom of innovation to the private sector, role of the government as an enabler, preparing the youth for the future and viewing the space sector as a resource for progress,” he said, adding that the actions identified in the pillars will take the space sector to newer heights and give new direction to the country’s progress. He also launched a scholarship scheme worth ₹10 crore for the wards of defence personnel of the three services.The minister likened the KCCRSST with “pride of India” Kalpana Chawla, hoping that this research facility will touch new heights of success, similar to the remarkable achievements of the late India-born astronaut who brought universal recognition to her country of origin. Remembering Chawla, Singh described her as a symbol of women empowerment, who took a flight beyond imagination. He urged people to motivate their daughters to touch unimaginable heights, echoing the government’s vision of increased participation of women in all sectors. Quoting India’s first Prime Minister Jawahar Lal Nehru, Singh said, “When I want to know the future of India, I do not look at stars and planets, but into the eyes of little children. If their eyes are bright and full of hope, the future of India is safe, Nehru had once said.”The minister also called for an active and long-term public-private partnership to take the education and science sectors to a global level and make India a knowledge economy.“Today, the private sector is exposed to a large number of opportunities in the space sector. Whether it is defence or space, we are fully welcoming the private sector,” he said, reiterating the government’s commitment to strengthening the private sector for the holistic development of the nation. Speaking on the occasion, Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said since its inception, the university had been striving to provide quality, innovative and experiential learning to its students, and establishment of this centre was one of the steps in this direction. “We will soon be announcing short-term courses for satellite design and development,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/india-tapping-space-sector-s-potential-rajnath-singh-101641249875926.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh shuts down Rock Garden, Bird Park||A day after putting restrictions on entry to Sukhna Lake, the UT administration on Monday decided to shut down the Rock Garden and the Bird Park at Nagar Van, city’s two major tourist attractions.The decision was taken at the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit.According to the order issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, Rock Garden and Bird Park will remained closed from January 4 until further orders.The administration’s decision comes in the wake of the sharp increase in the Covid cases in the city in the past one week. According to health experts, the sharp rise in cases is the result of large public gatherings and apathy towards Covid-appropriate behaviour during the MC elections’ campaigning, marriage events and festivities.The administration on Sunday had ordered the closure of Sukhna Lake on Sundays. On other days, it will be accessible only from 5am to 9am and 6pm to 8pm. Also, all banquet halls, hotels, restaurants, cafes, coffee shops and eating places were ordered to function at only 50% capacity. Besides, they have to ensure that only fully vaccinated people enter their premises.Facilities being beefed upDuring the meeting, the administrator asked officials to ensure availability of adequate oxygen and beds in hospitals, intensify testing and enhance vaccination to combat the situation.Dr GD Puri from PGIMER shared that the institute had 250 Covid beds and 48 of these had been activated. Dr Suman Singh, director, health, UT, shared that 606 isolation beds for asymptomatic and mild cases were available at GMSH-16 and 50 had been made functional. Another 250 oxygen beds and 80 ventilator beds were available at GMCH-32, shared its director-principal, Dr Jasbinder Kaur. All institutions have adequate oxygen supply for Covid patients.Health secretary Yashpal Garg shared they had already procured the buffer stock for essential Covid medicines. Chandigarh has 53.8 metric tonnes of oxygen available at its health institutes, against the requirement of 49.5 metric tonnes. Besides, there is sufficient vaccine stock for both adults and children, he added.Directing officials to ensure strict enforcement of Covid protocols in the city, the administrator also asked the neighbouring districts to support each other in controlling the Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-chandigarh-shuts-down-rock-garden-bird-park-101641249874469.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral elections: AAP offers Congress to share chair alternately||Even as both the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress have moved their councillors out of Chandigarh, fearing poaching ahead of the mayoral polls on January 8, the proposal for sharing the mayor’s chair alternately between the two parties is on the table, it is learnt. As per the proposal, the AAP will have its mayor in the first year of the new Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) House with Congress support, while the Congress will get the post in the next year.In the House of 36, the AAP and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are running neck to neck with 14 votes each. The Congress with seven and the SAD with one vote are in the position to tilt the balance in favour of any of the two leading parties. Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla, said, “The AAP approached us with the offer that they will support our candidate in the second and third years if we support their mayoral candidate in the first year of the new House.” Acknowledging the offer, AAP city chief Prem Garg said, “We proposed that the Congress should support the AAP mayoral candidate in the first year. They are senior to us. Woh humein ek saal guide karein aur saath chalein (They should guide us and walk with us for a year). They can review our performance after one year. If they are not happy with it, we can do as they say.” Though Chawla ruled out voting for any other party, he said the rival parties’ choice of candidates will be crucial for Congress’ decision: “We are waiting for the candidates that the AAP and the BJP put up for the mayor’s post.” Chawla also denied speculations that the party councillors will abstain from voting. The BJP has already declared that it will contest all three posts. Meanwhile, SAD’s lone councillor, Hardeep Singh, said the party will take a call on which candidate to support after his meeting with party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal within a couple of days. AAP, Congress trying to keep flock togetherOn Monday, the AAP took its 14 councillors, their families and some senior party officials to Delhi. Similarly, the seven Congress councillors, accompanied by their families, moved to a resort near Jaipur, Rajasthan. The development came a day after former Congress vice-president Devinder Singh Babla and his wife, councillor Harpreet Kaur, joined the BJP. While conceding that the councillors had been moved to Delhi as they were being approached by rival parties to vote for them during the mayoral elections, Garg said, “We also wanted our councillors to experience how an elected House works. There is a session of the Delhi legislative assembly and the councillors will be taken there.” Chawla said, “Both the AAP and the BJP are approaching our councillors. But we decided to move out of the city only to quell rumours and misunderstanding between our councillors. Attempts to mislead them were being made by rival parties. Last night, even though we were all together for a dinner, some councillors were getting calls that one of them was at a rival party’s office.” On their councillors’ return to the city, AAP’s Garg said it was not decided, though the group was likely to be back after attending the proceedings of the Delhi legislative assembly. The Congress councillors will return to Chandigarh only a day before the mayor elections on January 8. Taking a dig at the Congress and the AAP, BJP’s city chief Arun Sood said, “BJP councillors are in the city. They are neither under surveillance nor have their phones been switched off. The parties which fear their councillors are saleable are adopting such tactics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayoral-elections-aap-offers-congress-to-share-chair-alternately-101641249873204.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||1,836 teens turn up for jab in Chandigarh on first day||As many as 1,836 of the 2,000 registered teenagers were administered Covid-19 vaccine as the vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group got underway in Chandigarh on Monday.All 2,000 slots at the 10 vaccination centres were booked in advance on the CoWin portal. The vaccines were administered at PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMSH-16, the civil hospitals in Manimajra, Sector 22 and Sector 45, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Dhanas; Government Model High School, RC-II Maloya; Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra; and Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-B.Preference is being given to beneficiaries with appointments and if vacant slots are available, walk-in registrations will also be allowed at these centres.The beneficiaries were enthusiastic and motivated in getting the jab, saying they believed that the vaccination is the key to fight the Covid outbreak. Chandigarh resident Milind Kumar, 17, said, “Since children also socialise and go to school, it is necessary for them to get vaccinated to be safe.”“After getting fully vaccinated, I can socialise easily, while taking precautions. Everyone who is eligible should get vaccinated at the earliest,” said Daksh Kumar, 15, also a resident of Chandigarh.“The vaccination drive got great response on first day. All children were kept under observation for 30 minutes and none of them got any severe adverse effect post immunisation,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.Special camps at six schools from todaySpecial vaccination camps at six government schools in Chandigarh will start on Tuesday. The camps will be organised at GMSSS, Sector 8-B; GMSSS, Sector 10; GMSSS, Sector 35; DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 8-C; Shri Guru Gobind Singh High School, Sector 35; and Delhi Public School, Sector 40.Lukewarm response in Mohali, PanchkulaIn Mohali and Panchkula, where walk-in registrations are also allowed, 354 and 1,039 teenagers, respectively, were inoculated.The Mohali health department is conducting the vaccination drive at nine health centres in the district and GSSS, Phase 3B1. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur launched the drive at the Phase-6 Civil Hospital, where Mehar Kapoor, 17, Reetinderdeep Kaur, 16, and Devvir Singh, 16, were the first teenagers to be vaccinated. Dr Kaur said teenagers in the 15-18 age group can visit their nearest government health facility for vaccination. They must carry their Aadhaar card. In Panchkula, vaccination centres have been set up at 15 government facilities, including the dispensaries in Sectors 11, 21 and 26, Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Urban Dispensary, Sector 19; Urban Polyclinic, Pinjore; Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka; Community Health Centres in Nanakpur and Raipur Rani; and Primary Health Centres in old Panchkula, Surajpur, Morni, Barwala, Hangola and Kot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1836-teens-turn-up-for-jab-in-chandigarh-on-first-day-101641249813159.html
04-01-2022||Noida||Residents meet Noida authority officials to discuss all ‘pending developments’||Representatives of apartment owners’ association (AOA) in Noida sectors 76 and 77 met officials of the Nodia authority on Monday to press for their demands regarding long-pending developments in the sectors.Noida sectors 76 and 77 are home to 20 high-rise housing complexes, which have approximately 700-2,000 flats each. “Development of one park in Sector 76 and two parks in Sector 77 has been pending for a few years. We have repeatedly submitted applications, and requested the officials to develop these parks so that children could play there. There are no such facilities in the residential pockets at present,” said Amit Gupta, a representative from Prateek Wisteria AOA in Sector 77. According to the Noida authority’s ‘Master Plan’, two parks were planned to be developed in Sector 76, and three parks and two green belts in Sector 77. However, not even a single park has been developed in Sector 76, and two parks and one green belt have been developed in Sector 77 so far. Sandeep Jindal, Skytech Matrott AOA of Noida Sector 76, said, “There is a dire need for a playground for the children in sectors 76 and 77 as there is no such place in the locality as of now. We discussed a possible development of a football or cricket ground in these parks, considering the need for the children and the youth, with the officials on Monday.”The authority officials have promised the residents to resolve the issues at the earliest. “The parks here have not been developed because of land issues. The land has been encroached at some places, and at other places, the authority could not completely acquire the land from the original owners as they are not accepting the compensation... After today’s discussion, the Noida authority CEO has ordered to resolve these issues at the earliest and develop parks for the children in sectors 76 and 77 with the land available with us in the next 15 days,” said Prasun Dwivedi, Noida authority’s officer on special duty (land).The authority officials were in Noida Sector 77 on Monday to inaugurate a “pink vending zone” there, out of the total nine zones opened across the city the same day. According to a statement by the Noida authority, “Pink vending zones have been especially created for female traders and sellers in the city, who can set up their shops at these zones. The nine vending zones in Noida sectors 2, 37, 44, 57, 62, 76-77, 88, 93A and 125 -- have a capacity of accommodating 55 vendors.”
04-01-2022||Noida||South Korean man living in Noida loses ₹40,000 in online fraud case, probe on||Police have booked an unidentified person for allegedly cheating a South Korean national living in Noida of ₹40,000 in an online fraud on December 18, 2021, police said on Monday.The victim -- Daehyun Ahn, 30 -- moved to the city on September 1, 2021, and works as an assistant manager at a multinational company in Noida. He is a resident of Supertech Supernova in Noida Sector 94, according to police.Ahn said in a complaint, “I received a suspicious message on my cellphone on December 18, 2021. When I clicked on the link, ₹40,000 got debited from my bank account.”When contacted, his friend in India, Pooja, 25, said that Ahn is new in the city. “He recently downloaded an application, which specialises in digital payment. He received a link two weeks ago, which he thought was sent by the application to know your customer (KYC). He clicked on the link and soon ₹40,000 was debited from his bank account,” she said.“Ahn and I immediately informed the bank concerned and blocked his account. Then we visited the local police check post in Sector 37, and as advised by the police, filed a complaint at the cyber cell on December 18, 2021. We also filed a complaint at the cyber cell in Noida Sector 108 the next day,” Pooja added.The cyber cell investigated the matter and directed the Sector 39 police to register an FIR.A case has been registered against an unidentified person under Section 66D of the Information Technology Act on Sunday (January 2 this year), said Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 39 police station, adding, “An investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/south-korean-man-living-in-noida-loses-40-000-in-online-fraud-case-probe-on-101641242252608.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | DC, police commissioner visit DEO office to express solidarity after slipper garlanding incident||Two days after a member of the Ludhiana Parents Association was booked for garlanding district education officer (DEO), secondary, Lakhvir Singh Samra with slippers at his office; district commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma along with his father, a retired government teacher, and commissioner of police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar visited DEO’s office on Monday and assured him of all the possible support. “If someone has any issue relating to the functioning of an officer, they should not resort to such shameful methods but contact the higher authorities. The whole administration is with the DEO and thus he should not be afraid of any such bad elements,” said DC. Bhullar said, “The accused has gone in disguise with his family. Special teams have been deputed to arrest the accused. I appeal to people to not take law in their hands or else they will be in trouble.”Farmers join protestMeanwhile, the farmers extended full support to the DEO and joined the ongoing protest by the local government teachers and principals outside the DC office seeking immediate arrest of Rajinder Kumar Ghai, who was booked on January 1 after garlanding the DEO with slippers.Teacher unions declared to observe protests for two hours in schools on January 5 to press for the arrest of the culprits.Principal Davinder Singh Chhina appreciated the goodwill gesture by district authorities for their visit to DEO Samra. Chhina said, “All the teachers and school heads need to be united in future to isolate unscrupulous elements who are bent upon tarnishing the image of the government school system that had shown resurgence in recent years. Police should immediately arrest the accused and set an example for bad elements.”Security lapseHowever, farmers also raised questions on the security deputed at the entry of the Mini Secretariat. “Ludhiana police learnt nothing from the court complex blast. Despite security being deputed at the entry points, how did Ghai carry the slipper garland inside the building? Action should be taken against the policemen there,” said Malkit Singh, a farmer leader.The entry points leading to the DC office were barricaded and blocked for public visit by the police in wake of the ongoing protest of farmers.The caseA probe was launched against the PT teacher by deputy DEO, secondary, Charanjit Singh, on December 22, after Rajinder Ghai filed a complaint with the chief minister’s office.Ghai had claimed that since DEO did not take any action though 10 days had elapsed, and was trying to save the teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-police-commissioner-visit-deo-to-express-solidarity-after-slipper-garlanding-incident-101641242135778.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu promises ₹2,000 for women homemakers, 8 LPG cylinders||After taking digs at his own party’s government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for offering “lollipops” ahead of polls, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday jumped into the race to lure voters with freebies by promising to give ₹2,000 per month and eight free cylinders to every homemaker woman and incentives for school and college going girls if the party retains power in the state.Sidhu announced the populist promises at a rally in Shaina village which comes under the Bhadaur constituency of the district. “We want to give full rights to half the population in the state. The Congress has made a big road map for 1.18 crore women and girls. As per the category of self-reliance, we will start from homemakers and give ₹2,000 per month and eight free cylinders in a year to each woman,” repeated Sidhu, while addressing the media at the residence of former Barnala MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon in the town.With these promises, Sidhu has upped the game on competitive populism by trying to outdo the Opposition AAP and SAD. The AAP was the first to promise ₹1,000 per month to each woman in the state if voted to power, then SAD promised to double it, and Sidhu has gone a few steps further in one go. The PPCC chief’s promises have come even before the Congress manifesto committee, which is headed by Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa, has drafted its poll manifesto.At the rally, Sidhu claimed that the school dropout number of girls is one-and-a-half per cent more as compared to boys but the Congress government will incentivise girl child with various schemes. “We will incentivise girl education and give ₹5,000 to a girl after she passes Class 5; ₹10,000 after Class 8 and ₹15,000 plus a tablet (computer) after Class 10. Besides, when she enrols in 10+2, the government will give ₹20,000. If she wants to get higher education in a college, we will provide an environment-friendly scooty. The Punjab model will also give ₹2 lakh loan without interest for PhD and other higher courses,” he added.He said the money will be arranged for such schemes by closing the business of various mafias. They will collect around ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 crore and use it with Central schemes. “Punjab will be made a welfare state, not the welfare of only 100 families,” he added.Sidhu said despite the fact women have equal rights but the registration of the property is 1.8 per cent in the state. “The Punjab model declares that all property registrations will be free for women. We will also open skill development centres in 23 districts for women. A special women commando battalion will be formed in villages and towns,” he added.The Congress leader also announced that farmers having below 5 acres of land or farm labourers, including women, will be given ₹300 per day through MGNREGA.Reverting on whether these promises will be a part of Congress election manifesto, Sidhu said, “There will be some reasons if I am holding a press conference. This is the Congress if its chief is speaking.”When asked that deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he would put the ministry at Sidhu’s feet within a minute if he wants the same as Sidhu is unhappy, the Congress chief said, “He is my elder brother and he can say whatever.”However, National Health Mission (NHM) employees opposed Sidhu’s visit seeking regularisation.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shiv Sena leader Amit Arora claims his security trimmed day after he got threat calls||A day after claiming to have received threat calls from Pakistani numbers, Shiv Sena leader Amit Arora alleged that the Punjab government has trimmed his security by half, instead of beefing it up. Arora, who is the vice-president of Shiv Sena’s Punjab unit, said he had four security personnel in his detail, but now, he is left with just two. Stating that the Punjab government is not serious about the security of Hindu leaders, he said he had filed a complaint at the Division Number 7 police station, but no FIR has been registered so far. Past attacks on AroraArora had survived a terrorist attack in 2016. On February 3, 2016, when he had stopped near a roadside stall, some assailants had opened fire at him. A bullet had brushed past his neck, leaving him injured. Four months later, police had arrested him, along with his gunman, on charges of “faking the attack” to increase his security. Later in 2018, police busted a terror module, wherein one of the accused confessed to involvement in the attack on Arora. In February 2020, unidentified assailants had opened fire at the Shiv Sena leader’s SUV parked outside the office of one of his friends in Sector 39, Chandigarh road. At the time of the incident, he was sitting in the office with other leaders of the party.‘Threatened against recording statement with NIA’Speaking about the latest calls, which he claims had come from Pakistani numbers, Arora said the callers threatened him against recording his statement with the National Investigation Agency (NIA), in the case pertaining to targeted killings. The Shiv Sena leader further said, the callers told him that they would shoot him dead if he dared to record his statements. “I have sent my complaint to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and director general of police Siddharth Chattopathay,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shiv-sena-leader-amit-arora-claims-his-security-trimmed-day-after-he-got-threat-calls-101641242012621.html
04-01-2022||Noida||Yeida extends OTS scheme deadline as many plot allottees yet to claim benefits||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) during its 72nd board meeting on Monday decided to extend its one-time settlement scheme benefits till March 31, 2022, as many property allottees are yet to claim the benefits, said officials. The deadline to settle the financial dues was set on December 31, 2021.Yeida decided to extend the deadline as the response of the scheme is good, and many alottees are yet to claim the benefits, said the officials.Under the OTS scheme, Yeida agreed to waive off the compounded amount and only levy simple interest on property dues of the individual property owners. The authority had floated the scheme from October 1, 2021, and concluded it on December 31.Sharing the final outcome of the scheme, Yeida chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh said, “The scheme was meant for all the allottees, except those in the group housing plot category, owned by the developers. It was also meant for industrial, institutional, commercial, built-up houses, mixed-use, and abadi plot owners.”Yeida said it received 2,593 applications during the scheme period, and it will bring in revenues of ₹416 crore. And by offering rebate over the compounded amount, the authority will pass on benefits amounting to ₹350 crore to the plot owners.While allotting a plot, YEIDA commanded interest of 8.5% over the land premium from the owners. In case of default the authority calculated the land premium by levying compound interest. While the first default attracted compound interest at the interest rate of 11.5%, the second one was calculated at 14.5%. The outstanding amount was compounded every six months.Out of the 38,000 allottees who had taken units along the Yamuna Expressway, the scheme was introduced to cater to 32,000 allottees. Officials said that several industrial allottees and residential allottees, who could not be offered land due to legal issues, have been offered zero period benefits in the past, and did not avail the OTS scheme.Rishabh Nigam, president of Yamuna Expressway Entrepreneurs Association (YEEA), said, “The OTS scheme is useful for those who are yet to clear their financial dues against their respective plots, because it waives off the compound amount, and only the simple interest charge remains.”Medical device park project approved, plot scheme to be launched soonOther major decisions taken during the board meeting on Monday were: extending deadline for executing lease deed for all allottees (except group housing) till March 31; people who have received notice to execute lease deed immediately through checklist issued by the authority will also be given an additional time; purchasing six four-wheelers and handing those over to the police department for increased patrolling along the Yamuna Expressway; allowing execution of lease deed and registration through the power of attorney for blood and close relatives; and standardising payment to contractors for various civil works according to the rates prescribed by the public works department of Uttar Pradesh among others.Yeida also said that medical device manufacturing units will soon be set up in Sector 28, along the expressway as the central government has approved the detailed project report of the mega project spread over 350 acres of land. During the board meeting on Monday, Yeida also approved the proposal to sell plots in the project, allowing industrialists to set up businesses along the Yamuna Expressway after getting a nod from both the Uttar Pradesh government and the Centre, said the officials.“The central government approved the medical device park project on December 31, 2021, and the state government has also given a green signal to it. The Centre has allowed us to promote the scheme, asking manufacturers to come here, invest, and start making medical devices,” said the Yeida CEO.Now, Yeida will take out road shows across cities to promote the scheme, in a bid to bring investors into the region.“We will interact with interested investors and ask them to invest and start businesses here. We will also seek their suggestions to make tailor-made plot schemes,” Singh added. In phase I, Yeida will carve out plots on 200 acres of land and 150 acres in phase II, said the officials.The central government asked Yeida on September 24, 2021, to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and submit the same by December 23, 2021. Subsequently, Yeida submitted the DPR and the Centre approved the same last December. The central government has conveyed in-principle approval to the setting up of the medical device park on 350 acres along the Yamuna Expressway, according to the scheme guidelines of ‘Promotion of Medical Device Park’. It will be the first medical device park in India, to be developed in Sector 28, near the Noida airport site in Jewar.For the first time, Yeida will also build a shed to allot for setting up industrial units at this park, which is likely to emerge as a hub of manufacturing units of medical devices such as ventilators, PPE kits, and X-ray machines among other such products.A Government of India (GOI) approval means that the Yeida is likely to get over ₹1,000 crore fund and other benefits from the central government, said the Yeida officials.In November 2020, Yeida earmarked the 350 acres for the medical device park, and also sent a proposal to the Uttar Pradesh government for the same. The authority is expecting a ₹5,250 crore investment in the project, if it is executed, they added.Under the scheme ‘Promotion of Medical Device Park’ in follow-up to the July 27, 2021, order of the ministry of chemical, fertiliser and pharmaceuticals’ , the Uttar Pradesh government appointed Yeida as the state implementing agency on August 4, 2021, to execute this project. Subsequently, Yeida roped in Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam, to prepare the DPR for the same, according to the officials.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana drug bust: STF arrests Amritsar man with 1kg heroin||The special task force (STF) of Ludhiana police arrested an Amritsar resident with 1kg opium on Sunday. The accused was identified as Sandeep Singh alias Sonu Baba, 35, of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar of Amritsar. Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, STF Ludhiana, said the accused had come to Ludhiana to deliver the contraband, and was waiting for customers near Ranjit Singh Park when he was nabbed.On frisking, the STF recovered 1.02kg heroin from his backpack. The accused told the STF officials that owns a chicken corner in Amritsar and has been into drug peddling for the past six years. He used to get the heroin from one of his connections in Amritsar and sell it among the addicts. The inspector added that the accused is already facing trial in several cases of drug peddling, including two cases lodged in Ludhiana in 2019. After availing bail, he got back into drug peddling again.A case under Sections 21 and 21 C of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS)has been lodged against the accused at STF Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-drug-bust-stf-arrests-amritsar-man-with-1kg-heroin-101641241894299.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali police book unidentified man for raping, impregnating 16-year-old Bihar girl||The Sohana police have registered a zero FIR against an unidentified man for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl, who recently delivered a child at a Mohali hospital.In her statement to the police, the minor girl said she lived in Bihar and had come to Mohali with her maternal grandmother in May last year. Before then, in March, a man had raped her at an isolated place near her village in Bihar when she had gone to nearby fields. Afraid, she never revealed the matter to anyone, but was found pregnant when she visited a hospital for stomach pain.After recording her statement, Sohana police registered a zero FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act against the unidentified accused, and transferred the case to the Bihar Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-book-unidentified-man-for-raping-impregnating-16-year-old-bihar-girl-101641241892799.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Major reshuffle in Ludhiana police, 22 SHOs transferred||Ahead of assembly elections, Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar transferred as many as 22 out of the 28 station house officers in the district on Monday. The SHOs who are posted in the city for the past three years will be transferred to other districts.Inspector Harjinder Singh has been posted at police station Division Number 1. He has replaced inspector Inderjit Singh. Sub-Inspector Jagdeep Singh has been deputed at Daresi. Sub-Inspector Vijay Kumar has been given charge of Basti Jodhewal.Sub-Inspector Neeraj Chaudhary, who was SHO at Haibowal, has been transferred to Division Number 5. He has replaced Inspector Gurpreet Singh.Sub-Inspector Kulbir Singh is new SHO of Division Number 8 police station. Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, who was at Division Number 3 police station, has been transferred as SHO at Model Town police station. She replaces inspector Inderjit Singh, who is facing charges of misplacing evidence in a case of bribe lodged against an ASI at Meharban police station.Sub-inspector Rajinder Pal Singh has been transferred to PAU, sub-inspector Jaskanwal Singh Sekhon, who was SHO of PAU police station, has been transferred to Sarabha Nagar. Sub-inspector Gurshinder Kaur has been transferred to Ladhowal and sub-inspector Harpreet Singh is the new SHO of Haibowal.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh has been sent to Daba, sub-inspector Labh Singh to Shimlapuri, inspector Rohit Sharma has been shifted to Division Number 6.Inspector Sukhjit Singh has been transferred to Dehlon, inspector Gurpreet Singh has been transferred to Sadar, sub-inspector Sewa Singh has been transferred as SHO, Sahnewal.Sub-Inspector Gagandeep Singh has been transferred as SHO, Jamalpur, inspector Ranbir Singh is new SHO at Koomkalan police station, inspector Rajesh Kumar is new SHO at Focal Point police station and inspector Ravinder Kumar has been transferred to Moti Nagar.Inspector Sukhdev Singh has been transferred as SHO to Division Number 7 and Inspector Jagdev Singh has been transferred to Meharban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/major-reshuffle-in-ludhiana-police-22-shos-transferred-101641241832472.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Husband, in laws arrested for pregnant woman’s dowry death in Ludhiana||A 23-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly murdered in Heera Nagar of Moti Nagar on Monday by her husband and in-laws for not fulfilling their demand of dowry. The accused had tried to set it up as a suicide case and claimed that victim, Khushboo Sharma, had hanged herself.The Moti Nagar police have arrested her husband, Gagandeep, mother-in-law and brother-in-law, on the statement of the victim’s mother Rajni Sharma of Kakowal Road.Rajni said her daughter had married Gagandeep a year-and-a-half ago. Soon after marriage, the accused had started harassing Khushboo for dowry.  Khushboo’s family had intervened several times but to no avail, said her mother. Rajni added that on Monday morning, they received a call from Khushboo’s in-laws. They told her that Khushboo had ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Rajni and other family members rushed to their house and found Khushboo lying dead on the bed. The mother said she saw injury marks on her daughter’s body. Inspector Surinder Kumar, station house officer of Moti Nagar said a case under Section 304B (dowry death) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/husband-in-laws-arrested-for-pregnant-woman-s-dowry-death-in-ludhiana-101641241712774.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula resident held for fraud at Naraingarh sugar mills||A Panchkula resident has been arrested in connection with the multi-crore fraud, pertaining to Naraingarh sugar mills. The accused has been identified as Rahul Anand, who runs the day-to-day affairs of Naraingarh Sugar Mill Ltd. A case in this regard was registered at the Shahzadpur police station on December 21 last year. The accused was produced before a court and sent to eight-day police remand. In his complaint, the general manager of Ambala Central Co-operative Bank Ltd had sought legal action against the managing director, directors and other persons of the mill. The complainant told the police that Anand was controlling the day-to-day affairs of the mill through the directors and an amount of ₹34.10 crore was disbursed to the mill, for the crushing season 2014-15, ₹11.11 crore for crushing season 2015-16 and ₹60 crore for the crushing season 2018-19. The amount was to be used for timely clearance of sugarcane farmers’ dues.“The accused diverted the funds into other accounts and also prepared false accounts for transferring the loan amount to various firms without valid reason/business, purchased raw material by paying highly inflated rates and misutilised the fund,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-resident-held-for-fraud-at-naraingarh-sugar-mills-101641241652638.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sub-junior badminton tournament: Animesh, Aditya win round 2 matches||Assam’s Animesh Gogoi outplayed Manipur’s Hursh Singh Thokchom 15-11, 15-11, in a boys’ U-17 round two match played during the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, on Monday. The tournament is being organised by Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, under the aegis of Haryana Badminton Association.In other boys’ U-17 round two matches, Punjab’s Aditya Sharma got the better of Uttar Pradesh’s Suryanshu Tripathi 15-10, 15-13; Andhra Pradesh’s Dileep Kumar Gulipalli ousted Karnataka’s Pranav Krishnamurthi 15-11, 10-15, 15-12 in a tough contest while Delhi’s Harshit Dahiya (DLI) beat Madhya Pradesh’s Abhinav Sahu 15-4 15-6 with ease.ResultsBoys’ U-17 (second round): Animesh Gogoi (ASM) bt Hursh Singh Thokchom (MNP) 15-11, 15-11; Aditya Sharma (PNB) bt Suryanshu Tripathi (UP) 15-10, 15-13; Dileep Kumar Gulipalli (AP) bt Pranav Krishnamurthi (KTK) 15-11, 10-15, 15-12; Harshit Dahiya (DLI) bt Abhinav Sahu (MP) 15-4, 15-6; Sugi Sai Bala Singha G (TN) bt Aman Sengupta (JAR) 15-2, 15-6; Rounak Chouhan (CG) bt Sparsh Seth (UTR) 15-5, 15-6; Shivam Verma (UP) bt Ojas Gedam (MAH) 15-9, 9-15, 15-11; Ishaan Sihag (HAR) bt Shourya Tiwari (DLI) 15-6, 15-5; Aditya Sharma (HP) bt Amith Rama (TS) 16-14, 15-7; Jayanth CB (TN) bt Biju Saswadh (KER) 15-7, 15-6; Nagesh Chamle (MAH) bt Arjun Baiju (TN) 15-6, 15-3; Neetesh Thakur (UP) bt Vasista Raja Simhadri (AP) 15-4 15-8; Malhar Ghadi (MAH) bt Yudhish Virodhiya (MP) 15-5, 15-9; Saurabh Rawat (UTR) bt Divyansh Dewali (CHG) 15-11, 15-13; Ayaaz Malik (DLI) bt Tanveer Singh (PNB) 16-14, 15-12; Ansh Negi (UTR) bt Abhimanyu Dahiya (DLI) 15-8, 15-7; Aswin Mannambalath (KER) bt Nagachaitanya Reddy Kurra (AP) 10-15, 15-10, 15-10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subjunior-badminton-tournament-animesh-aditya-win-round-2-matches-101641241532875.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: Teachers to protest outside Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi’s house on Jan 6||Ludhiana Continuing the strike over the non-implementation of revised University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales in accordance with the Punjab government’s seventh pay commission, the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) on Monday wrote to chief minister (CM) Charanjit Channi vice chancellors of different universities, complaining about the universities deviating from UGC guidelines.The association also announced the decision to stage protests in state finance minister Manpreet Badal’s constituency on Tuesday and outside the CM’s residence in Morinda on Thursday.The teachers alleged that the state was being pressured by private universities to disturb the functioning of public-funded higher education institutes. Addressing a press conference at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), PFUCTO president HS Kingra said they have been repeatedly trying to convince the government that it was under constitutional obligation to comply with central legislation, as higher education is a subject on the concurrent list of the Constitution of India and the acts/rules/regulations/statutes of the UGC had to be followed, adding that the government has not to paid any attention to their issues.PFUCTO general secretary Dr Jagwant Singh, meanwhile, said they had written to the vice chancellors of all universities, requesting them to not violate their own statutes and UGC regulations by affiliating substandard government colleges, as they will not qualify under section 2 (f) of the UGC Act. He added that students admitted to these colleges will not be eligible to appear in university exams, further cautioning them to ensure that innocent students do not fall prey to such schemes.PFUCTO members said they have also written to CM Channi to ensure that no public money is spent on these colleges as these will not be recognised by the UGC unless the state government takes appropriate action on the UGC Regulation dated July 18, 2018 and February 20, 2010. Association members added that their agitation had more to do with compliance of UGC regulations than for the pay scales as they are unwilling to accept delinking from UGC.‘Pay scales not being revised due to internal tussle in Congress’PFUCTO members also alleged that the issue of pay scales was suffering because of internal conflicts within the Indian National Congress. They said that the former CM Captain Amarinder Singh did not implement the UGC scales because of alleged differences with the then higher-education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, adding that CM Channi is doing the same as the present minister Pargat Singh is also considered close to Navjot Singh Sidhu, with whom he is presumed to be locked in a battle for supremacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-teachers-to-protest-outside-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-channi-s-house-on-jan-6-101641241352941.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF World Juniors tennis tournament: Muni Ananth topples top seed Denim||Riding high on top form, Ananth Mani overpowered top seed Denim Yadav 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 in a three-set boys’ U-18 first round match during the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament being held at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Monday. Another unseeded player Monil Lotlikar upset sixth seed Ilya Mukhin of Russia 6-4, 6-1 in straight sets to advance further. Second seed Yuvan Nandal defeated Manas Dhamne in straight sets. Bushan Haobam defeated Vineeth Mutyala 7-6(6), 6-3. In the girls’ U-18 singles’ first round, top seed Suhitha Maruri beat Sukhmani Bhandari 6-3, 6-2 to sail through to the next round. Anya Murthy defeated H Narwal in straight sets. S Srimalla, Tejasvi Dabas and third seed Vaishnavi Adkar also advanced into the next round. Results (Main Draw)Boys: Muni Ananth Mani (IND) bt Denim Yadav (IND) [1] 4-6, 6-3, 6-1; T Boosarawongse (THA) bt Daksh Prasad (IND) 6-1, 6-3; Daksh Ashok Agarwal (IND) bt Arunava Majumder (IND) 6-1, 6-1; Monil Lotlikar (IND) bt Ilya Mukhin (RUS) [6] 6-4, 6-1; Rushil Khosla (IND) [4] bt Reiya Hattori (JPN) 6-4, 7-5; Krish Tyagi (IND) bt Aarav Samrat Had (NEP) 6-4, 6-2; Anish Kundu (IND) bt Anirudh Sangra (IND) 6-3, 7-6(3); Aayush P Bhat (USA) [5] bt Ronin Lotlikar (IND) 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Bushan Haobam (IND) bt Vineeth Mutyala (IND) 7-6(6), 6-3; Shingo Masuda (JPN) bt Sarthak Arora (IND) 6-3, 6-2; Poonthong Komopisut (THA) bt Udit Gogoi (IND) 6-0, 6-3; Yuvan Nandal (IND) [2] bt Manas Dhamne (IND) 6-4, 6-4.Girls: Suhitha Maruri (IND) [1] bt Sukhmani Bhandari (IND) 6-3, 6-2; Anya Murthy (USA) bt H Narwal (IND) 6-2, 6-0; Madhurima Sawant (IND) bt R Mahajan (IND) 4-6, 6-0, 6-1; Tamanna Takoria (IND) bt Suhani Gaur (IND) 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; S Sirimalla (IND) [4] bt Saloni Tamang (NEP) 6-3, 6-1; Chahana Budhbhatti (IND) bt Riya Kaushik (IND) 6-1, 6-1; Tejasvi Dabas (IND) bt Saina Deshpande (USA) 4-6, 6-1, 6-4; Sonal Patil (IND) [8] bt Diva Bhatia (IND) 7-5, 6-3; Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) bt Lakshmi Gowda (IND) 6-1, 6-2; Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [3] bt Nandini Dixit (IND) 7-5(6), 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-world-juniors-tennis-tournament-muni-ananth-topples-top-seed-denim-101641241292642.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali police arrest BTech graduate with 550-gm heroin||The Special Task Force (STF) of Mohali police on Monday arrested a drug peddler and recovered 550-gram heroin and ₹4,500 in drug money from his possession.The accused has been identified as Navjot Sigh alias Shera, a native of Pathankot. Police said he is a BTech graduate and was residing at a rented accommodation in Zirakpur. He was into the sale and purchase of used cars. They added that he procured the heroin from J&K. STF AIG Kashmir Singh Gill said they arrested Shera on the basis of a tip-off after setting up a checkpoint near Phase 4. He was produced in court which remanded him to one day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-arrest-btech-graduate-with-550-gm-heroin-101641241172747.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate members hold informal meeting||An informal meeting of senators was held at Panjab University (PU) on Monday ahead of the meeting of the varsity senate scheduled on January 8.The senators, who met under the chairmanship of senator Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India, claimed that 41 members attended the meeting. According to a senator who attended the meeting, 21 members conveyed their inability to attend, but assured their full support and cooperation to the group.Among the members who attended the meeting were a few elected members from the constituency of affiliated arts colleges, who are yet to be notified.The PU senate will meet on January 8 after two years, even though elected candidates from two constituencies – faculties and teachers of affiliated arts colleges - are yet to be notified. Most of those who are yet to be notified are from the Goyal group.The senators who met on Monday said that they passed a resolution urging the Punjab government to immediately implement the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission for university and college teachers. They also welcomed the holding of the senate meeting on January 8 and resolved that all of them will attend it.The development comes days after the PUTA and nine senators (separately) wrote to the vice-president of India, who is the chancellor of PU, urging him to notify candidates who are yet to be notified and direct the vice-chancellor to defer the forthcoming senate meeting as the senate is incomplete.PUTA, non-teaching staff continue stirThe non-teaching staff of Panjab University (PU) held a protest march at the varsity campus on Monday over the deferment of compassionate appointments.The non-teaching staff marched towards the residence of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and dean university instruction (DUI) VR Sinha. They also raised slogans against the varsity administration and sought early resolution of their demands. They said that they will continue to protest till their demands are not met.Members of Panjab University Non-Teaching Employees Federation (PUNTEF) have been protesting since last week at the campus over the deferment of compassionate appointments and non-implementation of 6th pay commission.Meanwhile, members of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) also continued their protest on the campus over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government. President of PUTA, Mritunjay Kumar. said that they are disappointed at the lackadaisical attitude of the government towards the demand of teachers..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-members-hold-informal-meeting-101641240940778.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU panel recommends 5% enhancement in budget for departments||Panjab University’s budget estimates committee has recommended an enhancement of 5% in the recurring budget provision for teaching departments.Several meetings of the panel, constituted to consider the revised estimates (RE) for 2021-2022 and the budget estimates (BE) for 2022-23, have been held in the past few months. The panel has recommended that within the 5% ceiling, enhancement may be given in specific recurring budget heads, as per the request of the department.After the pandemic broke out in 2020, the varsity had taken several measures to curtail spending. This included suspending the leave travel concession/ home town concession for employees, which had been restarted last year. However, during this financial year, a communication was issued to all the departments to send their new and additional demands for the RE of 2021-22 and BE of 2022-23.The recommendations of the committee will go to the varsity’s board of finance (BoF) before being taken up in syndicate and senate.The committee has also recommended that the demands for enhancement of budget provisions for the annual maintenance contracts (AMC) of equipment be allowed and a provision of ₹5 lakh in RE of 2021-22 and ₹6 lakh in BE of 2022-23 be incorporated for the sanction of financial assistance to teachers for filing patents under CIPP fund.The panel also discussed the agenda regarding setting up of solid waste management plant as proposed by divisional engineer (horticulture). It was recommended that DE (horticulture) will invite bids for setting up and operation/maintenance of the solid waste management plane on build, operate and transfer basis.It was also recommended that as per the past practice, an appropriate budget provision be made under the head “unforeseen capital/ development expenses” at the disposal of the vice-chancellor.Sub-committee constitutedThe budget estimates committee has also constituted a sub-committee to finalise new and additional demands and NAAC accreditation requirements. The NAAC team will visit PU this year for evaluation.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 of family killed, 3 missing as car falls into Bhakra canal on Patiala-Sangrur road||Two members of a family died, while three others went missing after their car fell into the Bhakra canal near the Passiana police station on the Patiala-Sangrur road on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Neelam Garg (50) and her daughter Samita Garg (26) of Rampura Phul in Bathinda district. Those missing are Jaswinder Kumar (52), Neelam’s husband, their daughter Isha Garg (22) and their son Peru Garg (15).The police said the family was travelling to Rampura Phul after paying obeisance at the Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula. The incident happened in the wee hours on Monday.Investigation officer Gurcharan Singh said after receiving information from the locals, a team of divers was rushed to the spot to carry out a search operation.“The rescue process was halted due to strong currents of water and intense cold wave. On resuming the rescue operation, the divers retrieved the bodies of mother-daughter duo stuck inside the car,” he said.He added that the other three members of the family went missing due to strong water currents.The police said the search operation is on as several teams of divers have been deployed to find the missing persons.On the statement of the family’s relatives, the police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-of-family-killed-3-missing-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-canal-on-patiala-sangrur-road-101641240696600.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||NGOs stage protest against Ludhiana municipal corporation’s inaction over illegal cutting of trees||Ludhiana: Members of various NGOs on Monday staged an on-site protest against the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) alleged inaction over illegal cutting down of eight full-grown trees around the MC sub zone near Middha Chowk. Slamming the civic body for not following up on the cases, the protesting NGO members submitted a complaint with the police at Kochar market police post.The members said it has been learned that decades-old trees were chopped by a few building owners, who reasoned that the trees were blocking the views from their buildings before alleging that the civic body has turned a blind eye to the violation even when one of the trees is just outside the MC sub zone office.Speaking on the issue, Council of Engineers president Kapil Arora said, “It is a heinous crime to damage the environment, punishable under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, but the MC is turning a blind eye towards the issue. FIRs are simply recommended against the unidentified accused and that too only for theft of trees/wood. One FIR was also recommended against an unidentified person for damaging trees in BRS Nagar recently, but no action has been taken.”“The MC has failed to practice what it preaches. These trees have been axed in the last few days, but MC claims that it came to know about the same on Sunday only,” he added.Naroa Punjab Manch member Jaskirat Singh and Sambhav foundation member Rahul Verma, meanwhile, also highlighted the need to protect the environment, especially given the rising pollution levels.“Every time residents submit a complaint, only a recommendation is made to lodge an FIR but it is never lodged, which encourages the culprits. The MC should set an example and those people behind these crimes should be punished. We have been demanding that political parties include a ‘green manifesto’ in their election campaigns, but it is a sad state of affairs at ground level,” Singh said.Responding to questions, MC junior engineer (horticulture wing) Kirpal Singh said an FIR was recommended against the unidentified culprits soon after the department received a complaint on Sunday. “It is not clear who axed the trees and mostly these people cut the trees during night hours or on a public holiday to avoid action. We also tried to look into the CCTV footage of private cameras installed in the area to no avail. The police will now lodge an FIR under the respective section of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngos-stage-protest-against-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-s-inaction-over-illegal-cutting-of-trees-101641240694383.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Four of family from Muktsar killed as car rams into tractor-trailer in Tarn Taran||Four members of a family from Muktsar district were killed on Monday morning as a car rammed into a tractor-trailer on the National Highway -54 near Naushehra Pannuan, 12 km from the district.Those who died on the spot were identified as Chanan Singh (65), his wife Davinder Kaur (61) and nephew Ajaypal Singh (25), while his daughter-in-law Gagandeep Kaur succumbed to the injuries in the hospital. Gagandeep’s husband Amolakdeep Singh is under treatment in a hospital.The police said the deceased belonged to Mal Katora village of Muktsar district. They were on their way to Amritsar to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Bir Sahib at Chabhal and then Golden Temple in Amritsar. Near Naushehra Pannuan, they were moving behind a tractor-trailer. The driver of the tractor-trailer suddenly applied brakes due to which the car rammed into the trolley.The collision was so strong that the car was totally damaged, said Sarhali SHO inspector Kulwant Singh. The driver fled from the spot. The SHO said the accused has been identified and the search is on to arrest him. The police registered a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-family-from-muktsar-killed-as-car-rams-into-tractor-trailer-in-tarn-taran-101641240692979.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mini Covid care centre in Sector 24 reopened||With daily infections in Chandigarh witnessing an uptick, the Competent Foundation, led by a social worker and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon, in collaboration with Bharat Vikas Parishad, reopened the Mini Covid Care Centre at Indra Holiday Home in Sector 24 on Monday.Golfer Jeev Milkha Singh inaugurated the centre. Tandon said that the facility has 47 beds and mild Covid patients will be treated here this year. This time, we have more facilities, oxygen cylinders, doctors and nurses, he added. During the second wave, many patients were provided treatment and isolation facilities at this centre, he added.The UT health department has already restarted the mini Covid care centres at Bal Bhawan and Sector 23 in view of the rising cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mini-covid-care-centre-in-sector-24-reopened-101641240572566.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||ATM robbery bid at Jagraon, case registered||Ludhiana Punjab and Sind Bank officials on Sunday evening filed a complaint with the police informed by a customer of a January 1 incident wherein unidentified individuals made a failed attempt to break open an ATM in Chaukimann, Jagraon.The sadar police of Jagraon lodged an FIR against the unidentified culprits and initiated investigation on being informed about the whole incident. The police said two motorcycle-borne miscreants have been captured entering the ATM kiosk in the CCTV.The police added that individuals entered the kiosk at around 7.35pm on January 1, spraying black paint on the cameras installed. They tried to break open the ATM machine, but fled after a few failed attempts.Assistant police inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, in-charge at police post Chaukimann, said a bank employee had locked the ATM kiosk one hour after the incident, but did not notice the damage.The employees informed the police on January 2 evening after a customer brought attention to the damage.The ASI added a case under sections 379 (theft), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 511 (attempt to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused following the complaint filed by the Punjab and Sind Bank, Chaukimann, manager Dalip Kumar. The police are looking into any possible involvement of bank employees in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/atm-robbery-bid-at-jagraon-case-registered-101641240512529.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Cattle thieves leave residents of villages distressed||In villages of Panchkula, cattle thieves are giving villagers sleepless nights. In December, nearly 10 such theft cases have been registered.A 32-year-old man from Saharanpur in Uttar Pardesh was arrested a week ago from Mulana, while he was transporting a buffalo and calf stolen from Manish, a resident of Kangsera village, Chandimandir. The accused has been identified as Salman. He has named two of his accomplices, who were also involved in the crime. “They are also from Saharanpur and involved in the cattle thefts in this area,” said inspector Sukhjant Singh, who had arrested Salman.Manjit Singh from Jaisingh Pura village, Ramgarh, is still awaiting news from the police regarding the buffalo and calf stolen from him on December 13. “They were stolen from the shed located next to my house. We had never witnessed thefts in this village. Hence, we never thought of locking our cattle,” Singh said.He added: “He had kept two buffaloes to fulfil the needs of our family, but only one is left. One buffalo costs at least ₹70,000. From where will I get the money?”Tarsem Singh from Nada Sahib village has a similar story. “I had kept my buffalo and a calf locked in a shed. As the area is located on highway and well-lit, we never thought of keeping a guard. But, someone broke the lock and stole my cattle worth ₹1.50 lakh,” he said.Singh said that cattle thefts have increased this time. “I know farmers in Kot, in Ramgarh and Mattawalan who have also lost their cattle to thieves.” Police official said that the cases were mainly being reported from villages in Chandimandir and Raipur Rani. Earlier, villages of Ambala were the targets, but the cattle thieves have now entered Panchkula villages. 
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana drug bust: Gym trainer, aide held with 1kg opium||Ludhiana The Special Branch of the Ludhiana rural police on Sunday arrested an individual and his aide for the possession of 1kg opium. The accused, identified as Kaivi Verma, 30, a gym trainer from Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk, Raikot and Bikramjit Uppal, 32, of Bassian were arrested near Lande Fatak, Disposal road following a tip-off. Verma paid his aide ₹5,000 as commission for every ride. Inspector Prem Singh, in-charge at special branch, said the police have stopped the accused’s Chevrolet car and upon checking, recovered 1kg of opium from a hidden compartment.“During questioning, the accused told police that they smuggle opium brought from Rajasthan, selling it to addicts,” Singh said.“Tara Chand, father of Kaivi Verma, was also involved in drug peddling. During questioning the latter revealed that he had already smuggled opium twice from Rajasthan,” the inspector added.A case under sections 18, 25, 61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered at City Jagraon police station. The accused was produced before the court on Monday and later sent on a three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-drug-bust-gym-trainer-aide-held-with-1kg-opium-101641240392620.html
04-01-2022||Noida||55-year-old man arrested for rape, murder of woman friend’s granddaughter||A 55-year-old man was arrested on Monday for the alleged rape and murder of his 50-year-old woman friend’s granddaughter in Noida Phase 2.Police said according to the man, the couple wanted to marry each other and the man felt the 3-year-old child was a hurdle in their relationship.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women’s safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the child lived with her grandmother in Yaqubpur village. “The child’s father is in judicial custody in connection with a murder case for the last two years while her mother lives in Badaun,” she said.On December 24, the child’s grandmother informed the police that the child had gone missing while playing outside her home. A police team reached the spot and launched a search but failed to trace the child. The police registered a case against unknown person(s) under Section 363 (abduction) of IPC at Phase 2 police station.On December 28, the child’s body was found in an abandoned under-construction building, around 100 metres from her house. “The child had injury marks on her private parts and forensic experts observed that she appeared to have been sexually assaulted and killed. We added Section 302 (murder), Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), Section 376-AB (punishment for rape of woman under twelve years of age), Section 377 (unnatural offence) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 5 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 to the FIR,” the DCP said.Shukla said that the police investigated the matter and found that the suspect frequently visited the child’s grandmother. “We found they wanted to marry each other. The grandmother told the suspect that she had to take care of the child. She promised him that once the child’s father was released from jail, she would hand over the child to him and then marry him.”Police said the suspect, who had a criminal background, frequently abused the child, believing she was a hurdle in his relationship with the child’s grandmother.On Monday, the police arrested the suspect from a Sector 88 park in Noida.Police said he admitted to his crime during interrogation. “That day, the suspect took the child to a secluded location, assaulted and killed her,” the DCP said.The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. “We have detained the child’s grandmother in connection with the case. She will be arrested if her role is established in the murder,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/55yearold-man-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-woman-friend-s-granddaughter-101641240332653.html
04-01-2022||Noida||Two suspects boast about killing eatery owner in Greater Noida, video goes viral||A confession video of two murder suspects, in which they could be seen admitting to killing a a 27-year-old eatery owner in Greater Noida early New Year’s Day over food, has gone viral on social media.Police arrested the suspects -- Akash, 30, and Yogendra, 30, (both go by first name, and residents of Greater Noida) -- on Saturday for killing the eatery owner, Kapil Rana, inside a shopping complex at 3:30am on Saturday (January 1, 2022) after he refused to serve the suspects food earlier that day.Rana, a native of Dhaulana in Hapur, had been running SR Food Service at Omaxe Arcade near Pari Chowk for the past six years.A case was registered against the two suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Beta 2 police station, and they were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday.Meanwhile, a video of the suspects has surfaced online, where Akash could be seen saying, “All the people who love us in the area and in the world... come to Luksar Jail to meet us. We have killed a man openly.” His accomplice could be seen standing behind him in the purported 10-second video.Akash had allegedly shared the video on a social networking site after committing the crime. Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of the Beta 2 police station, said, “It appears that the duo had shot the video at an isolated area after committing the crime. We have removed the video from the social media platform, and the details of the video will be added in the investigation and the chargesheet.”According to the eatery’s cook, Praveen Kumar, 35, who is an eyewitness in the case, the two suspects reached the eatery at 1:30am on Saturday and ordered paratha. When Rana told them that the eatery caters to only online orders, the two suspects created a ruckus there. Rana dialled 112 and a PCR van, which patrols the area, reached the spot. The suspects fled the spot after the police arrived there. At 3:30am, the two suspects again visited the eatery, this time armed with an illegal weapon.They opened three shots of bullets at Rana, and injured him in the chest and escaped, he had said.Police arrested both Akash and Yogendra from Greater Noida at 10am on Saturday, and also recovered the weapon used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-suspects-boast-about-killing-eatery-owner-in-greater-noida-video-goes-viral-101641240092426.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gym owner in Ludhiana told to refund consumer for deficiency in services||The district consumer disputes redressal commission has directed the owners of a local gym to pay ₹11,000 to a consumer for deficiency in services. Complainant Kanika Dhir had stated that she had joined Lifestyle Fitness India, a gym in Kitchlu Nagar, in 2018. She had paid ₹5,500 as subscription fee for four months from July 27, 2018 to November 27, 2018, through its authorised signatories Mohit, Servesh and Dheeraj.Thereafter, she started visiting the gym for exercise but found there was no lady trainer and some equipment was also not functioning properly.On August 16, 2018, she came to know that the respondents had closed the gym. Four days later, she received a message from Mohit, informing her that the gym will not open until further notice. Accusing the gym of deficiency of service and causing mental agony, Kanika sought a refund of subscription fee, along with litigation charges of ₹11,000 and compensation of ₹50,000.Since no one appeared on behalf of the gym owners, the respondents were proceeded against exparte.Meanwhile, the commission observed that after having received the subscription fee for four months on July 27, 2018, the gym was indefinitely closed within less than a month. “This amounts to deficiency of service on the part of the respondents. In the given circumstances, we are of the considered view that the gym owners should be made to refund the subscription fee of ₹5,500 along with composite compensation of Rs.5,500,” read the order of the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gym-owner-in-ludhiana-told-to-refund-consumer-for-deficiency-in-services-101641239852373.html
04-01-2022||Other||Gurugram may witness light rain on Wednesday: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert, predicting thunderstorms and light rain for Wednesday in the south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad. According to a weather bulletin issued on Monday evening by the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, an active western disturbance and its associated induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to affect Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from January 4, and under its influence rainfall activity is very likely to increase during January 4-6 with peak intensity on January 5. The MeT Chandigarh, through the weather bulletin, also issued an advisory asking people to drive carefully during rain, not to take shelter under trees during thunderstorm or lightning. On Monday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 20.6°C and minimum of 6°C, both of which were normal temperatures.According to IMD, over the next four days there will be a gradual rise in minimum temperature by 4-6°C over Punjab and Haryana and no significant change thereafter for the subsequent three to four days. The maximum temperature meanwhile, is likely to be appreciably below normal (6-8°C) between January 4 and 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-may-witness-light-rain-on-wednesday-imd-101641239792439.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||After winter break, high security in place at Ludhiana court complex||The Ludhiana court complex, which had witnessed a powerful explosion just two days before it closed for an eight-day winter break, opened on Monday amid tight security arrangements.The court complex sees a footfall of around 20,000 to 23,000 a day. At least 100 police personnel have been deployed at the spot, and anti-sabotage teams and dog squads have also been pressed into service.Police have now closed eight of the 12 entrances to the court complex and installed metal detectors at each entrance. All visitors, except advocates and judicial officers, are allowed to enter only from the entrance near the parking lot.Visitors also have to show their identity card and disclose the reason for visit, at the entrance. Even cops who have court appearances and buses ferrying jail inmates will be let in only after thorough checking. Across the campus, posters have also been installed, asking visitors to stay alert and not pick up any abandoned mobile phone, bag, box, tiffin or other object.Ludhiana bar association secretary Mandeep Sidhu said the security arrangement has been enhanced and the public may face difficulties for a few days but the step was necessary.On December 23, 2022, a bomb had exploded on the second floor of the court complex, killing the conspirator and injuring six persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-winter-break-high-security-in-place-at-ludhiana-court-complex-101641239672421.html
04-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: MCG officers to take up public grievances daily||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to reserve a one-hour slot on every working day for taking up grievances, following directions from the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB), said officials on Monday.On Sunday, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued an order stating that from henceforth all MCG officers will have to reserve one hour, 11am to 12 noon, for public dealings and grievances, and that one day in a month will also be reserved to deal with issues pertaining to officers and employees working in the MCG.The development comes after ULB minister Dr Kamal Gupta on December 31 took a meeting regarding the functioning of all 11 municipal corporations in Haryana.In his order, the MCG commissioner also stressed on conducting surprise inspections of employees and said that each branch in-charge should carry out an inspection twice a week and ensure action is taken against those found guilty. Senior officers of the wing should also supervise the work of two employees in a week, the order said.“In compliance with the directions of the ULB minister, at least one day would be fixed every month for resolving the issues related to the officers and employees working in the MCG. Officers and employees have been further directed to take special care of punctuality and be present in the office on time and solve the issues related to the public. For redressal of public grievances, officers have been directed to reserve time from 11am to 12 noon on every working day and maintain proper etiquette during the presence of elected representatives,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.Reserving a day each month for dealing with issues faced by MCG employees has been done for the first time. Prior to this direction, only the MCG commissioner used to reserve a one-hour slot for public dealing.Besides the commissioner, MCG officers include all additional municipal commissioners, deputy municipal commissioners, joint commissioners, chief engineers, superintending engineers, and executive engineers, among others.The order by Ahuja further stated that the work done by each officer will be documented and reviewed from time to time.The MCG commissioner also informed the officials that no file should be kept pending and the matter should be taken seriously otherwise action will be initiated against the employee concerned as per rules. The heads of all the MCG branches have been made responsible and accountable for the compliance of the aforementioned instructions and additional municipal commissioner Rohtash Bishnoi has been made the nodal officer for compilation and submission of compliance reports fortnightly, the order said.
04-01-2022||Other||BJP protest against Delhi excise policy hits traffic on Gurugram border||Commuters going towards Delhi from Gurugram were stuck in heavy congestion on MG Road on Monday morning after supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the national capital blocked roads at several places to protest against Delhi government’s new excise policy.From 9am, vehicles started to slow down near the border, creating a jam that stretched for a few kilometres.Gurugram police had to divert vehicles on the stretch towards DLF Phase 3 connecting Sirhaul toll plaza on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway and Faridabad to decongest the route.Police said 50 policemen were deployed to decongest the stretch and 50 more managed the diversion.Vehicular movement was smooth on other routes, said police.Gurugram police also said they received over 50 distress calls from commuters who were stuck in a jam near Marble Market in DLF Phase 1 towards Aya Nagar in Delhi between 9am and 10am.The deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Ravinder Singh Tomar, said that they received the information around 9.30am, following which they sent teams to the spot and initiated diversions. “The BJP workers were protesting at Aya Nagar and had blocked both sides of the road, due to which commuters from both sides were stuck. It took over an hour to decongest the stretch,” he said.Tomar said they had no prior information regarding the protest, or they would have planned diversions towards Delhi from Iffco Chowk. “Initially, we thought a vehicle had broken down but when we coordinated with the Delhi Police, we came to know that BJP workers were protesting and were not allowing vehicles to cross the stretch,” he said.Jyoti D Singh, a resident of Sector 65 and a daily commuter to Delhi, said that it took her 90 minutes to cross the stretch. “I asked several commuters but no one was aware of what led to the congestion. Most assumed that police had started checking vaccination certificates at the border,” she said.Another commuter to Delhi said that Gurugram police could have checked the congestion through automatic and real-time management of traffic signals. “Nothing works on time and traffic is poorly managed at the borders,” said Ranveer Singh, a resident of Golf Course Road.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||With 56 Covid cases, Ludhiana sees biggest spurt in daily count since June||The district recorded 56 fresh Covid cases on Monday, the highest daily count seen in six months. A 59-year-old man from Hambran Road also succumbed to the infection on the day. The district had last seen such a high on June 18 when 67 cases had surfaced. Thereon, the cases had started going down. Of the 56 fresh cases reported in the district, four are international travellers. Two of them have returned to the city from Dubai while the other two have come from Canada. Five healthcare workers and seven contacts of positive patients were among the others who tested positive.The district’s cumulative count of infections, since March 2020, now stands at 87,941, out of which 85,624 have recovered and 2,119 patients have succumbed. As of Monday, Ludhiana had 198 active cases, of which 191 are under home isolation.Health officials stated that no case of the Omicron variant has so far been detected in Ludhiana, though at least 100 samples have been sent for genome sequencing so far. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh appealed to the residents to continue taking precautions and get vaccinated against Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-56-covid-cases-ludhiana-sees-biggest-spurt-in-daily-count-since-june-101641239252379.html
04-01-2022||Other||Atiq’s son on the run: Now Prayagraj police to declare cash reward||PRAYAGRAJ: The registration of second FIR against mafia-turn politician Atiq Ahmad’s son Ali under attempt to murder and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has caused more trouble for him. Ali, who was handling the family’s political affairs in the absence of his father and elder brother, is now on the run with the possibility of a cash reward being announced on his head by the police. At present, Atiq is in Ahmedabad Jail and his elder son Umar is already absconding. “A report for announcing cash reward on arrest of Ali and other accused has been forwarded,” SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said. The second FIR against Ali and some of his aides was registered at Kareli police station on Friday night on the complaint of Atiq’s relative Zeeshan aka Janu. Zeeshan alleged that Ali and his aides demolished boundary wall of his property in a bid to grab it. He also claimed that Ali forced him to talk to his father at Ahmedabad Jail who threatened him to transfer the property in his wife’s name or else give cash ₹5 crores. Zeeshan further alleged that Ali and his aides also assaulted him and his brother and nephew, following which they received serious injuries. He fled the spot as Ali and others opened fire on him, Zeeshan added. Later, police arrested two persons from the spot while Ali and others managed to escape and still on the run. Police were carrying out raids in Chakia and other places to arrest Ali and his friends. Meanwhile, AIMIM leaders have come forward in support of Atiq and his family. Party leaders held a press conference on Monday and claimed that the FIR was part of a conspiracy to defame Atiq and implicate Ali in a fake case as he was carrying out rallies and was canvassing for the party across the state. The administration forced Atiq’s relative Zeeshan to lodge FIR against Ali.AIMIM spokesperson Afsar Mehmood and senior leader Arif Iqbal said that Atiq’s brother-in-law Imran Zai and his brother Zeeshan were involved in land grabbing and have 14 cases lodged against Zai and he was in jail for the last six months in a case of extortion. “Zeeshan is a history sheeter of Khuldabad police station. Atiq Ahmad has disassociated himself from Imran and his brothers when he came to know of their illegal activities,” he said. AIMIM leaders have demanded a fair inquiry into the case as in none of the viral videos, Ali or party worker Asaad could be seen. It is worth mentioning that some videos had gone viral in which cops can be seen catching two aides of Ali while Zeeshan was heard arguing with them. Earlier, Kareli police had also lodged an FIR against Ali for indirectly issuing threats to PDA officials and inflammatory speech while addressing a public meeting of AIMIM at Majidia Islamia Intermediate College on September 26. Atiq Ahmad and his kin have joined AIMIM and are expected to contest from at least three seats in the upcoming state assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atiqs-son-on-the-run-now-prayagraj-police-to-declare-cash-reward-101641238772275.html
04-01-2022||Other||Over 1,000 fined on weekend for mask violation in Gurugram||Around 1,050 people across the district were fined for not wearing a face mask in the past two days, police said on Monday, adding that they have deployed more than 2,000 personnel in areas from where most violations of Covid-19 protocols are being reported. A majority of the fines were reported from MG Road, Sadar Market, Sohna Road, Sushant Lok 1, Sector 31 and Sector 56 Huda market, said police.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday called for strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols across the state and said that penalties should be imposed on individuals and institutions who are found violating the protocols. The mask violation attracts a fine of ₹500. Police commissioner KK Rao directed all the 40 station house officers (SHOs) to penalise those found not adhering to Covid-19 protocols in public places. He asked the personnel to visit commercial complexes and market areas to ensure that people follow the protocols and that all non-essential establishments close their operations by 5pm. “We have asked the police station teams to meet the members of market associations, mall associations and resident welfare associations to ensure no one is moving around without wearing a face mask. The SHOs will hold meetings on alternate days on implementation of vaccination certificate rider. If anyone is found inside any market or mall without being fully vaccinated, then the market/mall association concerned will be penalised for ₹5,000,” he said. Only fully vaccinated people are allowed in public places such as malls and markets in Haryana from January 1.All the police stations will send a daily report to deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), the officials said. Rao said SHOs and traffic inspectors have been briefed on how to check the vaccination certificate and not to harass anyone unnecessarily. Police said that they are focusing on high footfall areas and are spreading awareness regarding social distancing and wearing face masks. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (sadar), said that they have been receiving complaints from many residential areas that people are not wearing face masks. “Some people are voluntarily spreading awareness at commercial towers and asking visitors not to move without a face mask. Several tiffs have been reported at local markets in Sector 50 and a commercial tower on Sohna Road over this issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-1-000-fined-on-weekend-for-mask-violation-in-gurugram-101641238712399.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Slow start to teen vaccinations in Ludhiana as only 198 turn up on Day 1||Kicked off at the national-level, the vaccination drive against Covid for the 15 to 18 age group got off to a slow start in Ludhiana on Monday, with only 198 children turning up on Day 1. Jagraon additional deputy commissioner, Dr Nayan Jassal, who is also the nodal officer for vaccination, along with civil surgeon Dr SP Singh and councillor Mamta Ashu inaugurated the drive at UCHC Jawaddi on Monday. As per the health department, there are around 2.25 lakh children in the 15-18 age group in Ludhiana. Despite several awareness sessions organised by the administration, the turnout on the first day, when 13 session sites were set up, was not satisfactory. An official requesting anonymity said, “There are some apprehensions in the minds of parents, due to which, very few children showed up to get jabbed on the first day. However, we are hoping that the response improves in the coming days.”Kanishka, one of the children who got vaccinated at the urban community health centre in Jawaddi on Monday, said, “I was looking forward to get vaccinated as soon as possible, especially in view of the rising Covid cases amid the Omicron threat.”Civil surgeon Dr Singh said, “Covaxin is safe and is being administered to children in other countries too. The department will hold more awareness drives to exhort children to get vaccinated.”From Tuesday, there will be 15 sites in the district for vaccinating children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slow-start-to-teen-vaccinations-in-ludhiana-as-only-198-turn-up-on-day-1-101641238592879.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Major spike in active Covid cases: UP crosses 2K-mark||LUCKNOW: With 572 new Covid-19 cases, the total number of active cases under treatment crossed 2,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The state has now 2,261 active Covid cases, the number close to five months ago (2,264 cases on July 4, 2021), according to the data from health department. Again, the major spike in new cases was witnessed in four UP’s districts, including Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) with 101 fresh cases (448 active cases), Ghaziabad 130 (401 active cases), Lucknow 86 (360 active cases) and Meerut 49 (207 active cases), as per the data. The positivity rate has increased to 0.4% in the state within a fortnight leading to the surge in the active cases. However, the hospitalisation rate was minimum, it added. “In the coming days, we will get fresh data about the Covid infection after the recent spike in the cases. In all, 2,079 patients are in home isolation and condition of them is being monitored regularly,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement on Monday. He said that in view of the increase in the fresh cases, the state health and family welfare department had started preparations in hospitals across the state. Besides, mock drills were conducted in the government and private hospitals in several districts, on Monday. “The working of the oxygen plants, ventilators and other equipment was evaluated. The human resource in the hospitals is also being reviewed. The training of health staff is being conducted and health officers have been sent to 75 districts to review the working in the hospitals,” Prasad said. To give more thrust to vaccination, the state government started vaccination of children between 15-18 years of age from Monday. “In UP, 87.16% people have received first dose and 50.26% the second dose so far while the cumulative vaccination number in the state was at 202,588,335. On Sunday, 1,47,851 samples were tested, taking the total sample tally to 9,34,34,911,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-spike-in-active-covid-cases-up-crosses-2kmark-101641238417887.html
04-01-2022||Other||Active Covid cases cross 1,800 in Gurugram, highest since May 30||With 460 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Gurugram on Monday, the tally of active cases reached 1,827 in the district, according to the bulletin from the district health department. This is the highest number of active cases in the district in the past seven months. On May 30, Gurugram had 1,727 active cases. As regards to the single-day spike, the district had last reported over 400 cases on May 22 (516). On Monday, the test positivity rate in the district was a little over 6%, the data showed. Gurugram on Monday also reported five new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the Omicron tally to 39, of which two are active cases, health officials said. Of the 1,827 active cases, 13 patients are hospitalised in the district and 1,814 are under home isolation. On Monday, 72 patients recovered in the district. “All five new Omicron patients were fully vaccinated and had travel history from countries such as the US and the UAE. The patients have already recovered but the reports came on Monday. Gurugram has only two active cases of Omicron variant and they are under isolation at a government facility in the district,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. Cases have been increasing in the district for the past one week. Meanwhile, the health department has also increased testing with over 6,000 samples tested on Monday. The district health department was testing 4,000 samples a day in the first two weeks of December. On Monday, 6,840 samples were sent for testing. The Gurugram’s chief medical officer did not respond to calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-cases-cross-1-800-in-gurugram-highest-since-may-30-101641238412690.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Now Covid grounds public programmes of BJP-JJP in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his cabinet ministers have cancelled their scheduled political rallies and public meetings amid spectre of the third wave of coronavirus looming large and after the state government declared public places out of bounds for people not fully vaccinated.From January 1, the state government has imposed ‘no entry in public places’ order on all those adults who are yet to take both the doses of Covid vaccination. It is this directive advising people that they should remain at their residence if not fully vaccinated which was coming in the way of planned public meetings of the CM and the ministers.Yet another cause of concern as per the government’s own admission is that a large number of beneficiaries are “due and overdue since long for second dose” of Covid vaccination.While 71% eligible people have received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine till Monday when the vaccination of 15.4 lakh teenagers in the 15-18 age group began, at least 98% people in state have received the first dose.In this backdrop, while Khattar has applied brakes on his January 8-9 Haryana Pragati rallies in Kaithal and Jind, agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister Jai Parkash Dalal has deferred all his political programmes and other animal husbandry department’s engagements in which large public participation was expected. Power minister Ranjit Singh has also put on hold his ‘bijli panchayats’ slated for this month till the situation becomes normal.Such is the scare the virus has started causing again that home and health minister Anil Vij, who is known for meeting people regularly at his Ambala residence and in Chandigarh office, has announced that he will not be able to meet people.Now, the minister has urged the public to send him their grievances via letters or email, promising that he will continue to resolve public problems.Setback to public outreachEver since the BJP retained power in October 2019 assembly elections with the support of the JJP, the public outreach initiatives of the government has suffered setbacks. First it was Covid and the lockdown in 2020 that halted the movement and public engagements of the ruling party politicians.Later, Haryana remained the epicentre of the farmers’ agitation. During their over a year-long stir that ended in early December 2021 against the Centre’s three farm laws, the cultivators didn’t let the ruling Haryana BJP-JJP ministers move freely in public and hold public functions.Immediately after the farmer unions called-off their agitation in wake of Centre repealing the farm laws in the first week of December, Khattar started touring the state, and holding rallies and functions to replug with the public.Khattar held rallies, toured NCR districts and held ‘janta darbar’ in his Karnal district. His aides say political functions of Khattar in the next two months were prepared already and now all of them stand deferred due to the virus.“CM has cancelled his Kaithal and Jind (Safidon) rallies. I have put on hold all my programmes of January in which large crowds were expected. We will have to be careful,” said Dalal.Endorsing the views of Dalal, power minister Ranjit Singh said he too has deferred four ‘bijli panchayats’ that he had planned to hold in January.“We will have to wait for the situation to become normal before we again start public functions,” he said as education minister Kanwar Pal and transport minister Mool Chand Sharma said they have also tweaked their planned public events.
04-01-2022||Other||SSU convocation: Sanskrit is god’s language, use your knowledge to promote it: Governor to students||Uttar Pradesh (UP) governor Anandiben Patel appealed to the student to use knowledge in promoting Sanskrit, which she said was “dev” language, meaning the language of the gods.Addressing 39th convocation of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University (SSU) on Monday, she said that Sanskrit is not only a language but basis of Indian culture.“The roots of Indian civilization are rooted in Sanskrit and it is an important source of carrying forward our tradition,” she said during her address.After presenting 63 medals to 37 meritorious students and degrees to 15520 students the governor said that knowledge of Sanskrit should not be kept “in a museum”. She appealed to the students to use the knowledge received from the SSU for promoting the language and to use it for the development of the nation.“Nation building and development of students depend on the teachers. If even a single student is successful, then the success of the ‘guru (teacher)’ is accomplished and the life of the ‘acharya’ (teacher) becomes successful,” she said.SSU vice chancellor Prof Hareram Tripathi said that the university that started as a Sanskrit college in 1791, is currently progressing towards its objectives. From March 22, 1958, the college gave way to Varanasi Sanskrit University and Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya started from 1973 onwards. “At present digitisation of library and examination system is being done so that students could get online examination applications and other facilities,” he said.SSU public relations officer Shashindra Mishra said that the governor honoured the chief guest of the program, Malini Awasthi with the honorary degree of D-Lit and distributed reading material, bags and nutritious food to the children coming from primary school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssu-convocation-sanskrit-is-god-s-language-use-your-knowledge-to-promote-it-governor-to-students-101641238112462.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bill on contractual staff: Register case against Channi for cheating employees: SAD to Guv||Chandigarh :The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday urged Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit for registration of a criminal case against chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for cheating more than 36,000 contractual employees by claiming that the governor was sitting on a file which recommended regularisation of their services when the file was actually in the CMO. In a statement, former minister and SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the CM was speaking blatantly lies and announced to lead a dharna to get the file recommending regularisation of all contractual employees cleared by the governor. “This is being done despite the fact that the Congress government is well aware that the code of conduct may be imposed within the next few days,” added Cheema. Cheema said the governor should take strong action against the CM for cheating contractual employees. “This is a clear case of violation of constitutional norms also as the clarifications sought by the governor reveal that the state government has not withdrawn the earlier Bill passed on the same issue as committed before the high court,” added the SAD spokesperson. He also lashed out at Channi for releasing false advertisements to the effect that contractual employees were being regularised. “Crores of rupees are being spent on these false advertisements and it should be recovered from the chief minister as well as the Congress party,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bill-on-contractual-staff-register-case-against-channi-for-cheating-employees-sad-to-guv-101641238052316.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi transfers ₹1000 each in bank accounts of 1.50 cr unorganised workers||Lucknow Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday transferred ₹1,000 maintenance allowance in the bank accounts of 1.50 crore migrant and unorganised workers. In the first phase, a total amount of ₹1500 crore has been transferred while the remaining workers will get their allowance after necessary formalities are done, as per a press release issued by the state government.Speaking at a programme organised to transfer the maintenance allowance through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in the bank accounts of 1.50 crore migrant labourers and construction workers, at Lok Bhawan here, Yogi said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government was working for the welfare of migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh. During the Covid pandemic, the state government gave allowances to these migrant workers employed in the organised and the unorganised sectors and it has given a new direction to the public welfare schemes, he said. The CM said, “3.81 crore migrant workers have been linked to this scheme. Out of which, the accounts of 1.50 crore workers have been checked and the money is being deposited in their accounts in the first phase. Within the next four months, the maintenance allowance will be transferred in the accounts of the remaining workers. The government has also decided to include sanitation workers in the scheme under the ‘Life and livelihood policy’ in view of the Covid pandemic.” UP chief minister said that before 2017, the workers were victims of exploitation. “They did not get the benefit of government schemes. During the rainy days, they had to go hungry as there was no cooking gas. If a labourer fell sick, the family was in crisis, there was no facility for treatment. The Modi government mantra of ‘sabka ka saath, sabka vikas’, has paved way for health insurance, housing, electricity, and toilets for each poor family,” he said. The BJP government is setting up Atal residential schools in all commissionerates of the state to provide state-of-the-art education to the children of labourers who are migrating from one district to another. “Along with the skill development of carpenters, cobblers, confectioners and masons, the state government is also providing them honorarium and loans. Uttar Pradesh was the first state, during the pandemic, that provided the social security of ₹2 lakh and medical insurance of ₹5 lakh to every worker in association with Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh.” he said. During the Covid-19 induced first lockdown, over 40 lakh workers were forced to return to their home in Uttar Pradesh as other states failed to make arrangements for their stay. The BJP government in UP immediately started working on the plan to provide livelihood to the migrants, they are now also working in the industries and many set up new businesses in UP, he said. Under the SP, BSP and Congress governments there was no system of education for the children of the workers. Neither mid-day meal nor clean drinking water was available. “When our government came to power, we provided separate toilets for boys and girls, along with sweaters, socks, shoes, and books to study,” chief minister said. “Under the SP government the money released for the poor was being used by the SP leaders. The middlemen embezzled the fund meant for the marriage grant to the girls coming from weaker sections of the society. The BJP government stopped the loot by launching ‘Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana’ scheme. The incentive for each married couple has also been increased from ₹20,000 to 51,000.”
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 8-fold rise in Covid cases in a week||Chandigarh : Punjab on Monday reported another spike of 419 covid cases, a nearly eight-fold jump in a week. Punjab had on December 28 reported 53 fresh cases. In past seven days, the state added 2,591 fresh cases with more than 800 being added in the past two days only. More worrying is the case positivity rate in the state which has shot up almost 10 times in the past one week. The positivity rate, which was 0.46% on December 28, rose to 4.47% on Monday. In Patiala district alone, the case positivity rate was 23.95%. Pathankot, the other district of concern, reported a positivity rate of 16.2% of Monday. State’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said according to the predictions made by the CMC, Ludhiana, by January 10, the state may report 1,000 cases a day. “We have sent few samples for genome sequencing as well to ascertain the presence of Omicron variant,” said Dr Bhaskar. State fails to increase testing Punjab has failed to increase testing despite a spike in cases. On Monday, the state authorities collected 9,470 samples, the lowest in past one week, and tested 9,384 of them. The low testing has been attributed to strike of the health staff. 46 medical college staffers among 143 test positive in Patiala Patiala: Forty-six members of health staff, including resident doctors, faculty members and paramedical staff, have been tested positive for coronavirus at Government Rajindra Hospital and College in Patiala on Monday.The number of Covid cases continues to increase in Patiala district after it recorded 143 cases on Monday. The active cases also rose to 421 in the district.Of total cases, 131 cases reported in Patiala city, three in Rajpura , one in Nabha and eight in rural areas of the district.Health authorities say 22 resident doctors, nine faculty members and 15 paramedical staffers have tested positive.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said the samples of 259 foreign travellers coming from high-risk nations were taken, of which only two has been found positive so far.Schools in Pathankot to remain shut up to class 4 till Jan 15 PATHANKOT: The district has witnessed 310 Covid cases in the past one week and over 60% of the cases have been reported in the past three days.On Monday, 58 persons tested positive for Covid, while the count was 78 on Sunday and 53 on Saturday. Keeping in view of the situation, deputy commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal ordered closure of schools for up to Class 4 and anganwadi centres in the district till January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-8-fold-rise-in-covid-cases-in-a-week-101641237873901.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana govt fails to get buyers to sell agro malls||Having failed to get buyers, the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) has now cancelled the auction of its two agro malls located in Karnal and Panipat.The HSAMB had invited bids to e-auction the agro malls on November 18, 2021 but in lack of buyers, the e-auction was rescheduled to December 23, 2021. But again in the lack of bidders, the auction could not be completed. Following this, both the properties have now been sent in the cancelled list.Officials associated with the auction said auctions were cancelled as there were no bidders to buy the properties and they will again put these properties for sale.On November 15 last year, three days before the first e-auction on November 18, 2021, farm leader Rakesh Tikait, along with a group of farmers, had visited Karnal’s agro mall and warned that farmers will not allow the government to sell agro malls to private people at any cost.Tikait had termed the Haryana government’s move as beginning of privatisation of agriculture mandis in country.He had also threatened that the private buyers will not be allowed to buy and claim possession of these malls and directed local farmers to get united against this decision and fight tooth and nail but not to allow any private trader to buy this agro malls and lock them inside if any official or buyer comes at the agro mall.On the other hand, the HSAMB had categorically made it clear that they have decided to sell these properties after considering all options and the buyers will be given possession.HSAMB chief administrator Vinay Yadav said, “The auction process for both the properties could not be completed in lack of required number of bidders and now these properties will be auctioned again.”On whether the department could consider any other option as the farm leaders are also against this step and even threatened the buyers, he said, “The decision (of auction) was taken after considering all options as these properties were lying useless for the past couple of years.”The HSAMB had invited applications from the interested parties for e-auction of agro malls located on prime locations on NH-44 in Karnal and Panipat.The Karnal agro mall has commercial built up of 2.02 lakh sq-ft and the Panipat one has commercial built up of 63,256 sq-ft and the earnest money deposit of ₹3.50 crore and ₹1 crore was fixed for Karnal and Panipat agro malls, respectively.The agro malls were launched at four places – Rohtak, Karnal, Panchkula, and Panipat – by the previous Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government in 2013-14 with ₹200 crore. But the government had failed to use the farmer-specific agro malls as a platform to sell agri products.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||With fresh Covid surge, HC goes virtual from Jan 5||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday announced that from January 5, hearings of cases would be conducted through video-conferencing only. The court opens after winter vacations on Wednesday.An official said the decision has been taken in view of advisories issued by different governments. A meeting also was held between high court administration, executive committee members of Bar Association on Monday following which the decision was taken. The official said that from January 5, all hearings would take place through video-conferencing only. The present filing system, listing and mentioning of cases will continue as such. However, December 23, decision on listing of cases of “ordinary category” from January, has been put in abeyance, the official added.The courts have been functioning with restrictions since March 2020. Limited hearings through physical mode was resumed on February 8, 2021. However, had to be suspended in April again, in view of the second wave. It again started the limited physical hearing on September 6 and in the following months, cases were taken up through physical as well as virtual mode before fresh decision of opting for virtual mode taken on Monday. The restrictions that Covid-19 pandemic induced have led to a massive increase in pendency of cases in the high court. According to the government data tracking agency, National Judicial Data Grid, pendency of cases in high court on December 31 was 4.48 lakh cases with 69,000-odd cases added to the list in 2021 alone. Meanwhile, the high court also wrote a letter to all district and sessions judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of fresh surge in Covid cases. They have been asked to take “appropriate measures” regarding hearing of cases through virtual, hybrid or physical mode in consultation with district Bar concerned and administrative judge in the high court. The decision be taken after assessing prevailing conditions of COivd-19 and restrictions put in place by the respective administrations, the communication added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-fresh-covid-surge-hc-goes-virtual-from-jan-5-101641237752605.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhiwani landslide: One more rescued, death toll rises to five||Two days after four persons were killed and two others were injured after the landslide at Dadam mining site in Haryana’s Bhiwani district, one more body was pulled out of the debris late on Sunday, taking the death count to five, officials said on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Dharambir Singh, of Rohtak.Tosham sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Manish Phogat said rescue teams have pulled out five bodies and rescued two persons, who received injuries.“We have not received any complaint of missing persons from anyone. The rescue teams continued their operation on Monday to pull out the machines from the rubble,” the SDM added.The incident took place on Saturday when landslide struck the mining site at Dadam in Bhiwani district in which five persons had died and two got injured.Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said rescue teams, including those from the National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force and the army, were pressed into service.Tosham MLA and senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhry alleged that the mining contract company has failed to utilise its share of funds on developing Dadam village.“Illegal mining has been happening with the support of big fishes. A judicial probe, monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge is required to nail the mining mafias and their bosses. The government should compensate the families of those killed and injured in the landslide,” she added.FIR registeredMeanwhile, Sadar Tosham police have registered an FIR against Govardhan Mines Company, which had the mining contract of the area, under Section 304-A of the IPC on a complaint filed by Bihar-based Mithun Sharma, whose brother Toofan was among the five persons who died due to landslide at the Dadam mining site.In his complaint, Mithun said his brother had been working at the mine since last one year.“On January 1, I received a call from my brother. He told me that the contractors have been mounting pressure on him to run the machine and he is fearing a landslide. We had requested the contractors many times to ensure safety but to no avail,” the complainant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhiwani-landslide-one-more-rescued-death-toll-rises-to-five-101641237574173.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will vaccinate 15 lakh teens within 10 days, says Vij||Kicking off the Covid vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group at a state-level event at Ambala Cantonment’s SD College on Monday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said his department will vaccinate the eligible population of 15.4 lakh in this age group within 10 days.“We have an ample number of vaccines available with us and have also been ensured by the Union government for more doses in the coming days. From January 10, we will begin booster doses for health staff, frontline workers and population above 60 years of age,” Vij said.The minister also addressed the gathering that was also attended by civil surgeons of various districts, virtually. He asked the officials to ensure that the age group gets vaccinated against the coronavirus infection at the earliest in a hassle-free environment.National Health Mission (NHM) director (MCH) Randeep Singh Punia, deputy commissioner Vikram, Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, and other state and district officials were also present at the programme.Vij said the state has already inoculated nearly 98% beneficiaries with the first dose and 71% with both doses of vaccine.“The government has made all efforts and the third wave of coronavirus is round the corner, but people should not panic and instead remain alert following the precautions,” he said.Later, in a statement, Vij said pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have been commissioned at 84 government and 54 private hospitals.“We have sufficient number of isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICUs, ventilators, oxygen concentrators and medicines which are used for treatment. Excluding one district, we have RT-PCR testing labs in all districts. A genome sequencing lab has also started its operations at Rohtak’s Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) from last three days, samples for which were being sent to New Delhi earlier,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-vaccinate-15-lakh-teens-within-10-days-says-vij-101641237332482.html
04-01-2022||Other||Agra metro rail track laying work to begin soon||Metro track laying work would begin soon inside Agra metro depot. Nearly 60 percent of depot construction work has been completed and process of procurement and laying of metro rail track in the metro depot is likely to commence soon. The rail tracks have been procured from a plant situated in Haryana’s Sonipat district, officials said.The metro project was inaugurated virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 7. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present on the occasion. Managing Director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) Kumar Keshav expressed satisfaction on the pace of metro construction work in Agra and praised the team for timely execution of the stipulated tasks. “The civil construction work of receiving sub-station that will be responsible for metro trains’ traction system has also commenced in the depot,” he said.According to a press statement issued by public relations office of UPMRC, 60 percent construction work of Agra metro depot has been completed.The civil construction work of integrated workshop, stabling yard (where trains are stabilised after revenue operation hours) and pit wheel lathe inside the metro depot is already being executed, according to the press note.Along with this, construction work of auto coach wash plant and underground tanks is also on the verge of completion, the UPMRC pressnote stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-metro-rail-track-laying-work-to-begin-soon-101641237272863.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Five-fold increase in Covid cases in Haryana||Haryana saw a five-fold increase in coronavirus infections last week (December 27 to January 2) indicating a consistent upward trend in the virus trajectory.Health department statistics showed that 2,284 infections were reported between December 27 and January 2 as compared to 436 the week before (December 20-26).Last the state saw more than 1,500 infections in a week was during June 14-20 last year when 1,557 infections were reported during the ebbing period of the devastating second wave. More than four lakh infections and 4,000 fatalities were reported in state during six weeks of the second wave in April-May last year.4 districts have high active case countThe state as on January 3 has 3,107 active cases with four districts – Gurugram (1,827), Faridabad (435), Ambala (174) and Panchkula (171) – accounting for 83% of the total active cases.Gurugram district alone accounted for 58% of the total active cases. Karnal (79), Sonepat (76), Yamunanagar (60), Rohtak (54) and Kurukshetra (53) are other districts having 50 or more active cases and showing rapid increase.The daily positivity rate which was 0.33% on December 27 was now 2.63% a week later (on January 3). As per random whole genome sequencing to detect the variant in infected persons, 71 patients have been detected with Omicron variant and 59 of them have recovered.‘Stepping up vaccination, enforcing curbs’Additional chief secretary (ACS), health Rajeev Arora said as of now, the number of people hospitalised is very low. “Most infected persons are in home-isolation. Also, people infected with Omicron variant of the virus are recovering quickly. Our emphasis is on enforcing the curbs imposed to contain the spread of the infection and further step-up vaccination including for teenagers in the 15-18 age group and start precautionary dose for the health workers from January 10,” the ACS said.Data showed that in the last eight days, 12.18 lakh adults were administered the second dose of coronavirus vaccine and about 6.55 lakh persons were inoculated with the first dose.“As of Monday, we have inoculated 98% of the adults with the first dose and 71% with both the doses. Last Monday, it was 95% coverage for the first dose and 65% for both the doses,” Arora said.More than 50,000 teens get the jab on first dayAbout 54,000 teenagers in the 15-18 age group were administered Covaxin in Haryana on the first day of the start of vaccination for the new beneficiaries.As per the Union ministry of health guidelines, Covaxin is the only vaccine with emergency use listing for the 15-18 age group and those born in 2007 or before are eligible for vaccination.Panipat (8,062 doses), Ambala (7,612), Hisar (7,012), Palwal (5,093), Gurugram (4,751) and Karnal (4,222) are the leading districts on Monday in terms of 15-18 vaccination, as per the health department statistics.
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress leaders question Sidhu’s pre-poll promises||Chandigarh : Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s “unilateral announcements” of freebies on Monday to lure women voters in the state polls has not gone down well with some senior party leaders. Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, while raising questions of over the timing Sidhu’s promises, said these would mislead the people as the election manifesto of the Congress was still being prepared and no one knew if these would be included in it or not. “In his personal capacity, a person can say anything, but when one is the president of a party, he needs to take everyone along,” the minister told a TV channel. Rana Gurjeet said that these announcements and their timing would not send the right single to people. “If he (PPCC chief) has done this after a discussion with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, it is okay otherwise it will be tough for the party. In case these things are not included in the party manifesto, what face he would have,” said the minister, who earlier accused the state unit chief of trying to create divisions within the party.Punjab doesn’t need economic model fuelled by liquor sale: JakharPunjab Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar also said that increasing collections from excise seems to be the basis for the promises being doled out by all the parties. “Even if it were not as absurd as it sounds, any economic model which is to be primarily fuelled by sale of liquor is not what Punjab deserves. If ‘chita’ has been the bane, liquor is no elixir to be propagated! Please don’t lead the youth astray,” he said on being asked about the competition over populist promises. He said hard work, blood, toil, tears and sweat had always been the Punjabi way to progress and prosperity. AAP takes dig at Sidhu over ‘shifting stance’ Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Raghav Chadha also took a dig at Sidhu for his shifting stance on welfare schemes. “Punjab de vich kahawat hai…Cycle da vi stand hunda hai lekin Sidhu da nahi,” Chadha tweeted with a video in which the Congress leader can seen mocking the AAP’s promise to transfer ₹1,000 per month to the account of every woman in Punjab aged 18 or above. Sidhu had questioned the poll promise, stating that Punjabis were not beggars and did not need such alms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leaders-question-sidhu-s-pre-poll-promises-101641237212227.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Week after joining BJP, Ladi back in Congress||AMRITSAR: A week after joining the BJP in Delhi, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Ladi returned to the Congress fold on Monday.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi welcomed him back into the party at his official residence in Chandigarh in the presence of state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal.Speaking over phone, Ladi said: “Sri Hargobindpur is a rural constituency where mainly farmers and labourers live. They have not accepted the saffron party yet. They have spent days and nights on the roads even in harsh weather for over a year in protest against three farm laws.” “I tried to convince them that we would be able to bring major projects to the area from the Centre, but they were not ready to accept the BJP,” he said, adding that “considering their feelings, I decided to come back to the Congress”.On December 28, Ladi and Qadian Congress MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa joined the saffron party in the presence of Union Jal Shakti minister and the party’s Punjab affairs in-charge, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in New Delhi ahead of the Punjab assembly elections.According to sources, the two leaders had joined the BJP since they were unlikely to be given the Congress ticket in the elections. The sources said Ladi had returned after getting assurance of the ticket from the constituency that is reserved for Scheduled Castes.Ladi is a confidant of Fateh Jung and conquered the traditional Panthic seat of Sri Hargobindpur in 2017 by defeating Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s Manjit Singh Manna Mianwind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-week-after-joining-bjp-ladi-back-in-congress-101641236852255.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||2500 vacancies of instructors in ITIs notified||Uttar Pradesh minister for skill development and vocational education Kapil Dev Agarwal on Monday stated that the 2500 vacancies of instructors in industrial training institutes (ITIs) had been notified. “These vacancies were due for a long period. Now, they have been notified and soon appointments will be made on all 2500 vacancies,” Agarwal told media persons on Monday. On the occasion, he also said 75 vacancies of district project managers and 822 of block project managers in the skill development department will be notified soon. The minister further said these appointments will be through outsource mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2500-vacancies-of-instructors-in-itis-notified-101641236792207.html
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ready to give up home ministry if Sidhu wants it, says Randhawa||Chandigarh :The fault lines in the ruling Congress were exposed once again on Monday when deputy chief minister Sukhinder Singh Randhawa said that Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was upset with him ever since he had become the home minister. The deputy chief minister said he shared old ties with Sidhu’s family but the latter was upset from the time he became the home minister. “If he wants the home ministry and the high command tells me, I am ready to resign and leave the home department at his feet in a minute,” the deputy chief minister told reporters on being asked why the state Congress chief was upset with him. Randhawa, a minister in the previous Capt Amarinder Singh government, was elevated to the rank of deputy chief minister with the charge of home department in the Charanjit Singh Channi cabinet that was sworn in three months ago. Sidhu has been attacking the state government for not being able to arrest former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case. Majithia not in Punjab, claims dy CM Randhawa, who was addressing a press conference here along with Congress national spokesperson Alka Lamba, also refuted the AAP’s allegations that the Channi government was not arresting Majithia. “He (Majithia) is not in the state. He has not visited the Golden Temple recently. The pictures showing him offering prayers at Golden Temple are old,” he said, declaring that he would be arrested and put in jail as soon as he was seen in the state. The deputy CM also hit out at the AAP by raking up the apology tendered by the opposition party’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to Majithia in a defamation case for levelling allegations of involvement in drugs trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ready-to-give-up-home-ministry-if-sidhu-wants-it-says-randhawa-101641236612275.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Anganwadi workers to get hiked honorarium: CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced additional honorarium for Anganwadi workers, mini Anganwadi worker and assistants. While Anganwadi workers and mini Anganwadi workers will get an additional honorarium of ₹500 per month from April 2020 and March 2022, it will be ₹250 per month for the assistants for the same period. During a felicitation ceremony in Lucknow, the CM also honoured the Anganwadi workers who worked hard during the pandemic. “The Anganwadi workers have worked hard during pandemic and it is due to the contribution of Anganwadi workers, ASHAs, ANMs that maternal and neonatal death rate came down,” Yogi said on the occasion.“Before 2017, the quality of nutritional supplement was not good and it was not even distributed. UP is first state that has given responsibility to women self-help groups and connected them with Anganwadi centres,” the CM said.Yogi also inaugurated 169 Anganwadi centres and laid foundation of 585 new Anganwadi centres on the occasion. Uttar Pradesh has 3,06,829 Anganwadi workers, mini Anganwadi workers and assistants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anganwadi-workers-to-get-hiked-honorarium-cm-yogi-101641236492508.html
04-01-2022||Other||Ram Van Gaman Project: Gadkari to lay foundation stone of Ganga bridge Jan 5||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari would visit Shringverpur dham in the district on January 5 to lay the foundation stone of ₹1785 crore six lane bridge over the Ganga. The bridge would be part of the 132 kilometre long, ₹3300 crore Ram Van Gaman Path project, officials said. “We want to make the event to be presided over by Gadkari ji and attended by deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to be a memorable one as it is the first event of 2022 and also because it is an important link of the ambitious Ram Van Gaman project,” said BJP city unit president, Ganesh Kesarvani. He said the union minister would also visit Kaushambi. The development and construction of national highway No 731A from Mohanganj to Jethwara-Shringverpur-Muratganj-Mahewaghat-Rajapur to Chitrakoot has been divided into phases, officials said. The total cost of this 132 kilometre long Ram Van Gaman project is estimated to be ₹3300 crore, officials said. In the first phase, the length of route from Mohanganj to Autarpur is 35 kilometres, in the second phase the length of Autarpur to Muratganj is 29.682 kilometres. In this a six lane 1200 metres long bridge is also proposed on Ganga at Shringverpur dham. The third phase from Muratganj to Mahewaghat is of 48.068 kilometres and is proposed to be widened to four lanes, officials said. The route also includes Manjhanpur bypass and Rajapur bypass. The fourth phase is 19.25 kilometres, from Rajapur to Raipura. The estimated cost from Mohanlalganj to Raipura will be around ₹3300 crores, officials said. The construction work of this road will be completed in a phased manner in the coming three years, they added. After completion, the project would also help connect Kaushambi to Andawa better as the 46 kilometre route would be made four-lane. The estimated cost for this is around ₹800 crores. 44 PLACES LINKED TO RAM VAN GAMAN PROJECT TO BE DEVELOPED From Ayodhya to Markandeya Ashram Chitrakoot, 44 such places have been identified where Lord Ram stayed during his exile along with Sita and brother Laxman, officials said. The ambitious project would connect various places in Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Pratapgrah, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot and Satna where Lord Ram is believed to have stayed during exile. These places include Mani Parvat, Tamsa Beach, Purva Chakia, Shri Ram Mandir Tahheed, Suryakund Rampur Bhawan, Vedashruti River in Ayodhya. Similarly, at Sultanpur, the Gomti river banks would be connected and at Pratapgarh places like Badrathi, Devghat and Barukani river would be connected, officials said. At Prayagraj, Shringverpur, Ramashaiya Singaror, Sitakund Singaror, Shiv Mandir Kurai, Ramjoita Charva, Sangam, Bhardwaj Ashram, Akshaywat, Yamuna ghat Jalalpur, Sita Rasoi Jasra Bazar, Shiv Mandir Rishiyan, Sita Rasoi Janwa would be visited by devotees. At Chitrakoot, Sita Pahari Rishiyan, Hanuman Mandir Murka, Dashrath Kund Lori, Kumardvay Ramnagar, Balmiki Ashram Lalapur, Chitrakoot Darshan Khohgaon, Kamadgiri, Ramshaiya, Koti Tirtha, Devangana, Ramghat, Mandav Ashram, Bharatkup, Tathighat, Amravati, Biradhpur, Pushkarni, Markandeya Ashram would be connected, officials said. At Satna places like Sphatik shila, Guptgodavari and Atri Rishi Ashram would be connected with the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-van-gaman-project-gadkari-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ganga-bridge-jan-5-101641236372176.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Teen spirit: 176,552 jabbed across Maharashtra||Mumbai: Relief and cheer writ large on the faces of teenagers who filed in to receive their first Covid dose, as the state rolled out the national vaccination drive for youngsters between 15 to 18 years on Monday.Maharashtra administered 176,552 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin – the only vaccine option for the 15 to 18 age group according to guidelines issued by the Union health ministry -- while 7,158 doses were administered in Mumbai. While Mumbai has a target of 900,000 children in the 15-18 years category, the state has a target of 6.06 million children.Tanuja Makadwala and Rajan Bari, both class 10 students of Shastri Nagar Mumbai Public Secondary School (Santacruz West) were the first teenagers to get their doses in the city. They received their jabs at 11.15 am at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo Covid-19 centre as Maharashtra Tourism and Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who launched the drive virtually, looked on. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also participated in the virtual inauguration.Makadwala and Bari were later felicitated with a certificate. “I would request everyone to take the dose as early as possible so that we can return to normal lives,” Makadwala said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) set up vaccination booths in nine jumbo centres run by the civic body including at NSCI Worli, Kanjurmarg, NESCO, Richardson and Crudas (Byculla) and Mulund, among others. Apart from this, a handful of private hospitals also participated in the drive. Only the children of railway staff will be administered the vaccine at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital at Byculla.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and incharge of public health in the BMC said that the civic body has set a target to inoculate 4,500 students each day this week. All students will be vaccinated free of cost in Mumbai.“In each centre we will be inoculating at least 500 teenagers daily. Each centre is equipped to administer 10,000 vaccines a day and if the need arises the limit can be easily expanded. We are eyeing a one-two months deadline for inoculating all the teenagers with at least one dose of the vaccine,” said Kakani.Dr Mangala Gomare, Mumbai’s executive health officer said Mumbai has nearly 40 exclusive Covaxin centres which will be opened up for 15–18-year-olds. “All vaccination centres have created separate booths for the 15-18 age group so that there is no mixing of the crowd,” she said.The civic body is hopeful that there will not be much hesitancy because of the increasing Covid-19 cases, she added.Teenagers started to queue up outside the vaccination centres from the early hours on Monday with their parents. Civic-run schools also brought many students to the vaccination centres in large groups.Nerrissa Mathews (16) from St. Joseph’s School Bandra said that taking the vaccine will make her parents feel more at ease.“All the members in my family are fully vaccinated. As I have not taken my dose, my parents feel apprehensive to allow me to go out often. Now that I have taken the dose, this will make them feel a little bit relieved,” she said.The Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions on December 24.Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has advised states and Union Territories to provide separate vaccination centres, session sites, queue and different vaccination teams for this age group to avoid the mixing-up of vaccines.Schools mapped with centresEach jumbo centre in the city has been mapped with at least two municipal wards and residents will be directed to their nearest centre. The civic body has tied up jumbo centres with the municipal schools in nearby wards.The BKC Centre, which is in H/East ward, is mapped with Bandra East (same ward as BKC), Andheri East (K/East), and Bandra, Khar, Santacruz (H/West) wards. Similarly, NESCO Centre in Goregaon (P/South) has been mapped with Malad (P/North) and Kandivli (R/ South) wards.The BMC has set a target of inoculating 500 students from all the municipal schools every day. The schools have been given a target to get minimum 50 students vaccinated each day. These students are escorted to the nearest jumbo centre by their teachers and online registration is not necessary for them.“On Friday we were given the target and after that we have readied the list of our students. We have started with 50 students on Monday and as the drive goes on more students will be brought here in batches,” said Koli Nilappa, an assistant teacher at the BMC Hindi Secondary School in Kalina.“The education and health department are working together in this. We have sent all the data of the students to the health department which is then sent to the nearest jumbo centres in advance so that when the students go, they have their credentials already registered,” said a senior official of the BMC education department.Arrangements madeAll municipal schools had held parent-teacher meetings to counsel the parents about the vaccination and give consent letters. “The civic schools have received a very good response with a majority of the parents consenting for vaccination,” said Gomare, the city’s executive health officer.“We are now working on a strategy to reach out to private schools and colleges. Our community health workers and outreach teams are also enlisting out-of-school children in their respective areas,” she added.The window for online slot booking was opened on January 1 and the BMC had kept both the online and walk-in facilities available for the teenagers to expedite the process.However, the teenagers and their parents stated that most of them had been facing technical issues during the online registration process. Many of them said that as the beneficiaries were less than 18 years old, there was no direct link available for them to get themselves registered in the Aarogya Setu app and Cowin platform.Many centres received a popup stating the website was “not available in the country”. Centres then began registrations on mobile applications. The glitch was corrected by 11.30 am.A dedicated helpdesk was set up to help teenagers register on the CoWin platform in many centres.“We had anticipated that on the first day more beneficiaries will opt for offline registration, because of which we had deployed dedicated staffers to help students register. After they received the OTP, they were taken into the centre for inoculation,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the jumbo facility at BKC.“The drive received a very good response, and we did not record any adverse event due to immunisation,” he said.Tushar Shetty (15) a science student from SIS Commerce and Science society high school said that now that he has taken the dose, he will be allowed to travel on train.“Earlier I used to take train for going to school but now I can’t get the ticket as I am not vaccinated and travelling in autorickshaw costs me a lot of money and often I have to share the ride with my friends. Now that I have taken the first dose now and will become fully vaccinated soon, I can again go by train,” said Shetty.Dev Trivedi, a 15-year-old said that in his school the students have been strictly instructed to take the vaccines or else they will not be allowed to sit in the exams.“Many schools that we know have taken this vaccine thing very seriously, we were told that they are gearing up to start offline classes soon and before that each one of us needs to be fully vaccinated,” he said.Hopeful for the future“Many students I know couldn’t go abroad for higher studies after 10th as they were not vaccinated. Besides safeguarding them from the virus, these vaccines will also open the doors of their careers again,” said Mohanlal Sharma, who had accompanied his daughter at the NESCO facility.“The cases have started to rise again and it’s difficult to keep children indoors all the time, which is also not good for their mental health also. Vaccinating them was necessary as they can now gradually get back to normal lifestyle,” said Tara Ahuja who came with her 15-year-old son and 17-year-old daughter at the NESCO facility.Many children who participated in the drive also came equipped with the knowledge of the importance of the vaccination and possible side effects.“I read many research papers and articles about the efficacy and safety of Covaxin,” said Kabir Kumar Parmani (16), a class 10 student Arya Vidya Mandir in Bandra. “I was determined to take the vaccine and I have told my younger brother to take the vaccine as soon as he is eligible. It’s the best weapon we have to fight the virus,” said Parmani, who aspires to pursue a career in oncology.For Mansi Patel (15) and her brother Varas (19), the increasing Covid-19 cases and the lack of access to unvaccinated people were two motivating factors to take the jab. “We are facing problems to enter malls. Going to school and college will also be difficult without being safeguarded by the vaccine. Not just our parents, we ourselves were very keen to take the shot,” said Patel adding that they stay in a large family with seniors and much younger children. “Being unvaccinated was very risky for us,” she said.Private hospitals too ordered more stocks of Covaxin anticipating the rise in demand. For instance, Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central had 500 doses of Covaxin and they have placed orders for more. “We administered 89 vaccines to children in the 15-18 category on Monday,” said Dr Parag Rindani, chief executive officer of the hospital. We are looking forward to vaccinating more and more children in the coming days,” he said.Drive in Navi Mumbai and ThaneThe Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) have vaccinated 9070 students in the age group of 15- to 18-year-old at its 206 centres set up for the purpose, on the first day of the children vaccination drive. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) vaccinated over 3,000 children while the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) vaccinated 2,563 students on the first day.Around 500,000 students will be getting jabbed across Thane district in this vaccination drive.“We have set up vaccination centres for 15- to 18-year-olds at 206 schools across the city. The students will have to be accompanied by their parents for the vaccination. They will also have to get their mobile phones along to register online for the jab. The schools will be responsible for giving the slots to their students to ensure every one of them get the jab,” an officer from NMMC said.TMC has initiated the vaccination of 15- to 18-year-olds with their first dose at 16 centres in the city. “We have a target of vaccination 1000 students at the parking plaza centres daily, apart from this, 500 to 600 beneficiaries will be vaccinated in the 15 other centres. On day one more than 3000 students were vaccinated across the 16 centres,” Dr Prasad Patil, immunization officer, TMC, said.Kalyani Chavan, 15, a class 10 student was excited to get her first dose before the final examinations. She said, “Our School, Brahman Vidyalaya in Vartak Nagar, Thane had set up a vaccination drive for us. We have to give offline exams which pose a risk especially when the cases are increasing. As this is a crucial year for me, I decided to take the dose on the first day itself so I can complete the two doses before my board examinations.”QUOTE RAIL:Mahi Deliwala (16), Kandivali residentClass 11, NM College“The vaccine is for our safety and the safety of people around us. I believe that everyone should take it to fight the virus. I had made up my mind to take the vaccine as soon as it would start for my age group. I had also discussed this with my close friends and they will also be taking it.”Vineet Yadav (15), Goregaon residentClass 9, Pahadi Municipal School“My parents were scared of the side effects but they agreed to give the consent to the school as all other parents had done it. I was not worried about the vaccine, as so many people have already taken it and all my friends were taking it too. We all gathered at the school and came in a bus to the vaccination centres. Our school teachers have counselled us about the basic side effects.”Jayita Sadani (16), Chembur residentClass 11, Swami Vivekanand College“I didn’t give much of thought. My parents were convinced that I should take the vaccine because I am the youngest in the family and the only person who was unvaccinated till now. Our college had also made an announcement asking us to take the vaccine. I registered online on January 1 so that I could get the injection on the first day itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teen-spirit-176-552-jabbed-across-maharashtra-101641236314125.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Accidental Hindus’ know nothing about Hindutva: Yogi slams Congress||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday laid the foundation stone of a government medical college in Amethi, inaugurated a 500-bed referral hospital and launched a scathing attack on the Congress accusing former Amethi MP Rahul Gandhi of projecting Amethi in poor light. He also accused the Congress as well as Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders of remembering Hindus and temples only during elections. In a veiled attack on the Congress leadership, Yogi said those who called themselves ‘accidental Hindus’, cannot call themselves Hindus. “Unhe chunaav me hi mandir aur Amethi ki yaad aati hai (They (Cong) remember temples and Amethi only during elections,” he said while addressing a public meeting in Jagdishpur after laying the foundation stone of the medical college. “When the people of this district gave them a chance to serve, they did nothing and now as elections have come, the ‘bhai-behen’ are coming here again,” he said referring to Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi who had recently visited Amethi. “During the Covid-19 period, when we were working to save lives of the common man these brother and sister gave fake numbers of roadways, fake numbers of scooters in the name of buses. They were playing with the lives of people while we took action against them because they were creating disturbances in the work of the government,” he said. “Divisive politics is always part of those whose ancestors used to say that they were accidental Hindus,” the CM said. The government medical college in Amethi would come up at a cost of ₹293 crore while 500 bed district-level referral hospital that was inaugurated on Monday has come at a cost of ₹86.42 crore. Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani, who was also present on the occasion, said the medical facilities would transform the district into a medical hub. During his recent Amethi visit, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had tried to distinguish between “Hindu” and “Hindutva”, describing himself a “Hindu” and the BJP leaders as followers of “Hindutva”. Taking a dig at Rahul over his remark, the CM said, “One who doesn’t know how to sit in a temple knows nothing about Hinduism or Hindutva. During the elections in Gujarat, the former Amethi MP went to a temple and sat there. The priests had to interrupt and teach him how to sit in a temple,” Yogi claimed. “Even when I was not the CM, I used to say this that we are a proud Hindu and today also I am saying this. I will always say this. But such was their (Congress) lust for power that they resorted to appeasement politics. They even used to instigate riots in the name of communalism,” Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/accidental-hindus-know-nothing-about-hindutva-yogi-slams-congress-101641236312568.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Be wary of “electoral Hindus”: Dy CM Maurya||In an apparent attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP), deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Monday said those who fired bullets at “Kar Sevaks” and used sticks on “Kanwarias” had suddenly started remembering Lord Ram. He asked people to be wary of such “electoral Hindus”. On Samajwadi Party’s love for Brahmins, Maurya said, “Jo Ram ka na hua woh Parashuram ka kya hoga. (one who couldn’t be faithful to Ram, how would he be loyal to Parshuram?”On Sunday, SP president Akhilesh Yadav had unveiled an idol of Lord Parshuram (an avtaar of Lord Vishnu) and offered prayers during the Lucknow leg of his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra. Maurya made these remarks while addressing his party’s backward classes convention in Sikandarpur assembly segment of Ballia district. On the occasion, he laid the foundation stone of 42 roads and six bridges to be constructed at a cost of about ₹72 crore. He also inaugurated 48 roads constructed at a cost of ₹53.63 crore.The deputy CM said Akhilesh Yadav should prepare for 2027 polls and not for 2022. “There was a storm of BJP in 2014 and since 2019 it is having a tsunami in which SP, BSP and Congress will shed like leaves,” Maurya said. He also claimed that the BJP will repeat its performance in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/be-wary-of-electoral-hindus-dy-cm-maurya-101641236074531.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Police inspector writes to HM, asks to transfer Param Bir probe to CBI||Mumbai: Anup Dange, a police inspector posted at the south region control room, has sought to transfer the investigation to his complaint against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in a letter addressed to state home minister Dilip Walse Patil. Dange had submitted his complaint to the chief minister and the home department on February 2, 2021, following which the Anti-Corruption Bureau initiated an open inquiry into an aspect of the complaint which pertained to Dange’s allegation that Singh had reportedly sought money in return for not initiating action against Dange.“It has been over a year and I am still being persecuted and victimized by my own department vide departmental inquiry, the only charge against me being ‘I spoke against Param Bir Singh’,” Dange wrote in the letter. “Ten months have lapsed since I have submitted my complaint to the government and [the delay] clearly shows that the government is not interested in conducting any inquiry into multiple issues raised by me against Singh and others or the Government is being misled by the investigating agencies.” “[Param Bir] Singh may have faith in his batchmate-buddies at the CBI. However, I have faith in the Almighty. Justice shall be delivered to me and justice shall be served upon Param Bir. I would prefer to have the fate of my complaint decided by an intelligent enemy rather than a foolish friend. Therefore, it is humbly requested that the inquiry of my complaint against Singh and others be transferred to the CBI,” Dange wrote. According to Dange’s complaint, in November 2019 while he was posted at the Gamdevi police station, he and a team had visited a pub on Bhulabhai Desai Road during a night patrol. The officer asked the pub staff to close down the establishment, as under the prevailing rules, it was not permitted to operate beyond the deadline of 1.30pm. Policemen on patrolling duty also asked customers to leave, but one customer entered into a heated argument with the policemen and attacked police personnel with some of his friends. A case was registered against seven people. Dange claimed that Singh -- who was director general, ACB at the time --- prevented him from taking action against the bar owner, which Dange did not heed. Soon after Singh took charge as the Mumbai PC in February 2020, a departmental enquiry was initiated against Dange. Dange’s complaint further stated that in 2020, Singh asked Dange to pay ₹50 lakh to avoid action taken against him. “We have recorded Dange’s statement and are conducting an inquiry as per the legal procedure. If required to record the statement of Param Bir Singh for inquiry will follow the legal process,” a senior IPS officer from the ACB who did not wish to be named said.
04-01-2022||Mumbai||GitHub apps case: Bengaluru student held for inquiry||Mumbai: The Mumbai Police on Monday apprehended an engineering student from Bengaluru for questioning in connection with its probe into two apps where images of Muslim women were posted in an attempt to “auction” them, officials told HT.While the latest app came to light on January 1 after women who were targeted approached police, the previous app was floated in July last year. Confirming the development, a senior police official of the Mumbai police who did not wish to be quoted said, “The cyber team has nabbed a person from Bengaluru and he is being taken to Mumbai for inquiry. We have not arrested him yet. If during an inquiry, we will find his involvement then the legal action will be taken.”“The person taken into the custody for inquiry is a second-year civil engineering student. He was running one of the twitter handles which was used to upload the content from the app,” an officer from the Mumbai cybercrime cell said.The Mumbai cyber police had registered an FIR under sections 153A, 153 B, 295A, 354D, 509, 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 67 Information Technology Act against unknown persons. The case was based on statements of some women whose pictures were used on the app.Maharashtra minister of state (Home), Satej Patil tweeted on Monday evening: “@MumbaiPolice has got a breakthrough.Though we cannot disclose the details at this moment as it may hamper the ongoing investigation, I would like to assure all the victims that we are proactively chasing the culprits & they will face the law very soon.”“Were the platforms involved informed about these handles by Central Govt.? All these platforms are headquartered outside India. What provisions do we have for data transfer? Was the mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT) invoked in this case?” Patil, a Congressman, tweeted earlier on Monday. “The Central government had brought controversial regulations on digital media platforms last year, but if they are not used in such cases to prevent crime against women and children, then what is the use of them?”“This is condemnable, and action must be taken against those responsible,” said state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Keshav Upadhye, adding that the Centre has acted speedily against such apps. Former minister and senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said it was necessary to codify a law about defamatory content about women and even political leaders on social media. “Anyone, regardless of their religious identity, must get justice… no one should be discriminated against based on their religious identity,” he said.Meanwhile, the Delhi commission for women on Monday issued notice to Delhi police in connection with its investigation into the app. An FIR in the case was registered on Sunday based on a complaint filed by a journalist whose picture was used in the app. Police officers who were familiar with developments told HT on Monday that the case is likely to be transferred to the Intelligent Fusion and Strategic Operations Unit(IFSO), which deals with major cybercrimes.“We are yet to get the order regarding the transfer of cases,” one officer from the IFSO unit, who asked not to be named, said.The FIR at the south east district cyber station was registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.IFSO is also handling the investigation into the app floated in July.The police have sought information from GitHub, the platform used to make the app and Twitter, where links to the app were posted on several accounts which are now deactivated. “We are yet to get a reply from Git Hub in the first case. The case can only proceed once they share the IP address of the users,” the above-mentioned officer of the IFSO, who asked not to be named, said.The DCW, in its notice, asked IFSO’s DCP to appear before the commission on January 6. In the notice, the DCW sought details of the action taken in the current case and reiterated that police had not action in the first case. The Commission said that the police inaction had emboldened the culprits to engage in such illegal activities for the second time. The DCW has asked police to provide a status report on the investigation in the first case.Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ashwini Vaishnaw had on Sunday said that the government has also asked for a ban on the account of a user on GitHub.A GitHub spokesperson had on Sunday said that they have already suspended a user account following the investigation of reports of such activities as it violated the company’s policies.(With inputs from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/github-apps-case-bengaluru-student-held-for-inquiry-101641236013425.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||28 students, 2 staffers test Covid positive in Bhiwandi school||Bhiwandi: Twenty-eight students between the ages of 6 to 15 of an Ashram school in Bhiwandi’s Chimbipada tested positive to Covid 19 on Monday. 23 out of 28 students are boys and five are girls. Apart from them, two staff members of the school also tested positive.As per the district health department, the students of the school showed symptoms like cold and fever for the last few days, which led to their antigen test, carried out by the Chimbipada primary health. The centre carried out antigen tests of over 198 students. The students who tested positive were shifted to Thane civil hospital for treatment. “The students are admitted at the hospital for treatment,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane civil hospital. “Few students of the school were suffering from cold and fever followed by which they approached the primary health centre. The centre carried out the antigen test of the students and 30 were positive. The centre is now closely looking into the school and taking measures to help the students with treatment,” said Madhav Waghmare, health officer, Bhiwandi taluka. 
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 7.9K cases on Monday, difficult to predict quantum of surge in coming days says BMC||MUMBAI: In a continuation of the surge, Mumbai on Monday reported over 7,928 cases and a daily positivity rate of over 16%. The BMC however said that it is difficult to predict how far the surge will go on.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Hindustan Times that it is difficult to predict the quantum of surge in the coming days. Currently, BMC is managing the hospitalisations, he said.On Monday, the city reported over 7,928 cases taking the total tally to 806,359 and two deaths taking the death toll to 16,379. The city’s recovery rate is 93% with 750,136 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.03%. The number of active cases in the city is 37,274.Further, 90% of the cases detected on Monday are asymptomatic, 574 have been admitted to hospital, 71 have required oxygen beds, and the bed occupancy rate is 12%.Dharavi, the city’s former Covid-19 hotspot, reported 41 cases taking the total to 7,398. Further, 40 new Omicron variant cases were reported in the city on Monday, according to state health department data.As the number of cases has increased in the city, the number of citizens under home quarantine has also increased drastically, however bed occupancy has remained the same. From over 30,000 citizens under home quarantine more than 10 days ago, there are now more than 184,000 citizens under home quarantine.Meanwhile, private hospitals in the city said that they are witnessing an increase in the hospitalisation rate as the number of cases rises. Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant - pulmonology and critical care, Global Hospitals, said that the number of cases getting admitted is definitely increasing day by day and following the pattern that we experienced in the previous second wave of Covid-19. The only difference is that the patients are not as seriously ill as the previous ones were.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-7-9k-cases-on-monday-difficult-to-predict-quantum-of-surge-in-coming-days-says-bmc-101641235772213.html
04-01-2022||Noida||Nearly 13,000 teenagers get coronavirus jab across Noida, Ghaziabad on Day 1||Noida/Ghaziabad: As vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15-18 age group started on Monday, nearly 3,068 beneficiaries were administered the first dose in Noida and 9,878 were administered the first dose in Ghaziabad without any adverse effect reported so far.“On Monday, there were no known Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) instances reported during the vaccination. For those children whose schools are shut, we have sent Covaxin to our community health centres and primary health centres. So, children can also walk in and get their doses,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.In Noida, 27 government centres, including schools, and 15 private centres were set up for the vaccination of children in this category. According to population estimates, about 115,000 in this age group are to be vaccinated in Gautam Budh Nagar.Though both online and offline slots were available to book appointments for vaccination in Gautam Budh Nagar, a bigger crowd was witnessed at private centres than schools and other government centres in Noida.Authorities said it could be because of a lack of awareness among locals, especially in the lower socio-economic groups or general vaccine hesitancy.“The vaccination drive is going well and we expect more people to get the shot in the next few days. It takes a couple of days for people to start pouring in whenever a category opens up. We have enough doses at all centres and we hope that children in the 15-18 age group get the vaccine at the earliest,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer.Children who took the dose in Noida said that it was better to be protected than be sorry later.“Our parents have spoken to doctors and they suggest that the vaccine should definitely be taken by all children. Cases this time are probably milder because adults have mostly taken the vaccine. We hope that it is allowed for even younger children as well,” said Shivani Singh, a 16-year-old resident of Sector 137.Some others compared it with the mandatory vaccines taken by toddlers. “Many vaccines are compulsory for children till three years of age. Some diseases like smallpox have been eradicated because children are given these vaccines early on. The Covid vaccine will soon become like one of these,” said Atharv Gupta, another 16-year-old resident of Sector 93.Meanwhile, 135 new cases were recorded in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 466. The district health department said the cases did not include anyone with a travel history or the Omicron variant. Of the 466 active cases, 11 were recovering in hospital till 4pm on Monday, while 455 are in home isolation. With about 3,500 tests being conducted daily, the positivity rate on Monday was recorded at 3.8%.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad district health department officials said they vaccinated 29, 299 beneficiaries on Monday, of which 9,717 belonged to the 15-18 age group. Officials added they dispatched 40,000 doses of Covaxin to about 164 vaccination centres, including camps set up in 81 schools.Ghaziabad reported 135 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday -- the highest single-day spike since May 27 last year, when the district recorded 169 cases. According to official figures, the sample positivity rate on Monday increased to 2.42%.According to the CoWIN portal, till 6.30pm on Monday Uttar Pradesh vaccinated 154,940 children.“My friends and I were very excited to get the first vaccine dose as everyone wants to get vaccinated before we start studying for our board exams. The rise in Covid-19 cases and spread of infection worried me so I also wanted to get vaccinated at the earliest,” said Sunny Kumar, student of Class 11 at Dr Ambedkar Inter College at Dasna, who was among the first ones to receive Covaxin doses on Monday.“My family supported me in the initiative and gave me the go-ahead to get the Covid vaccine at school. All the adults in my family have been vaccinated and now it is my turn. Now, I feel safe and protected against Covid-19,” said Rohit Chaudhary, another student of the same school.In December 2021, the Uttar Pradesh government issued guidelines for the vaccination of children aged 15-18 years from January 3 as well as for senior citizens, healthcare workers and frontline workers, who will be administered the third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10.The government has also provided districts with targets for vaccinating beneficiaries in different groups. According to its target, Ghaziabad must vaccinate 234,488 beneficiaries in the 15-18 year category.According to state guidelines, children are to be administered only Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as it is the only vaccine with Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for the 15-18 age group and recommended by the Covid -19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on immunisation.A majority of the schools that started vaccinating children on Monday were government or government-aided schools while a majority of private schools are presently shut for winter vacations.School administrations also made elaborate arrangements on their premises with the help of the health department.“To ensure social distancing and Covid protocols, we picked up students of one class and took them to the vaccination camp on our school premises. Students of other classes also got vaccinated in a similar manner. We also held counselling sessions to encourage children to get vaccinated. The entire vaccination process went on smoothly while following all protocols,” said Mohammad Saleem, the principal of Azad Memorial Inter College at Dasna.On the other hand, most private schools are already shut for winter vacations and are likely to open on January 10. But their officials said that they will soon begin with vaccination.“We have requested the education/health departments to start vaccinating children in our school. We plan to vaccinate children of classes 10 and 12 initially so that they can take their second Covaxin dose, well before the start of the board examinations. Thereafter, children from other classes will get their vaccine doses,” said Jyoti Gupta, director of Delhi Public School, Sahibabad.“The member schools of our federation are in touch with the health department and we will be holding camps at different schools in the next few days. For this, we are readying the school premises and also preparing the list of children who are eligible for the vaccination,” said Subhash Jain, president of the Independent Schools Federation of India.The officials of the health department said that they have 100,000 Covaxin doses in stock, which will be used in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-13-000-teenagers-get-coronavirus-jab-across-noida-ghaziabad-on-day-1-101641235592258.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||MLA Nitesh Rane moves HC for pre arrest bail||Mumbai: Nitesh Rane, Member of Legislative Assembly and son of Union minister Narayan Rane, approached the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday seeking anticipatory bail after a lower court rejected his application in an attempt to murder case in Sindhudurg. Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said last week that the Sindhudurg police was investigating the role of Nitesh Rane in the attack against Shiv Sena functionary Santosh Parab which took place on December 18, as the victim had named the MLA as the person behind the attack. The police have arrested two persons. Rane filed the application through advocate Sangram Desai challenging the Sindhudurg sessions court order of December 30, which stated that as some of the material required for investigating the case was yet to be recovered, and custodial interrogation of Rane and others including confrontation with the arrested accused was required, it was rejecting the anticipatory bail application. Rane’s counsel argued in the sessions court that his client was falsely implicated out of political rivalry. On December 18, Parab, a Sena functionary from Kankavli in Sindhudurg was allegedly assaulted in the backdrop of the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank election scheduled for December 30. Parab is a close associate of chairperson Satish Sawant, who was defeated by Nitesh Rane in the 2019 assembly polls for the Kankavali seat.Parab told the police that while he was on his bike on the Kankavli Nardave road at around 11 am, an Innova car without a number plate hit his vehicle. A person alighted from the car and told Parab that since he (Parab) worked for Satish Sawant (a Sena leader), the assailant would ‘deal with him and stabbed Parab in the chest. The complaint stated that Parab heard the assailant tell another occupant in the car to inform Nitesh Rane of the incident. Rane’s counsel submitted that while the police seized vehicles, weapons and mobile handsets from the arrested accused, the evidence on record did not reflect Rane’s participation and his arrest would violate the legislator’s personal liberty. Rane’s counsel stated that the MLA had cooperated with the investigation by giving a written statement when he was served a notice by the police and was also willing to abide by all conditions imposed by the court.The prosecution opposed the application in the lower court stating that Rane was not cooperating with the investigation and had not handed over a few mobile phones in his possession. The prosecution also stated that there was a probability of evidence tampering of data and photographs on his phone of him with one of the arrested accused in a vanity van. The prosecution said that custody of the applicant for investigation in respect of intention and motive of alleged crime was needed. The court was also informed that there was a likelihood of Rane threatening prosecution witnesses and hence his application should be rejected. The application in the HC is yet to come up for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mla-nitesh-rane-moves-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail-101641235532845.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel fixes responsibility for denial of info for House queries||A Delhi assembly panel has recommended that the administrative secretary or the head of the department should be personally held responsible and proceeded against in all cases where the information sought by the minister for reply to questions in the House is denied as it amounts to breach of privilege and contempt of the House.The Delhi assembly committee of privileges, in a report tabled in the assembly on Monday, said replies to questions related to public order, police and land were not being furnished to the assembly since March 2018, following a communication from the LG office to the services department to not admit queries related to matters under the “reserved” category. According to the Constitution, three key subjects -- public order, police and land - are administered by the LG.Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, chairman of the committee of privileges, said since 2018 answers to dozens of questions on services have not been provided to the House. “It amounts to creating hurdles in the smooth functioning of good governance. All information which is available under RTI must be given to the House. Information on vacancy in different departments is available under RTI, but no answer is given to questions admitted on the same subject in the assembly,” Tripathi said. The report of the committee, seen by HT, stated: “The Committee is of the categorical view that all instances where the information sought by the minister for replying in the House is denied constitute a serious breach of privilege and contempt of House. The Committee recommends that in such cases the concerned administrative Secretary/Head of Department shall be personally held liable and responsible and proceeded against as the House deems fit.” The committee further recommended: “The Committee further recommends that Government of NCT of Delhi should take necessary action in coordination with the Central Government to introduce an amendment in the Parliament in order to legislate or make laws on subject matter related to Public Order, Police, Land of the State list under Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.” The Committee strongly recommended that Delhi government should take appropriate steps to ensure that the replies to the Questions raised by MLAs in the Assembly are duly answered by the department concerned. Saurabh Bharadwaj, member of the committee, said no reply was given to a question related to vigilance department, raised in the House on Monday. “It is wrong. The elected body should know which vigilance cases are being investigated against all officers because we deal with those officers every day. The LG cannot hide the names of the officers against whom vigilance cases are being investigated,” Bharadwaj said. The committee pointed out that the members of the House have been raising questions on subject matters related to public order, police and land and replies to questions on these subject matters were being furnished since inception of the Assembly in 1993. “However, as a covert manner in order to curtail the powers of the Delhi assembly and privileges of the assembly, replies to subject matters noted above are not being provided to the assembly since 2018 in view of the letter (from LG),” the committee stated in its report. The development triggered an uproar in 2018 and assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel wrote LG Anil Baijal, requesting him to withdraw the communication. The L-G office had sent a letter to the Assembly on March 19,2018 on the Union law ministry’s advice. Later, the services department wrote to the assembly’s question cell, expressing inability to send replies on services related matters. This had also been communicated by the principal secretary (law) to the assembly secretary on March 19, 2018. A Delhi assembly official said the report is likely to be adopted in the House on Tuesday.Repeated attempts to seek a comment from the LG’s office on the matter did not fructify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-panel-fixes-responsibility-for-denial-of-info-for-house-queries-101641235472228.html
04-01-2022||Mumbai||Schools, parents welcome move to shut physical classes||Mumbai The civic body’s decision to shut physical classes for Class 1 to 9 and 11 was welcomed by schools across boards. While several non-state board schools had already decided to push classes into online mode for the next two weeks, state board schools had been receiving frantic calls from concerned parents.“We will go by the BMC directive and move to online classes starting January 4,” said Saba Patel, principal of Anjuman Islam School, Bandra. Most city schools witnessed a dip in attendance as they reopened on Monday morning post Christmas vacation. “Many parents were calling and inquiring about the status of physical/hybrid classes in the last one week. All were concerned about rising Covid cases and we were waiting to receive an official notification from the government before shutting down physical classes,” said the principal of a state board school in Dadar.On the other hand, international schools had already decided to delay reopening of campuses for physical classes by a few days. “Most international schools had anyway decided to postpone physical classes by two weeks, until January 15, to review the Covid situation. The BMC decision has come at the right time and calmed parents as well,” said Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA) and director of D G Khaitan School, Malad. She added that MISA schools have already started online classes for students post Christmas vacation.“We’ve received the order and we plan to go by it, classes will continue online. While the decision is very good, especially taking into consideration the rising cases, it’s surprising that schools have been asked to shut down until end of this month,” said Francis Joseph, from School Leaders Network. In September 2021, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced physical reopening of classes in hybrid mode for students of Classes 5 to 12 in rural Maharashtra and 8 to 12 in urban areas. In November, Gaikwad announced reopening of schools for Classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and Classes 1 to 7 in cities starting December 15. While state board schools implemented this move in phases, ICSE and CBSE schools were busy conducting end of semester exams and had suggested delaying reopening of physical classes for lower batches until January this year.
04-01-2022||Jaipur||‘Chaape wali sarkar’: Ashok Gehlot amps up attacks on Centre over I-T raids||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday accused the ruling National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre of misusing agencies and conducting raids to threaten its political rivals. “This is a “chhape wali sarkar” (government that conducts raids),” he said.“The NDA government at the Centre has a tendency to conduct (income tax) raids …such raids were made at my brother’s place. When raids were conducted at the residence of Ajit Pawar in Maharashtra, his sister’s place was also raided, who lives in a two-room flat,” the chief minister told reporters at the Press Club in state capital Jaipur.Ashok Gehlot also accused the BJP of trying to finish the opposition in the country and asked if the Supreme Court should not prioritise the hearing of cases of Pegasus and electoral bonds that, he alleged, are being misused by the government for weakening the opposition.“Should the Supreme Court not decide priorities in issues like Pegasus and electoral bonds? Almost 98% of funding is going to BJP and the rest is going to all other political parties in the country. Political parties are getting ruined,” he said.Asked about reports about Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik’s purported claim that Union home minister Amit Shah told him that the PM “has lost his mind”, Gehlot said he didn’t think that the home minister could use such language for PM Modi.“I don’t think Amit Shah can use such language for PM. Only two people are ruling the country today. There are just two faces – Modi and Amit Shah. If he has spoken such words, then it is a kind of an understanding,” Gehlot said.The chief minister was dismissive of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s plans to contest assembly polls in Rajasthan, Gehlot said he is a ‘partner’ of the BJP and whatever he speaks, he does it to strengthen the BJP.The chief minister also accused the central government of weakening the state financially and said that the Centre needs to change its policy to strengthen the state.“The revenue collection of the states has reduced because of Covid pandemic and due to wrong policies of the Centre and there is a need for the government of India to change its policy to financially empower states,” he said.Rajasthan’s deputy leader of opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore said Gehlot was levelling to hide his government’s failures. Rathod said it is unfortunate that Gehlot was raising questions about misuse of constitutional institutions and the alleged Pegasus espionage case. “Whereas under his (Gehlot) leadership, in the year 2020, by defying Section 5 (2) of the Indian Telegraph Act 1885 and Section 419 (A) of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, the government machinery was misused and the phones of elected representatives were tapped,” he said, referring to the BJP’s phone tapping charges levelled at the state’s Congress government.Rathore said Gehlot has done nothing except to increase his numbers in front of the Delhi high command by making false and baseless statements against the central government, and by calling Rahul Gandhi an ‘intelligent leader’. 
04-01-2022||Lucknow||State agriculture council seeks separate MSP for ‘Kala Namak’||The State Agriculture Price Advisory Council, on Monday, recommended the fixation of minimum support price (MSP) separately for the ‘Kala Namak’, a popular variety of rice grown in more than half a dozen districts in Uttar Pradesh, people aware of the issue, said. The council that comprises members from various departments, including agriculture, mandi parishad and horticulture, also recommended a hike in the MSP for 10 Kharif crops for the 2022-23 marketing season. In the meeting that agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi presided over, members unanimously recommended a separate MSP for the ‘Kala Namak’ variety of rice. Currently, MSP applies only to two varieties of rice — grade A and general. “We have urged the Centre to get a survey of the Kala Namak variety done and announce a separate MSP for it accordingly from the next marketing season since it is a popular variety and is grown in more than 12 districts in the state,” a senior agriculture department official, said. “This will help Kala Namak cultivators get a better price,” he pointed out. The council also recommended the fixation of MSP for 10 other crops, including paddy at one and a half times its production cost, which includes labour cost also. “We have taken the production cost for the year 2021-22 into account while recommending the MSP fixation for the coming Kharif marketing season so that farmers get a remunerative price,” the official said. The recommendations will now be sent to the Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices which will fix the MSP for Kharif crops after it gets recommendations from all the states. Among the 10 crops that come under the MSP in UP, include maize, bajra, soybean, peanut, moong, apart from paddy. Krashak Samridhi Aayog recommends natural farming The Krashak Samridhi Aayog, meanwhile, on Monday, made a strong case for farmers to adopt natural farming to increase their farm income by reducing the input cost and increasing the production. It is the first meeting of the expert body since being created more than four years ago. “There were more than half a dozen items that were discussed in the meeting with the objective of enhancing the income of farmers, but the focus remained on natural farming,” said an official who attended the meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The CM, according to him, asked the officials to examine all the suggestions received in the meeting and then make an action plan accordingly to encourage farmers to practise natural farming and adopt other progressive ways to increase their income. Natural farming is a chemical-free and traditional farming method. It is considered as agroecology based diversified farming system that integrates crops, trees and livestock with functional biodiversity. Natural farming, it was pointed out in the meeting, would reduce dependency on purchased inputs and help farmers with small holdings from the credit burden. 
04-01-2022||Other||Cyber fraudsters dupe Prayagraj teacher, cops retrieve ₹7.53 lakh||Personnel at the cyber police station managed to retrieve cash worth ₹7.53 lakh that was siphoned off from the bank account of a private teacher by conmen, on the pretext of playing ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ over the phone.The teacher appreciated the efforts of the cyber police after getting her hard-earned money back.Cyber Police station in-charge Rajeev Tiwari said that Seema Das, a resident of Soraon area, is a teacher in a private school. A few days ago, cyber fraudsters sent a message on her mobile phone using Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) as a ruse. Seema Das’s daughter dialled the number.The conmen, posing as KBC authorities, asked Seema easy questions and told that she had won ₹25 lakh. The conmen then lured the teacher and made her transfer cash ₹1.50 lakh on some pretext. Later, they again lured the teacher and said she has won more money and made her transfer more cash on different pretexts including GST.In total, the teacher transferred 8.25 lakh in different transactions in the account number given by fraudsters. The teacher approached the cyber police station when she realised that she had been duped. With the help of bank authorities and other payment gateways, personnel at cyber police station retrieved 7.53 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-fraudsters-dupe-prayagraj-teacher-cops-retrieve-rs-7-53-lakh-101641234632547.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||HC asks authorities for stand on release, rehab of zoo’s lone African elephant||On Monday, the Delhi high court sought to know the authorities’ stand on a plea seeking the release and rehabilitation of African elephant Shankar who has allegedly been alone in captivity at the Delhi zoo since the death of his partner Bombai in 2005. A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notices and sought responses from the Centre, the Delhi government, National Zoological Park, Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to the petition.The court also directed the authorities to consider a representation preferred by the petitioner in this regard in November last year.The African elephant couple was a gift to former Indian President Shankar Dayal Sharma by the Zimbabwe government and they came to India in 1998. But Shankar lost his partner Bombai, named after the wife of Zimbabwe’s ambassador, and has been alone for 16 years now.The plea filed by 16-year-old Nikita Dhawan, founder of Youth For Animals (YFA), said the lone African elephant is a victim of cruelty and viciousness at the hands of caretakers at the zoo, and his present condition is nothing less than illegal imprisonment.Dhawan said it will be a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution if the animal is not rehabilitated in a sanctuary as his mental and physical health is deteriorating day by day.The plea cited a 2009 circular issued by the CZA that banned the exhibition of elephants in zoos, as well as CZA guidelines prohibiting an elephant to be held in solitary confinement for over six months.The petitioner, represented through senior advocate Raj Panjwani, urged the high court to direct authorities to rehabilitate Shankar in a suitable wildlife sanctuary that houses other African elephants, and to ask the CZA to submit a rehabilitation and translocation plan for all captive elephants held in zoos across India in order to implement the 2009 circular.“He is perpetually chained...for 17 hours a day and does not get adequate space to move around… It is also pertinent to highlight that within a 100-metre distance from Shankar’s enclosure, there are multiple railway tracks, due to which there is constant noise and disturbance... These disturbances are also one of the reasons for psychological trauma to Shankar, as elephants are extremely sensitive to sounds,” the plea said.“Shankar is shackled in chains in an enclosure which unforgivingly falls short of the prerequisites of the behemoth elephant coupled with his merciless handling. The cruelty exhibited towards Shankar departs beyond physical in nature and forays into psychological abuse as well,” the plea added.It added Shankar’s solitary confinement and living conditions have engendered deep neurological and mental damage to the animal.The matter will next be heard on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-authorities-for-stand-on-release-rehab-of-delhi-zoo-s-lone-african-elephant-101641234392081.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi assembly forms committee for welfare of stray cows||The Delhi Assembly on Monday formed a committee to look into the welfare of stray cows and the utilisation of funds given to gaushalas (cow shelters) in the Capital. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said the committee will submit its report to the assembly within a month.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj moved a proposal for the formation of the committee, which was approved by the House.During a discussion, AAP MLAs slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the municipal corporations, led by the BJP, for not attending to the stray cows that are living in bad conditions and for not opening any new cow shelter.There has been no census on stray cattle in Delhi.Bharadwaj said due to the failure of the MCDs, stray cows are living in poor conditions and are forced to eat from garbage dumps and consume plastic. Bharadwaj alleged that MCDs have not paid NGOs managing gaushalas.Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri blamed the Delhi government for the bad condition of gaushalas in the Capital. “The AAP government should tell how much land it has given for the gaushalas. It has thousands of acres of panchayat land. The AAP government has neither opened any gaushala nor given any financial assistance, due to which the cows are roaming on the roads,” Bidhuri said.Urban development minister Satyendar Jain alleged that BJP has been ruling the MCDs for 15 years but it has done nothing for the welfare of cows. “Land is under the jurisdiction of the lieutenant governor (L-G), not the Delhi government. Gram Sabha land is under the L-G and the Delhi Development Authority. The Delhi government will give twice the land as compared to what the previous governments have given if the L-G agrees,” Jain stated.He added that the Delhi government gives ₹20 per cow per day to guashalas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-forms-committee-for-welfare-of-stray-cows-101641234032101.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||21,000 in Delhi get Covid jabs as teens enter fray||Nearly 21,000 children in the Capital aged between 15 and 17 were administered a first Covid-19 vaccine dose across 159 centres in the city on the first day of the expanded nation-wide inoculation programme.Most children who were administered the shot on Monday said they were relieved to have received some level of protection against the coronavirus at a time infections are on the rise in Delhi.Data from the CoWin dashboard showed that even though the drive, which started at 9am, picked up pace after 10am, when between 2,000 and 3,000 doses were administered every hour.Delhi government records showed that till 6pm, the maximum number of doses for children was administered in North-East district, with 3,687 teenagers in the 15-17-year age bracket getting the first jab on the first day. At least 2,667 children got their first dose in South-West district, 2,268 children got vaccinated in East Delhi, 2,034 children were vaccinated in New Delhi and 1,956 children got their shots in west Delhi centres.At south Delhi’s vaccination centres, 1,806 teenagers were given the jabs, while the numbers stood at 1,705 in South-East district, 1,532 in Shahdara, 1,394 in North Delhi, and 1,210 in North-West Delhi. Central district saw the fewest jabs administered on Monday, with 739 teenagers getting their first shot.Covaxin was administered at all 159 vaccination centres.Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya visited the vaccination centre at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Monday to inspect the arrangements. The central government-run Covid hospital had reserved one site exclusively for children, which also had a separate entry and exit in place for children.The minister also interacted with teenagers at the centre, and urged them to encourage their friends and neighbours to get vaccinated.“I visited RML hospital today to take stock of the arrangements made to vaccinate children in the 15-18-year-old age group. I also interacted with these children and asked them to encourage their friends to get their shot as well,” Mandaviya tweeted.Dr Neelam Roy, vaccination centre in-charge at RML, said that the centre had made provisions for 200 online slots, apart from walk-in vaccinations.“We observed children for 30 minutes after being vaccinated to keep an eye out for any adverse impacts. However, today none of the kids that got vaccinated showed any side effects,” said Dr Roy, who also got her daughter vaccinated at the hospital on Monday.At Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid hospital in the Capital, special directions were given to vaccination administrators to clear any doubts and hesitation that children or their guardians might have about the vaccines or the process.“Everything went very smoothly today. Children were excited and parents were also relieved to have their kids protected. Many children were also curious about how the vaccination will protect them,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital.Most children HT spoke to at vaccination centres in the city said the registration and vaccination process was largely free of hiccups.“I was looking forward to vaccinations being opened up for people my age. We have been cooped up inside our houses for nearly two years now, with schools being opened only on-and-off. Online classes have not been very helpful,” said Rishvi Rajvanshi (16), a resident of south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar.Fifteen-year-old Srishti Verma, a resident of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase 1, and her 17-year-old sister Shreya travelled to the vaccination centre with their mother.“We waited for around 15 minutes to get the shot, and were sent to the observation room. We booked the slot online on Sunday and got the appointment immediately. There was no trouble,” Srishti Verma said.Parents accompanying their children said the vaccination process was a matter of great relief for them.“I cannot tell you how anxious we were to get our children vaccinated, especially after the havoc that the second wave wrecked. We lost my father to the virus in May last year and we have seen what this virus can do. As soon as vaccinations for children were announced, we have been on the lookout for registrations. I am glad that my son and my niece got their first doses,” said Arunima Singh, who was accompanying 15-year-old Niha Singh and her son 17-year-old Dhruv Singh to the Kautilya Sarvodaya School in Greater Kailash.Dr Shikha Srivastava, medical officer at the vaccination centre in the Mayur Vihar Phase 1 Pocket 4, said, “Parents are being asked to wait in the waiting area and only children are being allowed inside the vaccination booths. Children are very motivated. We are specifically asking them if they have eaten something before taking the shot and also if they have any prior medical history or if they are on any medication. As a precaution we have a team of health officials, who are on standby, should any child experience any kind of side-effects. Till 3pm, we had already administered over 300 doses here,” Dr Srivastava said.Delhi government officials said online registrations will remain open and people can get a slot at the nearest centre for a slot between 9am and 5pm.“We are equipped to vaccinate as many as 300,000 children every day. We hope that the count will increase in the coming days,” said a senior official of the Delhi health department.
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi authority to meet on Tuesday amid spike in Covid cases||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will meet on Tuesday at 11am to review the prevailing Covid situation in the Capital, as the city’s test positivity rate surged past the 5% mark after 228 days.Delhi reported 4,099 fresh Covid infections on Monday as the positivity rate surged to 6.46%, both at their highest levels since May 18, when the city logged 4,482 fresh cases at a test positivity rate of 6.89%.The test positivity rate (the percentage of collected samples that return positive results) in Delhi stayed below 5% for 228 days since May 21, showed data from the state government. The statistic is a vital metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region. Experts, including the World Health Organization (WHO) recommend a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks, before an outbreak can be considered under control.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal will chair the DDMA’s Tuesday meeting, which will be attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and top officials and experts. The body is likely to discuss and consult experts on whether the Capital needs more restrictions to check the sharp surge. “The government has been closely monitoring the situation. A decision on imposing more restrictions will be taken only after it is established that they are necessary. Even though the cases have increased and positivity rate has shot up, around 96% hospital beds are still vacant,” said an official who is aware of the matter.Currently, Delhi is under a ‘Yellow Alert’, the first level of restrictions under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), even as the city has hit the positivity rate requirement for the highest level Red Alert, which mandates a complete lockdown.Under ‘Red Alert’, a complete curfew will be imposed, the Delhi Metro will be closed, only essential private offices will be permitted to open, and malls will be closed. Essential shops will be allowed to operate and only standalone non-essential shops will be allowed to operate between 10am and 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-authority-to-meet-on-tuesday-amid-spike-in-covid-cases-101641233792419.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Couple arrested for snatching phone in South Campus||A 26-year-old man and his 23-year-old wife, who have no history of crime, have been arrested in a case of snatching, Delhi Police said on Tuesday.Police said the couple had got married four months ago. During their interrogation, the two said they come from a lower income level background and were struggling to make ends meet. Police said the two chose to snatch cell phones and earn easy money. The two had used a scooter to snatch a woman’s cell phone from South Campus area on December 23. Police identified the man Gaurav Malhotra. Police did not reveal his wife’s identity.Snatching is the one of the most common crimes across the city. Infact records of people arrested for snatching show that snatching is also the first gateway crime for most would be criminals.An HT analysis of the profile of snatchers arrested in Delhi between 2018 and 2020 shows that more than 90% of those arrested were caught for the first time, and did not have any criminal record until then. Police registered them as “first-time offenders”. Of the 6,496 people arrested in 2020, at least 5,977 (92.98%) were first-time offenders. In 2019, of the 5,243 arrested, this number was 4,806 (91.66%), and in 2018, 5,167 out of the 5,346 people (96.66%) arrested for snatching had no past record.First time offenders in police records are suspects such as Gaurav, who do not have a even a single criminal case against their name.Deputy commissioner of police(South West) Gaurav Sharma said, “During interrogation, they said they had got married around 4 months ago. Their family are from low-income group and his father is a butcher. They wish to live lavish life. On that day, his wife demanded an android phone so they were in search of some passersby using mobile phone. They noticed the complainant and snatched mobile phone and run away from the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-couple-arrested-for-snatching-phone-in-south-campus-101641233732382.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Teachers University Bill introduced in assembly session||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday introduced the Delhi Teachers University bill in the assembly that seeks to establish an institution that will offer four-year integrated teacher education programmes. The campus of the Delhi Teachers University is coming up at Bakkarwala in east Delhi, and the government has said that it will enrol 5,000 students starting this year. The university will offer four-year Integrated teacher education programmes such as BA-BEd, BSc-BEd among others. Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the university will focus on preparing quality teachers through world-class exposure and set new standards of teacher education in India. “Delhi Teachers University will focus on preparing teachers of such standard. It will not be just a B.Ed. or any other teacher education institution. It will set new standards in the field of teacher education like IIMs have set standards for management education, IITs for engineering education and AIIMS for medical education,” said Sisodia. He said there was a lack of teachers training institution, and added that the upcoming university will plug this gap. Sisodia said the blueprint of the new university has been made in line with the National Education Policy. He added that the government plans to increase the seats at the university every year. “Here excellent parameters will be created for pre-service as well as in-service teacher training. Along with regular teacher education programmes, a one-year diploma programme will also be introduced for those professionals who have passion for teaching but are not able to pursue it as a profession due to degree restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-teachers-university-bill-introduced-in-assembly-session-101641233672025.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC sentences sub-inspector to 1-day jail for violating arrest rules||In a first of its kind, the Delhi high court has sentenced a sub-inspector (SI) of the Delhi police to one day imprisonment for not giving proper notice to man before arresting him.The court said that “arrest and incarceration destroys a person and collaterally affects many other innocent relatives”.On December 7, 2021, Justice Najmi Waziri, while holding SI Kuldeep of Maurya enclave police station guilty of contempt, said that it is not only the petitioner, Rakesh Kumar, who had suffered the humiliation and the indignity of being arrested but the ordeal would have affected the reputation of his family i.e. his children, wife and parents.The court, however, said that the sentence would stay in abeyance for two months so as to accord sufficient opportunity to the SI to challenge the order, in case he wanted to challenge it.The judge also imposed a fine of ₹2000 on the SI and said that no amount of explanation to the neighbours or those who may have seen the arrest, would undo the embarrassment and indignity suffered by the petitioner and his relatives.“Subsequent release or acquittal of an innocent is of no solace and offers no reparation to the loss of reputation or for the temporary loss of precious personal liberty. A stigma gets attached to the person who has been taken away, detained and/or put behind bars by the police. R-3 (SI) is deemed to have due knowledge of the rights of a citizen and the procedure prescribed in law,” the court said in its order.The court said that by not giving proper intimation to the petitioner, law has been breached and his personal liberty has been curtailed.“..keeping in mind that R-3 is a serving police officer with Delhi Police, that he has served for seven years and may have a long career ahead of him, R-3 is sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one day, along with a fine of ₹2,000/-, as well as nominal costs of ₹15,000 for these proceedings, to be paid by him to the petitioner within four weeks,” the court said in the order which was released late Monday evening.The order comes on the plea by Rakesh Kumar, who through his counsel Ajay Kumar Pipaniya, had moved a contempt petition in the high court against the violation of the rules of arrest laid down in the Arnesh Kumar judgment of the Supreme Court.Pipaniya had contended that his client’s was not given any intimation or not served a notice under section 41A by the police for his presence before arresting him on August 23, 2020.On October 28, 2o21, the court had held SI Kuldeep guilty of contempt and said that personal liberty is a natural right of every human being and the liberty of an individual cannot be trifled with.“It can be curtailed by the State only through the procedure prescribed by law. The police officer has acted in clear breach of the constitutional guarantee and the specific orders of the Supreme Court. R-3 is therefore guilty of having committed contempt of court,” the judge had said.The court had also said that ordinarily, while the notice is required to be served personally upon the noticee, it could well have been pasted on the door of the house of the notice, additionally, the notice can be sent through speed post.“Neither of the procedure was adopted by R-3. Admittedly, the so called ‘intimation’ through Whatsapp was not in the aforesaid format. Therefore, the intimation cannot be treated as a notice under Section 41A of the Cr.P.C or of it having been served, as per the procedure laid down. Certainly, the IO (R-3) is in breach of the prescribed procedure as well as the Supreme Court’s direction in Arnesh Kumar,” the judge had said while asking the police inspector to be present in the court.The court, in its order of December 7, ordered the SI to give ₹15000 to the petitioner on account of the legal expenses. The court noted that on mere allegations of criminal breach.It also noted that the SI arrested the petitioner in breach of directions passed by the Supreme Court and the requisite notice was not served upon the petitioner. The judge said that there were mere allegations of criminal breach of trustagainst the petitioner, which entailed a maximum sentence of three years and it did not warrant the arrest of a person in the manner in which it was done.“The petitioner’s own complaints to the police were not responded to. The highhandedness of the police officer, in specific breach of the Supreme Court’s directions is evident,” the court said.The judge also refused to accept the apology of the SI saying that there is no “contrition” in the apology by the SI. And it is a matter of last resort.
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi schools tying up with govt, pvt hospitals to get students Covid-19 shots||School in Delhi have said that they were tying up with private and government hospitals to get their students vaccinated against Covid-19, as the nationwide jabs drive for teenagers between 15 and 17 years began on Monday.Last week, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) asked schools to inform parents to get their children in the 15-17 age group vaccinated as soon as possible. In its directive to both government and private schools, the department said that it was imperative for all government, government-aided, and private unaided school students aged 15 to 17 years to get vaccinated on an immediate basis.Also Read| Omicron Delhi’s dominant variant, detected in 81% samples: Health minister JainJyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said the school has approached the government for organising a vaccination camp on school campus on Wednesday. The school has nearly 500 students in classes 9-12 that fall in the eligible category.“We have already sent a letter to parents informing them about the vaccination process. Depending on the response of children, we will increase the duration of the camp,” said Arora.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) which has 122 Delhi schools as members, said her school will also be conducting the vaccination drive through private and government tie-ups.The school has reached out to the district health department and sought an appointment for vaccination at the nearest Central Government Health Scheme empanelled hospital. This will be followed by a vaccination camp in collaboration with a private hospital. “We will ask all students who have taken admission under the EWS category to get vaccinated at the government hospital in batches of 50 each. Since not everyone would like to pay for the private vaccination camp, they can avail this option. A private hospital will also be holding the camp for our students,” said Acharya.The school has planned a series of webinars for parents and students ahead of the vaccination. “We are holding webinars in collaboration with our parents. Many parents who are doctors will be sharing their insights with other parents so that they are motivated to get their children vaccinated,” said Acharya.Apeejay Schools in Delhi will also be holding a vaccination camp on campus from Thursday. The school has tied up with a private hospital for facilitating the process. The school plans to widen the vaccination process to cover non-school students in future.Also Read| Unmasked, unfazed: How Delhi welcomed 2022!“In the first phase, our primary aim is to first facilitate vaccination for our students. However, our students can invite their relatives in the eligible age group to take the benefit of the vaccination drive. In subsequent phases, we will surely facilitate and make it open to a larger student community depending upon how the situation unfolds further. The payment for the vaccination will be directly dealt with by the hospital,” said a representative from Apeejay Schools.Not all schools are conducting vaccination on campus for now. Many said that they had informed parents and shared details about the vaccination centres. “Due to the spike in cases, many parents might not be willing to come to school. Some are also unsure about vaccination and would like to wait and watch before they decide to get children vaccinated. We have shared all necessary details as of now and will see how the situation develops,” said Tanya Joshi, principal of the Indian School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-tying-up-with-govt-pvt-hospitals-to-get-students-covid-19-shots-101641233492623.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Centre likely to call off 30th New Delhi World Book Fair||Following guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) amid the rise in Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Education (MoE) may cancel the nine-day New Delhi Annual World Book Fair, scheduled to begin from January 8. The National Book Trust (NBT) – the main organiser of the 30th edition of the fair, however, has sent a report to the central government regarding the possibilities of the fair, which included postponing it to April 2021. A senior official of the MoE, said that taking note of the sudden rise in the cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, the ministry may decide to postpone the book fair. “Though the DDMA, in its advisory, has banned the organisation of only business-to-business events, it’ll not be a wise decision to organise this fair – a business-to-customer event – for safety reasons as thousands of people come to this event every year. The official order in this connection will be issued soon as the options of postponing the event to April this year or organising it as per schedule in virtual mode are under consideration,” he said, requesting anonymity. When contacted, Govind Prasad Sharma, the chairman of NBT, also said that he had apprised the MoE about the bottlenecks in organising the book fair in the present scenario. “We’ve informed the MoE about the risks in organising this fair. Most publishers have expressed their unavailability for this edition of the book fair. We don’t have much time left for the preparations. And, considering the expected heavy footfall, the organisers will never take the risk with the lives of people. The fair is almost cancelled. Now, we are just waiting for the orders from the ministry,” he said. Sharma also said that the New Delhi World Book Fair is one of the most prestigious and largest book events in the Afro-Asian region and has acquired a high reputation among the international publishing industry. “Organised since 1972, the theme for this year was ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ - 75 years of Indian Independence. With France as the guest country, a special Children’s Authors’ Corner and Yuva Corner were supposed to attract young talent in this edition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-likely-to-call-off-30th-new-delhi-world-book-fair-101641233372048.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: 3 arrested for killing friend who refused to share his jacket||New Delhi: Three men, who live in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri area, were arrested for their friend’s murder, Delhi police said on Monday. Police said the three had murdered their 18-year-old friend Santosh Prasad because he had refused to lend his jacket to one of the three men. Police said the three men – Prince, Javed and Harsh--were arrested from their hideout in Gujarat, after police teams visited five different states in the last nine days. Identifiying the three 19-year-old only by their single name, police said the three men work as labourers.Police started probe in the after Prasad’s mother informed police on December 25 that her son had not returned home. The woman told police that her son was last spotted by locals with the three men, who are residents of the same colony in Mangolpuri. Police said they had searched for the three men in the colony but the three were absconding. Police had then registered a case of kidnapping.“During investigation we learnt that the suspects had left their homes by saying that they are going to Kanpur to meet grandmother of susepct Prince. Accordingly, a team reached there but it was found that they did not arrive at Kanpur. Another team leaent that Prince had been seen in Gaya (Bihar) at his native village. Therefore, a team was sent there immediately but by the time they had already left from Gaya. Search of suspects was made in Gaya (Bihar) on the basis of local inquiry. It was found that they had left Gaya with their local friend Pawan. Further investigation revealed that Pawan and the suspects were moving toward Agra. One team was immediately rushed for Agra to intercept them but it was learnt that the suspects have moved toward Rajasthan or Gujarat,” a police officer, aware of the details,said.Police said that the two teams then learnt that the suspects were hiding in a village in Gandhi Dham, Kutch, Gujrat. Police conducted raids at a slum cluster there and caught the three suspects -- Prince, Harshu and Javed.“The three confessed that they murdered Prasad because he had refused to lend his jacket to Prince. They said Prasad had even taunted Prince because of which they planned his murder. That evening(December 25), they called him to a place behind U Block and consumed liquor together. They then stabbed him and threw his body in the drain. After their interrogation, we also recovered Prasad’s body on Sunday,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-3-arrested-for-killing-friend-who-denied-to-share-his-jacket-101641233133283.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||BJP’s ‘liquor policy’ blockades jam Delhi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a ‘chakka jam’ protest against the Delhi government’s new excise policy on Monday by blocking traffic and deflating tyres of DTC buses at several locations resulting in traffic jams across the city that disturbed movement of vehicles on various arterial roads at least till afternoon. According to Delhi Traffic Police, BJP workers blocked traffic at 15 locations, including ITO, Signature bridge, Akshardham, Uttam Nagar, South Extension, ​Uttam Nagar and Chhatarpur. The protest began at 9am and continued for 2-3 hours, the traffic police said, adding that it took them at least four hours to clear the traffic jams triggered by the protest. Around the same time when the protests started, a truck broke down near Safdarjung hospital which added to the chaos between AIIMS and Dhaula Kuan, the officials added. According to Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot, protesters deflated the tyres of at least 86 DTC and cluster buses. The stranded buses hampered the movement of traffic near Akshardham, in Laxmi Nagar, Uttam Nagar and on Noida Link Road. “Of the 86 buses, 39 buses were of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and 47 cluster scheme vehicles. All of them are getting repaired. Public transport was severely affected on Monday as the passenger demand was very high as it was the first working day of not just the week but also of the new ear. There is no bar on holding protests, but damaging public property and disrupting public service is not the right way to express dissent,” Gahlot said.The BJP, however, said they held a peaceful protest, and their members did not deflate tyres of buses. Adesh Gupta, Delhi BJP chief, said, “Ours was a peaceful protest to raise an important issue to save Delhi. Our workers didn’t deflate tyres of buses.” Gupta, who participated in the protest at Akshardham, along with party workers said, “Arvind Kejriwal is opening alcohol vends in every corner of the city while in Punjab he talks about prohibition. People in residential colonies are opposing it, but the government doesn’t want to listen. We want the government to withdraw this anti-people policy with immediate effect.” Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said, “Taking advantage of the protest by BJP some mischievous elements joined in and indulged in vandalism. BJP’s purpose behind the chakka jam was a pious one, that is to highlight the adverse impact of the new liquor policy, yet if some people have faced problem due to chakka jam we regret the inconvenience caused.” The Delhi Police did not issue an official response on Monday’s protest. However, a senior officer, who asked not to be named, said, “ Many protesters were detained and released at the police station. At most places, the traffic was cleared by 11-12 pm. At some places it took some more time.” Commuters between Gurugram and Delhi were stuck in heavy vehicular congestion on MG Road on Monday morning due to the protest by BJP members in south Delhi. From 9am, vehicles started to slow down near the Delhi-Gurugram border, creating a jam that stretched for several kilometres, Gurugram police said.The police diverted vehicles on the stretch towards DLF Phase 3, connecting Sirhaul plaza on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Faridabad to decongest the route.Vehicular movement was smooth on other routes, the police added.Sunita Verma, an entrepreneur, was stuck in a traffic jam for 35 minutes near Akshardham. “I didn’t know about this protest; I won’t have come to Delhi today. People are anyway suffering a lot due to the Covid pandemic and recently imposed restrictions on public transport by the Delhi government. Such protest shouldn’t be allowed at all, especially now,” said Verma, who had a meeting in central Delhi. At least two DTC buses were stuck on Pusa Road at around noon on Monday because their tyres were deflated. In Uttam Nagar too, a DTC bus was stopped and its tyres deflated. Protesters also took to streets on the Ring Road in South Extension and blocked traffic after which they were removed by police. Many citizens tagged Delhi Police on social media and complained about the traffic chaos in several parts of the city. Until late afternoon, Delhi Police were posting traffic updates on its Twitter handle. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey slammed the BJP for causing inconvenience to the commuters and “playing with the lives of people”, as he claimed that lot of ambulances were stuck in traffic jam due to the protest. “There is place for protest in a democracy. But the way the BJP has created chaos on in the city, it has just exposed the dirty intent of the party. So many patients suffered because of this protest. There were people who registered for Covid vaccination, but couldn’t go. BJP needs to answer for all this,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjps-liquor-policy-blockades-jam-delhi-101641232952022.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||As pollution improves slightly in Delhi, Met forecasts rain from Tuesday||The Capital breathed marginally cleaner air on Monday, with pollution levels falling out of the ‘severe’ zone, showed data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). With the weather office predicting rain from Tuesday night, air pollution levels are likely to improve further later in the week, the pollution watchdog said.Delhi on Monday recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 387, marginally better than 404 (severe), the previous day, showed CPCB’s 4pm bulletin.Pollution levels are expected to fall even further, predicted the central weather office, on the back of two consecutive western disturbances that are likely to impact the region this week.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it expects Delhi to receive rain nearly every day from Tuesday night till Saturday.According to RK Jenamani, IMD scientist, the first western disturbance will influence the region from January 3 until January 5, with peak precipitation expected on January 5. The second is expected to influence Delhi from January 6 until January 9, with rain peaking on January 7.“Two back-to-back western disturbances will lead to a cloudy week, which will see rain on almost all days from Tuesday till Saturday. The intensity [of the western disturbances] will be highest on Wednesday and Friday, with rain and gusty winds touching 20-30 km/hr,” said Jenamani, adding that winds in Delhi were now blowing in from the east.“We can also anticipate a sharp drop in temperature on January 5 and 7 during the day, with the maximum hovering around 16-17degrees Celsius. While a high amount of moisture will be added, Delhi will only see shallow fog and a visibility of between 500 and 1,200 metres during this rainy spell,” he added.Delhi recorded shallow fog on Monday morning, with visibility dropping to 500 metres at Safdarjung, and to 600 metres at Palam. The Met department classifies fog as ‘shallow’ when visibility is between 500 and 1000 metres.Temperatures in the city have also picked up under the influence of the western disturbances, with Delhi recording a maximum temperature of 21.5°C on Monday, two notches above normal. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, was 5.4°C — two below normal. While the maximum is expected to touch 22°C on Tuesday, the minimum may rise to 7°C, predicted the weather office.Delhi’s air quality is meanwhile expected to see an improvement only from January 5 onwards, with the AQI remaining in the ‘very poor’ zone for the next 48 hours. “High winds and intermittent rains are likely during January 5 to 8, which is expected to improve AQI significantly through strong dispersion and wet deposition,” said Gufran Beig, founder project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-pollution-improves-slightly-in-delhi-met-forecasts-rain-from-tuesday-101641232713236.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||12k visit Bharat Darshan Park on New Year's weekend||South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) recently inaugurated Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh witnessed about 12,000 visitors and sales of tickets worth over ₹15.4 lakh in the first two days of the new year, data from the municipal corporation shows.The SDMC said according to its estimates, it will be able to recover the input development cost within the first year of operations. The Waste to Wonder Park in Sarai Kale Khan, where replicas of seven wonders of the works have been made using scrap material, was also able to recover the input cost in the first year.Bharat Darshan Park’s daily ticket sales data shows that there were 6,307 visitors on Saturday and 5,276 visitors on Sunday. The park was inaugurated by Union home minister Amit Shah on December 25, 2021. The park opened for the public on December 26. Ticket sales worth around ₹25 lakh have been made so far.Leader of the House Inderjeet Sehrawat said that the civic body has also initiated premium services in the park at the cost of ₹150 per ticket, in exchange for which people can view light shows and automated illumination of the monuments. A regular ticket at the park costs ₹100.A senior civic official said that the shortage of open spaces and lack of recreational spots in the city has led to a growing demand for good quality theme-based public parks. Built at a cost of ₹20 crore, the theme park in Punjabi Bagh is spread over 8.5 acres and features 22 replicas of historical monuments such as Qutub Minar, Taj Mahal, Char Minar, Gateway of India, Konark Temple, Nalanda Stupa, Mysore Palace, Meenakshi Temple, Victoria Memorial, Ajanta and Ellora caves and other key sites. The replicas have been constructed with 350 tonnes of scrap material, such as old vehicles, fans, iron rods, nuts and bolts that were unused/abandoned at the SDMC stores, officials said. The evening illumination in the premium section has been carried out using 755 facade lights, three LED screens, 600 bollard lights, one DJ set and 102 compound lights.While two waste-to-art-based theme parks have already been operationalised by the south corporation featuring replicas of seven wonders of the world and Indian monument in the Capital, the commissioners of east and south MCDs announced in their annual budget speeches that more such parks will come up in the city at places like ITO, Nirman Vihar and Jangpura. The south corporation has plans to develop Bollywood Park and Shaheedi Park, while extending the concept of re-using waste beyond metallic scrap material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/12k-visit-bharat-darshan-park-on-new-year-s-weekend-101641232531936.html
04-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi may get its first public e-buses in February||Delhi is likely to get its first set of electric buses for mass public transport in February, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Monday.“The prototype of the electric buses which have been procured by the Delhi government reached the city on Sunday. If there is no Covid lockdown again, we are hopeful that the first batch of fully electric buses for public transport in Delhi will be rolled out next month. Thereafter, e-buses will be added in batches of about 50 every subsequent month,” Gahlot said.The prototype bus that is expected to be pressed into service from next month is currently being tested by the state transport department and the vehicle manufacturer JBM Auto Limited. The low-floor buses will also be equipped with hydraulic lifts to enable passengers on wheelchair to board the bus. They will also have GPS trackers, panic buttons and CCTV cameras among other features, the minister said.In July 2018, the Delhi government first announced that it would induct 1,000 electric buses into the city fleet, after the Delhi cabinet approved the scheme. At that time, the government claimed that it would be the first city-state to roll out e-buses on such a large scale. Three and a half years later, cities such as Pune, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Kolkata already have functional e-buses, but Delhi is yet to kickstart its plan.Gahlot said the first set of e-buses will be flagged off by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “It will most likely be in the first week of February,” he said. On October 28, HT was the first to report about the Delhi government’s plan to procure only electric buses for public transport in the future.According to the Delhi government’s plan, documents of which were seen by HT, it will procure 2,300 electric buses in the next one and a half years. Of this, 1,300 e-buses will be under the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and the remaining 1,000 will operate under the cluster scheme, for which tenders have been floated.In addition, the government is in the process of procuring 800 new CNG buses, which will be the last batch of CNG buses to be pressed into service by the city administration in the national capital.Delhi currently has a fleet of 6,793 buses, of which 3,760 are run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and 3,033 are operated by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited through the state transport department.At their full capacity, including standing passengers, these buses carry about 4.2 million people every day.By 2023-24, the government plans to increase its public bus fleet to 9,568 of which 5,358 will be electric and 4,210 CNG-run.The DTC is planning to build seven exclusive electric bus depots in the first phase with a capacity to park 615 vehicles. These include Mayapuri Depot, Rohini Sector 16, Dichao Kalan, Peeragarhi, Ghazipur depot, Banda Bahadur Marg-1 and Nehru Place depot. The DIMTS, on the other hand, will build the Kushak Nallah depot as a electric bus depot in the first phase with a capacity to accommodate 240 e-buses.Although the number of buses currently operational in Delhi is at an all-time high, ever since the Commonwealth Games in 2010, the increase in population means that the city requires around 11,000 buses for public transport, according to various court orders and studies.Amit Bhatt, executive director (transport), WRI India, said electric vehicles have low operating costs. “Any fuel, even if it’s CNG, accounts for 40% of the operational cost of buses in our cities. With electric buses, the operational cost will come down, and also help in the overall business planning of bus operations. The environmental benefits of e-buses are phenomenal as they have zero emissions and zero carbon footprint,” he said.
04-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: SIT files chargesheet against 14 accused, including minister’s son||Investigators probing the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence filed a charge sheet against 14 people on Monday, naming the son of junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ as the main accused and citing witness statements to confirm his presence on the spot during the incident.Four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, and others during a farm protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. A special investigation team (SIT), which filed the charge sheet on Monday, told the local court last month that it was a “well-planned conspiracy”.The SIT filed the 5,000-page charge sheet in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram on Monday. It included thousands of pages of case diary, and documentary, scientific, forensic, physical and electronic evidence, said senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav.“Witnesses in the case confirmed Ashish Mishra’s presence on the spot and the same are part of the case diary,” said Yadav. Mishra had repeatedly denied being present at the spot when violence broke out. The SIT included the statements of 200 witnesses in the charge sheet, and named Ashish Mishra as the main accused.But family members of the victims alleged that the government was protecting the minister by not naming him in the charge sheet.“The SIT is playing at the hands of the government that seems adamant on saving Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’. The minister is the real mastermind of the incident and justice will not be done till the time he is put behind bars,” alleged Sukhwinder Singh, the father of 18-year-old Gurvinder Singh,who was killed on October 3.Amaan Ahmad, who represents the farmers in the case, said they were angered over the omission despite the minister being named in the initial police complaint.“The SUV that mowed down farmers is also registered in Teni’s name. We will appeal in the court for proper investigation into the case,” he said.The violence sparked nationwide condemnation and energised Opposition parties to demand the minister’s resignation, months before high-stakes polls in the crucial state.In the previous winter session of Parliament, several opposition parties disrupted proceedings to demand Ajay Mishra’s removal.The initial complaint into the case only named Ashish Mishra and unknown persons. Subsequent investigation by the SIT identified 12 other accused. In the charge sheet, the SIT added a 14th accused -- Virendra Shukla, a relative of the minister who is yet to be arrested.The 13 accused were charged under sections 147(rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly ), 307(attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy), section 427(mischief causing damage), 34 (acts done with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 177 (wilfully disobeying directions) and B177 of the Motor Vehicle Act, said Yadav.The people in jail are Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das who is a relative of the Lucknow-based businessman, his aide Nandan Singh Bisht, his private security guard Latif alias Kaale, and driver Shekhar Bharti, who were said to be present in one of the three SUVs in Mishra’s cavalcade.The SIT filed additional charges under section 3/25 of the Arms Act against Sumit Jaiswal, section 30 of the Arms Act against Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, Latif alias Kaale and Satyam Tripathi and section 5/27 of the Arms Act against Nandan Singh Bisht, said Yadav.Virendra Shukla’s name was added in the charge sheet under section 201 of the IPC (disappearance of evidence) and he was called to the court on January 10.Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by Ajay Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.In the ensuing violence, three more people — two of whom were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and one was the driver of the car — were killed.On December 14, a court in Uttar Pradesh added stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to the First Information Report (FIR) after the Special Investigation Team said that incident was “well planned” and “deliberate”.The prosecution urged the court to exclude copies of case diary and some other documents from a list of papers to be disclosed to the accused, said Yadav. It will not be in public interest to do so, he added.Some family members of the farmers killed on October 3 expressed discontent over the charge sheet.“Police officials promised us to ensure that all accused of the incident will be put behind bars. But they are clearly saving the mastermind Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’,” said Jagdeep Singh, son of Nacchhatar Singh, a father killed in the violence.The Opposition criticised the government over the development.“The BJP has a washing machine. After getting washed in this special BJP washing machine, a criminal doesn’t look criminal anymore,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.“The 5000 page charge sheet is actually a black box of the double engine government of the BJP,” he tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The whole country has seen the truth of the 5000-page chargesheet in the form of a video, yet the Modi government is trying to save the accused. India is a witness!”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-sit-files-chargesheet-against-14-accused-including-minister-s-son-101641229411849.html
04-01-2022||Lucknow||UP teens take the jab with a smile; over 1.6 lakh vaxxed on Day 1||LUCKNOW “Getting vaccinated was easy and painless,” said a smiling Akarsh Mishra, 17, who was among the first few to take the Covid vaccine jab at Lucknow’s Balrampur Hospital on Monday. Over 1.66 lakh children took their first jab on Monday with the start of the inoculation drive for the 15-18 years age group in Uttar Pradesh. The youngsters were being administered only Covaxin. A major chunk of the doses were administered between 11am and 4pm. Over 2,000 vaccination booths were decorated and dedicated for vaccinating children, including 39 in the state capital, according to the health department.By 9 pm, 1,66,304 children had got their first dose of Covaxin in the state, including 3,754 in Lucknow. A few centres, including Lok Bandhu and Balrampur hospitals in Lucknow, carried vaccination till 10pm. These are day and night vaccination centres.Officials said UP had a target of vaccinating 1.40 crore children (Lucknow’s target - 3.2 lakh children). The teenagers showed enthusiasm, unlike the adults when vaccination was started on January 16, 2021, they said. “I am not afraid and feel safe,” said Swarnima, one of the students who arrived at Civil Hospital up for the jab. She spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath when he visited the hospital to roll out the vaccination drive for children in 15-18 years age group. Experts said the vaccination drive will help in the fight against Covid-19. “Vaccination for children was a much needed step. Parents of eligible children should make use of this opportunity,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary, General Association of International Doctors. “Children are the most disciplined beneficiaries coming for vaccination. They make smart queues on their own,” said Dr Ajai Shankar Tripathi, chief medical superintendent of Lok Bandhu Hospital, where 320 children were vaccinated. “It was great to be back in school after the winter break. Our campus is organising a Covid vaccination camp, which is good for us,” said Jatinn Khanna, a Class 10 student at CMS (Kanpur Road).Vaibhavi Singh, 16, who took her jab at TB hospital said, “Those who had booked slots earlier and those coming for walk-in facility were in the same queue. I suggest there should be separate queues.” Basti tops chart with 15,491 dosesBasti topped the chart of districts in Uttar Pradesh by administering the maximum (15,491) doses of Covid vaccine (Covaxin) to children in 15-18 age group on Monday. Following Basti was Bulandshahr with 14,436 doses (till 6pm), according to the health department. Other districts administered less than 10,000 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/teens-in-lucknow-take-the-jab-with-a-smile-101641228571550.html
