05-01-2022||Lucknow||Revision of electoral rolls in UP: Women outnumber men in getting names registered||Women have outnumbered men in getting their names registered on the electoral rolls in Uttar Pradesh (UP). As many as 28,86,988 (over 28.86 lakh) women got their names registered in comparison to 23,92,258 men (over 23.92 lakh) during the special summary revision of the voter list campaign organised by Election Commission of India (ECI) from November 1 to December 5, 2021.Chief electoral officer (CEO), Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Kumar Shukla said, the enrolment of women in large numbers during revision of electoral rolls in UP has led to an improvement in the gender ratio of Uttar Pradesh by 11 points from 857 against 1000 male voters on November 1, 2021 to 868 on December 5. The voter awareness campaign has been launched to increase the participation of women in voting and increase the voting percentage in the state, he said. The Election Commission on Wednesday released the voter list of Uttar Pradesh. The number of voters increased from 14.71 crore to 15.02 crore. There are over 8.04 crore male voters (8,04,52,736) and over 6.98 crore female voters (6,98,22,416). Besides, there are 8,853 third gender voters. The names of over 52 lakh (52,80,882) new voters were included during the revision campaign. The electoral population ratio of UP recorded 1.31% increase from 61.21% to 62.52%, Shukla said. During the revision of the electoral rolls, over 14.66 lakh (14,66,470) new young voters (18-19 years) were enrolled. The number of young voters in UP is over 19.89 lakh (19,89,902) of which over 10.62 lakh (10,62,410) are male, over 9.26 lakh (9,26,945) female and 547 third gender voters, he said. The number of senior voters above 80 years is over 24 lakh (24,03,296) while the ECI conducted tagging of over 10.64 lakh (10,64,266) voters with disabilities during the revision of the electoral rolls. ECI removed the names of 21,40,278 voters, which included 10,00,050 deceased, 3,32,905 shifted and 7,94,029 whose names have been repeated in the voters list. The total number of polling stations in UP is 1,74,351, he said. Shukla said the voter list will be put on display at the polling centres for a week. It will be also available on the website of the chief electoral officer and the district election officers for the voters to check their details. They will also get information about registration of their names in the voter list from the toll-free number 1950 launched by ECI or they can contact the booth level officer, he said. If the name of an eligible person is missing from the electoral rolls, the person can get the name registered online through the ECI portal or offline with the booth level officer. The ECI is committed to ensuring that no eligible voter is deprived of the franchise rights, he said. Shukla said during the revision of the electoral roll meetings, with the representatives of the political parties was held in the CEO’s office as well as with the district election officers in the 75 districts. 
05-01-2022||Pune||Approval for proposed site for airport at Purandar rejected by MoD?||Pune: The proposed international airport at Purandar may have hit another roadblock, in terms of clearance for a new site by the state government. Clearance for the new site, believed to be in the same tehsil, is stuck with authorities, Sudhir Mehta, president of Maratha Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), claimed on Wednesday. Mehta said that he was informed by officials about the proposal getting rejected by the Ministry of Defence (MoD). Confirmation from the MoD is awaited. “It appears that the site clearance for the proposed Pune airport at the new location in Purandar has been cancelled by the MOD, which effectively means that the project is dead. Request the state govt to clarify about plans for a new airport at Pune??,” Mehta tweeted on Wednesday. He later told Hindustan Times that an official from Ministry of Defence informed him, with documents, about the proposal getting rejected. Mehta refused to share why the Ministry of Defence denied clearance. When contacted, officials from district administration did not respond to phone calls and text messages. A senior Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) official hinted that clearance may not come for the site suggested by the government. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh while responding to a text message seeking clarity about the issue replied saying, “We have not received any communication”. An MLA from Purandar, Sanjay Jagtap said he too has learnt about the being rejected. “There are six land options. I too have heard about the rejection of the site by the Ministry of Defense, but did not get any official information. Once the information is received, we will be able to get details. MP Supriya Sule (MP) and myself, are both firm on the airport in Purandar only, where there are six land options,” Jagtap said. Sources said the ministry has refused to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) two months back, for the same site, which the state government proposed after the first site was cancelled. Earlier in 2021, Ajit Pawar had said that a report had been submitted to the Central government regarding the new site for Purandar airport. The originally proposed site for the Pune International Airport was changed because of opposition from the villagers in Purandar tehsil. Then a revised proposal, with the changed location was submitted to the Centre for approval. Opposition has emerged for the new site as well. Even if the Centre gives a go-ahead, the land acquisition process will not be a cakewalk for the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/approval-for-proposed-site-for-airport-at-purandar-rejected-by-mod-101641406583744.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC asks 142 pvt hospitals to prep with full capacity to handle Covid-19 surge||Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed all 142 private hospitals in the city to prepare for the surge in Covid-19 cases. Chahal has asked all private hospitals to prepare beds anticipating a further spike in infections in the coming days. The third wave of Covid-19 is expected to last in the city for four to five weeks on the basis of trends from South Africa where the Omicron variant was first detected, BMC officials said. According to civic officials, as the maximum number of cases is being reported from Mumbai high-rises, there is a surge in demand for beds at private hospitals.Chahal in his message to 142 private hospitals of the city has said, “Considering the fact that approximately 10-12% patients are symptomatic every day, the requirement of hospital beds is likely to increase sharply now. Since more than 95% cases are being detected from non-slum areas, there is tremendous demand for beds in private hospitals only. Patients are reluctant to go to Covid Jumbo Hospitals and BMC hospitals.”“It has come to my notice that symptomatic Covid-19 patients have already started complaining of shortage of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. Therefore, all private hospitals are hereby directed that they shall immediately spruce up the number of Covid-19 beds to the highest level which existed during the peak of the second wave in 2021,” Chahal addedAccording to the directions issued by the Mumbai Municipal Commissioner, all private hospitals shall restore their peak level Covid-19 beds by January 10, following which the BMC staff will start inspecting private hospitals from January 11, 2022 onwards to cross check if the number of Covid-19 beds in each private hospital has been restored to its peak level. Referring to the third wave of infections, Chahal in his message further told the private hospitals that, “I wish to place on record that private hospitals have done outstanding work in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in Mumbai since May 2020. Therefore, I request all private hospitals to rise to the occasion and maintain their credibility in the eyes of citizens of Mumbai. I would also like to mention that the present third wave of Covid-19 in Mumbai may not last for more than 4-5 weeks as per experience of South Africa.”Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital, who is the nodal officer of all private Covid-19 hospitals in the city said, “There are 142 private hospitals in the city that have around 5,000 beds active at the moment. At Bombay Hospital, we have 45 beds empty as on Wednesday afternoon. However, in the coming days private hospitals will be able to offer 11,000 active beds for handling COVID-19. Considering the turnaround time is very less, we will be able to discharge every patient within 4-5 days. Hence, bed availability will not be an issue.”On the third wave not lasting for more than 4-5 weeks, Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital who is also a member of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Task Force said, “We also feel the same considering that is how the behaviour of the virus has been so far in the past. There is high chance that the same pattern might be true this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-asks-142-pvt-hospitals-to-prep-with-full-capacity-to-handle-covid-19-surge-101641406464986.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals face staff crunch as doctors, nurses are Covid positive||Mumbai: With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, city hospitals are faced with a shortage of staff as several doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers across public and private facilities have been infected with the coronavirus. Hospitals are reporting a staff shortage of anywhere between 5% to 30%.Healthcare workers are experiencing breakthrough infections (infection which occurs after being fully vaccinated) and re-infections, which has led several private hospitals to hire doctors and nurses on a temporary basis.On Wednesday, Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital reported a 30% shortage of nursing staff and doctors due to Covid. “Some of them are admitted with us with moderate symptoms, while others are isolating at home,” said Dr V Ravishankar, chief executive officer of the hospital that has a staff strength of 550 doctors and 300 nurses. “I have started hiring doctors and nurses on a temporary basis to ensure smooth functioning,” he said. At Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central, at least 30 of their staff are currently Covid positive, including 17 doctors and nurses — 5% of the 350-odd nurses and doctors. Data shared by the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) showed that as of Wednesday, 265 residents were down with Covid-19 in public hospitals including 73 in JJ hospital, Byculla, 80 in Lokmanya Tilak Medical General (LTMG) hospital, Sion, 60 in KEM, Parel, 45 in BYL Nair, Mumbai Central and seven in Cooper hospital, Vile Parle. “This is a drastic increase since January 3, when we counted 70 infections,” said MARD president Dr Avinash Dahiphale. “None of the doctors have a serious disease. Most of them and in mild to moderate category,” he said. In addition to the resident doctors, many faculty members in these hospitals are also infected. The JJ Hospital, for instance, has nearly 100 infected staff, including 21 faculty members and other hospital workers besides the residents mentioned above. The hospital’s dean Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar is also infected with the virus and is currently admitted at St George’s Hospital.In LTMG hospital, four faculty members besides the resident doctors mentioned above are infected with Covid. “A few nurses are also infected,” said the hospital’s dean Dr Mohan Joshi, adding the workload is manageable at the moment due to the shorter isolation period and less severity of the infections. However, the situation may become difficult as hospitalisations increase, the dean said. Covid bed occupancy in Mumbai’s public and private hospitals (including jumbo centres) has seen a jump since December 20, when it was 6.25% (the number of Covid beds at the time were 13,830) to 23% on January 5 (the number of beds currently stand at 22,098). This has also led to some concern about the delay that at least a fraction of healthcare workers will face in receiving their booster dose. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 26 had announced that all healthcare workers will receive “precaution doses” — or booster shots — starting on January 10. According to a mandate issued by the Centre itself, there should be at least a three month’s gap between recovery from the infection and vaccination. “It would have been ideal if booster doses were started for healthcare workers a couple of months back. It may have prevented the widespread infections to a certain extent though with Omicron in circulation [this remains to be seen],” internal medicine specialist Dr Anita Mathew from Fortis Hospital. “Many of the healthcare workers will not be able to take the booster shots immediately due to recent infections,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. the government is yet to give detailed guidelines on booster shots.On December 31, additional chief secretary Pradeep Vyas issued guidelines stating that the isolation period for healthcare workers and other staff could be reduced to five days from the earlier seven-day mandate, considering the Omicron variant may infect large numbers in a short time and there will be need of trained staff to be available. “We are following the 5-day isolation protocol for all staff and most turn negative within that period,” said Dr Parag Rindani, chief executive officer of Wockhardt Hospital. Hospital authorities said that healthcare workers have been testing positive routinely, but they began seeing a higher number of infections starting the last week of December. “Healthcare workers are in the frontline are bound to have more infections as we are in a middle of a wave driven by a highly transmissible variant,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force. “It is important for hospitals to wait for a negative RTPCR before calling the doctors back on duty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospitals-face-staff-crunch-as-doctors-nurses-are-covid-positive-101641405383503.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Now, book train tickets from post offices: Railway officials||Soon, people will be able to book their train tickets by visiting a nearby post office. The initiative is part of the ongoing modernisation plan under which Indian Railways, in collaboration with the postal department, is introducing a train reservation facility at the post offices. Officials said the facility would be a boon in minimising the passenger load at the railway stations.North Eastern Railway (NER ) officials said the facility would be made functional from January 6 onwards. Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnav is likely to inaugurate the reservation facility along with other facilities here in the state capital on Thursday.Initially, the ticket booking facility would be made available in around 9147 post offices across the state. “The facility would save a lot of time for people as they won’t have to visit the station or their agents to get their train tickets booked,” said the official.Other than inaugurating the facility, the railway minister would also inaugurate the entry of Gomti Nagar Station that is being developed as a satellite station and would flag off a Delhi-bound train and two trains to Vaishno Devi and Kamakhya Temple.Pankaj Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NER, said the railway minister is scheduled to be at the Gomti Nagar station at around 9 am on Thursday and would also open many other facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-book-train-tickets-from-post-offices-railway-officials-101641403943474.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Over 1 crore doses administered in Mumbai, 8.8k teens jabbed||Mumbai The city crossed the one crore vaccination mark almost a year after the drive kicked off on January 16, 2021. Overall, 1.81 crore doses have been administered in the city, according to the data of the Co-Win portal.On Wednesday, vaccination was also conducted at Ruparel college for teenagers along with other dozens of centres for teenagers between 15-18 years of age on third day of its vaccination drive.Overall in the city, 58,344 citizens were vaccinated, of this, 8,832 were first doses of teenagers between 15-18 years of age.Overall, in the city, 18,193,448 doses have been administered of which 10,017,317 are the first dose and 8,176,131 are second dose.The eligible population for vaccination above 18 years of age in the city is 92 lakh and all of them have been administered the first dose. Additionally, the floating population of over 8 lakh have also been given the first dose. While almost 90% of the citizens got their second dose.Meanwhile, the BMC plans to fully vaccinate the entire eligible population with two doses of vaccine by the end of February 2022. However, starting January 10, BMC will start administering the third dose to frontline and healthcare workers followed by senior citizens with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-1-crore-doses-administered-in-mumbai-8-8k-teens-jabbed-101641403643525.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow reports 288 fresh Covid cases, active count goes up to 757||Lucknow recorded a further rise in new Covid cases as 288 more people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday with 74 of them having travel history. The day’s new cases were 138 more than the 150 reported on Tuesday. Lucknow now has 757 active Covid cases.The number of fresh cases in Lucknow is similar to the level reported in the third week of May 2021, when the second wave of Covid was receding. There were 286 new cases in Lucknow on May 21, 2021 and 291 on May 22.Among the new cases, 74 had travel history while 71 others tested positive during contact tracing of previous patients, said a senior health official.Fifty-four other Lucknowites tested positive when they gave samples for RT-PCR tests following mild symptoms. Fifteen tested positive before surgery at different hospitals, and nine are healthcare workers.“The majority of the new cases have mild or no symptoms. But there should be no laxity in following home isolation rules as this is the only way to break the chain of infection,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.During the day, UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Shyam Tripathi visited the Lok Bandhu hospital in the state capital.“The visit was to inspect the paediatric ICU made for children. The ward has been made for children who may need hospitalisation after getting infected with Covid,” said Dr Ajay Shankar Tripathi, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.Among the new cases in Lucknow, 42 were reported from Aishbagh, 33 from Aliganj, 42 from Chinhat, 41 from Indira Nagar, 41 from Sarojininagar and 22 from Silver Jubilee health facilities.In Lucknow, a total of 38,465 doses of Covid vaccines were administered on Wednesday. The number included 21,432 first doses and 9,313 beneficiaries between 15 and 18 years of age were among them. Besides, 17,033 second doses were given.Six patients are under treatment at the Covid ward at the King George’s Medical University while two others are at the SGPGI, said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. Sixteen others who had gone for surgical treatment at different hospitals were admitted in Covid-19 facilities after they tested positive. These patients are in isolation wards.Keeping in view the rise in Covid cases, King George’s Medical University has suspended offline classes for all students. The MBBS, BDS, BDS, PG (medical and dental) and nursing classes would run online from Thursday. During the second wave, at last 40% staff on campus had tested positive. At least seven KGMU staff members are Covid positive at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-reports-288-fresh-covid-cases-active-count-goes-up-to-757-101641403583440.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||UPPCB to develop mega recycling hubs for plastic, medical, e-waste||The state pollution control board is planning to develop five dedicated mega hubs for waste recycling, focusing on plastic, e-waste and non-biodegradable medical waste like single-use PPE kits, gloves masks etc. These hubs will be able to recycle all kinds of plastic, e-waste and single-use medical waste as per the existing modern scientific methods with minimum impact on the environment. According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) officials, plans are to set up these facilities in at least five places across the state. UPPCB chief environment officer RK Singh said, “The mega hubs will house over 50 facilities each to recycle medical plastic with different modern methods. These facilities will be operated by private partners, while the government will provide the basic infrastructure, making it a public-private partnership (PPP) work model.” The plan was proposed on suggestions from environmental experts and researchers, who apprised the board about the spike in the single-use medical plastic and e-waste during Covid-19 times. “Electronic waste accounts for 40% of lead and 70% of heavy metals found in our landfills. These pollutants are responsible for groundwater contamination, air and soil pollution,” said Shalini Sharma, CEO of Sanshodhan, an E-Waste Exchange programme. Sharma added that the real issue is the way the e-waste is recycled. “Nearly 95% of recycling of electronic waste is carried out by the unskilled informal sector that poses a threat to both the recycler and the environment. It is the prerogative of the state government to formalise this sector by providing training and required infrastructure.” The situation has become alarming, considering that Uttar Pradesh is among the leading producers of e-waste in the country. Moreover, as per UPPCB estimates 40K tonnes of biomedical waste was generated, across the state, in the last two years. Almost one-third of which was in form of disposable PPE kits, masks, testing swabs, pipettes etc... used in the management of Covid-19 patients. The location of these hubs is yet to be finalised, but Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Kanpur and Prayagraj are among the most probable locations, according to senior officials of the board. “Moradabad and Ghaziabad are already major hubs for e-waste recycling in the state. They process almost one-third of the total e-waste generated in the state,” said a senior member of the board. UPCCB officials are also reaching out to researchers and companies currently working in the recycling industry for guidance in the development of these mega hubs. Research institutes under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) are also being roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcb-to-develop-mega-recycling-hubs-for-plastic-medical-ewaste-101641403343571.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Curbs imposed in five more Haryana districts||Strap: Malls and shops can now stay open till 6pm, no curbs on medicine, milk shops With more districts in Haryana witnessing an exponential increase in the number of coronavirus cases, the Haryana government on Wednesday ordered closure of cinema halls, theaters, multiplexes, and entertainment parks in five more districts – Karnal, Panipat, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Rohtak and Jhajjar.These five are in addition to the five districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Ambala and Panchkula – where stringent curbs were imposed on January 1.The government has also given some relaxations in these 10 districts by revising the timings of closure of malls and markets to 6pm now. Also, shops dealing in essential supplies including medicine stores and milk shops have been allowed to remain functional at all times to enable them to serve the public.Restrictions for 10 districtsAs per the orders issued on Wednesday night, the restrictions in the 10 districts also entail closure of sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools (except for training of sports persons for participation in national or international sports events as well as for organising national or international sports events). No spectators or visitors will be allowed in the events. All business-to-business exhibitions have also been prohibited.Government and private offices except for emergency or essential services have been advised to function with 50% staff attendance. Bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity.Restrictions for rest of the stateFor the remaining 12 districts, gatherings of more than 100 persons will be allowed only with the prior permission of deputy commissioner. Cinema halls in malls as well as standalone ones, restaurants, bars including in hotels and in malls, gyms, spas and club houses, restaurants, bars of the golf courses have been allowed to open with 50% seating capacity with adherence to requisite social distancing, other Covid-19 appropriate safety norms and regular sanitisation of the premises.Swimming pools in the 12 districts will be allowed to open after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.All swimmers, practitioners and staff to should get vaccinated with both doses. Sports complexes and stadia are also permitted to open for sports activities including for outdoor sports activities except contact sports. Sports authorities shall ensure adherence to requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation of the premises and Covid-appropriate behavioural norms.Uniform restrictions for all 22 districtsThe government has decided that school, colleges, polytechnics, ITIs, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes whether government or private), anganwadi centres and crèches under woman and child development department shall remain closed till further orders. Night movement restrictions shall continue to remain in place from 11pm to 5am. In funeral and marriages, gatherings shall not be more than 50 and 100 persons, respectively, subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Only fully vaccinated persons are allowed to enter at public places and the onus of ensuring this will be on the owners/management of these institutions. Citizens, who have received the first dose but the second dose is not due, shall not come under above mentioned restrictions for mandatory second dose.Violators of Covid-appropriate behaviour including wearing of masks, social distancing and adults who have not received Covid vaccination or are due for second dose will be issued a challan of ₹500. Institutional violators shall be imposed a fine of ₹5,000. Non-payment of fine and major violations will attract proceedings under the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable.The orders said that earlier issued guidelines for conduct of entrance and recruitment examinations will remain in place. by different universities/institutes/ government departments and recruitment agencies are allowed in the state with strict implementation of revised standard operating procedure issued by Union health ministry on September 10, 2020 regarding preventive measures to contain the virus spread as well as guidelines issued from time to time.Religious places are allowed to open with 50 persons at a time with the condition that they shall follow requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour. Corporate offices, production units, establishments, industries are also permitted to function subject to following Covid-appropriate behaviour, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-imposed-in-five-more-haryana-districts-101641403106229.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Varanasi reports 120 fresh Covid cases: DM||District magistrate (DM) Kaushal Raj Sharma on Wednesday instructed the health department to activate monitoring committees and rapid response teams (RRT) to deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases.Varanasi reported 120 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday taking the active case tally to 249 in the district, the health officials said.The DM held a meeting with senior health department officials, including chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Chaudhary at Integrated Covid Command Centre (ICCC), for making additional preparations.He said that monitoring committees and rapid response teams should be made fully functional, and Covid medicines kits should be made available to them. Thereafter, a drive should be launched to provide the medicines to people with symptoms of Covid-19.He instructed that monitoring of the rapid response teams should be done from the ICCC.The DM said that the samples collected from the urban and rural centres should be submitted daily to the testing lab, and the results should be submitted by 8 pm. The patients who came positive in the test should be informed via the ICCC. Those with the negative report can get information on their mobile through the link https://labreports.upcovid19tracks.in/.Announcements to alert citizens about Coronavirus should be made regularly from the public address system and loudspeakers at the major intersections and streets. An appeal should be made to people to wear masks and adhere to Covid-19 protocols and maintain a physical distance of two yards.The district magistrate also appealed to those who have yet not got the Covid vaccination to get both doses of the vaccine at the earliest. He also asked the people to get the children between 15-18 years of age vaccinated.He instructed that all the arrangements for the operation of 23 oxygen plants must be in place, and uninterrupted service of ambulances must be ensured. The DM said that beds for Covid patients should be identified in SSL hospital, BHU, Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital, Kabir Chaura, ESIC Hospital with paramedical staff and doctors assigned to the wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-reports-120-fresh-covid-casesdm-101641402928730.html
05-01-2022||Pune||PMC to reopen jumbo Covid hospital at Shivajinagar from January 10||PUNE With Covid cases increasing, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to reopen its jumbo Covid hospital located at Shivajinagar from coming Monday, January 10. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “As Covid cases are increasing rapidly, we decided to start the jumbo hospital. The hospital has a total capacity of 800 beds, but we will start with 200 beds and as required, PMC will add beds.” Mohol said, “PMC has also started gearing up its medical infrastructure. Medical and no-medical staff would be recruited. PMC has enough infrastructure in the meantime, and as per requirements, it will be increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-reopen-jumbo-covid-hospital-at-shivajinagar-from-january-11-101641402863771.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Heavy fog shrouds central UP, rain likely in next 48 hours||Thick fog engulfed Central Uttar Pradesh districts on Wednesday morning reducing visibility to less than a few meters for several hours affecting daily life. The fog added to the chill with the minimum temperature hovering around 10 degree mark in the state.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued forecast of rain in central and west UP in the next 48 hours with the possibility of mercury dropping a few more notches.The state capital recorded minimum temperature of 11.6 degrees Celsius which was four degrees above normal. As per forecast, the minimum temperature is expected to remain around 11 degree mark on Thursday with a possibility of fog in Lucknow. On Wednesday, visibility in state capital was reduced to less than 10 meters in several areas during morning hours.“Scattered rainfall is very likely to occur in central and West UP districts on January 5 and 6. This will be followed by widespread rain over central India including parts of Uttar Pradesh on January 7 and 8,” reads the forecast issued by IMD on Thursday.Based on the forecast, the state MeT department has sounded alert for all districts to take measures to prevent damage caused by the adverse weather.“We are closely monitoring the changes in the weather and are in touch with district authorities. We have also extended the alert to agriculture department urging them to intimate farmers of the state about upcoming rains,” said director of state MeT department JP Gupta.Besides Lucknow, the minimum temperature in Meerut was recorded at 8.9 degrees Celsius, 8.2 degree Celsius in Kanpur. Mercury dropped to 10.1 and 10 degrees Celsius in Varanasi and Prayagraj respectively. Agra recorded a minimum temperature of 11.7 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-fog-shrouds-central-up-rain-likely-in-next-48-hours-101641402325746.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Tulsi, giloy back in demand: Nurseries stock up on medicinal plants||The tally of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 10,000 mark in Delhi, compelling residents go back to the roots and keep cold and flu at bay. But accomplishing this seems to be a herculean task for the winter is quite severe. What’s coming in handy in such a scenario is the blessing of Nature that comes in the form of medicinal plants that help strengthen immunity and tide over mild infections. And seeing the rise in demand for such plants, nursery owners in Delhi-NCR say they have stocked up on Holy basil (tulsi), giloy, aloe vera, stevia, ajwain and others that are beneficial in fighting seasonal irritants. ‘Sales are up by 15-20%’Gaurav Sureka, owner of Rohini-based Balaji Nursery says, “Kaafi buyers aane shuru ho gaye hain. People are now confirming with us about which plant is of giloy and stevia since many don’t know ajwain ka paudha kaisa dikhta hai, but unko pata hai ki iske kaafi benefits hain, toh log dhundte huye aate hain ise humare paas. Last week, there was been a 15-20% increase in sale of such plants. Last time jab Delhi me Covid badha tha tab bhi log yehi plants leke jaa rahe the, toh ab bhi jaise hi cases badhne shuru huye, we made sure we had enough planters. Besides, air-purifying plants are also selling like hot cakes.”It’s the season of kadhaRaj Kumar, a nursery owner in Sector 69, Gurugram, says whenever Covid-19 peaks, people come asking for plants that are useful in making kadhas. “Pehle lockdown mein log khoob khareed kar gaye tulsi aur giloy. Iss baar bhi enquiries ke liye phone bajne shuru ho gaye hain. Along with these usual ones, people are showing interest in growing a permanent plant of lehsun (garlic) and adrak (ginger) for their kitchen gardens, so that they don’t have to rely too much on the vegetable vendors. Among other plants, snake plant, which is also being potted a lot, it looks good as a house plant and is superb for cleaning your air also.”‘Hard to find tulsi in winter’Punit Saini from Gautam Nagar-based Saini Plant Nursery says, “Sardiyon mein tulsi ki care na karo toh kharab ho jaati hai. That’s why one doesn’t find tulsi in too many nurseries around this time. However, I’ve stocked up on the different types of basil, including stevia (called mithi tulsi). Stevia is good for people who have blood pressure and blood sugar problems, so people are picking up this plant a lot. People are walking in, to buy more of these plants, now because there’s a confusion between common flu and Covid among many. So many think ki khaasi-zukaam na hi ho, toh behtar hai; warna baat Covid tak pahunch jayegi agar immunity low ho gayi. Giloy ki branches ke liye bhi kaafi calls aa rahi hain. Earlier we used to source giloy from nearby parks — since it’s a climber and grows around trees — aise hi giloy tod kar de dete the koi mangta tha toh. Par iss baar humne iski bel ko properly rakhna shuru kar diya hai.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tulsi-giloy-back-in-demand-nurseries-stock-up-on-medicinal-plants-101641401903412.html
05-01-2022||Pune||Truck collides with defunct toll plaza in Pune; no casualties reported||PUNE A heavy truck collided with the defunct structure of a toll plaza in Kavdipath area of Pune on Wednesday. No casualties were reported in the incident, as per the police.“The man did not sustain any serious injury so we have not recorded his name. He was administered with first aid at a local hospital and let go. We called for a crane and moved the truck to clear the traffic jam that happened after the accident,” said police sub-inspector Sadashiv Gaikwad of Lonikalbhor police station.The injured man was driving a heavy truck towards Pune in the early morning hours of Wednesday when he drove into the empty toll plaza. The man fell out through the windshield as the truck fell on its left side.The incident was recorded at the Lonikalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/truck-collides-with-defunct-toll-plaza-in-pune-no-casualties-reported-101641401123273.html
05-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka govt issues guidelines for arrivals from Goa. Details here||In view of rising Covid-19 infections in Goa, the Karnataka government on Wednesday issued special surveillance measures for people arriving here from the coastal state. “Special surveillance measures for arrivals from Goa state,” the Karnataka health department informed on Twitter. Special surveillance measures for arrivals from Goa State .ಗೋವಾ ರಾಜ್ಯದಿಂದ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕಕ್ಕೆ ಆಗಮಿಸುವ ಪ್ರಯಾಣಿಕರಿಗೆ ವಿಶೇಷ ಸರ್ವೇಕ್ಷಣಾ ಚಟುವಟಿಕೆಗಳು.@cmofKarnataka @mla_sudhakar @Comm_dhfwka @HubballiRailway@WeAreBangalore @bangalore@Belagavi_infra @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe pic.twitter.com/2AqCth4881According to the guidelines, passengers coming to Karnataka from Goa will have to mandatorily produce negative RT-PCR certificate from not more than 72 hours or three days before arriving in the southern state. This is applicable to those arriving from all modes of transport, including bus, train or personal vehicles, as well as those boarding connecting flights from Goa.Also Read | Special measures needed to contain Covid-19 in Bengaluru: Karnataka ministerIf the passenger is taking a flight, the concerned airline will issue boarding pass only to those who produce the negative RT-PCR certificate. Railway authorities, too, are responsible to ensure that passengers carry this document.In case of bus travel, the same responsibility shall lie with the conductor, the circular mandated.Further, deputy commissioners in districts bordering Goa, such as Belagavi and Uttar Kannada, will be required to make necessary arrangements to check whether vehicles entering Karnataka are complying with the said instructions.Also, frequent travellers between the two states need to undergo RT-PCR tests once every 15 days, and produce negative report for the same.Exemptions will be granted only to constitutional functionaries, health care professionals, and children below 5 years of age. In case of emergency situation, the passenger's swab shall be taken upon arrival in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnataka-govt-issues-guidelines-for-arrivals-from-goa-details-here-101641399218474.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Knitting love and warmth into an everlasting bond||It’s not the yarn or the pattern or the colour, it is akin to engulfing myself in the warmth of my Ma’s love as I put on the hand-knitted cardigan on the chilly, foggy winter morning. Many colleagues complimented on the intricate pattern and dextrous skill. What struck me most was the admiration for a forgotten skill. Knitting, once a favourite activity across northern India, has lost its glory. The brand conscious nouveau riche middle class has relegated pullovers and cardigans to oblivion. Hoodies, jackets, sweat shirts have caught the fancy of the new generation. The onset of winter augured hectic activity. Fluffy, woollen balls of myriad colours and multiple knitting needles adorned prominence in every home. Post morning household chores, women would flock at a strategic location, basking in the winter sun while hands busily engaged in knitting. Patterns, trends, nuances – a veritable tutorial for all. In fact, all through the winter season women hardly put down their needles. Fingers flew, needles clicked while they watched television or gossiped gleefully. Almost a similar pattern was followed across all homes. One would wear a light without sleeves sweater as the evenings turned cool, especially when we went to watch Ramleela, late October. Then as the mercury dipped, a full-sleeves as well as a hand knit vest. In peak winter, one would wear a matching set: A sleeveless and a cardigan, caps, mittens/gloves and muffler. New season, new trend! Cables this year, delicate holes last year; pure wool/trendy velvet or feather; two-toned/ multi-coloured; raglan sleeves, slant pockets, collar/ high neck/ turtle neck. I fondly remember umpteen visits to Sianco, Sector 17, Chandigarh, for the ‘in-colour’ or the allusive accessories: Right size needle – 7/8 number for thick wool and 11/12 for thin, double-sided for neck, specific crochet hook for an intricate pattern, even a U-shaped needle, Pony only or an extensive hunt for matching, fancy buttons. Buying the latest edition of Stitchcraft or ransacking the special knitting edition of a women’s magazine for the perfect pattern. Knitting meant social bonding. On special occasions like birthday or wedding, helping hands pitched in. One would knit sleeves, the other the back and the third the front. A pullover ready quickly! At times the activity was carried surreptitiously, away from prying eyes. A masterpiece knit clandestinely! The wearer would strut proudly, out of reach lest the pattern be copied. Ma is a wizard at knitting. She can copy any pattern effortlessly. Friends and acquaintances flock around to learn – pearl, knit, drop, carry, loop. She knit out-of-the-world baby sets when my daughter was born. Soft, cosy ones, with delicate dolls, beads embellished. She has gifted tokens of her love to all of us and till date her fingers cannot sit idle in winter. Hand-knitted stuff were prized possessions of yesteryears handed down to the next generation. The art has lost its popularity in the contemporary world yet the warmth continues to live on in our hearts. kalrasuruchi@yahoo.com The writer teaches English at Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/knitting-love-and-warmth-into-an-everlasting-bond-101641400883281.html
05-01-2022||Pune||Two in police custody for murder of man found dead in Talegaon Dabhade||PUNE Two men were remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police for killing a 24-year-old man and dumping his body in the Indrayani river stretching flowing through the Talegaon Dabhade area.The deceased man was identified as Ganesh Sunil Sonawane, 24, a resident of the Bhegadeali area of Talegaon Dabhade in Maval.The two men arrested in the case were identified as Kishor Jadhav, 45, and Mithlesh Kumar, 35, who were known to the deceased. They were remanded to seven in police custody by a local court.“The deceased used to work on a food stall. He was seen roaming around with Jadhav on multiple occasions. On New Year’s eve, they were sitting and drinking when they got into a fight. We are investigating the reason for the fight,” said police sub-inspector Govind Chavan, an investigation officer of the case.The police first found the body of the victim in the shallow part of the river flowing through Katvi village after it was discovered by nearby residents. The body was sent for post-mortem tests and a case of accidental death was registered pending the doctor’s opinion. The doctor told the police that the body had injuries on the head and chest and other parts of the body which had caused his death.A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-police-custody-for-murder-of-man-found-dead-in-talegaon-dabhade-101641400403519.html
05-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 2,833 new Covid cases, 81,470 vaxxed on Wednesday||PUNE According to the state health department, the district reported 2,833 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Wednesday.The progressive count currently stands at 1.17 million, out of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,195 deaths reported and 5,617 are active cases who are in the hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.Pune also saw 81,470 vaccinations on Wednesday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 421 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 370,832 and the death toll stood at 7,044 as one more death was reported.Pune city reported 1,835 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 530,907 and the death toll stood at 9,273.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 577 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 272,662 and the toll stood at 3,528.Pune district also saw 81,470 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Wednesday and in total, 15 million doses have been registered in the district. Out of which 8.85 million are first doses and 6.50 million are second doses. A total of 632 sites saw vaccination out of which 486 were government centres and 146 were private centres.Over 79, 254 people aged between 15 to 18 years old, got the jab in the district on the third day since the vaccination was started for the adolescents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-833-new-covid-cases-81-470-vaxxed-on-wednesday-101641400103253.html
05-01-2022||Pune||1,800 people fined for not wearing mask in Pune on Wednesday||PUNE At least 1,800 persons were fined by the Pune police in the city, Rs500 each on Wednesday, for not wearing a face mask. The action came after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar made the announcement about strict Covid norms being implemented in the city to combat the rising number of Covid cases. Apart from masks, ₹1,000 is the fine for spitting in public. Strict checking and action was taken by the Pune police department and Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) flying squads. “The Pune city police started fining on the roads or in public places for no masks from today. Just nine days ago, the number of Covid infection cases was under 100. Gradually, the number is increasing in the city and on Tuesday, over 1,000 persons tested positive for the virus. On Wednesday, over 1,800 cases were detected,” said joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve. “People were a bit relaxed in last few months as the number of cases were low. Many people neglected the norms of wearing masks, social distancing and sanitising their hands. However, now police have started action against people who will not wear masks and will not maintain social distancing in public places,” he said. The local police stations will keep an eye on motorists without masks and will fine them. Secondly, the police will visit public places and ask people to follow social distancing. “I appeal to people to cooperate with the police”, he added. Whereas there was rush seen at all the major markets around the city, despite the announcement of strict action and fines hundreds of people were seen flouting the norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1800-people-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-pune-on-wednesday-101641399807537.html
05-01-2022||Ranchi||16 killed, 25 injured in bus-truck collision in Jharkhand||RANCHI At least 16 people, including four women, were killed and 25 others injured in a head-on collision between a passenger bus and a truck transporting gas cylinders in Jharkhand’s Pakur district on Wednesday morning.“The injured have been referred to Dhanbad, Dumka and Patna as well. At least three of them are critical. Till now 16 casualties have been confirmed,” said Pakur superintendent of police Hrudeep P Janardhanan. Of the 16 dead, 14 were identified, of which five hail from Sahebganj district, three each from Dumka and Pakur, two from Deoghar and one from West Bengal. Identity of two of the dead was yet to be established. The bus, coming from Barahwa, was bound for Jasidih when it collided head-on collision with the truck carrying LPG cylinders near Kamardiha village on Sahebganj-Gobindpur highway under Amrapara police station. Chief minister Hemant Soren directed Pakur district officials to provide all possible relief to the accident victims. Pakur deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan said an ex gratia of ₹1 lakh was provided to dependents of each of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/16-killed-25-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-in-jharkhand-101641399806139.html
05-01-2022||Ranchi||J’khand lynching: Wife says he was killed in police presence; 13 booked for murder||A day after a man was lynched in a village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, his wife on Wednesday alleged he was killed by the mob in the presence of police who did nothing to save him despite her repeated pleas.Sanju Pradhan, in his 30s, was thrashed and set on fire by a mob in Besrabazar village under Kolebira police station in Simdega district on Tuesday. He was allegedly involved in illegal felling of trees and trading in stolen wood. As per police records, Pradhan had three cases against him for his alleged links with Maoists. “The police had reached the spot even before the mob had started beating him. I kept pleading before them to protect my husband, but they did nothing to save him,” Pradhan’s wife Sapna told reporters. Sapna said a 500-strong mob was present at the spot, but only four people had come to their home to take her husband away. “I don’t know the name of those four persons, but I can identify them if I see them,” she said. Simdega superintendent of police Shams Tabrez said a case has been registered with Kolebira police station on the complaint of the victim’s family members. “In all, 13 people have been made named accused and around two dozens as unnamed accused. We have identified those involved in the crime. Raids are on to apprehend them,” said Tabrez. The SP said the accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Incidentally, the Jharkhand assembly, in its winter session in December last year, had passed a special law against lynching incidents. The law, though, is yet to be identified. On Sapna’s allegations of the lynching incident occurring in presence of the police, Tabrez said deputy commissioner Kumar Saurav has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the entire incident. “If any lapse is found on part of the police in the SIT report, we will take appropriate action,” the officer said. Both Tabrez and Saurav visited the village and met the victim’s family on Wednesday. Sources in the district police, however, said a police patrol had reached the village soon after getting information that a mob had assembled there. “But they were only five policemen who found themselves helpless against a 500-strong mob. They informed the district headquarters and teams from at least four police stations reached the spot. But, it was too late,” an officer said.Meanwhile, opposition BJP alleged a conspiracy behind the killing and said Pradhan was an active booth-level party worker. “On December 28, a meeting was held in the village, which was also attended by elected representatives belonging to the ruling party,” said Laxman Baarik, president of BJP’s Simdega unit. Baraik, however, refused to name the elected representatives who participated in the meeting, saying they would come up with facts at an opportune time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-lynching-wife-says-he-was-killed-in-police-presence-13-booked-for-murder-101641399804774.html
05-01-2022||Patna||Poll panel begins work on polls for urban local bodies||After the conclusion of panchayat polls over in Bihar, the State Election Commission (SEC) has begun preparations for holding urban local bodies polls tentatively in April-May this year and has directed officials in concerned for delimitation of wards in the newly upgraded urban local bodies in various towns and cities, officials in the poll panel said. “Several rural local bodies have been upgraded to nagar panchayats in the last few years due to growing urbanisation in various districts. The delimitation of wards in these new nagar panchayats is a major step before holding the polls,” an SEC official said. The SEC was also examining an order by the Supreme Court recently regarding reservation of wards in local bodies for OBCs and SC/STs, the official said. “We are keeping a watch on the prevailing situation of Covid.We have not taken any decision about the dates or schedule of the polls for urban local bodies. But preparations are afoot,” said state election commissioner Dr Deepak Prasad. The last election in urban local bodies were held in May-June in 2017 to fill up posts of ward councillors in various municipal bodies, which has a term of five years.
05-01-2022||Patna||5 ministers among 1,659 fresh Covid cases in Bihar||Five members of Bihar cabinet, including deputy chief ministers Renu Devi and Tar Kishor Prasad, were among the 1,659 fresh Covid-19 cases the state reported on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike in six months which caused the active caseload to cross 3000 mark, according to the health department.Six employees at the chief minister’s house have also tested positive for the coronavirus, sources said.Besides the two Deputy CMs, ministers Ashok Kumar Chowdhary, Sunil Kumar and Santosh Kumar Suman have also been infected..“The state reported 1,659 positive cases, taking the total number of active cases to 3,697. Most of these cases are mild and asymptomatic. So far, only 63 patients have been hospitalised. Remaining are in home isolation,” said additional chief secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit.Of the 1,659 positive cases, 1,015 cases were reported from Patna. which now has 2,283 active cases.“In this wave, people are getting better in three to five days, but we must wear masks and follow other Covid-19 protocols,” he said.As per the figures issued by the state health society, so far 4.57 lakh children in the age bracket of 15-18 have been vaccinated.17 students of Navodaya school infectedSeventeen students of Jawahar Navodaya school at Bhihiya tested positive for Covid-19 in rapid antigen test on Tuesday during a vaccination camp on the premises. Dr Nand Kishore Prasad, in charge of public health care at Bihiya, most of them have returned home and are in isolation. “Their RT-PCR test report will be available within 48 hours,” said Prasad.IMA SUGGESTIONSIndian Medical Association national president Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh has suggested that in order to minimize risk among doctors, the central and the state government must ensure that Covid duty for resident doctors should not exceed 8 hours per day and 7 days in all, after which there should be a quarantine of 10 to 14 days in the accommodation prescribed by the hospital.“In case of untimely death, compensation as well as case wise assistance should be arranged,” Singh said in a release issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-ministers-among-1-659-fresh-covid-cases-in-bihar-101641399745089.html
05-01-2022||Patna||Bihar set to hold direct elections for mayors, key posts in urban bodies||Heads and deputy heads of urban local bodies (ULBs) in Bihar will now be elected directly by voters, in a key shift from the prevalent practice of indirect elections in which only elected representatives in these bodies form the electorate, according to amendments to the Bihar Municipal Act which was approved by the state Cabinet on Wednesday. This means mayor and deputy mayor in municipal corporations, chief councillors and deputy chief councillors in city councils and chairman and deputy chairman of in nagar panchayats will now be elected by voters of the respective urban bodies. The neighbouring Jharkhand, which was carved out of Bihar in 2000, has been following the practice of direct elections for top positions of ULBs for a long time. Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the urban department portfolio, said the next polls for ULBs would be held on the new pattern. Elections for as many as 263 ULBs, which include 19 municipal corporations, 89 nagar parishads and 155 nagar panchayats, are scheduled to be held in May-June this year. A senior official said the amendments would come in force once approved by the state assembly or through an ordinance. Meanwhile, the cabinet also gave its nod to six other agendas, including release of ₹125 crore as advance from the state contingency fund for payment of compensation to the kin of those who died of Covid19 in the last fiscal, revision of licensing/renewal fee for sugar mills and delimitation of three ULBs. The cabinet meeting, which was scheduled to be held in person, had to be conducted in the mixed format, physical and virtual, as many of the ministers have contracted Covid-19 infection. Deputy CMs Prasad and Renu Devi, excise minister Sunil Kumar, building construction minister Ashok Choudhary and irrigation minister Santosh Suman alias Santosh Manjhi were found positive for Covid-19 in the tests done last night and hence participated in the meeting through virtual mode. Energy minister Vijendra Yadav, health minister Mangal Pandey and mines minister Janak Ram also joined the meeting through video conferencing, while education minister Vijay Chaudhary and industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain attended the meeting in person. 
05-01-2022||Pune||10.80% of total Covid cases in Pune are of those below 20 years||Of the 57,000 Covid-19 cases reported between December 25 and January 4, 10.80% of the total cases are of those below the age of 20 years, as per the Maharashtra Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), A major chunk of the cases, 42.73%, continue to be reported in the age 21-4-year age group. HT had reported on June 2, 2021, that between January 1 and May 29, 2021, the state saw 0.1 million cases within the 0-10-year age group, including 18,000 cases among those aged four and below. However, this rise in the number of cases among children is in proportion with the overall rise in the number of cases in the state. During both waves, the age group of 31-40 years was the most affected. During the second wave of the infection which ranged in Pune between January to May last year and peaked in April, the state close to 100,000 new cases among those aged less than 10 years and of these 118,000 were reported among those aged less than four years. However, this rise in the number of cases among children is in proportion with the overall rise in the number of cases in the state. As per data with the Pune district administration, the 113 Omicron cases reported in the district are driving up the numbers to rise by about 29% between the third and fourth week of December. The number of reported Omicron cases are distributed among all age groups. Of the 113 Omicron cases reported in the district, 20 are from those aged below 15 years, 25 are among those aged 18 to 30; 23 among the 30-40-year age group; 21 in the 40-50-year age group and 24 in the 50-plus age group. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC’s chief health officer said, “We are reporting cases in the younger population more in this wave, i.e those aged 18 to 40 years. It would be too soon to say that more children are affected by this wave. However, they could be more vulnerable as the age group below 15-18 years is just getting vaccinated and those below 15 years of age are yet to get vaccinated. Omicron is spreading faster and children could be vulnerable which is the reason why schools were shut down in the first place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1080-of-total-covid-cases-in-pune-are-of-those-below-20-years-101641399623220.html
05-01-2022||Pune||0.19 million beneficiaries yet to take second Covid dose in Pune city||PUNE Out of the 0.287 million people who were pending to take the second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine despite being eligible, the civic body after regular follow-ups vaccinated 96,000 beneficiaries. However, at least 0.19 million beneficiaries are yet to take the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The maximum number of these beneficiaries are from Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Kasba-Vishrambaugwada and Bibwewadi wards, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department.Dr Suryankant Deokar, immunisation officer PMC, said, “We have called up all the contact numbers based on the database provided by the CoWin app, however, not all of them were vaccinated at PMC centres and so we have told private hospitals as well to call up their beneficiaries and follow-up on their vaccination status. We are also doing the same and we have been able to convince over 96,000 beneficiaries.”In the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward at least 20,310 beneficiaries are still to take the second dose, while in the Kasba-Vishrambaugwada ward at least 20,796 and in Bibwewadi at least 17,528 have not taken the second vaccine dose.Interestingly, in the past week as per the Integrated District Surveillance Program (IDSP), between December 23 and December 29, the wards in the city which reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases are Aundh-Baner, Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri, Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Kothrud-Bawdhan and Warje-Karvenagar wards.Starting from January 10 over 0.75 million will become eligible to take the third dose in the district, out of which 265,473 is the projection number of co-morbid population in 60 plus age group, 198,399 are health care workers and 291,924 are frontline workers.The vaccine doses are administered free of cost at government Covid-19 vaccination centres, whereas in private centres, vaccine administration is done at a pre-publicised cost. From the beginning of the national Covid-19 vaccination programme, the private hospitals are permitted to function as centres to vaccinate their staff (doctors, paramedics and other staff.) at their hospital itself. The Centre has instructed all the states that under the programme, that such private hospitals may choose to bear the pre-publicised cost and provide the precaution dose to their staff who are eligible and due, free of cost.Dr Deokar added, “Those who have completed 90 days post their second vaccine and/or at least three months post Covid-19 infection can take the third dose also known as precautionary dose after consulting their doctor. All those who are co-morbid and aged above 60 years of age are eligible for the third shot of the vaccine. In addition to this frontline workers and health care workers are also eligible to take the third shot. The state is yet to give final details on the registration process for the third shot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/019-million-beneficiaries-yet-to-take-second-covid-dose-in-pune-city-101641399443184.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Noida imposes stricter curbs from Thursday as Covid cases spike||The number of active Covid-19 cases has crossed the 1,000-mark in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the district administration said on Wednesday, as it announced tougher restrictions like extension of night curfew.            The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday ordered additional restrictions to be automatically enforced in districts where the number of cases go beyond 1,000. Currently, Gautam Buddh Nagar, which includes Noida and Greater Noida, is the only district with over 1,000 active cases of the disease.            "There has been a rise in cases of coronavirus recently. The number of cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar has crossed the 1,000 figure today. The restrictions mandated by the Uttar Pradesh government will be implemented here from tomorrow," District Magistrate Suhas L Yathiraj said.            Officials in the district have consulted health experts in view of a third wave of the pandemic, and the rise in the number of cases has been quick, he told reporters here.            "However, the number of patients who need oxygen support or hospitalisation has been very low," the DM said.            Regarding the restrictions that will be enforced in Gautam Buddh Nagar from Thursday, he said night curfew would be enforced from 10 pm-6 am instead of the earlier 11 pm-5 am.            "A campaign will be run across the district to ensure the policy of 'No Mask, No Shopping' is followed. The objective is to raise awareness among the public of Covid-appropriate behaviour," the DM said.  A maximum 100 people will be allowed at any event, like weddings, in covered halls while the limit will be 50 per cent of total capacity in open areas, he said.  Physical classes up to 10th standard in all schools will remain suspended till January 14, he said.  Restaurants, cinema halls, etc will also function at 50 per cent of its full capacity during the period, he added.  "No commercial activities will be stopped and they will not require any special pass for their work or transport. The transportation would also continue like before," Yathiraj said.  However, all institutes should set up Covid-19 help desk, which will enable provision of any information related to coronavirus for people, he said.            Yathiraj said the Integrated Covid Command Centre (ICCC) is active 24 hours a day and the district administration is in constant touch with resident welfare associations and apartment owners associations regarding any case of Covid-19 patient.  He added that the capacity at the ICCC control room–18004192211–has been increased to address more queries.            Monitoring cells have also been activated to provide immediate support to any person in need, he said, adding the ICCC can be contacted at 18004192211 and anyone in need can get details about vaccination, hospitalisation or even telephonic consultation with doctors.            The rate of transmission of the virus in this new wave is high but symptoms or need for hospitalisation among patients is low, the official said.            "If we look at the figures in the district only, we have 1,110 active cases today of which no one is in a condition for additional oxygen support. If we look at our Covid-19 hospitals, we have 400 patients there which include some foreign-returnees and some people who do not have adequate facilities for home isolation," Yathiraj said.            "No patient currently is in ICU. There are a few but those are only the cases with co-morbidities," he added.Covid-19 sampling in Gautam Buddh Nagar, he claimed, is among the highest for any district in the national capital region. He said the sampling size if 3,000 to 4,000 per million population per day in the district.  Yesterday itself, 7,500 samples were taken only by government facilities in the district which include both antigen-based tests and RT-PCR tests, he said.  The positivity rate in antigen tests ranges from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent on some days, while that of RT-PCR tests ranges from 4 per cent to 7 per cent.  "The figures fluctuate and we look at the weekly figures. Generally, the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests remains three to four times higher than antigen-based tests," Yathiraj said.  He said a successful measure against the infection would be early tracing and isolation of the infected person, noting that on an average 18 contacts of an infected person are traced in Gautam Buddh Nagar but the health department has been instructed to take this number to up to 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stricter-covid-curbs-in-noida-from-thursday-dm-101641398987336.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Highest single-day spike in city at 15,014||Mumbai Mumbai recorded its highest-ever single-day spike as the daily case tally breached the 15,000-mark on Wednesday.The city recorded 15,014 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, making it the highest single-day count. Earlier, 11,206 fresh infections were reported on April 4, 2021, which was then the single-day highest case tally after the pandemic outbreak. The city also recorded 100 Omicron cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 508. Out of the 15,166 infections reported on Wednesday, 13,195 were asymptomatic and the bed-occupancy level stayed at 14.4 per cent, with 5,104 out of 35,487 beds occupied.Besides this, three deaths were reported in Mumbai on Wednesday taking the total death tally to 16,384.On Wednesday, a total of 60,014 tests were conducted. Mumbai’s Dharavi, which became a Covid-19 hotspot last year, recorded 81 cases on Wednesday, which is also the highest since April 4, when the slum cluster recorded 99 cases.Senior BMC officials stated that in comparison to the rising case tally, the demand for hospital admission is not very high. However, experts stated that they need to wait for at least ten more days before coming to any conclusion.Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care in Fortis hospital and member of the national Covid-19 task force and the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force said that the nature of the spread shows characteristics of the Omicron variant.“While the spread is similar to the characteristics of the Omicron variant, we will have to wait for the genome sequencing report before making any concrete comment,” said Pandit.“Also it’s too early to comment on the rate of hospital beds occupancy. The cases started to spike from December 20 and we will have to wait and watch the situation till January 15 because it usually takes the variant of a virus two-three weeks to show up its actual symptoms,” Pandit added.Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that it is likely that along with Omicron the presence of Delta and Delta plus variants are still valid in the fresh cases.“The cases are rising steadily and we can anticipate more cases in the coming days. We will only be able to know the intensity of the Omicron variant and how well it has spread once more samples are tested for genome sequencing. But as of now, we are sure that there is not just Omicron but Delta and Delta plus is also there,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, the BMC said that out of the cases that are being reported daily, 90 per cent are from high-rise buildings. The number of active sealed buildings also increased rapidly in just 10 days. At present, the K/West ward presently has 4,564 active cases, which is the highest in city followed by H/West ward (Bandra west), K/East (Andheri east) and D ward (Malabar Hills).Speaking to HT, Prashant Gaikwad, ward officer from D ward, said that most of the fresh cases are coming out from contact tracing of the high-risk contacts.“During the first and second wave, for every one positive patient, one high-risk contact would test positive. Now, for every positive patient, there are at least two high-risk contacts, who are testing positive,” said Gaikwad.The BMC’s K/West ward office on Wednesday issued a circular to the high rises and housing societies stating that rampant testing will be conducted.Vaqar Javeed, assistant municipal commissioner of form R/Central ward, which also has a significant number of active cases, said that cluster cases are being reported in buildings that have joint families living inside them.“As most of the fresh patients are fully-vaccinated, the symptoms that are very mild and the rate of hospital admissions is also very low,” said Javeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/highest-single-day-spike-in-city-at-15014-101641398783471.html
05-01-2022||Pune||46-year-old gets life imprisonment for raping minor daughter||PUNE A man has been sentenced to life in prison by a court in Pune for repeatedly sexually assaulting his biological daughter, till 2018 when he was arrested. The court also levied a fine of ₹50,000; failure of payment will invite five years of additional punishment. The convicted man was identified as a 46-year-old native of Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh. The survivor was 13 years of age in 2018, when she reported the crime to the police. The conviction was awarded by District Judge KK Jhagirdar with public prosecutor Arundhati Bramhe and investigating officer Ashwini Patil, with police staff havaldars Sachin Shinde and Vishal Madne. “After considering the submissions of both parties, no doubt, the accused being the father of the victim, it is his duty to protect her in all difficulties and he has to protect the girl from the bad elements from society and he has to do all the things for the development and benefits of his daughter, but he has committed a heinous crime of rape upon his own daughter, not only repeatedly, but continuously for the period of three years, and when the torture of the sexual harassment of accused became unbearable to the victim, she herself rushed to the police station and lodged the complaint”, read one of the concluding remarks of the district judge. The district legal service authority (DLSA), Pune, was directed to provide compensation to the victim under the Victim Compensation Scheme framed by the state government of Maharashtra, known as the Manodhairya Scheme. The girl lost her mother in 2014 after which the father moved her and her elder brother to Pune from UP. He started working as a watchman in a building. The mother of the child had passed away 7-8 years before the crime was committed, according to the court order. Therefore, the brother of the survivor and the survivor are solely dependent on the accused for livelihood. The man was a habitual drinker and often came home drunk before abusing the children physically and verbally. It was a few years after the death of the survivor’s mother that he starting molesting and then abusing her. “He repeated assaulted her right until the time when the FIR was registered. It started when she was barely 10 years of age. He used to threaten to harm her brother if she did not comply. We examined nine witnesses including the complainant, the doctor who examined her, and the investigating officer,” said PP Bramhe. The defence lawyer, provided by the DLSA, claimed that the girl has made up the case because she was caught stealing from houses in the building where her father worked. The lawyer claimed that the girl levelled false allegation to seek revenge after her father reprimanded her for theft. However, the doctor’s examination proved otherwise. The girl had come to the police station in February 2018 after the man had assaulted her for five days in a row. She narrated the incident to the police, but was scared and crying. The police called for a social worker who helped her lodge a complaint. The conviction was awarded for crimes under Sections 376 (2)(n)(I), 376(3), and 506 of Indian Penal Code and Section 3 punishable under section 4, 5(l)(n) punishable under section 6 of Protection of children from sexual offence (Pocso) Act, 2012 registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/46yearold-gets-life-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-daughter-101641397882916.html
05-01-2022||Pune||PCB rejuvenates British era natural water spring as part of 75 years of country’s independence programme||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board ( PCB) has rejuvenated a water body belonging to the British era located on A 1 defence land spread over 1.50 acres on Pune-Solapur highway. The ambitious project was undertaken by the Prime Minister’s flagship Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav (commemoration of 75 years of India’s independence ) initiative which is being implemented by the ministry of director general of defence estates department under Ministry of Defence. The natural spring has been in existence at the plot for a long time and over the years had become a repository of dirt, filth and silt. The board administration during the past two months carried out a mammoth clean up drive in the area and pressed bulldozers and silt removing machines at the site wherein 60 truckloads of silt was extracted from the water body area. Also, specialsed labour force were deployed to ensure that entire area was cleaned from the indepths aimed at increasing the sustainability of water in the area.The entire area has now been fenced and a gate will be constructed in the next few days as part of the completion of the phase I of the programme. The second phase includes a garden and a bridge to cross the water body for the visitors , which will start soon.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “There was already a cantonment board resolution in place for taking up the project. Funds were made available and the natural spring in the A 1 defence land which was till recently a spot of neglect has been rejuvenated. It is a perennial source of natural water and the beautification of the entire place has been undertaken as per the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme. There was very thick vegetation all over the waterbody and it was a marshy place. Our engineering team carried out a professional job rejuvenating the natural spring. The work was carried out as deep as 50 feet to ensure that the natural ecosystem is rejuvenated successfully.”Assistant executive engineer Sukhdev Patil said “ For two months , a team of over 25 persons worked relentlessly to clean the waterbody. We have used all natural materials to ensure the natural sanctity of the ecosystem is maintained. Besides, stone pitching has been done along the side to preserve the area.”Former PCB vice-president Vinod Mathurawala said “ The project will lead to conservation of the water body and further increase in green cover of PCB area. Such citizen centric initiatives by the board will result in long term conservation and preservation of the environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-rejuvenates-british-era-natural-water-spring-as-part-of-75-years-of-country-s-independence-programme-101641397709160.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Congress, Punjab govt should apologise for ‘lapse’ in PM’s security: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has targeted the Congress and its government in Punjab for the “massive breach in security” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that has snowballed into a major political row ahead of assembly elections. Modi’s Punjab visit was cut short after a “major security lapse” as he was stranded on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters, prompting the Union Home Ministry to seek an immediate report from the state government and strict action against those responsible.“The breach in security of Prime Minister reflects on mismanagement and poor state of affairs in Punjab. The Congress and Punjab government should tender an apology to the people of India,” said the chief minister in a video statement. Yogi said “The Congress has been undermining the constitutional institutions and India has seen yet another example of the same. This also reflects on the Congress and Punjab government’s conspiracy. The people of India would never allow such conspiracies to succeed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-punjab-govt-should-apologise-for-lapse-in-pm-s-security-yogi-101641397288055.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid resurgence: AU stops entry of visitors on campus; classes to be held online||Following resurgence of Covid cases and its new variant Omicron in the state, the Allahabad University (AU) has banned entry of visitors/outsiders on the varsity premises and asked students to attend their classes only in online mode. According to a notification issued by AU registrar prof NK Shukla, it has also been decided that only internal official working will be carried out from the offices of the varsity till further orders. “The order has been implemented with immediate effect and all faculty members and guest lecturers of departments, institutes and centers of AU have been asked to take necessary steps to continue their classes in online mode and all deans of faculty, heads of department, directors of institute and coordinators of centers have been instructed to ensure proper attendance of faculty members in their respective departments, institutes and centers,” said public relation officer of AU, prof Jaya Kapoor. The research scholars are allowed to carry out their necessary research work only after due permission from their guide or supervisor concerned following all Covid protocols, said the notification.All faculty members, non-teaching staff and students have also been asked to get fully vaccinated.The notification further reads that all officials, faculty members and non-teaching staff have been advised to take care of their health and if they report any respiratory symptoms or fever they must leave the workplace after informing their reporting officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-resurgence-au-stops-entry-of-visitors-on-campus-classes-to-be-held-online-101641396263014.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||66 BEST staff test positive in Mumbai since Dec 27||MUMBAI About 66 BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) employees, including bus drivers and conductors, tested positive for Covid since December 27.Of them, 44 were hospitalised as they were showing mild symptoms and 10 were discharged till Wednesday evening. “60 per cent of the cases were detected at the time of point of care testing at depot premises,” said a senior BEST official. However, the BEST administration said that the employees have mild symptoms but they were hospitalised as a precautionary measure. “No one required oxygen support and the employees were admitted as a part of precautionary measures. The recovery rate among the BEST employees is 96 per cent,” said Anil Kumar Singal, chief medical officer, BEST.The BEST has an employee strength of 32,125 employees including the transportation and electricity department. Of the 32,125 employees, 18,381 are drivers and bus conductors. On an average, nearly 2.4 million passengers travel by BEST buses every day. The BEST buses were not suspended during the second wave and were majorly used for transportation of employees working in essential care services. The bus services resumed for the general public from June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/66-best-staff-test-positive-in-mumbai-since-dec-27-101641394823250.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Physical classes in colleges, varsities suspended till February 15||Mumbai Due to a surge in Covid cases, the Maharashtra government has decided to shut down physical classes in colleges and universities till February 15. The state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant made the announcement on Wednesday.He said that the examinations scheduled till February 15 will also be conducted online, except for three universities — Gondwana, Jalgaon and Nanded — where power supply is an issue.The state government also decided to allow only 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to attend offices at colleges and universities on a rotation basis. The rest of the staff will have to work from home. This is being done to ensure they are not infected, Samant said in a virtual address on social platforms.The decision has been made applicable to all universities that include deemed, self-financed and private universities, according to the higher and technical education minister.The daily cases in Maharashtra crossed 18,000 on Tuesday. Going by the projections of the state health department, the active cases will breach 2,00,000-mark in the third week of this month and 3,00,000-mark by the first week of February.“The safety of students, teaching and non-teaching staff is of utmost importance for us. Following the directives of the chief minister, we have decided to stop physical classes in colleges and universities until February 15. The exams scheduled in this period will also be held online. The decision on the examination scheduled to be conducted post February 15 will be taken in the coming days,” Samant said while making the announcement.On Tuesday, he held a review meeting of the Covid situation with district collectors and divisional commissioners along with the vice-chancellors of the universities to understand the ground situation.Samant stressed on the need for vaccination of students between the age group of 15 to 18 years and teaching and non-teaching staff who are yet to be vaccinated. “Those teaching and non-teaching staff who are yet to be vaccinated will be directed to get inoculated as early as possible. Since the Centre has allowed children between 15-18 years of age, it means colleges and polytechnics need to ensure their first and second-year students are vaccinated. This can be done by holding vaccination camps in consultation with district collectors,” the higher and education minister.“We want to reopen colleges and varsities after February 15 and want students, parents, teachers and non-teaching staff to cooperate with the state government by following all Covid norms so that third wave can subside at the earliest,” he added.City colleges welcome moveThe state government’s decision has brought cheer and relief to students as well as colleges, many of who have personally contracted Covid in the last one week.While the official announcement by the state government came only on Wednesday, several colleges had already decided to move their physical classes into online mode amidst rising cases. “We reached out to the education department and enquired if the college principal can take a call to shut college and conduct online classes instead. Immediately, a decision was taken and staff and students were informed that classes, as well as ongoing practical exams, will be conducted online only,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal KC College, Churchgate. Post-Christmas break, all classes starting January 3 have been conducted online and the non-teaching staff has been requested to attend college at 50% attendance only.“Every second person in our college was under the weather and symptoms are so similar to flu, no one was sure what they had. Post-Christmas, we decided to move classes online because only a handful of students were ready to come for physical classes. I’m glad the government took the call to shut college campuses,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College Bandra. She herself is currently unwell and is awaiting her test results, she said.In October 2021, state education minister Uday Samant announced the reopening of colleges in hybrid mode and requested colleges to bring back fully vaccinated staff and students for physical classes in a phased manner starting October 20. All MU affiliated colleges had been conducting hybrid classes since then and a handful of institutes have been conducting offline exams for smaller batches.Recently, a handful of colleges came under fire for conducting offline classes as well as exams in January. Students of Mithibai College, Narsee Monjee College as well as the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) have been raising objections against the decision of respective college managements for conducting physical exams amidst rising Covid-19 cases among students and staff.“There have been cases where students have caught the virus by attending lectures and despite bringing this to the notice of college authorities, nothing was changing. We are glad the government finally gave clarity in this matter and shut down college campuses,” said the parent of a student of NMIMS.Krutika Desai, principal of Mithibai College in Vile Parle told HT that the institute has been taking all necessary steps to ensure students’ safety. “Every protocol on paper is being followed religiously and despite that, a student tested positive after failing to avoid public functions a day before exams. Our college has been insisting on physical exams for the advantage of students but now with the latest announcement, we might have to opt for postponement of offline exams,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/physical-classes-in-colleges-varsities-suspended-till-february-15-101641394343067.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Theaterisation of armed forces cannot be left to military alone||The death of General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash on December 8 has brought the discussion of military modernisation to our drawing rooms. There is an apprehension that the demise of the chief of defence staff (CDS) of the Indian armed forces may cause a setback to military modernisation, which is not without reason. The department of military affairs is a new set-up and the CDS had his plate full. An important issue under modernisation has been theaterisation of the military. The Kargil committee report had recommended the need to have a permanent CDS for better jointmanship. Theaterisation is a step beyond that. It implies the distribution of the army, navy and air force component on theatre basis, under a single commander. World over, theaterisation of the military has been a sticky issue because of the inter-service perceptions and turf issues. The US Government had to pass an Act called Goldwater-Nicholas Act to make its military agree to theaterisation. Our politicians are not so well-versed with military intricacies. The government assumed that the CDS should be able to take care of all inter-service issues, including theaterisation. However, according to the initial charter, the CDS had no operational role, which was left to the service chiefs. General Rawat in due course came to a conclusion that the theatre commanders may have to report to the CDS, which indeed makes the CDS an operational commander. This arrangement could put the entire military under one military man, the CDS. In the US, the theatre commanders report to the defence secretary (defence minister), not to the chairman joint chiefs of staff, who is the equivalent of our CDS. US model has some good lessons In the theaterisation context, the US model has some good lessons, especially for a big military like ours. The US army consists of 4.8 lakh personnel on active duty, air force 3.3 lakh, navy 3.36 lakh and US marines 1.8 lakh. The air force and navy are equipment heavy forces; therefore, manpower figures only indicate their size, not actual capability. However, these figures are useful, when we compare them with our military. We have the third largest military in the world, 12 lakh army personnel, 1.4 lakh air force personnel and 70,000 navy personnel. The US has no land disputes like ours but its military operates around the globe. Though their active commitment at all times is not as much as the Indian Army’s, the US has divided its military into six theatre commands and five functional commands. Only the US Marines are a truly integrated force that operates around the globe, its nucleus is from the infantry. The US has managed its theaterisation concept by decentralising the command and control, and increasing the number of 4-star Generals. The US army has 15 four-star Generals, air force 11, navy nine and marine corps three. The senior most 4-Star General is chairman joint chiefs of staff. He has the chiefs of the army, air force, navy and marines under him. He is the adviser to the defence secretary (defence minister) and the President. However, the chairman JCS has no operational responsibilities. The respective service chiefs too have no operational responsibilities. They primarily look after training, equipment and manpower issues. The chain of operational command in the US military flows directly from the President and defence secretary to theatre commanders, who are also 4-star Generals or equivalent. Division of military area of responsibility The Indian military does not operate around the globe like the US military but our land borders are long and disputed. Therefore, India has a big military, particularly army. Indian military has just three 4-star Generals and a CDS. We possibly cannot fit our theaterisation model under just four Generals. One way to solve this problem is, the way the US has done. Division of military area of responsibility into theatres, not only makes it more manageable, it becomes easy to decide whether a particular theatre should be commanded by the army, navy or air force officer, because that gets decided to a large extent at the time of creation of the theatres, which is based on the nature of operations in that particular theatre. For example, in the US, the Indo-Pacific Command has always been commanded by the navy, space command and transportation command by the air force. The Central, African, Southern and Special Operations Commands have been mostly commanded by the army or marines. To satisfy all its services, the US had initially conceived that chairman JCS would be in rotation. In actual fact, of the 20 chairman JCS so far since 1949, 10 have been from the army and two from the marines. One man can’t be master of all 3 services Our biggest disputes being land-centric, it was logical for General Rawat to have concluded that the Indian military needs to have two theatre commands for China and Pakistan borders, one maritime theatre command and one air defence command. China and Pakistan theatres will need to be commanded by army officers, maritime theatre by a naval officer and air defence theatre by an air force officer. A little problem with our theaterisation model conceived by General Rawat is, our corps commanders and equivalent are 3-star, our army commanders are also 3-star and our theatre commanders too have been envisioned to be 3-star. They are unlikely to make a happy functional hierarchy. If we are to cut army commanders out, none of the services will be happy. The promotion pyramid in the military is already too steep. This problem can be solved if our theatre commanders are made 4-star like the US military. It is not clear if the Government of India will be comfortable making all theatre commanders report to one military man, the CDS. It may also not be the most professional option because it is not possible for one man to become a master of all three services. The theatre commanders could report directly to the defence minister like the US. The variation from the US model could be that the CDS may also be present during such briefings. In that case, whether the CDS is from the army or air force or navy, it really wouldn’t matter. This kind of model could solve most of our problems. This major inter-service issue had been entrusted to the CDS in the past. The CDS could not have taken such far-reaching decisions on his own. If we don’t make theatre commanders 4-star and the operations continue to be under the service chiefs, the army chief in particular will have a lot on his hands, including the theatre air component, which may nullify the theaterisation advantage. According to the present indications, if the CDS appointment is to be rotated between the three services, then the service chiefs or the theatre commanders will need to accompany the CDS, when he goes to brief the defence minister. There is no harm in that. A single point adviser is a mirage. US chairman JCS appears to be so, but actually he is not a single point adviser because the theatre commanders are reporting directly to the defence secretary. Our present CDS model is meant for small militaries. The Kargil Committee had worked on a limited mandate, which did not include theaterisation. The government needs to take the call before this issue delays the modernisation any further. npshira@gmail.comThe writer retired as deputy chief of army staff. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/theaterisation-of-armed-forces-cannot-be-left-to-military-alone-101641394162865.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 26,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; Omicron tally nears 800||Maharashtra witnessed a sharp spike in its daily Covid-19 infections, with 26,538 more people testing positive for the viral disease, as against 18,466 on January 4, taking its cumulative infection tally to 6,757,032, a health department bulletin showed. In the same period, eight more Covid-19 fatalities were recorded, down significantly from 20 a day ago, pushing total deaths to 141,581, as per the data.Also Read | Cordelia cruise: Another 143 passengers contract Covid, infection tally at 209Meanwhile, as many as 144 new cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the state as well, with the total number of such infections rising to 797. Mumbai, the state capital, accounted for 100 patients, while Nagpur saw 11 more cases of the strain. Thane and Pune each saw seven more people contracting the variant, while five patients were found in Kolhapur. Amravati, Ulhasnagar and Bhuvandi-Nizampur logged two cases each. Overall, 330 Omicron patients have been discharged after recovery, leaving active cases of the variant in Maharashtra at 467.Also Read | 66 BEST bus workers test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai, 44 in hospitalIn Mumbai, daily Covid-19 cases reached 15,014 while three more people lost their lives due to the infection. A day ago, the metropolis' daily Covid-19 tally and fatalities stood at 10,606 and two, respectively. Its total case count stands at 831,979 including 16,384 deaths.Also Read | 3rd wave won’t overwhelm Mumbai hospitals: TIFR modelIn recent days, Maharashtra has experienced a fresh surge in its daily Covid-19 cases, driven primarily by the Omicron variant. The rise in cases has prompted authorities to clamp restrictions to curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-to-15-166-city-logs-3-more-deaths-101641391002801.html
05-01-2022||Pune||PMC to hold all statutory meetings online||PUNE As the Covid-19 cases have surged in the state and Pune city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to hold all the statutory meetings online. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued a circular on Wednesday.As the cases have surged, the state government instructed all the municipal corporations to avoid physical meetings in the civic bodies.After state government instructions, Kumar issued the circular on Wednesday. As per the circular, “All the statutory meetings like general body meeting, standing committee, women and child development, tree authority, city improvement and rest all the meetings will be held online. These meetings would be either be held through video conferencing or on other online platforms.”Earlier as well during the first and second Covid-19 waves, the municipal corporations’ meetings were conducted online. As the number of cases reduced, the state government allowed civic bodies to hold physical meetings.As only one month’s tenure is remaining for the elected members, there is little chance for them to attend any physical meeting in the municipal corporation. The elections are slated for February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-hold-all-statutory-meetings-online-101641391342590.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Fire department making adequate arrangements for Magh Mela in Prayagraj||To ensure safe and secure Magh Mela set to begin on the banks of Sangam from January 14/15, the fire department is making adequate arrangements. “Twelve fire stations will function in mela area at strategic places, including near Akshayvat, cremation ghat, Kotwali and even near Daraganj Railway Station. Most of them are already operational and more fire stations will be set up as per the need. Over 23 big and small fire tenders have been roped in to counter any emergency situation,” said chief fire officer Magh Mela Dhirendra Yadav.To note, big and small fire breaks out at tents of Kalpwasis and Akhadas every year during Magh Mela. Fire has not claimed lives during last many years in mela but tents and goods worth several were gutted. Moreover, fire also poses threat of panic and chaos among pilgrims in mela area on main bathing days. Yadav said water mist bikes have been pressed into service and fire fighters will be present at strategic crossings to reach the spot immediately in case of any blaze. Six fire safety officers (FSOs) and 15 second officers have been deployed at Magh Mela where duty has been assigned in three phases, the CFO added. Yadav said awareness drives have also been launched in mela area among Kalpwasis and pilgrims. “They are being cautioned not to keep inflammable substances inside their tents or light bonfire. They are also being asked to keep water buckets and sand to douse fire in case of any emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fire-department-making-adequate-arrangements-for-magh-mela-in-prayagraj-101641390565899.html
05-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand high court asks EC to consider ban on large rallies amid Covid surge||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday asked the Election Commission of India (ECI) to consider banning large public meetings and allowing only virtual rallies for the state assembly elections expected to be held next month. “Let the Election Commission of India consider issuing appropriate directions prohibiting a large public rallies for ensuing the election for the Uttarakhand State Legislative Assembly. The Election Commission shall also consider for issuing appropriate directions for campaigning in virtual mode. We also request the Election Commission of India to consider the alternative of virtual voting in future,” a division bench comprising chief justice Sanjaya Kumar Mishra and justice Alok Kumar Sharma said on an oral prayer by a petitioner, Sachdanand Dabral, during a hearing on management of Covid-19 cases in the state.“The ECI has been directed to file its response by January 12, when the matter has been listed for next hearing”, said lawyer Shobit Saharia, who represented the election commission.Also Read: Omicron variant watch: Fast, even if not as furious, needs disciplined responseThis is the second time in less than a fortnight that a high court has nudged ECI to consider barring public rallies against the backdrop of growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease. On December 23, the Allahabad high court advised ECI and Centre to defer elections to the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, and in case it decides to go ahead, to ban rallies and public meetings. The election commission decided to stick to its schedule on UP elections after a meeting with political parties in the state.Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra told reporters on December 30 that a decision on curtailing big political rallies and holding virtual rallies will be taken according to the Covid graph.Last year, ECI came in for severe criticism over the conduct of assembly elections in West Bengal -- Covid protocols were not followed by all parties involved for much of the campaign -- which coincided with the second wave of the pandemic.Lawyer Shiv Bhatt, who appeared for petitioner Sachdanand Dabral, said he argued for postponing the elections or allowing political parties to hold only virtual rallies in view of the rising Covid cases.Bhatt said he told the court that 97 elections have been postponed across the world. “I also apprised the court about Arvind Kejriwal’s public rally in Dehradun after which he tweeted, he was Covid-positive”, he said.Bhatt said ECI was made a party in the case on December 29, and its lawyer told to obtain instructions from the commission on the plea.Uttarakhand has 654 active Covid-19 cases including 8 cases that have been confirmed to be of the Omicron variant.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun based Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation said it is a welcome development. “And by the time ECI comes up with its response, political parties should also come up with their stand on how they want to proceed at a time when cases are rising. They should also come up with their own guidelines for safe political activity and campaigns so that political rallies don’t emerge as the epicentre of Covid-19 spread,” he said. 
05-01-2022||Pune||Two including police constable booked for rape in Pune||A 29- year-old lawyer has lodged a complaint of rape against a police constable posted with the ATS unit of Pune rural police with Chatuhshrungi police. According to the FIR, the accused constable has been identified as Laxman Ganga Dhar Raut ( 33), a resident of Patra Chawl. According to the complaint, the accused met the victim over a matrimonial site in March 2020, took her number and got in touch with her. Later he took her to Dehu road and Pimpale Nilakh and allegedly raped her. He had promised marriage but cheated her, the FIR stated. In the second case, The Kondhwa police have lodged a rape case against a youth for promising marriage to a woman who became pregnant in the relationship. The 17-year-old woman in her complaint stated that the 21-year-old accused promised marriage and lured her into a physical relationship due to which she became pregnant. The relationship lasted for two years and the accused did not fulfil the promise to the victim, the complaint said. Kondhwa police station in charge Sardar Patil said that the accused allegedly kept the physical relationship with the girl at a lodge near Bopdev Ghat. Further investigation is on in the case, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-including-police-constable-booked-for-rape-in-pune-101641389902560.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Cordelia cruise: Another 143 passengers contract Covid, infection tally at 209||As many as 143 new Covid-19 infections were detected on Wednesday among passengers of the Cordelia cruise ship that returned from Goa to Mumbai a day ago over the spread of the virus aboard the luxury ship.Earlier, 66 passengers of a total 2,000 passengers on the ship had tested positive for coronavirus. This took the total count of infections on the ship to 209.Earlier in the day, the city civic body of Mumbai said 41 of the infected passengers were shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. Some of the other passengers who had tested positive for the viral infection were still on the ship. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted RT-PCR tests on 1,827 people on board the cruise on Tuesday night.The civic body did not allow any other passenger, except the infected ones, to disembark from the ship after it reached Mumbai on Tuesday evening.A seven-day home quarantine will be mandatory for the passengers whose RT-PCR test reports come out negative, a BMC official said.The Cordelia cruise ship was sent back to Mumbai from Goa with all the passengers on Monday night after some of the infected persons refused to get admitted to a medical facility there, an official from a shipping agency earlier said.Six crew members out of the total 66 who had tested positive were disembarked in Goa, he said. The cruise liner anchored at a passenger terminal in Ballard Pier in south Mumbai around 6.30 pm on Tuesday, and a team of the BMC and police personnel immediately reached the spot to facilitate disembarkment of infected people and coronavirus testing of other passengers.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cordelia-cruise-another-143-passengers-contract-covid-infection-tally-at-209-101641388867436.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Underground cable theft hits 250 BSNL consumers in Chandigarh||Around 250 BSNL phone numbers were rendered non-operational after yet another theft of underground cable in Chandigarh.In his police complaint, BSNL official Sushil Kumar said that four cables were stolen from a duct on the Sector 33/34 road near Gulati Bhawan on January 3. The theft came to light after the BSNL exchange in Sector 34 received complaints from telephone and internet consumers in Sectors 32, 45 and Burail. A case was registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 34. Police are scanning the area’s CCTV footage to trace the accused. Earlier, a similar case of theft was registered on September 25 last year after BSNL cables were found missing from ducts on the Sector 34/44 and 33/45 dividing roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/underground-cable-theft-hits-250-bsnl-consumers-in-chandigarh-101641386302354.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||'Apne CM ko thanks kehna...': PM Modi to officials after security breach during Punjab visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had to cut short his visit to Ferozepur and return to Bathinda airport on Wednesday afternoon due to a security breach en route, is learnt to have told officials that they should thank their CM that he was able to make it back alive. Also read: Punjab CM denies lapse in security during PM Modi’s Ferozepur visit“Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki mein Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paaya (Say thanks to your CM that I was able to return to Bathinda airport alive),” Modi was quoted by news agency ANI as having told state government officials at the airport before flying back to New Delhi. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, however, denied any security lapse, saying that PM Modi’s decision to take the road route from Bathinda to the martyrs’ memorial at Hussainiwala near Ferozepur was taken at the last moment about which his government was not aware. The home ministry has taken cognisance of the “serious security lapse” and has sought a detailed report from the state government. The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action. The Home Ministry said in a statement that PM Modi landed at Bathinda on Wednesday morning from where he was to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, the Prime Minister waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out. The statement said that when the weather did not improve, it was decided that he would visit the National Marytrs Memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. The Prime Minister proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of security arrangements by the Punjab Police chief Sidharth Chattopadhyay. Around 30 km from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the Prime Minister’s convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by protesters. The Prime Minister was stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes. “This was a major lapse in the security of the Prime Minister. The PM’s schedule and travel plan was communicated well in advance to the Punjab Government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready,” the statement said. “Also in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which was clearly not deployed. After this security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda airport,” it added. BJP chief JP Nadda said, “The state police was instructed to prevent people from attending the rally. A large number of buses were stranded because of the high-handedness of the police and in connivance with the protesters.” Nadda also slammed Channi and said he “refused to get on the phone”. “To make matters worse, CM Channi refused to get on the phone to either address the matter or solve it. The tactics used by the Congress government in Punjab would pain anyone who believes in democratic principles,” Nadda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apne-cm-ko-thanks-kehna-ki-mein-bathinda-airport-tak-zinda-laut-paaya-pm-modi-101641385642517.html
05-01-2022||Dehradun||U'khand police reunites 1072 missing people with families: 'Operation Smile'||Uttarakhand police has searched and reunited as many as 1072 missing children, teenagers, elderly, youth and other people to their families under its three-month-long "Operation Smile".Director-General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday reviewed the programme and honoured the officials for their commendable work."We have run Operation Smile from September 15, 2021, to December 15, 2021. During the operation, we have found 1,072 missing people and reunited them with their families. Of these, 345 were children, 397 were women, the rests were men and elderly people.The DGP said that Uttarakhand Police started Operation Smile in 2015 and about 3,255 missing people have been reunited with their families so far."We tried to find the families of children, women, and elderlies who live in shelter homes, bus stands, railway stations and other places. We achieved these with the help of children's memories and various other means," DGP Kumar said.Sameer, whose father was missing for two months told ANI, "We had searched my father at a lot of places but could not find him. We filed a report in the nearby police station. A police officer met my father at Haridwar railway station and he took my father to his house. We got a call and today because of that officer, I found my father. I thank Uttarakhand Police. This operation should continue."Balwant Singh, who runs an Ashram, said that many of the children staying at the ashram cannot tell about their parents. "So far six children have been united with their families with the help of the police," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-police-reunites-1072-missing-people-with-families-operation-smile-101641383559343.html
05-01-2022||Pune||Social worker Sindhutai Sapkal laid to rest with full state honours||PUNE Sindhutai Sapkal, a prominent social worker, who passed away on Tuesday, was buried at Pune with full state honours.Sapkal, 74, fondly called the “mother of orphaned children”, died at a private hospital following a brief illness.She was buried at the Thosar Paga burial ground on Wednesday as per the traditions of the Mahanubhav sect in the presence of dignitaries, senior officials of the Pune district administration and the police department, along with people from different walks of life who paid their last respects to Sapkal.Sapkal, according to doctors, had undergone a hernia operation a month ago and was recuperating in the hospital at the time of her death.Sapkal ran an orphanage called ‘Sanmati Bal Niketan Sanstha’ in Manjri near Hadapsar. Born on November 14, 1948, at Pimpri Meghe village in Wardha district, Sapkal recently won Padma Shri in 2021.Being an unwanted child, she was nicknamed ‘Chindhi’ (a torn piece of cloth). Her father was keen on educating Sindhutai, much against the wishes of her mother. Poverty, family responsibilities and an early marriage forced her to quit formal education after she passed 4th grade.She devoted her entire life to orphans. She is fondly called ‘Mai’ (mother) and has taken care of over 1,000 children. Sindhutai ensured that the award money she got was used to buy land to make a home for orphaned children.The orphanage Sanmati Bal Niketan Sanstha has its building at Manjari with all modern facilities. In 2010, her life story was made into a Marathi biopic.Besides the Padma Shri award, Sapkal had received more than 750 awards and honours. She used the award money to build shelters for orphans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-worker-sindhutai-sapkal-laid-to-rest-with-full-state-honours-101641383902143.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Two food delivery executives held in separate gunfights with Noida cops||Two criminals, including one who also worked as a food delivery executive for an app-based company, were arrested following gunfights with the police in separate incidents in Noida and Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday.The first incident took place in Sector 168 of Noida on Monday night when a local police team had set up a checkpoint and intercepted two suspicious looking men who were on a motorcycle, Additional Deputy Commisioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said."They were gestured to stop for inquiry but instead they opened fire on police party and fled the spot. The police party chased them and a gunfight ensued in which one got injured in retaliatory firing while the other managed to escape," Singh said."The injured was taken to a hospital for treatment and came to light that he had a ₹10,000 reward on his arrest. More importantly, it came to light that he worked as a delivery boy for Swiggy. We will soon be contacting Swiggy also over the incident," the officer said.The other gunfight took place in Ecotech 3 area of Central Noida on Tuesday morning, in which one criminal was arrested after he suffered injuries in the encounter with the police, officials said.Additional DCP (Central Noida) Elamaran G said the local police were on a routine check when they stopped a suspicious-looking duo on motorcycle for inquiry.“However, the duo opened fire at the police party and tried to escape. One of them got injured in cross firing and was held while the other fled the spot. He has been identified as Bhoora, a native of Bulandshahr, who carried a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest," Elamaran said.The police said they have seized the firearms in the two incidents and impounded the motorcycles, while searches were underway for the criminals' partners who had managed to escape from the spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-food-delivery-executives-held-in-separate-gunfights-with-noida-cops-101641383106510.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Fix responsibility’: Fuming Centre roasts Punjab govt for breach in PM security||NEW DELHI: Moments after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first rally in poll-bound Punjab was cancelled on Wednesday, the Centre said this was on account of a major breach in his security.In a statement detailing the sequence of events, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said “Today morning, the Prime Minister landed at Bathinda from where he was to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, the PM waited for about 20 minutes for the weather to clear out.”“When the weather did not improve, it was decided that he would visit the National Martyrs Memorial via road, which would take more than two hours. He proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the DGP (director general of police) Punjab Police,” it added.The statement went on to say that “around 30km away from the National Martyrs Memorial in Hussainiwala, when the PM’s convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by some protesters”, resulting in the convoy being stuck there for 15-20 minutes, which was a major lapse in his security.Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda accused the Congress government in Punjab of using “all tricks to scuttle” PM Modi’s programmes, including the Ferozepur rally.Fearing a resounding defeat at the hands of the electorate, the Congress Government in Punjab tried all possible tricks to scuttle the PM @narendramodi Ji’s programmes in the state.He said in a series of tweets that Modi’s rally was called off and another programme disrupted as protesters blocked his route breaching the security protocol. He termed the security lapse as “extremely worrisome” incident.“Protesters were given access to the Prime Minister’s route while the Punjab CS (chief secretary) and DGP gave assurances to SPG (Special Protection Group) that the route is clear. To make matters worse, CM (Charanjit Singh) Channi refused to get on the phone to either address the matter or solve it. The tactics used by the Congress government in Punjab would pain anyone who believes in democratic principles,” Nadda said in a tweet.The BJP president alleged the state police was instructed to prevent people from attending Modi’s rally and a large number of buses were stranded because of the high-handedness of the police in connivance with the protesters.“In doing so, they did not bother that the prime minister was to pay tributes to Bhagat Singh and other freedom fighters, and lay the foundation stone for key development works,” the BJP president said.“By their cheap antics, the Congress government in Punjab has shown that they are anti-development and have no respect for freedom fighters too” he added, alleging that it was done as the ruling party in the state fears a resounding defeat in the upcoming assembly polls.Elections in Punjab are likely to be announced shortly.“It is sad that the PM’s visit to launch development projects worth thousands of crores for Punjab was disrupted. But we will not let such cheap mentality hinder progress of Punjab and will continue the effort for the development of Punjab,” Nadda tweeted.Senior Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala hit back at Nadda for his comments in a series of tweets. He wrote, “Stop losing cool and all sense of propriety. Please remember… 10,000 security personnel were deployed for the PM’s rally. All arrangements were made in tandem with SPG and other agencies. The route was carved even for all buses of BJP workers from Haryana and Rajasthan.”Dear Naddaji,Stop losing cool & all sense of propriety. Pl remember -1. 10,000 security personnel were deployed for PM’s Rally.2. All arrangements were made in tandem with SPG & other agencies.3. Route was carved even for all buses of BJP workers from Haryana/Rajasthan.1/4 https://t.co/kScLtN8rRGDetailing the protocol between the Special Protection Group (SPG) and Punjab police, the PIB statement said the PM’s schedule and travel plan was communicated well in advance to the Punjab government. “As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready. Also, in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab Government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which was clearly not deployed.”It said after the security lapse, it was decided to head back to Bathinda airport.Taking cognizance of what it termed as a “serious” security lapse, the ministry of home affairs has sought a detailed report from the state government.The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-laments-security-breach-as-pm-modi-s-rally-in-punjab-is-called-off-101641383182900.html
05-01-2022||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh imposes ₹200 fine for COVID protocols violation in public||As COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh shot up to 1,544, State Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang on Wednesday said that a fine of ₹200 will be imposed for violation of COVID protocols in public places.Speaking to ANI, Sarang said, "594 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in the last 24 hours. There are 1,544 active cases in the state at the moment. There is an increase in positive cases on a daily basis. It has been ensured that the people adhere to the COVID protocols. We are running the 'Roko Toko' programme. We have decided to impose a fine of ₹200 for those not wearing face masks in public places. It has been instructed to ensure that the infection does not spread in other districts as well."Speaking about the preparedness of the State to deal with a possible third wave, the Minister said that the government has made preparations for improving the infrastructure in the private as well as the government sector."The vaccination programme is going on at a good pace. The children from 15 to 18 years of age are being vaccinated. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has reviewed the situation. We have made preparations for the enhancement of the infrastructure of the private as well as the government sector," he said."However, no decision has been taken to impose any lockdown so far," Sarang added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-imposes-rs-200-fine-for-covid-protocols-violation-in-public-101641382514280.html
05-01-2022||Jaipur||'Elections can't be postponed but…': Gehlot to EC on poll rallies||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said the Election Commission (EC) should immediately stop rallies of political parties in view of a rising number of COVID-19 cases in the country.He also said instead of rallies, other means of publicity should be used and since this is the era of information technology, promotion should also be based on IT and social media."Elections cannot be postponed due to constitutional provisions, but in view of the circumstances of Covid, the Election Commission should immediately stop the rallies of political parties," the Congress leader wrote on Twitter.He said the EC should distribute time slots to all the political parties on television channels, radio and other media of communication so that they get equal opportunities for campaigning.The chief minister also stressed that door-to-door campaigns should be conducted following all the Covid protocols, instead of taking out big rallies."Most of us have not yet forgotten the magnitude of the second wave of Covid. In the month of April-May last year, even beds were not available in hospitals and people died due to lack of oxygen," he said.Now the third wave of the pandemic is staring at the country, Gehlot said, adding that according to experts, no one knows what new form the Omicron variant of the virus will take further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/elections-can-t-be-postponed-but-gehlot-to-ec-on-poll-rallies-101641379157284.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM denies lapse in security during PM Modi’s Ferozepur visit||Denying any security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur to address a BJP rally on Wednesday afternoon, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that his government had no information about the PM’s travel via road from Bathinda airport to Ferozepur. Also read: BJP chief blasts Channi govt after PM’s rally cancelled over ‘security lapse’Soon after the Union home ministry issued a statement citing a major security lapse as the PM was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to the road being blocked by protesters, Channi told a TV news channel, “The Prime Minister was to travel by air but because of the rain, his plan was changed. The PM decided to travel by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur suddenly. There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. There was no programme of the PM’s travel by road. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements.” The chief minister said the PM’s motorcade was stopped when someone parked a cart on the road where Modi was travelling. “It was a natural, there is no security breach,” he asserted. CM cites thin attendance at BJP rally for PM’s returnChanni also took dig at the thin attendance in the BJP’s rally, saying: “They had made arrangements for 70,000 people but only 700 came. May be this was why the PM decided to go back.” Meanwhile, the ministry of home affairs has taken cognisance of the serious security lapse and sought a detailed report from the state government. Modi was scheduled to visit Ferozepur to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. The PM had landed at Bathinda in the morning from where he was to go to the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala by helicopter. Due to rain and poor visibility, the PM waited for 20 minutes for the weather to clear. Observing no improvement in the weather, the decision to visit the memorial via road was taken after which Modi proceeded to travel by road after necessary confirmation of necessary security arrangements by the Punjab Police director general of police Sidharth Chattopadhyay. MHA says contingency plan should have been ready“Around 30km from the National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala, when the PM’s convoy reached a flyover, it was found that the road was blocked by protesters. The PM was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes. This was a major lapse in the security of PM,” said the statement by the MHA. “The PM’s schedule and travel plan were communicated in advance to the Punjab Government. As per procedure, they have to make necessary arrangements for logistics, security as well as keep a contingency plan ready. Also, in view of the contingency plan, the Punjab Government has to deploy additional security to secure any movement by road, which were clearly not deployed,” the statement said. The Prime Minister headed back to Bathinda airport after the security lapse. “The ministry of home affairs taking cognisance of this serious security lapse has sought a detailed report from the state government. The state government has also been asked to fix responsibility for this lapse and take strict action,” the statement said. Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya also announced from the stage at Ferozepur that Modi cancelled his scheduled visit to Ferozepur to address a rally “due to some reasons”. With ANI inputs 
05-01-2022||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: When rhinoceros, tigers and elephants roamed Pune city’s grounds||You might think that I am referring to really old prehistoric era here when such animals might have roamed in Pune’s environs; and that should not surprise anyone. But hold on, I am not talking about some ancient past, but merely three century old Pune’s landscape. And though Pune might have been greener than today, it would not sustain natural population of rhinoceros back then. So, which animals am I referring to? I am referring to Shikharkhana of medieval period in 18th century situated right in the heart of the Pune city. Medieval kings, nobles and commanders are particularly known for practicing hunting as a sport and maintaining elaborate menageries for purpose of entertainment and curiosity. Hunting as a sport trained kings, commanders and soldiers to effectively practice for war. May it be tracking the wild animals, launching ambush, close combat with animal, alert surveillance and monitoring, sport of hunting offered many avenues to keep one’s reflexes and rigour sharp for the battlefield. The act of heroism and sense of achievement provided for entertainment and leisure. Tender meat of various animals was coveted, too. In areas bordering large wilderness and wildlife populations, culling of vermin and wild animals such as wild boar and wolves was required by the farming people. Hunting as a sport is a great indicator of participants’ temperament, flexibility, reflexes on ground and courage. It also helped in building trust amongst troops and singled out the cowards who would be most likely to deflect. And yet, many treatises on statecraft advise against excess indulgence in gaming and hunting. Mughal emperors such as Akbar and Jahangir are particularly fond of hunting as well as collecting various animals. We come across rich repository of medieval miniature paintings from Jahangir’s court illustrating various birds and animals, including some as extraordinary as a “Dodo” bird. Raja Shri Shahu Chhatrapati I who was brought up in Delhi court was particularly fond of gaming and would spend majority of time in hunting camps across forest country. Ministers would seek his council in such camps from where he is known to have operated crucial state affairs. Of the eighteen operating factories (karkhana) of the state, “Rajya-vyavahar-kosh” authored by Raghunath Pant Amatya enlists “Shikarkhana” as important unit. Many areas in kingdom were reserved as gaming sanctuaries eg Radhanagari wildlife reserve. Fish pools were specially reserved and guarded for fishing season. Bajirao Peshwa I had issued a hunting ban and appointed guards in area between Jejuri to Purandar to specially reserve the wildlife stock for Chhatrapati Shahu’s customary visit in 1731. Nanasaheb Peshwa personally writes to Chimaji Appa to gather Patils in Pratapgad region for Chhatrapati Shahu’s gaming adventure. Peshwa archival records are full of references to various wild animals procured and trained as keepsake and hunting aid. Daily diaries of Peshwa notes “Two Baaj (peregrine falcons) and one Chitta (cheetah) were send as a gift to Shahu maharaj” by Bajirao Pehshwa I. Pure breeds of hounds were specially sought out by Shahu maharaj and Peshwas have known to send as many as 40 hounds in one package to be trained as hunting dogs. Peshwas are known to have fetched some extremely rare animals and birds such as Kasturi mriga (Alpine deer) and Himalayan variety of pheasants to Shahu through contacts in the northern states. The belief prevalent in those days that the” shadow of Himalayan pheasant bird ensures kingship” made Tipu Sultan install a replica of Himalayan pheasant on umbrella above his royal seat. Though Nanasaheb Peshwa is not known for his particular hunting prowess, one finds eloquent references to Shikarkhana established by him at Pune, in various Marathi Powadas (heroic eulogised poetry) of local bards. Shahir Shivram Pimpalgaonkar describes choicest of wild fauna in Nanasaheb’s Shikharkhana such as rhinoceros, fierce tigers, sambar, deer, blackbucks and falcons specially trained for hunting, lions and other creatures. The vacant plot between Sarasbaug, Lotan baug, Parvati hill and Vitthalwadi was then assigned to Shikarkhana by Nanasaheb Peshwa. Island in Sarasbaug lake was already home to various cranes and migratory birds. “Pilkhana” of Peshwas stocked the elephants which would be put to use in battles as well as hunting expeditions. Letters were dispatched all across India to fetch wild animals and birds of most extraordinary nature to populate the Shikarkhana. A letter to Vitthal Shivdeo mentions orders fetching bird called “Chakor” who is mythically known to feed on moonlight. It is in reality the “Chukar”, a rock partridge and gaming bird found in temperate belt of India. Karnaji Shinde, commander of fort Mahuli, was ordered to capture young ones of peacocks, Indian Gaur and wild boars and transferred to Pune. Special events of wild combat were hosted for entertainment of state’s guests. Record from elder Madhavrao’s wedding ceremony informs us of a special event of tiger-elephant combat hosted by Nanasaheb Peshwa which resulted in death of one tiger. The archives also list number of occupations related to Shikarkhana and their wages where various animal trainers are named as Kabutarbaaj (pigeon trainers), Kuttewan (dog trainers), Chhitewan (Cheetah trainers), Haranbaaj (deer trainers), Mirshikar (falcon trainers), Shahagoshwale (carcal and lynx trainers), Fadaitwale (noose and trap makers) and so on. The details of “khurak” (daily feed) for large animals such as tigers, lions and elephants find mention along with the expenses. These records reflect keen understanding of breeding, general behaviour and upkeep of various animals, bird species and signify the particular utilitarian association with wildlife. Skins of tigers, lion, rhinoceros and crocodiles were curated for display purposes or making of expensive artefacts. Other ministers and Peshwa family members are known to own their smaller and personal menageries near their residence. Beautiful birds and small mammals were kept as pets by female folks. Shikarkhana at Pune suffered a heavy damaged during Nizam’s attack on Pune in 1763. Madhavrao Peshwa resurrected Pune and re-established Shikarkhana, but he himself was too busy in campaigns to seek past time at Shikarkhana. It was during Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa’s term that Shikarkhana at Pune enjoyed its golden days. We shall delve on Sawai Madhavrao’s special affection towards wildlife in the next column. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-when-rhinoceros-tigers-and-elephants-roamed-pune-city-s-grounds-101641379642190.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||66 BEST bus workers test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai, 44 in hospital||As many as 66 workers of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai in the last week. Of them, 44 are currently undergoing treatment at hospitals, while nine others have been discharged.BEST chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Singal said among the workers in hospitali, no one is on oxygen support and all of them have mild symptoms. “We admitted them as a precautionary measure,” Dr Singal added.The bus workers primarily constitute drivers and conductors. Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 10,606 new cases pushing the cumulative tally to 8,16,965.The statewide Covid tally was up by more than 12,000 cases with 18,466 new infections being reported during the day. As many as 75 new cases of the Omicron variant were also confirmed of which 40 were from Mumbai.As per Union health ministry's data, Maharashtra remains the leading contributor of India's Omicron tally with as many as 653 infections confirmed so far, followed by Delhi at 464. The countrywide tally has touched 2,135.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 2,135 amid Covid spread, check full list hereOwing to the large-scale spread of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra amid Omicron outbreak, the state government announced fresh curbs last week that include capping of attendees at weddings, funerals and other events, among others. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) imposed Section 144 in Mumbai till January 7.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said earlier in the day that the government has no plans to impose a lockdown in the state. He chaired a meeting that was attended by state health minister Rajesh Tope and other senior government officers, news agency ANI reported.(With bureau inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/66-best-bus-workers-test-covid-19-positive-in-mumbai-44-in-hospital-101641371278029.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Online examination hacking, solving module busted: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police’s Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit on Wednesday said it has busted an online examination hacking and solving module with the arrest of six people. It said that the six who were arrested include a fugitive wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Haryana Police.The arrests were made following raids in Mumbai, Delhi, Gurugram and Jaipur. Fifteen laptops and nine mobile phones were seized from the arrested persons, the IFSO said.Deputy police commissioner (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said one of the arrested people, Raj Teotia, carried ₹1 lakh reward on his head by the Haryana Police. The racket allegedly helped a candidate score 780 out of 800 in the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT). Teotia allegedly took the help of Russian hackers to access examination portals, said Malhotra.“Teotia was in touch with Russian hackers and also visited Russia in 2018. Russian hackers stayed at his place during the [Covid-19] lockdown,” said Malhotra. He added the alleged racket accessed the examination through remote access and downloaded the disguised remote access software, which was not detected by the safety measures. They developed a tool to remotely access the online examination system developed by a reputed IT company.“Members of the syndicate connived with lab owners, got the tool installed through LAN, and later accessed the systems through remote access. They opened several online examination labs for this purpose,” said Malhotra.The Delhi Police were expected to later hold a press conference on the racket.
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid on cruise: 41 infected moved out of Cordelia ship, now in quarantine||MUMBAI: Forty-one out of the 60 passengers infected with Covid-19 on board a Cordelia cruise ship have been shifted to various isolation centres, hospitals and hotels a day after it returned from Goa, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. The remaining Covid-positive passengers were still on the ship.The luxury cruise ship returned to Mumbai after it was sent back as the infected passengers refused to get admitted to a facility in Goa. All people on board were tested for the coronavirus upon their return to Mumbai. A crew member first developed flu-like symptoms and was later found to be positive on the ship.BMC medical officer Prajakta Amberkar said six of the crew members were hospitalised in Goa. The test reports of 1,800-plus passengers and crew members on board were awaited. The BMC on Wednesday said it collected their samples and the results were expected later in the day. It added that the passengers will be allowed to disembark only after their reports arrive.Also Read: How cruise liner’s New Year dream turned into a Covid nightmare“Those who have mild symptoms have been shifted to hospitals and the remaining are staying at hotels at their own expenses,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Shivadas Gurav, an assistant municipal commissioner, said only the passengers who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to leave the ship. “BMC officials present there will stamp them and they will have to follow a mandatory seven-day home quarantine. The [Covid] positive patients will be shifted to isolation centres and hospitals for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/41-covid-19-infected-passengers-shifted-from-cordelia-cruise-ship-101641370400639.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drugs case: No interim protection for Akali leader Majithia for now||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, 46, failed to get interim protection from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday. Also read: Punjab govt trying to book Majithia in another fake case: YAD chiefThe high court bench of justice Lisa Gill heard his plea for one-and-a-half hours but did not pass an order on interim protection and sought response from the Punjab government by January 10, lawyers said. The detailed order is awaited. Supreme Court advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared for Majithia and former Union minister P Chidambaram for the state government. Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s bail plea On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s plea, observing that though his claims are of political vendetta but he himself was a powerful person in state politics till 2017 during the Shiromani Akali Dal’s rule. Majithia was booked by Punjab Police on December 20 under cognizable sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). Majithia’s whereabouts are not known. The plea says the FIR is an “election stunt” and for the purpose, the government has changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three departmental heads change. It also accuses Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. While rejecting his plea, the Mohali court had observed that the delay in lodging the criminal case against Majithia cannot be a ground to presume that the whole case is false. His name cropped up in 2014 and the SAD was in power till February 2017. Special judge Sandeep Kumar Singla also said that the FIR has been registered on the basis of a report that prima facie shows the “involvement” of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in the drug mafia. The question on legality of the criminal case, whether it is borne out of political vendetta or not, cannot be a ground for granting anticipatory bail, Singla had held. Plea cites ‘political interests’ of rivalsThe plea claims Siddharth Chattopadhyaya was given the additional charge of DGP only to act as a “tool to advance the political interests” of the present government. The plea also referred to the controversy involving ADGP SK Asthana, claiming that he refused to investigate the matter and raised questions whether the matter can be investigated, STF report being sealed before the court; superseded by other reports and whether investigation can be initiated without the permission of the court. The plea says the report of the special task force (STF), which is the basis of the FIR, was either superseded or merged with the subsequent report of a state government committee. But this fact was ignored and the FIR was registered. Moreover, in the entire lengthy FIR no fresh evidence has been collected or statement recorded, it says, adding that in all drug cases registered, trials have been concluded with the acquittal of some accused and the conviction of others. None of the accused made any reference of the petitioner, it says. 
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid-19: Ajit Pawar holds review meeting, no lockdown in Maharashtra for now||Despite registering a sharp spike in its Covid-19 caseload, the Maharashtra government has no plans of imposing a lockdown in the state, putting speculations about the same to rest for now.A meeting on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state was called by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday and no decision regarding the imposition of lockdown at the moment was taken.Among those who attended the meeting include health minister Rajesh Tope and senior government officers in Mumbai, reported news agency ANI.On Tuesday, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar hinted at the lockdown and said the stringent action will be taken in the city if the daily Covid-19 cases cross the 20,000-mark. She also appealed to people to wear triple-layer masks while traveling by public buses and local trains, along with following all Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.Maharashtra: Amid rising cases of COVID-19 infection, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar chairs a meeting with Health Minister Rajesh Tope and senior govt officers in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/uOvzA4c7L3Earlier, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar remarked that the stage of imposing a fresh lockdown in the state was approaching, adding the final call will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Following this, Rajesh Tope clarified that the imposition of lockdown in the state was not being discussed at present.Also read | BMC issues fresh guidelines for international arrivals at airport. Details here"The government will take decisions about restrictions by taking into consideration the case positivity rate, hospital bed occupancy and oxygen consumption," Tope told reporters.He added that if the daily (medical) oxygen requirement crosses 700 metric tons, the state will "automatically" go into lockdown.Maharashtra logged 18,466 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, a spike of 6,303 cases as compared to the previous day's tally, and 20 fatalities, according to the state health department. This took the state's Covid-19 tally to 67,30,494 and the death toll to 1,41,573.The state also remains the highest contributor of the infections of the highly transmissible Omicron variant with 653 cases reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-ajit-pawar-holds-review-meeting-no-lockdown-in-maharashtra-for-now-101641365105265.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: On way to PM’s rally, Sukhdev Dhindsa tests positive, returns||Rajya Sabha member and Shiromani Akali Dal (Samyukt) founder Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The veteran Akali leader was travelling to Ferozepur to attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally and had reached Moga when he received the message on his mobile phone. Also read: PM Modi to visit Punjab’s Ferozepur today, launch new medical infrastructure in three towns“I was going to participate in the PM’s rally but have had to return from Moga. I have no symptoms but I decided to isolate myself. My son, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was facing health issues and he is in Chandigarh. However, our party workers will join the rally,” Dhindsa Senior said over phone. Dhindsa had given his sample in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Lehra MLA and SAD(S) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa also wrote on his social media account that his father had isolated himself and advised party workers who were in contact with him to get tested, too. Dhindsa Senior had formed the SAD (S) after differences with Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and forged an alliance with the BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress, led by former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh , for state assembly elections. 
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh extends night curfew by 2 hours. Check new timings||Taking stock of rising Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to extend the night curfew timings in the state by two hours. The night curfew in Uttar Pradesh has now been revised as 10pm to 6am, instead of the earlier 11pm to 5am.The decision was taken in a late-night meeting on Tuesday which Adityanath held with Team 9 - a group of top officials constituted by the chief minister to devise a plan to keep Covid-19 under check - as the number of coronavirus disease infection crossed the 3,000-mark.The night curfew was imposed on December 25 and will remain effective till January 14, as per the latest guidelines.Additionally, restrictions have been decided for public spaces in any district reporting more than 1,000 cases.“Public places like gyms, spas, cinema halls, banquet halls, restaurants etc should be operated at 50% capacity in districts where the minimum number of active cases exceeds 1,000,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the review meeting.From January 6, in marriage ceremonies and other events, not more than 100 people will be permitted in closed places at a time. “The presence of people in excess of 50% of the total capacity of the ground should not be allowed in open space. Masks and sanitisers should be made mandatory,” he added.Uttar Pradesh reported 992 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the active case count to 3,173, according to the latest state bulletin.All government and private schools up to Class 10 have been closed till January 14, while the vaccination of children in the 15-18 age group continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-extends-night-curfew-by-2-hours-check-new-timings-101641360603856.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiites shift wedding venues to NCR amid curbs||As per the restrictions under yellow alert in Delhi, a maximum of 20 guests are allowed at wedding events, organised in court or at home only. This has many rushing to shift their weddings to the NCR and other cities without such curbs. Raghubir Singh from a Delhi-based event company, shares, “Delhi mein kaam thap hai. Many are shifting venues to NCR or opting for cities like Jaipur.” This has led to shortage of venue options in NCR, too. Salil Chaudhry, an event planner from Delhi, says, “About 80-99% business has been shifted out of Delhi. But the saaya is so heavy from January 15 to February end that venues aren’t available now!” Destination weddings seem more feasible to some, amid these issues. Take for instance, Ramesh Dagar, a businessman from Delhi, who says, “I shifted my daughter’s wedding to Udaipur (Rajasthan). A gathering of 200 people is allowed there.” Meanwhile, city-based wedding planner, Jivika Mehra, says, “People have cancelled most functions for January. Even for February, they’re holding back planning till mid-January to decide about changing their venues.”Some have even booked non-saaya dates (January 1-13) to accommodate the last minute changes. Rudhir Sharma, an event planner from Gurugram, says, “Guests from Delhi are choosing non-saaya dates for weddings in the NCR as saaya dates were already booked. The rush for wedding venues in the NCR has surged since the restrictions were announced in Delhi, as people don’t want to wait to get married any more.” “We are at the end of two financial years and Covid has crippled the industry and Haryana has been lenient in terms of giving those small numbers to the industry. Either people are postponing their events, or they are doing it in small numbers and shifting it out of Delhi. It’s a 50-50, wherein some are holding their functions outside of Delhi with a good pomp and show, and some are doing it at home wherein they just want to finish the formalities,” says Puneet Gupta, MD Tivoli Gardens/Tivoli Garden Resort Hotel. Author Tweets @Nainarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
05-01-2022||Mumbai||3rd wave won’t overwhelm Mumbai hospitals: TIFR model||The cases in the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic driven by the Omicron variant will peak between January 6 to 13 in Mumbai, and the fatalities by February, according to a modelling and data analysis carried out by scientists at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR).The analysis showed that in comparison with the second wave, the third surge will be manageable for the city as it will not overwhelm the medical facilities in terms of hospitalisations and oxygen requirements.The simulator model has been developed by Sandeep Juneja and Daksh Mittal from the School of Technology and Computer Science, TIFR. While they have used this model to make projections during the first and second waves, the current analysis has been carried out after introducing the Omicron variant into the simulator.The model has projected a timeline of the peak, but the scientists have refrained from projecting the number of cases. “It’s difficult to project the numbers because they largely depend on the testing strategy and who is getting tested, but our modelling shows that the peak hospitalisations will be about 50% to 70% of what we saw during the Delta wave,” said Juneja. He added that they have taken into account the bed occupancy in Dedicated Covid Hospitals and Dedicated Covid Health Centres as around 18,000 during the peak of the second wave.Also Read | Maharashtra reports massive spike with over 18k new cases, Mumbai tally up too“The fatalities too will be around 30% to 50% of what we saw during the peak in the second wave,” he said. He added that they have taken into account 90 deaths as the highest single-day toll of the second wave. “So, we may see somewhere between 30 to 45 deaths in a peak day in this wave,” he said.Based on available international data, their analysis assumes that the chances of hospitalisation with Omicron will be reduced by 70% among those who were fully vaccinated as well as had a previous Covid-19 infection compared to the susceptible. The chances were reduced by 55% for those who were fully vaccinated but were uninfected. The susceptible in turn is much less likely to be hospitalised in comparison to Delta. There are also 20% fewer chances of getting symptoms when infected with Omicron compared to the delta, the analysis said.Juneja highlighted certain caveats. Besides taking into account the data released by the civic body, they have based their assumptions on data from South Africa and the UK. “We don’t really have Indian data. We are assuming that 35% of people who have recovered from the disease are amenable to reinfections. But it’s just one of the many scenarios that have been considered in South Africa which we are going by. We have also assumed that Omicron is two times more infectious than the Delta variant, an assumption that is not fully established as yet,” said Juneja. He added that these points should be considered as caveats.“It would be ideal to have time series of Indian data on what percentage of the new cases are fully vaccinated or vaccinated with a single shot or those who were previously infected. That data would have helped us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-wave-won-t-overwhelm-mumbai-hospitals-tifr-model-101641356718566.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Appointment letters given to 27 family members of farmers who died during farm agitation||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday handed over appointment letters of government jobs to 27 family members of the farmers who lost their lives in the agitation against the three farm laws.Calling farmers the backbone of the economic structure of the state, the chief minister said that the Punjab government would always undertake every possible step to ensure the welfare of the victim families.Notably, till now, the state government has disbursed ₹5 lakh compensation each to nearly 407 families of farmers who died during the year-long agitation against the farm laws, which have now been repealed by the Centre. They have also provided jobs to 169 next-of-kin of these deceased farmers.According to an official spokesperson, Punjab government has found a total number of 407 cases of deceased farmers from all the districts where government jobs can be provided to their next-of-kin. But now 120 fresh names of the kin of the deceased farmers have been cleared by the State Level Committee, out of which 27 candidates have been provided with the offer letters of the job and the remaining 93 letters would be issued in the next couple of days.Pointing out further, the spokesperson said that it is an ongoing process and as soon as the government gets the verification report from the district level, the eligible family members are being issued appointment letters commensurate with their qualification.Punjab government has already taken a decision that the deceased farmers' mother, father, married brother or sister, married daughter, daughter-in-law and grandchildren will be eligible for employment as a one-time measure on compassionate grounds.As per the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), out of the total 27 persons who received their appointment letters 15 were from Patiala district, three from Amritsar, two from SAS Nagar (Mohali) and seven from Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/appointment-letters-given-to-27-family-members-of-farmers-who-died-during-farm-agitation-101641351995011.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Light rain likely in Delhi today; Capital’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone||NEW DELHI: Delhi is likely to see a generally clear sky with light rain or drizzle later on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The Capital’s air quality was in the “very poor” zone on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) in Delhi at 7am was 357.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 11 degrees Celsius, while the mercury is predicted to rise to a maximum of 19 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 9 degrees Celsius, and the maximum was 23 degrees Celsius. The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, “The AQI today indicates ‘very poor’ air quality. Consistently high winds are likely for the next three days... that is expected to improve the AQI, but [the air quality may] continue to remain ‘very poor’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-likely-in-delhi-today-capital-s-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-101641351918015.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||After fresh Covid-19 curbs, Delhi Metro to run at 100% seating capacity with no standing passengers||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday announced that it will operate metros with 100% seating capacity without any standing passenger in compliance with the fresh guidelines released by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).“In wake of the latest guidelines issued by [the] DDMA, Delhi Metro will be running with the 100% seating capacity and no standing passengers will be allowed till further notice,” DMRC tweet read.The DDMA on Tuesday imposed weekend curfew across Delhi owing to the city consistently witnessing a sharp spike in single-day cases. Containment zones and hospitalisation rates in the national capital have also significantly increased as the country combats the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19.
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: The peepal you should meet||It is an old city with many katras and kuchas. Each kucha has many gallis. Each galli has many havelis and homes. And each home is as intricate as any old city with its own domestic katras and kuchas.Such is the comprehensiveness of this peepal tree. A giant landmark standing on platform No. 1 of central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, the peepal is without doubt the grandest sight at the rail terminus. It is taller than Route Relay Cabin, the three-storey concrete edifice that soars just behind it. In fact, the building’s staircase runs perpendicular to the tree, as if it were expressly built to mount the tall leafy giant.The tree starts its long journey upwards (and sidewards) from a thick broad trunk, which bifurcates into a series of branches. Each of these branches have fashioned itself after the parent trunk and bifurcates into several more branches. Everyone of those branches, in turn, splits into sub-branches. Indeed, this tree is like the sacred Ganga — a single stream in the Himalayas culminating into the Bay of Bengal as a latticework of tributaries.No doubt, there must be other rail stations in the Delhi region with extraordinary trees. Gurugram railway station has quite a few of them, and among them the densest is a banyan on platform No. 2. That tree is a delight, not just for humans. Squirrels race with one another along its narrow, twisty sub-branches. The foliage constantly swells with bird sounds, but you can barely spot the birds in the dark leafy jungle.The banyan of Gurugram station is majestic. But this peepal at Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station has its majesty enhanced by its extraordinarily lean if twirly grace.Since the tree stands far beyond the limits of the station’s tin shed, it receives direct sunshine, and at certain times in the afternoon, it turns into a kaleidoscope of ever-changing iridescence. Winter mornings are ideal for lounging under the sun-entangled canopy.The peepal is so huge that some of its branches extend almost towards the rail tracks. Centuries ago, the Yamuna flowed along the path of these very tracks. Can this peepal be ancient enough to have stood on the banks of the river that has now drifted east? This chilly evening, a train to Kurukshetra is waiting to depart. After some minutes, the only human left in the vicinity is restroom attendant Mr Narender. Stationed outside the “Pay-and-Use Deluxe Toilet”, his face is turned away from the tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-peepal-you-should-meet-101641342408703.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi weekend curfew: List of those exempted||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced a weekend curfew, which will be in place from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am in view of surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The decision was taken after a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that reviewed the situation in the national capital in the wake of Omicron's spread.The DDMA also clamped other restrictions like directing government offices to start work from home and capping the staff strength at private offices to 50 per cent of their capacity.Also Read | Curfew is not lockdown, says Delhi health ministerEssential services, including supply of food items and medicines, will continue uninterrupted, the DDMA order said.Here is the list of who all will be exempted during the weekend curfew, which will come into force from January 7:1. Officers and officials involved in essential and emergency services shall be allowed on production of valid identity card during night and weekend curfew.2. Officers and officials of Government of India, its autonomous or subordinate offices and PSUs on production of valid identity card and according to the restrictions imposed by the Union government.3. Judges and all Judicial officers, staff members of all courts of Delhi as well as advocate, legal counsels, connected with the case hearing on production of valid identity card, service ID Card, photo entry passes and permission letters issued by the court administration.4. Officers and officials in the offices of diplomats of various countries as well as persons holding any Constitutional post on production of valid identity card.5. All private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and other hospital services such as hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing laboratories, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, medical oxygen suppliers and other medical and health services on production of valid ID card.6. Pregnant women and patients for getting medical and health services along with attendant, on production of valid identity card and doctor's prescription7. Persons who are going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, on production of valid identity card.8. Persons coming from or going to airports, railway stations, inter-state bus terminuses allowed to travel on production of valid ticket.9. Electronic and print Media on production of valid identity card.10. Persons or students shall be allowed to appear in examination on production of valid admit card. The examination staff deployed for exam duties shall be allowed to travel on production of valid identity card or examination duty order.11. Movement of individual for marriage related-gatherings up to 20 persons on production of soft or hard copy of marriage card||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weekend-curfew-list-of-those-exempted-101641341997490.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: 3 arrested for looting ₹100K from cash collection agents in Dadri||Police arrested three people on Tuesday for allegedly looting ₹100,000 from two cash collection agents of a private finance company in Greater Noida’s Dadri at 12:30pm on Monday, said officials, adding that the fourth suspect is absconding.The suspects were identified as Deepanshu Rana, 25, Vansh Singh, 24, and Rahul Jatav, 25 -- all residents of Jarcha in Greater Noida, police said, adding that they have also recovered a countrymade gun, a knife, a motorcycle, ₹70,000 and identity cards of the two victims from the possession of the trio. The fourth person, claimed to be the mastermind by the other suspects -- identified as Vipin Sharma, 26 -- is on the run.Sanjeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said that a case was registered against four persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 (punishment for robbery) at the police station on Monday.The complainants -- Pinku, 30, and Kartik, 32, collection agents of a private company in Greater Noida -- were travelling on a motorcycle around 12:30pm on Monday, when four suspects snatched their bag containing ₹100,000, a smartphone, identity cards and some documents near the Dadri bypass. Police formed two teams to investigate the case, Kumar said, adding, “We scanned some CCTV footage from areas near the crime spot and identified the suspects. Police arrested three suspects from Greater Noida on Tuesday, and recovered ₹70,000 and stolen valuables from their possession.”The suspects revealed during interrogation that Vipin is the mastermind of the crime. “Vipin had seen the collection agents in his village, and hatched a plan to rob them. He convinced the other three suspects to commit the crime. The suspects distributed the cash among themselves -- Sharma took ₹30,000, and the remaining three ₹70,000 -- on Tuesday. The three suspects were on their way to dump a bag containing the money in a canal in Dadri, when police arrested them,” Kumar said. The arrested trio was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday, and police have launched a search to nab Vipin at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-3-arrested-for-looting-100k-from-cash-collection-agents-in-dadri-101641341775907.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Manish Sisodia hands over first caste certificate issued on mother's credentials||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday handed over the first caste certificate issued on the mother's credentials to a child of a single mother.This is the first time that the child of a single mother belonging to the scheduled caste community received a caste certificate based on his mother's caste certificate in Delhi.According to the Delhi government, previously, SC/ST caste certificates were issued only based on the fathers' caste certificate or paternal side certificates. Due to this procedure, many single mothers could not get SC/ST caste certificates for their children.Geeta Devi is one such single mother who had been struggling to get an SC caste certificate for her child for the past eight years. Her application was rejected multiple times stating that the father's caste certificate is not present.Aam Admi Party (AAP) MLA Vishesh Ravi had been pursuing this matter with the Revenue Department, Social Welfare Department and Department for the Welfare of SC/ST of Delhi. He wrote a series of letters to the Revenue Department officials and had multiple meetings with officials.He had also raised this issue in the Delhi Legislative Assembly highlighting the suffering of single SC/ST mothers in 2020. The circular to amend the procedure for the issuance of the SC/ST caste certificate based on the single mother's caste certificate was issued on July 20, 2020, with the prior approval of the Revenue Minister of GNCT Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-hands-over-first-caste-certificate-issued-on-mother-s-credentials-101641340440497.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Employer booked for ‘slapping’ domestic help in Greater Noida West; protest held||Greater Noida: Police booked a resident of Greater Noida West on Tuesday for allegedly slapping her domestic help following an argument in Jaypee Greens housing complex on Monday, said officials.A group of domestic helpers, too, protested against the employer on Tuesday, and police personnel from the Cherry County check post had to pacify the protesters, according to the officials.The domestic help concerned -- Purnima (goes by first name), 28, a resident of Ghaziabad -- has been working at the residence of the employer (details not shared) for the past two months“Purnima was on leave for the past three to four days, and her employer, who has a six-month-old baby, faced problems in managing the household chores in Purnima’s absence. On Monday evening, when Purnima went to her employer’s house for work, the latter questioned her about her absence, as she had failed to inform her about the same. They got into an argument over the issue, and Purnima’s employer allegedly slapped her,” said Shiv Kumar Malik, in-charge of the Cherry County police check post. Purnima returned home on Monday after the altercation, but went to the housing complex along with a group of domestic helpers on Tuesday morning and staged a protest, said the police.“The management of the residential complex made a phone call on the helpline number 112, and police reached there immediately and pacified the protesters... Purnima and her employer came to a settlement on Tuesday, and the employer cleared Purnima’s salary and relieved her from the duty,” Malik added. The domestic help has also filed a complaint against her employer on Tuesday for slapping her. “We have registered a non-cognisable offence report under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) against the employer, and an investigation is underway,” Malik said. The employer was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/employer-booked-for-slapping-domestic-help-in-greater-noida-west-protest-held-101641339975639.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three arrested for attacking Chandigarh man, vandalising his car||Police have arrested three youths for attacking a Hallomajra resident and vandalising his car on Sunday. The accused were identified as Shivam Dubey, 25, of Makhan Majra village, and Fakrudeen, 19, and Shivam, 21, residents of Daria village.The trio was arrested on the complaint of Ravinder, a resident of Deep Complex, Hallomajra, who alleged that six people attacked him with sticks and rods, and also damaged his car near the wine shop in Daria village, following a drunken brawl.He suffered injuries in the attack and was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police have booked the accused under Sections 323, 341, 147, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-arrested-for-attacking-chandigarh-man-vandalising-his-car-101641337455311.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali MC House approves hiring of 733 sanitation workers||The agenda to recruit 733 contractual sanitation employees at DC rates was approved in the municipal corporation House meeting on Tuesday.The House also decided to write a letter to the central government to start more direct international flights from the Chandigarh International Airport.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said a letter had also been written to the Railways requesting that all trains going to “Gurudhams” make a halt at the Mohali railway station.Other matters approved in the House meeting included development works in some housing societies under the Mohali MC, handing over the Muslim and Christian cemeteries to their respective associations, and promotion of some employees as drivers.Among other development works, paver blocks, water booster plants for water supply in Phase 8A and 8B Industrial Areas, maintenance of ponds in Sohana village and development of a park in Phase 7 were also approved.During the meeting, councillors from the opposition parties alleged that development works in their wards were being ignored.Apart from the mayor and councillors, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, municipal commissioner Kamal Garg and other MC officials were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-house-approves-hiring-of-733-sanitation-workers-101641337453991.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kejriwal Covid positive: Chandigarh health director asks AAP workers to go in self-isolation||Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, on Tuesday said since Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that he was Covid-19 positive, the Aam Aadmi Party workers and supporters who recently attended rallies with him should isolate themselves and get tested if they have Covid-related symptoms.To celebrate AAP’s performance in its first Chandigarh MC elections, party’s national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal took out a road show from Sector 22 to Sector 23 on December 30. He was accompanied by party’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, party’s Punjab affairs co-in-charge and MLA Raghav Chadha, Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg, co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra, former Union minister Harmohan Dhawan, party in-charge for MC elections Chandermukhi Sharma and the 14 newly elected councillors. The procession was joined by 5,000-odd party supporters.While social distancing was given a complete miss during the procession, most participants were also not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-covid-positive-chandigarh-health-director-asks-aap-workers-to-go-in-selfisolation-101641337452769.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||28-year-old man hangs himself to death in Zirakpur||A 28-year-old man hanged himself from a ceiling fan in his rented accommodation at Satyam Apartment Society in Swastik Vihar, Zirakpur, on Tuesday. Police said the deceased was unmarried and worked at a private company. He had not been answering his phone for the past two days, following which his relatives came to check on him. When they broke down the door and went inside, they were shocked to find his body hanging from a ceiling fan. They lowered the deceased and informed the police. Police moved the body to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for autopsy. No suicide note was found in the house. Investigating officer head constable Rahul Kumar said they had informed the immediate family of the deceased and further action will be taken after their arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28yearold-man-hangs-himself-to-death-in-zirakpur-101641337451636.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poor weather at source cities affects 11 flights in Chandigarh||Due to delayed departure from their source cities amid poor weather, eight flights left and arrived late at the Chandigarh International Airport on Tuesday.Also, three flights to Srinagar – two of Go First and one of IndiGo – were cancelled as the incoming flights could not take off from Srinagar due to bad weather, said the flight operators.Go First flight (G8-911) from Ahmedabad arrived late by 1.08 hours against the scheduled arrival of 10am. Therefore, its return at 10.55am was also delayed by 1.04 hours. Air India’s Dharamshala flight (AI-9713) landed 19 minutes late due to bad weather in the hill town. As such, the airline’s AI-9714 flight to Dharamshala also departed late by 1.05 hours at 12.05pm, against scheduled departure of 11am.Air Vistara flight (UK-657) from Bengaluru also departed late from the source city, delaying its arrival in Chandigarh by 39 minutes. Its return journey was also held up for 38 minutes.Air India’s flight from Delhi (AI-9831) also arrived late by 16 minutes. Besides, the airline’s Leh flight (AI-458) took off at 12.46pm after a delay of 2.31 hours. The flight was delayed due to multiple factors, poor visibility being one of them, said the airport authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-weather-at-source-cities-affects-11-flights-in-chandigarh-101641337450313.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala councillors demand elections for senior deputy, deputy mayors||Almost a year after the second House of the Ambala municipal corporation was sworn in, the senior deputy and deputy mayors have still not been elected. Raising the issue, two Congress councillors met MC officials on Monday, demanding early elections for the posts. Ward number 10 councillor Mithun Verma said as per Section 71, sub-section (2) of the Municipal Corporation Election Rules, 1994, elections for both posts should be conducted within 60 days of the notification of the names of the mayor and the councillors.Verma and another Congress councillor, Megha Goyal, also submitted a memorandum in this regard to MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata. Another councillor, Rajesh Mehta from the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) to which mayor Shakti Rani Sharma belongs, said the party, through the mayor, had already demanded elections for the two posts.“In their absence, important sub-committees can’t be constituted, which is hampering development works majorly,” Mehta said.‘Elections delayed due to pandemic’Jarnail Singh, executive officer-cum-secretary of the House, said the elections could not be held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “When the situation improves, a request will be placed before the divisional commissioner to conduct the elections,” he added.The 20-member MC House comprises eight councillors each from the Bharatiya Janata Party and the HJCP, and two each from the Congress and the Haryana Democratic Front. No party has a majority. Meanwhile, the fourth general House meeting, which was proposed to be held on January 10, was postponed till further orders on Tuesday.Singh said, “Due to the restrictions imposed by the state government to prevent the spread of coronavirus, we have adjourned the House meeting. It will be called next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-councillors-demand-elections-for-senior-deputy-deputy-mayors-101641337449002.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vax effect: Only 2% Covid patients in Mohali hospitalised in past 10 days||As many as 62% of the 193 people found infected with Covid-19 in the district in the past 10 days were fully vaccinated, leading to lower hospitalisations.“Among the 193 patients, only four patients (2%) required hospital care, while others are isolated at home as they have mild symptoms only. Though vaccination does not guarantee protection from infection, it certainly builds immunity to fight the virus,” said Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid in Mohali. As per health department’s figures, among the 193 patients found positive between December 25 and January 3, a maximum of 64 were aged between 30 and 40, while the second-most affected group, at 23, were below the age of 20. Dr Dogra said around 60% of these patients were from Mohali city and the remaining from other sub-divisions of the district. A year on, only 72% people fully vaccinatedA year after the vaccination drive kicked off in Mohali on January 1, 2021, only 72% people in the district have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine.According to the health department, the total eligible population of Mohali is 7,46,119. While over 5,00,000 have received the second dose, around 2,05,000 people have defaulted on it. Among them, over 1,00,000 defaulters are from Mohali (urban), followed by 58,000 from Dera Bassi and around 47,000 from Kharar.Since October, the health department has been creating awareness among the masses through newspapers, radio and announcements in religious places to come forward for the second dose. Special camps are also being organised and the health department has even extended the Phase-6 civil hospital’s timings to 9am to 7pm, instead of 3pm, but the response remains poor.Currently, vaccines are being administered at nine government facilities and three private hospitals.
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Big spike: Chandigarh tricity logs 361 Covid cases in 24 hours||As many as 361 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday, a 157% spike from 140 cases the day before and the highest single-day tally in seven months.A 47-year-old woman also succumbed to the virus in Panchkula on Tuesday. Hailing from Rampur Jangi, she was a cancer patient as well.It was only on June 3 when 366 cases were reported in the tricity, following which the cases had been gradually receding until the recent surge in infections.Tuesday’s cases comprised 139 patients from Mohali, 128 from Chandigarh and 94 from Panchkula – all at least six-month highs. Both Mohali and Chandigarh had last recorded over 100 cases only in July, while Panchkula’s daily tally had remained below 90 since June 2.Active cases shoot past 1,000With the latest jump in daily infections, tricity’s active cases also breached the 1,000 mark – a first since June 18, when 1,108 patients were infected.The tricity now has 1,066 Covid patients. These include 500 in Chandigarh, 312 in Mohali and 254 in Panchkula.24 healthcare staff found positive at PGIMERChandigarh’s latest cases included 20 doctors, two nurses and two lab technicians from PGIMER. Two doctors from the Sector-22 civil hospital, two doctors and one clerk at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and one at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, were also among those found infected.The remaining infected patients are residents of various urban sectors and villages. In Mohali, 68 cases were reported from Mohali city, 43 from Kharar and 28 from Dera Bassi. Panchkula’s cases mainly surfaced in urban sectors. As many as 14 cases were reported from Sector 20, and around five each from Sectors 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 12-A, 14, 15 and 16. The remaining infections were scattered across Sectors 2, 4, 9, 17, 21, 25 to 28, Morni, ITBP, Garhi Kotaha and Amravati Enclave.UT’s positivity rate soars to 9.07%In added worries for the UT health department, the single-day positivity rate climbed to 9.07% on Tuesday with 128 of 1,412 people being tested turning out to be positive.Mohali and Panchkula clocked a positivity rate of 6.8% and 5.1%, respectively, also new highs in the recent past.Chandigarh’s caseload now stands at 66,264, including 64,685 recoveries and 1,079 deaths. The total cases in Mohali have reached 69,413. As many as 68,026 patients here have recovered and 1,075 have died. In Panchkula, of the total 31,187 cases, 30,551 patients have been cured and 382 have lost the battle to the virus.Six new containment zones in UTThe Chandigarh administration declared six new containment zones in the city on Tuesday. The areas sealed are located in Sectors 38 West, 38-C, 40-A and 46-C, and parts of Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra.UT administration to take call on night curfew tomorrowAfter Mohali and Panchkula announced night curfew in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the UT administration said it will take a call on imposing similar restrictions during the Covid review meeting on January 6.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “Currently, the hospitalisation rate is less than 1%. So there is no pressure on the health infrastructure. Most patients are asymptomatic and those being hospitalised have moderate symptoms. The rising positivity rate is our only area of concern, as it may build pressure on hospitals.”On additional restrictions, Pal said, “We want to keep life as normal as possible because restrictions impact people’s livelihood. But if the health infrastructure is impacted, we will have to go in for additional restrictions.”On Tuesday, the Punjab government announced a night curfew from 10pm to 5am, while the Haryana government had imposed these restrictions in Panchkula on December 25.  ₹84,500 collected in fine from mask violators in PanchkulaCracking the whip on people moving about without masks in public, the Panchkula police challaned 169 violators and collected ₹84,500 in fine on Tuesday.A day before, 132 people were fined for the same violation. Till date, 39,937 people have been challaned in the district for not wearing masks.Cafe owner, four others held for violating night curfew A cafe owner and four other people were arrested for violating the 11pm-to-5am curfew in Panchkula on Monday night. Police said the owner of The Posh Cafe and Club, Sector 20, and four others were arrested after the establishment was found hosting a dance party beyond the permissible time limit.They were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act.Make-shift hospital set up at Mohali collegeDr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Phase 6 has come up with a 100-bed makeshift hospital on the college premises.Director-principal Dr Bhavneet Bharti said they had already set up a Covid skill lab and a 10-bed ICU will also be functional soon. Besides, all four PSA plants in the college were functional, she said.Pvt hospitals in Panchkula told to install PSA plantsIn the wake of the increasing cases, Panchkula deputy commissioner Mahavir Kaushik called a meeting with representatives of three private hospitals – Ojas, Paras and Alchemist.The DC directed the private hospitals to ensure installation of a PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plant, which is compulsory for hospitals with over 50-bed capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/big-spike-chandigarh-tricity-logs-361-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101641337385927.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs in J&K: Rapid antigen test mandatory for visitors to Patnitop||Amid omicron scare and spike in Covid cases, the Ramban district administration on Tuesday ordered that all passengers and tourists travelling by bus, cabs, taxis and personal vehicles will have to undergo rapid antigen tests at Patnitop, irrespective of their vaccination status. In an order issued by the Ramban district magistrate Masrat Islam, it has been made mandatory for all the visitors and travellers visiting Patnitop to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour at all times. He also directed Ramban SSP to ensure compliance with his orders. Jammu and Kashmir, meanwhile, reported 199 fresh Covid infections on Tuesday, an official health bulletin said.Of the total cases, 109 were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 90 infections. The union territory registered highest 62 cases in Srinagar followed by 58 cases in Jammu and 14 in Budgam. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 475 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 394 and 129 cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 156 with active cases reaching 1,541. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 83,308 vaccine doses were administered in J&K.The number of people who have recovered was 3,35,930, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.22%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have climbed up to 3,42,001 and the death toll stands at 4,530.Officials said that 56,622 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.In Himachal, 260 people tested positive for Covid, while 22 recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-in-j-k-rapid-antigen-test-mandatory-for-visitors-to-patnitop-101641332885239.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||North MCD inks MoU with IGL to set up compressed biogas plants||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North MCD), on Tuesday, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), under which a number of compressed bio gas (CBG) plants and integrated CBG-CNG fuel stations will be set up in north Delhi for the in-situ processing of wet waste and making optimum use of bio-degradable waste.North MCD commissioner Sanjay Goel said that while the concessional period will be 20 years, the MoU period is two years. “Each CBG plant will have the capacity to convert 100 tonnes of segregated MSW (municipal solid waste) per day. North MCD will provide segregated bio-degradable waste (wet waste) to the plants as per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016. The civic body will also provide land for the plants without any charge, at a notional lease rental of ₹1 per annum. To start with, approximately three acres of land at Ghogha dairy is being considered for this project. The site has been inspected by IGL officials and found suitable for this project,” he said.He also said that bio manure, city compost and fertiliser produced after processing the waste shall be utilised by North MCD at its nurseries, gardens and green belts at a pre-decided cost. “Also, the IGL may sell it in the open market after enrichment,” Goel said.When contacted, IGL’s director-in-chief Pradeep Bansal said the gas-distributing company will engage a technical consultant to prepare a Detailed Feasibility Report and set up the plant and fuel station at its own cost.“We will run the plant for the entire duration of the concessional agreement of 20 years, which may be also extended according to the mutual understanding. The expected production of various components generated after bio-methanation of 100 tonnes per day of MSW will comprise 4,000 kilograms per day of CBG, 15 tonnes per day of city compost and 50,000 litres of wet slurry per day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-inks-mou-with-igl-to-set-up-compressed-biogas-plants-101641332765625.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Two Lashkar militants eliminated in Kulgam||A day after killing of a top Lashkar commander in Srinagar, the security forces Tuesday gunned down two terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.Following a tip-off, a joint team of police, the army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a search operation at Okay village in Kulgam district. The operation turned into an encounter in which two local terrorists associated with Lashkar/ The Resistance Front (TRF) were killed, the police said.Inspector general of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said, “The two terrorists, who were killed during the encounter, were linked to Lashkar/TRF and were involved in multiple terror crime related activities.”The deceased were identified as Amir Ahmad Wani of Alamgunj, Shopian, and Sameer Ahmad Khan of Tiken, Pulwama.“As per records, Amir Ahmad was a categorized terrorist and had links with terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (TRF), however, Sameer Ahmad had joined the terror folds recently,” a police spokesman said, adding, that arms and ammunition, including an AK-47, one pistol were recovered from their possession.“All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation. A case has been registered. People are requested to cooperate with the police till the encounter site is completely sanitized and cleared of all the explosive materials, if any,” the spokesman said.On Monday, two terrorists, including a top Lashkar commander, Saleem Parray from Hajin in Bandipore district was killed in an encounter at Shalimar garden area in Srinagar. The other militant killed was identified as Hafiz alias Hamza from Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-two-lashkar-militants-eliminated-in-kulgam-101641332705373.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||North MCD seals 45 shops in Karol Bagh zone for illegal construction, encroachment||Officials of North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North MCD), on Tuesday, sealed 45 shops in Karol Bagh zone, for constructing illegal structures and encroaching on footpaths. Shashanka Ala, deputy commissioner (Karol Bagh zone), said that these shopowners were found violating rules. “Despite repeated notices to clear their outstanding rental dues to the North MCD, the vendors remained indifferent. Some of these shops had also been found encroaching upon the pavements, which is a blatant violation of tehbazari (vendor) norms,” she said. She also said that since this particular area of Karol Bagh zone had been identified as a prime location for parking facilities, the vendors had earlier been asked to relocate to the neighbouring Ajmal Khan Road. “Many vendors have already moved there and have put up their stalls there. But some of them have started gathering again at their old places. Those violating tehbazari (tehbazari means to utilise the surface for the purpose to sell something) rules and regulations will not be spared and we will continue the drive against them,” Ala said. Meanwhile, vendors of the area said that they will stage a protest demanding the right to put back their stalls. Sanjeet Kumar, a vendor and a Town Vending Committee (TVC) member, said, “As per the 2014 Act, the TVC has to do a survey of vendors, before relocating them to an alternate place. The North MCD officials have not followed these rules before sealing the shops. We are also paying rent as per the tehbazari rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-seals-45-shops-in-karol-bagh-zone-for-illegal-construction-encroachment-101641332526871.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Orange alert in Kashmir, 42 flights cancelled in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir experienced widespread light to moderate snowfall and rainfall with Srinagar city and its adjoining areas receiving season’s first snow on Tuesday. The inclement weather led to cancellation and delay of flights at the Srinagar airport. J&K’s meteorological (MeT) department said a western disturbance brought snow in the Valley last night and it started snowing in Srinagar by the morning. The department also issued an ‘orange alert’ for Kashmir. The highest snowfall was observed in Gulmarg in north Kashmir, where 21.8cm of snow was recorded till morning. “Pahalagm in south Kashmir recorded 13.5cm snow, while it was 5cm in Kupwara,” said a MeT official.Srinagar recorded 7.1mm rain while it was 4mm in Qazigund and Konibal. Jammu’s Banihal received 11.4mm rain and Bhaderwah 8.6mm.The MeT official said, “The weather is expected to be bad from January 4 to 8 when we may receive widespread snowfall and rains.” The administration has pressed into service men and machinery from Tuesday morning to start snow-clearance operation. The traffic on Srinagar-Jammu Highway, meanwhile, was moving amid light snowfall. “For now, the road is open and traffic movement is going on as usual,” said an official of the traffic control room at 11am. IMD has issued a weather advisory to the administrations of J&K and Ladakh, warning them of two successive western disturbances with heavy snowfall during January 5-8.The minimum night temperatures in Kashmir improved with Srinagar recording 0.6 degrees Celsius, while the mercury plunged lowest in Gulmarg to settle at -5 degrees Celsius. Banihal recorded a minimum night temperature of 1.4 degrees while it was 11.8 in Jammu. In Ladakh, Drass recorded lowest of -7.5°C while it was -7.4°C in Leh. Chopper services to Vaishno Devi hitThe inclement weather partially affected normal life across 10 districts in Jammu region on Tuesday. Eight flights to Srinagar and Leh were cancelled from Jammu airport while chopper services to Vaishno Devi shrine from Katra was also affected. Jammu airport director Sandeep Kumar Garg said, “Eight flights to Srinagar and Leh were cancelled from Jammu due to inclement weather and poor visibility there.” He said that flight operations to all other destinations were normal. Vaishno Devi also received fresh snow on Tuesday. At least 15,000 pilgrims visited the cave shrine on Tuesday. “Only seven to eight sorties were possible this morning and thereafter poor visibility compelled the operators to suspend the helicopter service to the shrine,” an official said. A white blanket of snow covered the higher reaches of hills in Doda and Kishtwar while the temperature dipped across the region. Low visibility behind flight cancellationAs many as 42 flights which were scheduled to take off or land at Srinagar International Airport were cancelled on Tuesday owing to low visibility due to snowfall, which prompted former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah to point out lack of ‘proper landing aids’ at the facility. Officials of the Airport Authority of India said majority of the flights were cancelled after snow and rain lashed Srinagar and other parts of Kashmir valley, thus reducing visibility. “Forty-two flights were cancelled out of the scheduled 44 due to low visibility at the airport owing to bad weather. The remaining two flights are scheduled for late evening and we will see whether they can be operated,” said Srinagar airport director Kuldeep Singh. The mass cancellations drew harsh reactions from many, including National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah.“Our international airport has no landing aids that enable the runway to remain open when visibility dips. We make such a big deal about tourism & investment promotion now imagine the plight of those tourists who’ve sat all day outside the terminal & watched their flights get cancelled (sic),” Abdullah said in a tweet.He claimed that travelling in and out of Kashmir was not a pleasant experience.“Not to mention the locals who will have their tickets cancelled & be told to buy fresh ones with fares that touch the stratosphere. Travel into & out from the valley in winter is not a pleasant experience,” he tweeted.The airport is under the operational control of the Indian Air Force (IAF) while the Airport Authority of India controls only the boarding and lodging operations. Some people said that the airport authorities have failed to deliver.“Only divine intervention can help people fly in and out of Kashmir in bad weather. @SrinagarAirport has failed to deliver on its tall claims of international standards,” said a radio host, Nasir Khan.Srinagar airport, meanwhile, in a series of tweets said, “Continuous snow fall and poor visibility resulted in 42 cancellations today across all airlines. The visibility has now improved and the flights are operating.” “All the passengers of the cancelled flights shall be rescheduled in the next available flight of the concerned airlines. There will be no extra charges for rescheduling. The passengers may also opt for full refund at their convenience (sic).”Important helpline numbersThe Jammu administration has issued a list of important helpline numbers. The numbers are PCR Ramban : 01998266384, 9906925595, 9906926079, SSP Ramban : 9205571332, Addl SP Ramban : 8825057800, DSP Hqrs Ramban: 9858512348, DSP DAR Ramban: 7780939696, 9858619994, SDPO Banihal: 9419989332, 9596072029, SDPO Gool: 7006670969, 9419699624, SHO PS Batote: 9149638978, SHO PS Chanderkote: 7006244910, SHO PS Ramban: 7006773728, SHO PS Ramsoo: 7889758950, SHO PS Banihal: 9596732389, SHO PS Dharamkund: 7889619601, SHO PS Gool: 8803799632, IC PP Patnitop: 9906128583, IC PP Rajgarh: 9797523811, IC PP Sangaldaan: 9796625616, IC PP Ind: 9469710018, IC PP Ukhral: 8803467939, IC PP Neel: 7006194205, IC PP Khari: 9149963818, IC PP Jawahar Tunnel: 9149552325.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/orange-alert-in-kashmir-42-flights-cancelled-in-srinagar-101641332525550.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchayat in Shimla district wages a war on ‘chitta’ and its users||At a time when drug addiction is on the rise, villagers in quaint Jharag have waged a war on ‘chitta’, a highly addictive synthetic drug made from heroin and other substances. The panchayat of Jharag in Shimla district’s Jubbal and Kotkhai assembly segment has brought a resolution to reward people providing information about drug peddlers active in the area. Jharag is famous for its local deity Nageshwar Devta’s temple and has a population of about 1,800. The panchayat comprises five villages. “For quite some time, reports have been pouring in about drug peddlers from nearby areas trying to lure the youth from our panchayat to buy drugs. Some unknown vehicles which do not belong to the locals have been frequenting the villages as well,” said panchayat pradhan Ashok Sarta, adding that drug addiction was certainly a cause of concern“The panchayat passed a resolution with unanimity to fight the drug menace and also expose the peddlers from nearby villages and panchayats,” he said. “The panchayat will reward those giving information about the drug peddlers. We have also formed a team of teenagers from different wards to keep tabs on the addicts as well as the local smugglers and suppliers,” Sarta added. The use of drugs has increased manifolds in the urban as well as rural regions of the state. According to a survey of the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, the prevalence of the usage of charas and ganja is 1.2% in the country, while it’s higher than the national average at 3.2% in Himachal Pradesh. Similarly, the use of opioids is 2.8% in Punjab, 2.5% in Haryana, 2% in Delhi and 1.7% in Himachal Pradesh against the national average of 0.7%.But a dangerous trend in recent years has been the shift of the users to chemical drugs. According to the health department’s reports, there are nearly 1,170 patients (drug users) lodged in 27 de-addiction centres in HP. The count of those addicted to chitta (also called diacetylmorphine, a semi-synthetic adulterated form of heroin) has surpassed that of cannabis (charas) and other hard drugs as 34.61% of the addicts in the centres are chitta consumers. Another major cause for concern, according to the same report, is that the highest number of addicts are in the age group of 15-30 years. “There been a significant rise in the consumption of synthetic drugs among the youths. Not only boys, but girls too are falling prey to addiction,” said Dinesh Sharma, head of psychiatry department in the state’s premier institute Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC). The hospital runs a special outdoor patient department (OPD) for addicts on Saturdays. “The trend of using injectable drugs is growing among the youth, particularly in the age group between 17 and 25 years,” he said. It is also leading to increase in liver-related diseases like hepatitis C, he added. With illicit drug trade on the rise, Himachal Pradesh Police had re-devised its strategy to catch smugglers and keep track of addicts. HP director general of police Sanjay Kundu added ‘Register 29’ in all police stations to track addicts and offenders booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The station house officers (SHOs) concerned maintain the register and create a database for analysis and better prevention of drug trafficking. The prevalence of drug addiction and trafficking is more among those aged between 26 and 35 years, who comprise 37% of the total people booked under the NDPS Act. 
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi south civic body to start training rural students in Najafgarh zone in football||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said that the civic agency will start a sports cell and football training programme in the Najafgarh zone as part of a pilot project for students in rural areas.“Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi started the ‘Khelo India’ programme to emphasise sports and physical education among school children. Taking this initiative forward, the SDMC has decided to set up a sports cell to generate interest in sports among students and provide them with high-quality training. In this series, the football training programme will begin in the Najafgarh zone. We have invited applications for football coaches on a contract basis,” he said.He also said that minimal sports infrastructure is available for students of SDMC schools. “To meet this shortfall, the education department is chalking out a plan to develop a sports complex or stadium and large playgrounds on a design, construction, operation and transfer basis. We have also decided to include sports in the curriculum at the primary level, which will ensure the physical development of our students,” he said.Bharti also said to implement the initial project, a sports cell has been formed in the SDMC, under the chairmanship of the additional commissioner (education). “The pilot project for the football training programme is going to start in Karkarola, Jharoda, Pochanpur and Surhela in the Najafagarh zone. After its successful implementation, it will also be started in other zones of the SDMC. We are also considering including other sports,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-south-civic-body-to-start-training-rural-students-in-najafgarh-zone-in-football-101641330965115.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Indians violated orders by housing foreign Tablighi Jamaat members during pandemic: Cops to Delhi HC||The Delhi Police on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that Indian nationals, accused of housing foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees, had violated prohibitory orders imposed on movement of persons to contain the spread of Covid-19 and had contributed to the spread of the life-threatening disease.Opposing a bunch of pleas by Indian nationals seeking to quash FIRs registered against them for housing foreigners, the city police told justice Mukta Gupta that the members of the Jamaat were supposed to be residing in Nizamuddin Markaz from March 26, 2020 to March 31, 2020 but were found to be present in Chandni Mahal area in Central Delhi on April 1, 2020.The investigating agency said that the persons accused in the present set of FIRs admitted and accommodated the members of the Jamaat on their premises after the prohibitory order on movement was issued by authorities.The information was given in a status report in response to the earlier query of the court where it had sought to know about any prohibitory orders in effect during the housing of the foreign nationals.However, counsel for the petitioners Ashima Mandla refuted the claim and said that the factual stand of the investigating agency was “incongruous”.The judge granted time to the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the police’s status report and listed the case for next hearing on February 28.“File rejoinder and written submissions on legal and factual aspects of each case. If facts are disputed, it may be a matter of trial,” the court stated.In the present set of matters, while some pleas pertain to quashing of FIRs by individuals who had provided refuge to the foreigners in their homes, others concern persons like managing committee members or caretakers of different mosques who provided housing facilities in the mosques under the jurisdiction of Chandni Mahal police station.The FIRs were registered for alleged commission of offences under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and other offences under the Indian Penal Code.In the status report filed in one of the cases, the police stated that a charge sheet had been filed in the case and informed that numerous inspections were carried out in Nizamuddin Markaz during March 26-31, 2020 in connection with another FIR and the foreign nationals in question were found to be residing there.However, in early April, it received information that several foreign nationals were residing in the Chandni Mahal area and after investigation, “it became clear that the members of the Jamaat had moved from the Markaz in Nizamuddin” which was in derogation of the prohibitory orders by the local authorities, the police claimed.It added that by accepting and allowing them to reside in the local mosque without any social distancing, the accused also breached the Delhi government order on closing religious places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/indians-violated-orders-by-housing-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-during-pandemic-cops-to-delhi-hc-101641330785159.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Consider early re-testing of Covid-19 positive international travellers: Delhi HC to govt||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the city government to take instructions on the issue of early re-testing of international travellers who test positive for Covid-19 on arrival in case there are no guidelines by the Centre on this aspect.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a petition by a mother whose 18-year-old son from the United Kingdom was admitted to a private hospital here for isolation after testing positive for the virus upon his arrival, also asked the Delhi government why the genome sequencing report of the patient -- who was stated to be positive for the omicron variant-- cannot be shared with him.The judge noted that during the pendency of the petition, the petitioner’s son tested negative and was discharged from Fortis Hospital.The petitioner, however, told the court that although her son was now with her, several other patients were being held up in various health facilities for days as the hospitals were not conducting Covid-19 re-tests periodically. It was also contended that the mother has the “right to know” and should thus be given the genome sequencing report of her son.Following this, the court said, “It is expected that in case no guidelines are issued by the Union of India, the Delhi government will expeditiously consider the matter so that patients, like the petitioner’s son, do not suffer. Delhi government will also inform why the genome test report can’t be made available.”The petitioner, represented by lawyer Vikram Hegde, had moved the court last month seeking to know the outcome of the genome sequencing test carried on her son.The counsel for the hospital stated that while the Covid-19 test report has been given to the patient, the genome sequencing report, which disclosed the presence of Omicron variant, was not given to him as the same was only with the government authorities.“We don’t have a copy of the genome report. We get an excel sheet (from the authorities),” said counsel Arjun Dewan, appearing for Fortis.In response to the petitioner’s assertion that the hospital did not administer a re-test upon her son when he was admitted, the lawyer said that the hospital administration was only following the Delhi government directive that international travellers who test positive for the virus have to be re-tested on the tenth day of the first test or after three days of being asymptomatic, whichever is later.Delhi government counsel Arun Panwar said the directive was in line with the guidelines issued by the Centre and sought time to seek instructions.Central government counsel Bharati Raju stated that there was no ban on repeat RT-PCR in their guidelines.The petitioner had alleged that her son who tested positive for Covid-19 at the airport here after coming from the United Kingdom was not being discharged by the hospital for lack of clarity on the virus variant.She had claimed that in spite of her son having a mild case of Covid-19, the private hospital had not re-tested him.The matter will be heard next on January 14||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/consider-early-re-testing-of-covid-19-positive-international-travellers-delhi-hc-to-govt-101641330487133.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi court dismisses plea against NPCI, PM, imposes cost of ₹25k||A Delhi court dismissed an application filed by a man against National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI), the Prime Minister of India and other constitutional functionaries, alleging that NPCI announced the draw of a daily lottery, which is banned according to the law.According to the complaint, NPCI selected 15,000 winners in the daily and weekly draw for making digital transactions between November 9, 2016 to December 21, 2016.It was stated that the NPCI has no legal right as per law to announce the draw of daily lottery. It was further submitted that the Delhi government has already banned the lottery.On Monday, chief metropolitan magistrate Dr Pankaj Sharma imposed a fine of ₹25,000 against the man and said precious judicial time had been wasted by the complainant.The court said it is apparent that the grievance articulated by the complainant is unfounded as the persons who have been given cash incentives did not purchase lottery tickets.“It is pertinent to note that the complainant has named Constitutional functionaries as respondents which includes the Prime Minister of India also.First, he withdrew his allegations against the Constitutional functionaries, however, later on, filed an application under Section 8 of the Representation of People Act seeking their disqualification. The complainant has failed to establish his ‘locus standi’ for filing the present complaint and the subsequent application,” it said in an order on January 3.It added that cash incentives for promoting cashless transactions are a policy decision which falls within the domain of the Executive and as such interference by the court in that regard is improper.The court observed that the complaint and the subsequent application has been filed to somehow gain cheap popularity by levelling baseless allegations against Constitutional functionaries.“The complaint has no substance and the same is evidently filed and pursued with an oblique motive of hogging undue limelight for unwarranted publicity under the false pretence of public interest,” the court said while dismissing the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-dismisses-plea-against-npci-pm-imposes-cost-of-25k-101641330305262.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Couple killed after cluster bus hits their motorcycle in Delhi||A couple was killed after an allegedly speeding cluster bus hit their motorcycle in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh under the jurisdiction of the Baba Haridas Nagar police station on Monday, police said. The errant bus driver fled in the bus after the accident. He was arrested on Tuesday, they added.Police identified the dead couple by their first names as Suresh,39, and his wife, Neetu,34. They lived with their three children in Najafgarh’s Indira Park. The two were travelling towards the Dhansa border from Khaira Road, when the bus hit their motorcycle.“The impact of the hit was such that the couple fell off the motorcycle and suffered serious injuries. They were admitted to a nearby hospital, where they succumbed to his injuries,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/couple-killed-after-cluster-bus-hits-their-motorcycle-in-delhi-101641330065448.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP: UPSC panel ready, Chattopadhyaya is out of top cop race||Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, the officiating director general of police (DGP), is out of the race for the post of top cop in Punjab with the Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday finalising a panel of three officials --- Dinkar Gupta, VK Bhawra and Prabodh Kumar. The UPSC is likely to send these names to Punjab government in a day or two, it is learnt. The state government will then have to choose one name for the coveted post. The names of the three officers were finalised in a meeting at the national capital. The meet was attended by Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari. Bhawara, a 1987-batch officer --- who was DGP (intelligence) during Captain Amarinder Singh’s tenure as CM --- has emerged as the frontrunner for the post. While Prabodh, a 1988- batch officer, has already written to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for the central deputation, Dinkar, also from the 1987 batch, was removed as the DGP by the new Congress dispensation on October 4. Also, when Prabodh was the head of the SIT formed by Amarinder government to probe the 2015 sacrilege cases, he was criticised by a section of Congress leaders for writing to the CBI to continue its inquiry despite a clean chit to dera men allegedly involved in the sacrilege by the central agency. Chattopadhyaya, a 1986-batch officer, who was being backed strongly by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Sidhu’s group and was posted as DGP on December 17 in a sudden move by replacing Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, was desperate to be in the panel. The Supreme Court guidelines make it mandatory for the state to consider only those officers for the post of DGP who are left with minimum six months of service. In order to ensure that Chattopadhyaya’s name was on the list, the Channi government had retracted from its earlier stand conveyed to the UPSC about making October 4, 2021, as the cut-off date for the DGP’s appointment. The UPSC, however, stuck to its stand and took October 4 as the cut-off date citing that it was on this date the vacancy ( for DGP’s post) was created with the removal of Dinkar Gupta. Since Chattopadhyaya is due to retire on March 31, the October 4 cut-off has put him out of the race. There are unconfirmed reports that the Channi government is planning to challenge the UPSC’s move as it has ignored the state’s request to consider September 30 as the cut-off date. Other officers who were considered by UPSC included Sahota (1988-batch), Sanjeev Kalra and Parag Jain (1989-batch) and BK Uppal (1991-batch). 
05-01-2022||Delhi||Employees yet to receive first vaccine dose can’t come to office: Jamia Millia Islamia||Jamia Millia Islamia on Tuesday said that employees who are yet to receive even a single dose of the vaccine will not be allowed to come to their offices amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. In a circular issued on Friday, the university said that starting Monday, only employees who had taken at least one dose of the vaccine will be allowed entry to their respective departments and offices. It referred to the order issued by the Delhi government in October that restricted unvaccinated government employees from entering offices. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority order issued in October made it mandatory for all Delhi government employees to get at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by October 15. “The period of absence from duties of such employees shall be treated as ‘On Leave’ till the administration of the first dose Covid19 vaccine,” wrote university registrar Nazim Hussain Jafri in the circular. The order also stated that the university will take action if unvaccinated employees visited their offices or departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/employees-yet-to-receive-first-vaccine-dose-can-t-come-to-office-jamia-millia-islamia-101641329945058.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s new CETP project inaugurated with eye on Punjab elections: SAD||Taking a dig at the Congress government for inaugurating the Focal Point Common Effluent Treatment Plant just before the state is to go the polls, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said the state had only a marginal contribution in the project. “The Congress is just trying to take credit for the project to woo voters ahead of elections. The state government has contributed only marginally in this project. The industry is a major contributor, while both Union and state governments have given ₹15 crore and ₹7 crore grants respectively for the project,” Grewal said.“A few days ago, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had inaugurated Pakhowal road rail under bridge, but it had to be closed by the municipal corporation later as it was incomplete,” said the SAD leader. Industry bears ₹12 cr addl cost due to delayAs the project has been inaugurated seven years after the foundation stone was laid in 2014, industrialists rued that the government is also responsible for the delay, which led to industry bearing around ₹12 crore additional cost. An industrialist, requesting anonymity, said the project commenced in 2014 but was put to halt in 2016 as the state government failed to release the subsidy. The project was then restarted in 2019 and the cost of the project increased by around ₹12 crore while it was completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-new-cetp-project-inaugurated-with-eye-on-punjab-elections-sad-101641329584938.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||CAT 2021 results: Four from Ludhiana secure above 99 percentile||Four city lads have secured above 99 percentile in IIM Common Admission Test (CAT) 2021. IIM Ahmadabad has announced the CAT 2021 results in which two city students have acquired 99.74 percentile.Ankit BediAnkit Bedi, 24, who has got 99.74 percentile, said this is his second attempt in the exam. He works as a pre-sales consultant in a company in Bengaluru and has done B. Tech (mechanical) from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. A resident of New Shimlapuri, Ankit said his mother Renu Bedi is a homemaker, while he had lost his father in 2018, to a cardiac arrest. His younger sister Priyanka is pursuing her B. Tech degree.He said he used to study in the mornings and regularly took mocks tests to assess himself. Ankit wants to be a brand manager and live his father’s dream of pursuing a master degree from IIM Bengaluru.Nikhil SharmaNikhil Sharma, 24, has secured 99.74 percentile and for him too, it was a second attempt. He currently works as an assistant manager in a Gurgaon-based consultancy.Nikhil did his B.Tech (production and industrial engineering) from IIT Roorkee. A resident of Civil Lines, Nikhil is fond of football and athletics. His mother Meena Sharma is a homemaker and his father Bishan Sharma is in the printing business.His wants become a social entrepreneur and secure a seat in IIM Ahmadabad or Bengaluru.As he has a full time job, he used to study three to four hours daily and also take mock tests.Abhishek JainAbhishek Jain, 21, of Raman Enclave of Rishi Nagar has secured 99.19 percentile. He is pursuing a five-year integrated programme in management from IIM Indore. His mother Richee Jain is a homemaker and his father Ravi Jain is in the hosiery business. His elder brother Abhinav Jain is pursuing LLB. Jain wants to be a business consultant and wishes to pursue his masters from IIM Ahmadabad. He had appeared in an integrated program in management aptitude test, which is similar to CAT, which helped him be clear about concepts and patterns of the exam. Abhishek likes to play chess and play musical instruments in free time.Sanyam GuptaSanyam Gupta, 20, a resident of Tagore Nagar, has secured 99.06 percentile in his first attempt. He is pursuing B.Com (Hons) from Kirori Mal College, Delhi. His mother Kanchan Garg is a homemaker and father Pramod Gupta is in the hosiery business. He wants to secure a seat in IIM Lucknow and become a marketing manager. Sanyam said he had planned everything in advance and followed it strictly. He used to study for 3 to 4 hours daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cat-2021-results-four-from-ludhiana-secure-above-99-percentile-101641329287250.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Focal Point effluent treatment plant finally inaugurated||After missing multiple deadlines, the 40 MLD Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP), for treating waste discharge of dyeing units in Focal Point, has finally seen the light of the day with its inauguration on Tuesday. The project, for which the foundation stone was laid in 2014, is aimed at reducing the pollution levels of Buddha Nullah. Cabinet minister of industries & commerce, information technology, science & technology, Gurkirat Kotli, MLA Sanjay Talwar and councillor Mamta Ashu inaugurated the project.Established at a cost of ₹96 crore, the plant will treat the waste of 62 dyeing industries in Focal Point area. Industrialists stated that around 20 MLD waste from 48 units is already being treated at the plant and rest of the units will also be attached with the plant soon.Previously, the untreated waste of the dyeing industry was flowing into Buddha Nullah through MC sewer treatment plants (STP), adding to the pollution in the seasonal stream. The MC also alleged that the defunct STP at Jamalpur had stopped functioning properly due to dumping of industrial waste in MC sewer lines. MLA Talwar said operationalising the plants will reduce the burden on MC sewer lines, which used to remain choked in the past due to excessive waste dumped by industry.Officials said only treated water will now be discharged into Buddha Nullah. They further said they are working on different proposals to use the treated water for other uses such as irrigation etc.Punjab pollution control board (PPCB) chairman Adarsh Pal Vig said establishing the plant is not less than establishing a religious building as they are working to clean the environment. Three CETPs have been proposed for the city – on Bahadurke road, Tajpur road and Focal point area. While the Bahadurke road plant has already been made operational, trials for the 50 MLD plant for Tajpur road dyeing industry are also going on and the plant will also be inaugurated soon.Minister Kotli said that CETPs are a step forward towards the aim of making ‘Green Textile’. Initiated in 2014, the project was put to halt in 2016 after the industry rued non-payment of subsidies by the government. The project was restarted in 2019 and has now been completed after missing multiple deadlines. The union and state government provided ₹15 crore and ₹7 crore each, while the rest of the amount has been spent by the industry.Industry seeks relief in terms of lease, penalty:Punjab dyers association chairperson Ashok Makkar sought a relief in the lease amount of around ₹3 crore levied on the industry for the land on which CETPs have been established. He also demanded that the department should waive off the penalty imposed on dyers for delay in completing the CETP project.‘Project will improve image of industry’One of the directors of Focal Point Special Purpose Vehicle, Rahul Verma stated that the plant will remove the blot on the image of dyeing industry that it pollutes Buddha Nullah. Further, more corporate houses and multi-national companies will want to do business with the industries here, as these will no longer be polluting the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-focal-point-effluent-treatment-plant-finally-inaugurated-101641328925131.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Bird count in Dhanauri wetland almost double than 2021, species reduced: Survey||The third Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) for the National Capital Region (NCR), which started at the Dhanauri wetland in Greater Noida on Tuesday, recorded an increase in water birds (nearly double the last year) but a decreased number of species, said officials. The team of officials, including volunteers and forest department officials, recorded 2,459 birds and 40 species on Tuesday. These included 20 species of resident birds, and 20 species of winter migratory birds including five species of threatened birds. In 2021, the AWC recorded 1,344 birds of 48 species, which included 20 species of resident birds, and 28 species of winter migratory birds including four species of threatened birds.Some of the IUCN red-listed ‘threatened species’ recorded at Dhanauri were Black-necked Stork, Wooly-necked Stork, Sarus Crane, Black-headed Ibis and Common Pochard, said the officials. Unlike the Okhla Bird Sanctuary and the Surajpur wetland, Dhanauri wetland is an independent site, which sees a lot of winged winter visitors, but it does not enjoy any official protection from the forest department. However, the extended monsoon this year has helped the wetland in recording more birds, though the overall neglect has led to a reduction in the total number of species arriving there, added the officials.Dhanauri is a small wetland spread over an area of 101.21 hectares with crop fields, and is surrounded by several villages. Birders say “it is a good habitat for water birds” and especially for Sarus Crane (the state bird of Uttar Pradesh).“This area was explored by local birders a few years ago, but the wetland’s existence depends mainly on a good monsoon season. It often almost dries up before summer and turns into a small pond as it does not have an independent water source. The wetland revived a bit due to good rainfall last year, but it is still largely covered by water hyacinth, except a smaller open surface in the middle of it, which is now only habitat for approximately 1,300 migratory ducks and geese,” said TK Roy, Delhi state coordinator of AWC. He also said that the outer periphery of the wetland has turned into a marshland, mostly covered by aquatic weeds, and some of the areas are totally dried up and have a tall dry grassland. So, there is hardly any more space in the wetland to accommodate more water birds, Roy said.He said that the “reduced number of species” in the wetland this year could be because of several reasons such as wetland surface being covered by water hyacinth, a shrinking surrounding area, a dried-up resting area of the marshland, and cattle grazing on the grassland of the dried wetland. The AWC is one of the largest annual waterbird censuses in Asia, conducted by the Wetlands International in January in coordination with the WI South Asia and Bombay Natural History Society. The survey will be carried out between January 1 and 16 throughout Asia. The AWC in Delhi-NCR is being carried out at seven major wetlands, including three in Gautam Budh Nagar and in Najafgarh and Sultanpur bird sanctuary, among others. The AWC team will visit the Surajpur bird sanctuary on Wednesday (December 5) and Okhla Bird Sanctuary on Friday (December 7), according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bird-count-in-dhanauri-wetland-almost-double-the-last-year-but-species-reduced-101641328626307.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Four of family found dead in railway quarters in Mullanpur Dakha||Four members of a family were found dead in a room in the railway quarters in Mullanpur Dakha of Ludhiana on Tuesday morning.Police officials say asphyxia seems to be the cause of death, but they are waiting for post-mortem report for clarity.The victims have been identified as Sukhdev Singh, 56, employed as a railway gangman, his son Jagdeep Singh, 28, daughter-in-law Jyoti, 26, and granddaughter Jot, 2. Jyoti was seven months pregnant. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha) Jatinderjit Singh said family members found the bodies on Tuesday morning around 7 and alerted the police. “There were no signs of struggle or visible injury marks on the bodies. The bodies were handed over to family members after post-mortem,” said the DSP.He added, “Though the rooms were not bolted from inside, it was tightly closed and had no ventilation. It is suspected that all four have died due to asphyxia in their sleep. We have also taken samples of food which they consumed for dinner.”Kulwant Singh, Sukhdev Singh’s elder son, said his father had organised a path (prayer meeting) of Sukhmani Sahib on Monday and invited some relatives. While some of the relatives left on Monday itself, his sister Reena and her husband Soma Singh stayed over for the night. Kulwant added that his mother Balbir Kaur, Reena and Soma Singh were sleeping in the adjoining room and discovered the bodies in the morning. Meanwhile, Balbir Kaur, who was in an inconsolable state, said the family had organised the prayer meeting for the well-being of Jyoti and her baby, and never thought it would end up in such a tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-family-found-dead-in-railway-quarters-in-mullanpur-dakha-101641328625109.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Deepak Purohit is new Chandigarh DIG||Deepak Purohit joined as the DIG of Chandigarh Police on Tuesday. He was welcomed by the senior officials. Omvir Singh was also felicitated for his promotion to the IGP rank. Purohit is an AGMUT 2007-batch officer. He was posted as a DCP with the Delhi Police before joining the Chandigarh Police.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSWorkshop on health and nutrition heldPanjab University’s (PU) ENACTUS team on Tuesday organised a nutrition and health workshop for people of the slum area of Nayagaon. The workshop was organised in collaboration with an NGO, Developing Indigenous Resources-India (DIR), Nayagaon. The participants were told about the needs and requirements of the body to maintain mental, social and physical well-being.Refresher course on pedagogy begins at PUA two-week refresher online course on “advancements in pedagogy” being hosted by UGC’s HRDC started at Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday. Eminent educationist and member of NEP 2020 drafting committee, BS Rajput, delivered the inaugural address.NTU representative visits PUVidhi Sahae, senior global partnership manager, Nottingham Trent University (NTU), UK, visited Panjab University(PU) on Tuesday to discuss the progress under the memorandum of understanding for collaboration between NTU and PU. Sahae met PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to update him on the progress of NTU-PU Science and Technology Partnership Centre and other upcoming collaborative projects.2 held for creating nuisance at shrineTwo men have been booked for allegedly creating nuisance at the Radha Soami Satsang Centre in Saket. The accused have been identified as Gaurav and Amit Sharma, both residents of Panchkula. As per the FIR, the duo has been forcibly entering the satsang ghar premises for the past many days. When they were stopped on Tuesday, they allegedly shouted at the sewadars and threatened them .The FIR states that they threatened the administrative committee as well. Following this, a case under section 452 and 506 of the IPC has been registered.Kin of 2 held for misbehaving with govt officials hold dharnaA day after two men were arrested from Sector 37 market for misbehaving with government officials after being challaned for not wearing masks in public, their family members sat on dharna outside the Sector 39 police station demanding cancellation of FIRs lodged against them. A case under Sections 186, 353 and 188 of Indian Penal Code was registered against Davinder Balhara, 42, hailing from Karnal and Karam Vir Arya alias Karmu, 38, of Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deepak-purohit-is-new-chandigarh-dig-101641328386477.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||With 103 new Covid cases, daily count doubles overnight in Ludhiana||As the state government swung into action in view of the rising Covid cases, Ludhiana witnessed a major spike of 103 fresh cases on Tuesday, almost double of what was recorded the day before.This is also for the first time since June 2021 that the district has reported over 100 infections in a day. Nursing students test positiveA total of 41 cases have been reported from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH)’s nursing college at Malakpur where first-year students have tested positive. Of the 41 students, most are from other districts and thus will not be counted in Ludhiana’s tally, health officials said.Medical superintendent of the hospital, Sandeep Sharma said the students had returned from vacation and initially samples of a few students were collected after they showed symptoms. After they tested positive, samples of other students and staff members were collected, following which a total 41 students were found infected. The infected students have been admitted to DMCH for treatment and classes have been shifted to online mode. Most students are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, Sharma added.294 active infections in districtThe active case count in the district has now shot up to 103 in Ludhiana. Of the new cases detected on Tuesday, 14 are healthcare workers, seven are contacts of positive patients, 47 who were found with influenza-like symptoms among others.The district’s cumulative count of Covid cases now stand at 88,044, out of which 85,624 have recovered and 2,119 patients have succumbed. Health department officials said no case of Omicron has been reported in the city as of now and reports of around 100 samples sent for genome sequencing are awaited. Besides, eight micro-containment zones have already been earmarked in areas of New Prem Nagar, Baba Than Singh Chowk, Basant Vihar, Maya Nagar in Civil Lines, Pakhowal Road, Madhpur Sidhwan Bet and Aggar Nagar.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the reckless behaviour of residents, especially during New Year celebrations, is one of the major reasons behind the spike in cases. He appealed to residents to take precautions as the government and administration are also taking steps to stop the spread of infection. 492 teens vaccinated on second dayVaccination for children in the 15-18 age group picked up some pace on Tuesday with 492 children receiving the first dose of Covaxin at 15 centres in the district. The vaccination drive got off to a slow start on Monday, with only 198 children showing up at the centre on the first day. In all, 690 children have been vaccinated in the last two days.No mask, no services: DCAs fresh restrictions were imposed on Tuesday, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who spoke to residents through the official Facebook page, said the situation is alarming and people should strictly adhere to Covid safety protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.“We have been casual over the last few months but the situation does not permit to be so now. The virus is spreading fast and there is extra need to stay cautious. The principle of ‘No mask, no service’ shall be applicable in government or private offices to persons not wearing proper mask,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-103-new-covid-cases-daily-count-doubles-overnight-in-ludhiana-101641328384993.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sub-junior badminton tournament: Tiya, Mahi record wins||Delhi’s Tiya Dabas and Mahi Sen from Chhattisgarh won their respective girls’ U-17 qualifying round 4 matches during the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, on Tuesday. The tournament is being organised by Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, under the aegis of Haryana Badminton Association.Tiya beat Punjab’s Manya Ralhan 16-14, 20-21, 15-10 while Mahi Sen ousted Andhra Pradesh’s Harshitha Bokam 9-15, 17-15, 15-11 to surge ahead in the tournament. In other girls’ U-17 qualifying round 4 matches, Gujarat’s Aishani Tiwari routed Maharashtra’s Siya Singh 15-9, 15-9, Maharashtra’s Ananya Gadgil beat Lakshmi Ridhima Devineni 15-9, 15-2 while Haryana’s Ruchi Chahal pipped Gatha Suryawanshi 15-4 15-9.ResultsGirls’ U-17 qualifying round 4: Tiya Dabas (DLI) bt (PNB) Manya Ralhan 16-14, 20-21, 15-10; Mahi Sen (CG) bt (AP) Harshitha Bokam 9-15, 17-15, 15-11; Aishani Tiwari (GUJ) bt (MAH) Siya Singh 15-9, 15-9; Ananya Gadgil (MAH) bt (TS) Lakshmi Ridhima Devineni 15-9, 15-2; Ruchi Chahal (HAR) bt (MAH) Gatha Suryawanshi 15-4, 15-9; Hashini S. (TN) bt (KTK) Disha Santosh 15-6, 15-8; Sreshta Reddy K (TS) bt (HAR) Jiya Gulati 15-9, 15-8; Shriyanshi Valishetty (TS) bt (CHG) Kanishka Kalia 15-5, 15-10; Zainab Saeed (DLI) bt (KER) Nanda Ghosh 15-9, 15-10; Sri Vyshnavi S.V.S. (TS) bt (TN) Teja Sivakumar 15-7, 7-15, 15-9; Rujula Ramu (KTK) bt (TS) Poojitha Nellikanti 17-15, 15-8.Boys’ U-17 qualifying round 3: Harshit Dahiya (DLI) bt (AP) Dileep Kumar Gulipalli 15-4, 12-15, 15-9; Sugi Sai Bala Singha G. (TN) bt (TS) Jayaditya Kasula 10-15, 15-9, 15-11; Rounak Chouhan (CG) bt (TN) Jayanth C.B. 15-11, 15-6; Ishaan Sihag (HAR) bt (UP) Shivam Verma 16-14, 15-6; Nagesh Chamle (MAH) bt (HP) Aditya Sharma 18-16, 15-8; Neetesh Thakur (UP) bt (MAH) Malhar Ghadi 15-9, 15-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subjunior-badminton-tournament-tiya-mahi-record-wins-101641328024933.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF World Juniors tennis tournament: Thailand’s Tararudee wins round 2 tie||Second seed L Tararudee of Thailand and Pushti Laddha of India won their respective girls’ U-18 second round matches during the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament being held at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Tuesday.L Taradudee beat Suryanshi 6-1, 6-3 while Pushti outplayed S Amireddy 6-2, 6-1 to move ahead in the tournament. In another girls’ U-18 second round match, Janani Ramesh overpowered Vanya Arora 6-1, 6-1.Due to wet conditions, only one match was played in the boys’ U-18 category, where Aryan Shah defeated qualifier Deep Munim 6-0, 6-2 in straight sets.Results (main draw) Boys’ U-18 second round): Aryan Shah (IND) [8] bt. Deep Munim (IND) (Q) 6-0, 6-2;Girls U-18 second round: Pushti Laddha (IND) (Q) bt. S Amireddy (IND) 6-2, 6-1; Janani Ramesh (IND) (Q) bt. Vanya Arora (IND) 6-1, 6-1; L Tararudee (THA) [2] bt. Suryanshi (IND) (Q) 6-1, 6-3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-world-juniors-tennis-tournament-thailand-s-tararudee-wins-round-2-tie-101641327905137.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Unidentified assailants murder 30-year-old, hide body under debris at vacant plot||Ludhiana The body of a 30-year-old man was found hidden under the debris at a vacant plot in Shadi Lal Colony in Tibba on Tuesday morning. Police have sent the body to the Ludhiana civil hospital for post-mortem. Officers said the accused had damaged the victim’s face with the intention of concealing his identity.Inspector Nardev Singh, station house officer, said no mobile phone or identity card was recovered, but that the victim had a tattoo reading ‘Mandeep’ on his arm. Police have circulated photographs of the tattoo in surrounding areas to help with identification of the body.The inspector added that the body was discovered when passersby dug up the debris after noticing the victim’s shoes at the vacant plot on Tuesday morning. He further said the victim had sustained multiple injuries on his body. The assailants are likely to murdered him 24-48 hours ago, said inspector Nardev SinghPolice are checking the footage acquired from the closed-circuit television (CCTV) installed in the area to identify the assailants and looking through missing complaints to identify the victim.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-unidentified-assailants-murder-30-year-old-hide-body-under-debris-at-vacant-plot-101641327784811.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches LED van to raise awareness on sanitation||To raise awareness on sanitation and bring focus on Swachh Survekshan 2022, the municipal corporation on Tuesday launched an LED display van from Sector 17 plaza, which goes through Rose Garden.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said here on Tuesday that the van will cover all parts of city in one month. Audio and visual content on sanitation has been prepared by MC, which will be played on the LED screens of the van.Video clips and audio visual promos have been made to share guidelines, parameters and awareness material. Video clips have been prepared covering important parameters including segregation of waste at source level, door-to-door waste collection system, home composting and stopping use of plastic. The display van will move throughout city covering markets, residential areas and villages for one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-launches-led-van-to-raise-awareness-on-sanitation-101641327725745.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Assailants open fire at student union leader’s house||Motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire outside the house of a student union leader in Bawa Colony at Kakowal road on Tuesday night. The bullets hit the walls of the house. At the time of the incident, the Gurpreet Singh, who is vice-president of a student union along with his parents and sister was present at home, however they all escaped unhurt in the incident.Gurpreet’s father Tehal Singh said his son is a college student in Ghumar Mandi and wants to be the president of the union, following which some of the student leaders have nursed rivalry against him.He added that on Tuesday night some unidentified accused gathered in a vacant plot near their house and started opening fire in the air. At that time, they were inside the rooms while his daughter was in the veranda.They hid behind the furniture to save themselves. After sometime the assailants fled from the spot abusing them.As the assailants left the place they informed the police. The police have initiated an investigation and are recording statements of the student leader and his family members to lodge an FIR.Additional deputy commissioner of Police (ADCP, city 1) Parminder Singh Heer said some of the assailants have been identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-assailants-open-fire-at-student-union-leader-s-house-101641327664878.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches awareness campaign on home composting||The municipal corporation on Tuesday launched an awareness campaign on home composting and segregation of waste at the source level to encourage residents to take up the “my waste, my responsibility” concept, involving recycling of biodegradable waste into manure.The awareness campaign has been launched at the “Aatmanirbhar Ward”, comprising Sector 29 and Industrial area besides Sanjay colony.Following the instructions of MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, the team led by SBM brand ambassador Kajal Mangalmukhi encouraged citizens to participate in composting of waste produced in their households.The home composting campaign involves door-to-door canvassing among residents to implement viable waste recycling methods like on-site composting pits and composting in buckets etc. Besides this, eco-friendly methods to recycle waste within households were explained to residents.Mitra said that instead of conducting awareness meetings in closed halls, the MC has planned to meet residents in streets and encourage them to help the civic body in containing waste generated daily and dispose off wet waste at their own level through home composting.She said that with the enthusiasm of local residents, ward no. 20 strives to be an Aatmanirbhar ward. All wet waste will be processed within the ward and dry waste sent to material recovery facility station located at the same ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-launches-awareness-campaign-on-home-composting-101641327607777.html
05-01-2022||Noida||Yeida bags ‘big profits’ as Noida airport project picks up pace, claim officials||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has been witnessing a “big jump in profits” in sale of properties in the past one year amid a progress in the work on the Noida International Airport project in Jewar, said officials on Tuesday.Yeida said that it has started receiving a lot of applications for plots from the investors since the work on the airport project has picked up pace. “We are witnessing an increase in profit every year, as the airport project has become a reality. We believe that the profit is likely to increase in the future,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida.According to the Yeida, it has received a profit of ₹149 crore in 2018-19, ₹289 crore in 2019-20, and ₹455 crore in 2020-21 financial years. Yeida is seeing the profit in sale of residential, industrial, institutional and mixed-land use plots. It has received nearly ₹2,121 crore revenue from April 1, 2021, to December 15, 2021, and spent nearly ₹1,474 crore during this period in paying the debt and other expenditure. Yeida, however, did not increase the land allotment rate for any category in its board meeting held on Monday.“The authority may revise the land allotment rates in March 2022, if the board agrees to this proposal. In this board meeting the Yeida has not increased the land allotment rates,” said Singh.If the rates are hiked, Yeida hopes the profit will further increase in the future. In May 2019, Yeida approved a 4% -8% hike in land allotment rate of the group housing, builder, and industrial and institutional plots.The prevailing rate for residential land is ₹16,225 per square metre for group housing land and ₹7,560 per square metre for institutional land, said the officials. Meanwhile, Yeida has also decided to adopt a new scheme to allot the institutional plots.“The applicant for institutional plots will get marks for fulfilling the eligibility criteria such as financial net worth, technical capacity and work experience, etc. If the applicant will get at least 60% out of the total 85% then only he will be considered for an interview to get qualified for a plot,” said Singh.
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 4 booked for abetment as man ends life after being cheated of ₹90 lakh by acquaintances||Ludhiana A 42-year-old trader on Monday committed suicide by consuming poison after being cheated by his relatives and a friend. Police booked four accused, identified as Manpreet Singh Sethi, his father-in-law Kuldeep Singh, a woman Ishu Khurana, all residents of New Shivpuri, and Sethi’s brother-in-law Ajit Singh, a resident of Dugri, for abetment to suicide following the complaint filed by the victim’s wife.Ther complaint said Sethi, who works as a DJ had taken ₹70 lakh from her husband in 2018 in exchange of assurance that he would help the family in moving to the United States. However, the complainant alleged that the accused did not go through with his proposed plan and threatened her husband on being asked to return the amount.The complainant said Khurana had also borrowed ₹20 lakh from her husband, later refusing to return. She added that the deceased was suffering from depression.Assistant sub inspector Prem Lal, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division number 4 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-4-booked-for-abetment-as-man-ends-life-after-being-cheated-of-90-lakh-by-acquaintances-101641327484883.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh finalises draft proposal for cyber security centre||To clamp down on cyber crimes in the city, the UT Administration has finalised a draft proposal for the setting up of a cyber security centre.The draft was discussed with the experts from Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Tuesday. The Chandigarh Police is the nodal agency which will run and manage the centre, which is likely to be named, “Centre for Cyber Security Operation (CenCOP)”.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “It was decided during the meeting to prepare a final proposal for setting up the centre and send it to the MHA for approval at the earliest.”“Cyber security will be one of the main challenges in the coming years and we want to lead the way in the region in meeting the new-age challenges. Apart from research and analysis work, strategies will also be devised in anticipation of future challenges. The centre is most likely to be established within this year under the supervision of the police,” said Pal. Pal said anti-drone technology will also be part of the proposed centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-finalises-draft-proposal-for-cyber-security-centre-101641327424824.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM inaugurates govt hospital in Mohali||Punjab deputy chief minister Punjab OP Soni on Tuesday inaugurated a 30-bed government hospital which was upgraded from a dispensary in Phase 3B1, Mohali.Soni said the doctors have already been appointed at the hospital, which will be functional from Wednesday.He added that a state-of-the-art laboratory will be also be set up in Mohali, for which land has been arranged by MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said that the tests for which samples had to be sent to Pune, will be conducted at the lab once its functional.Soni said that the third wave of Covid is standing at our doorstep and it is very important for everyone to take precautionary measures to avoid it. “We have successfully faced the second wave and with the cooperation of the people, the third will also be tackled,” he said.Speaking on the occasion, MLA and former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that the construction of this hospital will help reduce the pressure on the civil hospital. The OPD of the new hospital will start tomorrow and a diagnostic centre has also been set up here. Sidhu added that it also has a state-of-the-art OT.Others present on the occasion were deputy commissioner Isha Kalia, mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-inaugurates-govt-hospital-in-mohali-101641327244838.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Music company owners booked under Copyright Act for selling songs without lyricist’s consent||Ludhiana A lyricist lodged an FIR against owners of a music company for selling his song to another entity without consent, which led to it being used in a Punjabi film.The complainant, Simran Goraya of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, had earlier filed a complaint with police on December 6, 2021. In his complaint, he said the accused, Anil Jain and Yatin Jain of the Vardhman Music Company, had contacted him to sell one of his songs, “Shoot Da Order”, assuring him a 50% share in the earnings.However, according to the complainant, the accused sold the song to KV Dhillon, owner of MP3 Music Company, who later used the song in a film without his consent.Sub inspector Gursewak Singh, investigating officer, said a case under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy)of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections 52 A and 68A of the Copyright Act has been lodged against the accused at the Division number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-music-company-owners-booked-under-copyright-act-for-selling-songs-without-lyricist-s-consent-101641327064876.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU spent ₹1.4 crore on senate elections||Panjab University (PU) spent around ₹1.4 crore on the senate polls which were held in 2021. The expenses were incurred on polling parties, videography of polling booths and honorarium to staff involved in the polling and counting process, details of which were shared by a university official.The polling booths were set up across seven states/UTs and the counting of votes for the senate’s registered graduate constituency also took a few days, as it is the largest constituency and had around 3.61 lakh voters.The elections for the PU senate had started on August 3, 2021, after a year’s delay. They were initially scheduled for August 2020, but were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.Over the past few years, there have been many advocates for reforms in the governance of the university. Former V-C of PU Arun Kumar Grover, said, “This election process is outdated and is not resulting in proper representation on behalf of the different electorates to the senate. The process needs reforms and has to be made less expensive as well.”A high-level committee had also been formed to examine the governing structure. Last year, the committee had resolved that as a substitute to the graduates constituency, four eminent PU alumni be nominated by the chancellor. They also resolved that 18 members be nominated by the chancellor instead of the existing provision of 36. The committee had recommended that the senate and syndicate be retained, but with a lower number of members for enhanced efficiency.However, some of the recommendations of the panel were criticised and several protests were also held on the varsity campus.BOX: College teacher to sit on dharnaTarun Ghai, whose election to the senate was declared ineligible by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar in November, on Tuesday said that if the decision is not rolled back then he will sit on dharna in front of the place where the senate meeting will be held on January 8. Ghai said that by scheduling the senate meeting without candidates from two constituencies – faculties and teachers of affiliated arts colleges - who are yet to be notified, the university is taking away their representation..
05-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar AOAs start jab camps for teenagers at residential complexes||As vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15-18 age group started on Monday, apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) in Gautam Budh Nagar have started holding vaccination camps for teenagers inside the residential premises itself, said officials on Tuesday.According to the representatives of the Noida Federation of apartment owners’ association (NOFAA), it has come to agreements with private hospitals in the area to facilitate the vaccination camps. A vaccination camp was set up in Noida Sector 74’s Ajnara Grand Heritage apartments on Tuesday, where 50 children in the 15-18 age group were administered the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine ‘Covaxin’. The residential complex has 1,500 flats.“Some parents are apprehensive of taking their children to hospitals for the vaccination, some want to avoid crowds at government vaccination centres set up at schools, so we decided to bring the facility at their doorsteps so that children get vaccinated at the earliest,” said Abhinav Saini, Ajnara Grand Heritage AOA, adding that another vaccination camp will be held on January 11. “After vaccinating 50 beneficiaries, nearly 30-40 others are left, who will get the vaccine shot on January 11... A vaccination camp will also be held for senior citizens, where they will get their precautionary dose,” Saini said.At present, the housing complex has two active Covid cases and both of them are in home isolation. According to Rajiva Singh, president of NOFAA, more such camps are scheduled to be set up this week. “Apart from Ajnara, three more housing complexes in sectors 62, 50 and 93 will hold vaccination camps this week. We have requested all high-rise housing complexes to schedule vaccination camps for the teenagers and precautionary shots for the senior citizens. In case the number of eligible children is less in a particular residential complex, we can form clusters of high-rises and organise such camps in one housing complex. All the AOAs have been tasked to form a data of eligible children for their first shot, and seniors for precautionary shots,” said Singh.A testing camp was also set up at Prateek Wisteria Apartments in Sector 77 on Monday. “Our housing complex has been witnessing a number of Covid cases, so we decided to hold a testing camp here. We will also hold a vaccination camp on January 11 for the teenagers and the senior citizens,” said Amit Gupta from the AOA.There are 23 active Covid cases in the residential complex at present, Gupta said. Meanwhile, Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We encourage the residents to be proactive to get vaccinated... If a cluster of housing complexes has more than 200 eligible children to be vaccinated, the health department will try to arrange a vaccination camp there.” 
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Motorcycle-borne man snatches ₹1 lakh from telecom company employee in Ludhiana||Ludhiana A motorcycle-borne man on Monday snatched ₹1 lakh from a telecom company employee at Sheria road in Koom Kalan.The complainant, Maninderjit Singh, 27, of Guru Nanak Nagar of Machhiwara, said he was returning to the office after collecting the amount from the market on his motorcycle when another motorcycle-borne pushed him onto the road before fleeing with the money, a mobile phone and some documents.Assistant sub inspector Harmesh Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against unidentified accused. The police are scanning footage from the closed-circuit television (CCTV) to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/motorcycleborne-man-snatches-1-lakh-from-telecom-company-employee-in-ludhiana-101641326945357.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||ECRP Scheme: As Covid cases surge, Chandigarh speeds up pending projects||Amid the sudden surge in Covid-19 infections in Chandigarh, the UT health department has sped up the process of completing pending projects approved by the central government under the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package (ECRP-II package).Under the ECRP scheme, the Centre had sanctioned ₹5.6 crore to the UT health department in August 2021, of which ₹3.61 crore was for ramping up health infrastructure with focus on paediatric units, keeping in view the possibility of the surge in infections among the paediatric population.Also, ₹1.60 crore was allocated for procurement of essential Covid-related drugs and diagnostics and ₹45 lakh for IT hubs at hospitals to improve tele-consultation services. The Centre had asked UT to complete all the projects before March 2022.The major health infrastructure projects at government hospitals will take at least one more month for completion. Under the ECRP scheme, the health department is coming up with a 32-bed dedicated paediatric ICU centre at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, which will have 12 ventilator beds and 20 beds with medical oxygen facility. Similarly, an advanced lab to conduct RT-PCR tests is also being set up.“At present, the engineering work of the building is underway and we have already procured most of the equipment. As soon as it is complete, the facility will be open to the public. Work to start RT-PCR testing at the hospital is also speeding up and both projects are expected to be complete in a month”, said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services.To increase the number if ICU beds in the city, proposals have been approved to set up 20 additional ICU beds each at civil hospital in Sector 22 and Manimajra. All of them will have a medical oxygen facility. “A memorandum of understanding has already been signed with a private firm to set up ICU beds. However, this project will be completed by March 2022,” said Dr Singh.‘Ready to tackle the surge’Dr Suman further said, “As recommended by the Centre, the UT health department had already procured and stocked up eight essential Covid-19 related drugs at a cost of ₹45.8 lakh, keeping in view the possible third wave. We have enough medicines, ICU beds and ventilators at the government hospitals to tackle the surge.” She added that the government and private hospitals have adequate medical oxygen to meet the requirement.Another ECRP scheme project, IT-hub, has been completed through which all health and wellness centres are connected to civil hospitals for tele-consultation, which will further be linked with GMSH-16 and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. These two hospitals are then linked to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for tele-consultation.“The project has already started and through this facility, patients are connected with doctors, who are then connected with specialists for the consultation,” said Dr Suman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ecrp-scheme-as-covid-cases-surge-chandigarh-speeds-up-pending-projects-101641326768566.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Claiming to be OSD to Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, man dupes Ludhiana trader||Ludhiana Police on Monday arrested a man for allegedly impersonating as an officer on special duty (OSD) to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to dupe a trader of ₹22,000 on the pretext of helping him release his material seized by sales tax officials.Police said the accused, identified as Vijay Pandey of Naulakha Garden Colony who owns a business of installing closed-circuit television cameras, has cheated many others in the past and also tricked police officials under his false identity.A case has registered following the statement of Jatin Kumar, a resident of Jaiswal Colony of Basti Jodhewal. In his statement, the complainant said his friend had bought some ready-made garments from Dehradun, which were seized by sales tax department in December 2021. He added that they came in contact with the accused later that month, and were assured that he would help them in getting the merchandise released. The complainant paid ₹22,000 cash, following which the accused started threatening them. The complainant also alleged that the accused had duped two women—Merry John and Shakuntla Benjamin—of ₹40,000 and ₹20,000 on the pretext of helping them secure a government job.Assistant sub inspector Mohan Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the arrested person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-impersonating-as-osd-to-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-channi-dupes-ludhiana-trader-of-22-000-arrested-101641326764867.html
05-01-2022||Noida||At 322, Ghaziabad, Noida report highest single-day Covid spikes since May 2021||As the state witnesses a rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, Ghaziabad recorded 182 cases and Noida recorded 140 on Tuesday -- both highest single-day spikes since May 2021.Ghaziabad last reported a maximum of 228 Covid cases (single-day spike) on May 26, 2021, as Noida reported 146 fresh cases (previous single-day spike) on May 23 last year.The Covid tallies in Ghaziabad and Noida have reached 405 and 419 during January itself, with the active caseloads at 560 and 597, respectively, according to official figures. In Ghaziabad, 453 patients are in home isolation and eight in hospitals, while facility allocation for 99 others is still pending; and 10 Covid patients in Noida are in hospital and 550 in home isolation.Officials of the district health department in Ghaziabad said that the majority of cases being reported are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, and they are in home isolation. Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad, said, “We are conducting surveillance and containment exercises for each case, and majority of them are in home isolation. If any patient has no additional rooms in his/her house for home isolation, we isolate the person at one of our four community health centres with 30 beds each. If needed, we can increase the number of Covid beds to 50 at each of the facilities.” “We have put 58 hospitals on standby in case of need, and our teams are aggressively taking up contact tracing of the positive cases,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional CMO of Ghaziabad on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Dr Sunil Sharma, CMO of Noida, said, “The good thing is, around 10 foreign travellers have tested Covid positive so far, and there are no cases of Omicron yet. The number of cases being reported are on the rise, but with less severity.” The fresh Covid cases being reported on Tuesday do not include travellers, and most of the patients are ether contacts of previous cases or detected through random sampling.At present, the positivity rate in Ghaziabad stands at 2.56%, with nearly 4% in Gautam Budh Nagar.According to official figures, Ghaziabad has had a total tally of 56,319 Covid cases since the beginning of the pandemic, and Noida has 64,131cases.The daily Covid testing in Ghaziabad is still low at 3,955 daily tests on an average. The district has been failing to meet the daily target of 7,400 set by the state government for long, according to the data. Noida has been conducting 3,500 tests on a daily basis, which falls short of the set target of over 7,000tests regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-322-ghaziabad-noida-report-highest-single-day-covid-spikes-since-may-2021-101641326344715.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will bear cost of land to construct Ravidas temple in Delhi: Channi||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Tuesday that his government is ready to bear the entire expenditure for acquiring land for the construction of Guru Ravidas Temple at Tughlakabad in New Delhi.On the orders of the Supreme Court, the Ravidas Temple in Tughlakabad was demolished in August 2019. But later the apex court allowed the reconstruction of the temple.Devotees say that Guru Ravidas visited this place in 1509 during the reign of Sikander Lodhi.Channi said the Delhi Development Authority had recently asked the Guru Ravidas Vishram Dham Mandir Chamarwala Johar Tughlakabad Committee to deposit ₹4.33 crore for acquiring 400 square metres of land, according to an official statement.Since the amount was quite hefty, he said various delegations approached him for seeking requisite contribution from the state government.As the Punjab government is already following the ideology of Guru Ravidas in the right earnest to ensure well-being of one and all, it has now decided that it will bear the entire expense for procuring the land to construct the temple at Tughlakabad if the committee desires so, the chief minister said.Channi said he would be the most fortunate and blessed one in case the committee wishes to bestow service to the state government led by him.Terming this gesture as a humble tribute by the Punjab government to Guru Ravidas, Channi said Guru Ravidas made tireless efforts for bringing social awakening through ethos of equality and harmony.Referring to ‘bani’ of Guru Ravidas included in sacred Guru Granth Sahib, the repository of knowledge, faith and learning for the entire mankind, Channi said it is the moral duty of the state government to uphold the glorious legacy of the great guru for coming generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-bear-cost-of-land-to-construct-ravidas-temple-in-delhi-channi-101641326104865.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||160 doctors across Delhi test positive for Covid-19||At least 160 junior doctors across five Covid-19 hospitals in the national capital have either tested positive for Covid-19 or are suspected to have been infected over the last few days, the administration of these hospitals confirmed on Tuesday.According to information from resident doctors’ associations of various hospitals in Delhi, over the last week, several doctors, especially resident doctors and interns who have been interacting with Covid patients, have contracted the infection or are in isolation, awaiting their test results.At least 65 junior doctors tested positive for Covid at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) over the last few days and at least 49 doctors tested positive at Safdarjung Hospital. Of the 49, 26 were infected over the last 24 hours. At Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, 15 doctors tested positive, at Hindu Rao 20 tested positive and at Ambedkar Hospital, eight doctors tested positive over the last week. “Since junior doctors are interacting more with the patients, the chances of them getting infected are also higher. All doctors here who are showing symptoms have isolated themselves,” said Dr Amit Malviya from AIIMS resident doctors’ association. Meanwhile, AIIMS issued an order on Tuesday cancelling the remaining winter vacation for its faculty. Doctors have been asked to join duty immediately as the number of Covid-19 cases is seeing a surge. Delhi recorded 5481 cases on Tuesday. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that over the last few days, 187 reports of genome sequencing have been released--of these, 152 people tested positive for the Omicron variant.“Omicron is now the dominant variant in Delhi; around 81% of cases in Delhi are of the Omicron variant. The people arriving at Delhi Airport coming from abroad are being tested and are being sent to isolation facilities if tested positive and are being treated accordingly,” said Jain. The minister said that the government has made adequate arrangements to handle the surge in cases. “There is no need to panic. The best way to stop coronavirus is to wear a mask at all times and follow all the Covid appropriate protocol at all times,” he said. 
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Court denies SIT status report to accused cops||Faridkot : Terming applications of accused cops a “delaying tactic”, a Faridkot court on Tuesday denied to provide them the status report of investigation in two FIRs registered in connection with the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing incident and refused to defer framing of charges against them till February. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi dismissed four applications filed by former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma and other accused claiming that the court found no merit in the applications and the accused cannot seek details of the ongoing investigation. The matter was adjourned to January 18. In December, Sharma had filed an application asking the court to give directions to the special investigation team (SIT) to file a status report with regard to the investigation carried out in FIR 129 (registered against protestors) and FIR 130 (registered against cops) to the date. SIT had told the court that further investigation in both the FIRs registered in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing is underway. In another plea, citing the Punjab and Haryana high court decision to grant exemption to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini from personal appearance till February 2022, the accused cops had urged the trial court to defer framing of charges against them and adjourn the matter till then. Sharma had also filed an application seeking direction to police to conduct a further investigation with regard to injuries suffered by cops as well as damage to public property at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. The court also dismissed Sharma’s application claiming that SIT has not supplied complete copies of three supplementary challans presented by the police against the accused suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, former DGP Saini, SP Bikramjit Singh, sub-inspector Amarjit Singh Kular, Suhail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal. Modi should resolve issues of Panth: Daduwal President of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) Baljit Singh Daduwal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should resolve issues of the Sikh Panth as the state government has failed to provide justice in 2015 firing incidents and sacrilege cases. Daduwal joined Sukhraj Singh, son of 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing victim Bhagwan Krishan Singh, who is continuing his sit-in on the 20th day at the incident site in Faridkot on Tuesday. “We appreciate PM Modi for resolving some issues, which include the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor and repealing of farm laws on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. There are also some other issues of Sikh Panth that need to be addressed by the government of India, such as the release of prisoners who have completed their sentences, the Bargari sacrilege, the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents, relaxation in conditions for visits to gurdwaras in Pakistan and special courts for drug trafficking cases,” he added. 
05-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 23 fresh Omicron cases; 8 of these in Lucknow||LUCKNOW As many as 23 fresh Omicron cases surfaced in UP, taking the tally of this variant of the Coronavirus to 31 on Tuesday. The patients were asymptomatic and in home isolation. They will remain in isolation for at least 12 days before a repeat test, said health officials.In the fresh omicron case tally, Lucknow accounted for 8, Meerut 5, Ghaziabad 3, Moradabad 2, Kanpur 2, Agra 2 and Maharajganj 1.According to the data from the state health department, UP’s active caseload crossed the 1000-mark on Saturday, 2000-mark on Monday and 3,000 on Tuesday. The urban hubs registered spike in cases with Gautam Buddha Nagar reporting new cases taking the tally of the active cases to 597, Ghaziabad reported 174 fresh cases with 561active cases, Lucknow reported 150 new cases with 309 active cases, Meerut had 102 new cases with 112 active cases, Agra reported 24 fresh cases with 108 active cases, Varanasi reported 32 new cases and had 104 active cases, Prayagraj reported 37 fresh cases and had 73 active cases and Kanpur reported 35 fresh cases and 55 active cases. Children in 15 to18 age group, for whom Covid-19 vaccination has begun in the state, will be entitled to a break from school on the day when they are scheduled to take a dose and a special leave the next day. Chief secretary DS Mishra on Tuesday issued directions to all district magistrates in this regard, asking them to enforce government’s orders to make the vaccination drive successful. “In case children are taking vaccine dose on the school campus itself, in that case they will be given a special holiday the following day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-23-fresh-omicron-cases-8-of-these-in-lucknow-101641325924888.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Broad daylight heist: ₹5 lakh looted from BoB’s Patti branch||TARN TARAN: In a broad daylight heist, four armed robbers looted ₹5 lakh from Bank of Baroda’s (BoB) Patti branch on Tuesday. The robbers, who had covered their faces, also took away the security guard’s rifle and the digital video recorder (DVR) before decamping with the cash. The incident took place at around 2pm when the bank staff was taking lunch. As soon as the robbers entered the bank, they overpowered security guard, Gursahib Singh, and snatched his rifle. The robbers pointed guns on the branch cashier and took away the cash. Following the incident, a police team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Patti, Maninderpal Singh reached the spot and started investigation.A spokesperson of Tarn Taran police said: “The robbers came in a white-coloured Volkswagen Polo car from the Sarhali Chowk side. After committing the crime, the robbers left toward the Sarhali side.”He said: “So far, police have examined footage of around 30 closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the area. Fifteen teams have been formed to identify and arrest the accused.” This is the second bank heist in Tarn Taran in a month. On December 5, two armed robbers, who were in police uniform, looted around ₹30 lakh after holding the bank staff captive. The kingpin fled abroad a day after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/broad-daylight-heist-5-lakh-looted-from-bob-s-patti-branch-101641325864754.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Taxi driver held in ₹50 lakh robbery in Delhi||A 27-year-old taxi driver was arrested for allegedly being part of a gang that robbed ₹50 lakh at gunpoint from two employees of a private financer in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on December 27, police said on Tuesday. The arrest was made by the special staff team of the outer north district. The case is being investigated by the west district police.Police said that the two employees, Lucky Mehra and Harvinder Singh, were riding a motorcycle with a bag containing ₹50 lakh that they had collected from property dealers in Vikaspuri at the behest of their employer Nirmohan Singh. They were at the Tilak Nagar flyover, when two motorcycle-borne men waylaid them, fired two rounds in the air, and assaulted the duo with helmets before robbing them of the cash bag. The mastermind of the robbery is on the run along with his two accomplices, including the financier’s employee who tipped off the gang about the cash collection, said deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav.“Our special staff team received information about the suspects in the case. The suspects changed their mobile phones frequently and would only make encrypted calls through the Internet. The team managed to arrest one suspect, Manpreet Saini, from Rohini’s Sector 25,” said DCP Yadav.During the interrogation, DCP Yadav said, Saini disclosed that the robbery was committed by Subhash alias Rahul and Pradeep alias Kake. One Bhupender Singh, who is one of Nirmohan Singh’s employees, had told the alleged robbers that a huge payment was to be received by his employer from Vikaspuri.“Subhash and Pradeep followed the two employees on a motorcycle and robbed them at gunpoint at the Tilak Nagar flyover. After fleeing nearly one kilometre, the duo abandoned their motorcycle, which they had stolen earlier, and fled in a taxi driven by Saini, who was given ₹25,000 as part of his initial share from the booty,” added the DCP.West district police took Saini in custody for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/taxi-driver-held-in-50-lakh-robbery-in-delhi-101641325744975.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Youth Cong chief opposes Moosewala as probable candidate from Mansa||BATHINDA: Punjab youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon on Tuesday cautioned the party leadership from fielding controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala from the Mansa assembly constituency.At a rally organised by former Mansa district youth Congress president Chuspinder Singh Chahal, Dhillon said a few party leaders have created dissidence by backing a novice person as the candidate. Dhillon said Chahal had been working for the last few years to strengthen the political base of the Congress in Mansa but now the name of the singer was being floated.Moosewala, who has a huge following among the youth, was inducted into the party in December by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Sidhu.“I appeal the screening committee to not to consider fielding Moosewala as it would discourage party activists. Unlike Moosewala, Chahal is associated with the party for the last several years,” said the head of the youth wing of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-cong-chief-opposes-moosewala-as-probable-candidate-from-mansa-101641325684749.html
05-01-2022||Other||Nine mobile teams for monitoring Covid cases in Gurugram||The Gurugram health department has set up nine mobile teams for monitoring Covid-19 patients in home isolation in the district. Officials said that the teams are being deployed based on number of active cases under a primary health centre. Currently, over 2,300 patients are under home isolation in Gurugram, with areas under urban primary health centres of Tigra (186) and Chanderlok (288) have the highest number of active cases. “We have constituted nine mobile health teams, in addition to rapid response teams, as Covid-19 cases are increasing in the district and most of the patients are under home isolation. These teams will take updates regarding the vitals of the Covid-19 patients as part of monitoring through daily calls and visit the patients with doctors if needed,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. According to the officials, each team has two doctors, one pharmacist and one ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) worker. These teams will further work in collaboration with rapid response teams that include ASHA workers, ANM workers and multi-purpose health workers. The health department already has 300 rapid response teams deployed for the monitoring process. Of these teams, 180 focus on urban areas and 120 on rural areas, the officials said. “Most of the patients with mild symptoms are under home isolation and we ensure daily tele-calling to these patients. Many patients do not want the doctor to visit them unless the conditions start deteriorating, that is where these teams help in large scale monitoring of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Isha Narang, deputy civil surgeon, who is managing monitoring of patients under home isolation in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-mobile-teams-for-monitoring-covid-cases-in-gurugram-101641325624850.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid norms go for a toss as residents throng vaccination centres in Ludhiana||Ludhiana The rapid rise in the number of Covid cases and the latest restrictions imposed by the Punjab government, allowing only fully vaccinated people at public places from January 15, has culminated in large and unmanageable crowds thronging the vaccination centres over the last few days.Huge gatherings were witnessed at the urban community health centre, Jawaddi on Monday. Residents, many of whom had come to the centre without wearing masks, could be seen pushing each other while standing in the long queues. The situation was not much different at the vaccination centre in the civil surgeon office either, with people violating the social distancing norms.As the health department struggled to manage the crowd, given the limited strength of the deployed staff members at the entry gate, the public was quick to criticise the department for mismanagement and even harassment at the centres. Several people rued having to make multiple trips to the centres to their doses.Shanti, a Vikas Nagar resident, claimed that she has received the second dose of vaccine on after making three separate trips, saying, “I have been standing in queue since 9am and now again at around 1pm, the staffers at the centre have started saying that only a few more residents will be able to get the vaccine today and the rest will have to come some other day.” “This is harassment and the administration should find a solution for the problem. The department should vaccinate all the visitors on that particular day when they report at the centre,” she added.Similarly, Sushma, who works as a housekeeper who was waiting in the queue to receive her second dose, said it was very difficult for her to ask for leave from her job to make multiple trips to the centre. “The department has been urging residents to get the second dose but no proper arrangements have been made. If I am not able to get the dose today, then it will get delayed as I will not be able to come again soon. The administration should increase the number of counters in a centre looking at the number of visitors”, she said. The authorities, meanwhile, said they have made regular appeals to the residents to follow the social distancing norms and keep themselves safe.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh, who also visited the Jawaddi centre at the commencement of vaccination for children of age group 15-18 years on Monday, said, “The visitors are appealed to follow the norms and centre’s staff has also been deployed to ensure social distancing and wearing of masks.” “But heavy rush was witnessed at the centre and the centre authorities were asked to take help of police if required. The department is also working to set up more centres in the nearby areas to streamline the process,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-residents-throng-vaccination-centres-in-ludhiana-101641325566113.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Assembly adopts panel’s report on services questions||The Delhi Assembly on Tuesday adopted the first report of the Committee of Privileges, which recommends that HoDs of the Delhi government departments be held responsible and proceeded against if answers to House queries are not given. In its report tabled in the assembly on Monday, the committee underlined that departments were not even giving answers to House questions which were available under RTI (Right to Information). Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, chairman of the Committee of Privileges, observed that all information available under RTI must be given to the House. The report said that all instances wherein information sought by a minister for a reply in the House is denied constitute a serious breach of privilege and contempt of House. The Committee recommended that in such cases the administrative Secretary/Head of Department concerned shall be personally held liable and responsible and proceeded against as the House deems fit because it amounts to breach of privilege and contempt of House. Saurabh Bharadwaj, a member of the committee, moved a motion stating that the House agreed with the first report of Committee Privileges presented to the House on January 3, 2022. The motion was put to vote and adopted by voice-vote. “The House has unanimously decided to refer matters related to unsatisfactory answers to questions asked by the members to the Privileges Committee. Many questions were not answered during Question Hour in the Assembly on Tuesday,” Bharadwaj stated. According to the Constitution, three key subjects -- public order, police and land -- are administered by the lieutenant governor (L-G). The committee also said: “The Committee further recommends that Government of NCT of Delhi should take necessary action in coordination with the Central government to introduce an amendment in the Parliament in order to legislate or make laws on subject matter related to Public Order, Police, Land of the State list under Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.” The committee, in its report, pointed out that the members of the House raised questions on subject matters related to public order, police and land, and replies to questions on these subject matters were being furnished since the inception of the Assembly in 1993. “However, as a covert manner in order to curtail the powers of the Delhi assembly and privileges of the Assembly, replies to subject matters noted above are not being provided to the Assembly since 2018 in view of the letter (from L-G),” the committee stated in its report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-adopts-panel-s-report-on-services-questions-101641325564774.html
05-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Installing gates on internal roads allowed with rider||Residents living in various sectors and those in private colonies can now install gates on internal roads provided they don’t block the movement of traffic and are manned by security guards. The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday said that it was decided by a district-level committee headed by deputy commissioner that gates would be allowed on internal roads that intersect 18-metre and 24-metre roads on a conditional basis. The decision was taken after considering several proposals submitted by various resident welfare associations (RWAs) and home owners’ associations, officials said. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said it has been decided that any new gates must be manned 24x7 and CCTV cameras should be installed to ensure the local residents don’t face any trouble in the night. “Several RWAs and condominium associations had submitted proposals, which were considered and permissions were granted on case by case basis. The general rule is that movement of residents and traffic should not be hampered. Keeping in view the need for enhanced security, permissions were granted,” he said. The DTCP officials said that in case of plotted colonies, the permission was granted locally but in case of group housing societies, the proposal would be sent to director, DTCP, in Chandigarh as any change in layout plan is only approved at the headquarters. “The proposal to install gates on revenue roads was, however, rejected as they can’t be blocked as per rules,” said Bhath. The department allowed the installation of gates in Uppal Southend, Palam Vihar A block, sectors 47/50, and Sector 30. The permission to erect gates in Uniworld Garden in Sector 47 and Palms Apartment in South City 1 will be sent to the headquarters for approval, said the officials. “After detailed deliberation, the committee decided to allow the gates. Further to provide sense of security to the residents without hampering inter-colony and intra-colony movement, the gates are allowed with the condition that they shall be manned by guards 24x7 and CCTV cameras be fixed by governing body of the colony,” stated an order issued by the department. RK Yadav, president of Sector 46 RWA, said that the permission to erect gates is a positive development as it will help improve the safety and security of residents. “We are facing rising cases of theft as movement of people can’t be controlled. With these gates in place, we can certainly keep a check who enters the sector, particularly during nights,” he said. The issue of installation of gates has been a bone of contention in some areas as several residents have opposed the installation of gates as they hamper the movement of people. In another development, the enforcement wing of the DTCP carried out demolition in four illegal colonies spread in 10 acres in Bhorakalan village on the outskirts of the city. Bhath said that they are taking action against illegal colonies that are in initial stages of development. “We had received information about these illegal colonies and after giving notices, action was carried out on Tuesday. Our team demolished 10 under construction houses, 59 plinths sewage lines and a road network. These colonies were being developed without any permission,” he said. A police team supported the enforcement officials in carrying out the demolition drive, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-installing-gates-on-internal-roads-allowed-with-rider-101641325326237.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi announces hike in honorarium of anganwadi workers||Morinda: Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced hike in the monthly honorarium of over 53,000 anganwadi workers, mini anganwadi workers and helpers across the state. He also declared that all these workers would be now eligible for regular increase in the honorarium annually from January 1, 2023, onwards.Addressing a gathering of anganwadi workers at the Morinda anaj mandi, the CM said the monthly emoluments of anganwadi workers stand increased from ₹8,100 to ₹9,500, mini anganwadi workers from ₹5,300 to ₹6,300 and helpers from ₹4,050 to ₹5,100. Likewise, the honorarium of anganwadi workers would be increased every year by ₹500 while it would be ₹250 in case of both mini anganwadi workers and helpers. The CM also gave appointment letters to 67 safai sewaks on the occasion. Describing anganwari workers as the backbone of the administrative machinery of the state, the CM reiterated that the welfare of women and their empowerment always remained the highest priority of the state government. “Earlier also, the monthly emoluments of over 67,000 Asha Workers and mid day meal workers were increased as part of the commitment to ensure overall welfare of this significant section of the society”, said Channi.Exhorting people to follow precautionary measures amid rising Covid-19 cases, the CM said the state government has a robust healthcare infrastructure in place to face any eventuality.In his address, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the present dispensation is fully conversant with the problems being faced by women who had to undertake household chores before leaving for professional commitments. Therefore, they deserved this much awaited increase in their monthly emoluments.Social security, women and child development minister Razia Sultana among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-channi-announces-hike-in-honorarium-of-anganwadi-workers-101641325324898.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: SP’s student wing launches youth-connect campaign from Lucknow University||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly polls, Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha--student wing of the Samajwadi Party (SP), led by its national president Neha Yadav launched ‘Vote for Akhilesh, New Uttar Pradesh’ campaign from the Lucknow University (LU) campus on Tuesday.The Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha functionaries interacted with the students and compared the achievements of the previous Samajwadi Party government with the BJP government.“BJP government spent 79% of the budget of ‘Beti Bachao,Beti Padhao’ scheme to advertise its false achievements,” they told the students.“In BJP government’s policies there is no plan to empower youths. Instead of honouring the promise to create 70 lakh jobs, this government took away 2 crore jobs. Paper leak is the new normal in this government,” they said.“In contrast, the SP government had specially focused on youth empowerment. The 18 lakh laptops that were distributed then are still used for skill development and livelihood,” said Neha.She said that under SP government there was special focus on women empowerment through various schemes. “As chief minister, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav played an important role in shaping the future of the students and youths. During SP regime, more than 20 higher educational institutes were opened, new medical colleges with more seats were set up. Under ‘hamari beti, hamara kal’ scheme ₹30,000 annually was provided to continue studies after high school,” Neha said.“For women safety schemes like ‘Women Powerline 1090, Rani Laxmibai award, Dial 100 were successfully implemented. There were other schemes that focused on health through initiatives like ‘Hausla Poshan Mission’, ‘108 ambulance service’,” said Arpit Sachan, Samajwadi Chatra Sabha spokesperson.“Under this campaign, all the office bearers and members of the committee will hold a discussion on ‘Ayenge Akhilesh, Banayenge Khushhal Uttar Pradesh’ in all universities, colleges and hostels of the state in days to come,” Arpit said. Ankur Pandey and Harsh Vashisht, national vice president Samajwadi Chatra Sabha were also present at the programme.(With inputs from Faara Nadeem)
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod for ₹ 2,000 internet allowance to 8.67 lakh students||Chandigarh : The Punjab cabinet on Tuesday decided to give a one-time internet allowance of ₹2,000 to all 8.67 lakh students studying in higher educational institutions in the state to enable them to continue their studies online during the Covid pandemic. The decision approved by the cabinet at a meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will benefit the students of technical, medical and other higher education colleges and universities in the state irrespective of whether they government, private or aided institutions. “The allowance is being given to help them access the internet facility for the purpose to continue their study while attending online classes in the Covid pandemic times,” the CM said after the cabinet meeting, asking the students to submit their details to their institutions at the earliest. The cabinet also approved the “Punjab Government Rozgar Guarantee for Youth Scheme (PRAGTY) 2022” formulated by the employment generation, skill development and training department to facilitate jobs, foreign study and skill training. At the state level, PRAGTY will be implemented by the Punjab Skill Development Mission, Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar & Karobar Mission, C-PYTE, Mai Bhago Armed Forces Preparatory Institute and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute. “There are large numbers of the Punjab youth who are not able to get employment due to various reasons. The scheme has been formulated to provide every possible facilitation to the unemployed youth of the state to help him become gainfully employed,” according to an official spokesperson. In recognition of the outstanding contribution of Punjabi hockey players of the Indian Team, which brought laurels for country in the Tokyo Olympic Games-2020, the cabinet also gave approval to offer appointments to them as PCS/DSPs to those having minimum qualification as graduation. The CM handed over appointment letters to seven players, besides announcing the decision to promote the team captain who was already posted as DSP in Punjab police to the rank of superintendent of police. Mid-day meal workers’ remuneration hiked The cabinet gave nod to hike remuneration of existing mid-day meal workers (cook-cum-helpers) working under Mid Day Meal Scheme (60:40) from ₹2,200 to ₹3,000 per month for 12 months in a year. This move would aim at enhancing the wages of such workers under mid-day meal programme to provide financial relief so that these workers could perform their duties more efficiently. The upgrade of sub-tehsil Mehal Kalan in Barnala district and Fatehgarh Churian in Gurdaspur district as tehsils/sub-divisions was also approved. The cabinet approved a sum of ₹6.65 crore for gaushalals. Of this, ₹4.03 crore would be spent to clear outstanding liabilities of 20 Government Cattle Pounds and ₹2.62 crore for the running cost for these cattle pounds for next three months. Reply to Raj Bhawan’s queries on jobs bill sent: CM On the state government’s standoff with the governor over delaying assent to the Bill for regularising the services of 36,000 contractual employees, Channi said the government had replied to queries put by the Raj Bhawan and was waiting for him to clear the legislation. “If he does not clear the bill, we will meet him on Thursday. The governor should not play politics,” the CM said, attributing the delay to the BJP’s pressure on him (governor). Channi had threatened to stage a sit-in against the governor for not clearing the jobs bill. However, the governor sent it back to the government with six queries relating to pending court cases, reservation and funding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-nod-for-2-000-internet-allowance-to-8-67-lakh-students-101641325024719.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Don’t mislead women by promising sops: Ashu’s wife to parties||Ludhiana: A day after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu promised to provide ₹2,000 and eight cooking gas cylinders to women homemakers if Congress is voted to power in the state, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s wife Mamta Ashu on Tuesda appealed the political parties to stop placing bids on women.Tagging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Sidhu, Congress state in-charge Harish Chaudhary, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi among others, Mamta, who is a Ludhiana municipal councillor, tweeted “Please Hamari Boli na lagayein” (please stop placing bids on women).She further stated: “Please stop taking Punjabi women for a ride by offering money We feel proud in our womanhood and if anyone wants to provide us something, then provide us equality, safety and self respect.”This has again brought to fore the rift between the state Congress leaders as earlier Ashu had opened a front against Sidhu for throwing a spanner in the government’s efforts and creating confusion in the party and urged the high command to discipline him. Ashu and Sidhu have been at loggerheads over different issues in the past too.After taking digs at his own party’s government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for offering “lollipops” ahead of polls, Sidhu had on Monday jumped into the race to lure voters with freebies by promising to give ₹2,000 per month and eight free cylinders to every homemaker woman and incentives for school and college going girls, if the party retains power in the state. The announcements were made by Sidhu during a rally in Barnala.Earlier the AAP had announced to give ₹1,000 per month to every woman above the age of 18, if it is voted to power in the state. Meanwhile, accusing minister Ashu for sheltering Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains in a rape case, former cabinet minister and SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal took a sarcastic dig at Mamta Ashu. “Mamta is worrying about a price being put on support of women, but she is turning a blind eye to the support being extended to a rape accused (Bains) by her husband. Everyone is aware that Ashu continues to support and shelter Bains in the rape case. Ashu even arranged a meeting between Bains and CM Charanjit Channi a few days back,” said Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-mislead-women-by-promising-sops-ashu-s-wife-to-parties-101641324785984.html
05-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Man fakes his own kidnapping, demands ₹2 lakh ransom from wife||A 30-year-old operations executive working at a beer café in Sector 29 allegedly staged his own kidnapping and demanded a ransom of ₹2 lakh from his wife, as he wanted to go on a vacation with his friends, police said on Tuesday. The suspect, identified as Anoop Kumar from Jhajjar, has been arrested, said police, adding that Kumar was living with his wife at her parents’ house in Rajiv Nagar. According to police, Kumar’s wife Deepika Gaur received a WhatsApp message on Sunday stating that her husband has been kidnapped, following which she filed a complaint at Sector 29 police station. Gaur, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, said that she had spoken with her husband on Sunday around 6.40pm when he was at his workplace. “Around 7.15pm, I received a message from his mobile phone that my husband was with the suspects, and if I wanted to see him alive then I should transfer ₹2 lakh to a bank account. They threatened me against reporting the incident to police,” she said. Gaur said the suspects called her several times and tried to pressurise her to transfer the money, but she approached police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they registered a case under Section 364-A (kidnapping or abduction for ransom) of IPC on Sunday evening and started investigation. “The number was put on technical surveillance and its location was traced. A team from Sector 29 police station arrested the suspect from IMT Manesar on Monday and was shocked to find that he had staged his own kidnapping,” he said. Sangwan said he was messaging his wife as he thought she would not report to police and would transfer money as she had savings. “The suspect lived with his wife in her parents’ house in Rajiv Nagar and worked in a beer café in Sector 29 for the past five years. He wanted to go on a vacation with his friends but had no savings. So he planned his abduction,” he said. Police said he parked his car in a five-star hotel’s parking lot and walked down to his workplace on Sunday afternoon. After spending a few hours, he left the beer cafe and sent a message to his wife and later switched off his mobile phone. Sangwan said Kumar was produced before the court on Tuesday that sent him to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-man-fakes-his-own-kidnapping-demands-2-lakh-ransom-from-wife-101641324784648.html
05-01-2022||Noida||CM inaugurates, lays foundation stone for projects worth ₹605 crore in Ghaziabad||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday dedicated several infrastructure and performed ground breaking ceremonies of other projects to the tune of ₹605.82 crore under the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, via videoconferencing from Lucknow.He also launched the first five electric buses in the city, out of the total 50 allocated, which are set to operate on four dedicated routes soon.CM Adityanath dedicated four projects worth ₹88.49 crore, and performed ground-breaking ceremonies for several other projects worth ₹517.33 crore. The programme comes ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in coming months, and the election code of conduct is likely to be announced in the near future.“The projects dedicated include a state of art auditorium in Nehru Nagar, which will give a chance for performing events like exhibitions, cultural activities, among others. We may also outsource the operation of the auditorium in the future. Other projects include a shopping complex at Ramte Ram Road, and two of our garbage factories at Sihani and Hindon Vihar where solid waste from the city will be segregated and processed,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.He said that the ground breaking ceremony was taken up for a tertiary sewage treatment plant, which will come up at Indirapuram from where 40 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage water will be treated and supplied to industrial units in the Sahibabad Site IV industrial area.“The project is worth ₹319 crore and will come up in two years. Once this project gets operational, we will be able to save 40MLD of groundwater as we will supply similar quantities to the industrial units. The other project worth ₹39 crore is of a multi-level parking, which is proposed near to the New Bus Adda metro station. The project is likely to be completed within a year... Apart from these, the city also got its five electric buses and more will arrive in the coming weeks,” Tanwar added.City gets its first five electric busesGhaziabad is also set to get 50 low-floor air-conditioned electric buses, which are likely to be rolled out in several phases, under this project. This was approved by the Centre in August 2019, and those will be run as a city transport service. This is the first state-run transport service in Ghaziabad. Each of the buses will have a capacity to cover a distance of 120 kilometres in a single charge. The buses will have an option for charging from a single point, which will take nearly two hours for being fully charged, at the 12 bays. They will also have a double point charging facility, which will take just one hour to fully charge the batteries.Five of the 15 e-buses launched on Tuesday will run on four designated routes being finalised, and will cover a distance of 88 kilometres per trip. The first route over 33 kilometres (one side) will connect Anand Vihar to Muradnagar, the second 20km route from Anand Vihar to Raj Nagar’s ALT Centre, the third 20km route from Dilshad Garden to Govindpuram, and the fourth 15km route will connect various points from Tila Morh to New Bus Stand. The minimum and maximum fares for the bus ride, on any route, has been fixed at ₹10 and ₹40 per passenger, respectively.In August 2019, the Ministry of Heavy Industries sanctioned 5,595 e-buses to 64 cities in different states for intra-city and inter-city bus services, and 600 of the total buses were approved for 11 cities in Uttar Pradesh including 50 for Ghaziabad.During an event in Lucknow on October 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off 75 such buses under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicle (FAME II) for seven cities, including Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Jhansi.“Initially, the buses will operate on one route between ALT-Centre in Raj Nagar and Kaushambi for first hand assessment of operations. More buses in the other three routes will also be opertaional soon,” said AK Singh, regional manager of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC).UP CM to unveil projects in Greater NoidaCM Adityanath will also attend an event at Gautam Buddha University’s Auditorium in Greater Noida around 2pm on Thursday (January 6) to unveil several projects and distribute tablet phones and smartphones to fresher college students. Students from all the six districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Baghpat and Meerut division will attend the event, said officials on Tuesday.The chief minister is likely to inaugurate public projects and lay the foundation stone for other projects (details not provided) between Noida and Greater Noida, said sources, adding that Gautam Budh Nagar police, administration, and other departments concerned have been coordinating for the event.“We have directed the staff to take required measures for a successful event,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Suhas LY, police personnel and other officials visited the university campus to take stock of the preparedness of the event. Officials of the Noida and Greater Noida authorities on Tuesday prepared a list of all the projects, which are to be inaugurated or could have foundation stone laying ceremony, however, the authorities did not share details about the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cm-inaugurates-lays-foundation-stone-for-projects-worth-605-crore-in-ghaziabad-101641324725183.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||State council of ministers ignored advice on ration scheme: L-G to Delhi HC||The Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that his repeated advice to the Delhi government to address the violation of National Food Security Act (NFSA), as flagged by the Union government in the implementation of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, have not been considered by the state council of ministers. Arguing before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, advocate DP Singh, read out a file noting of March 20, 2018 by the L-G to the state government’s finance department, in which he had advised them to refer the scheme to the union government with full details including all implementation issues before a final decision is taken.In the same noting, the L-G had also said that the proposal of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme is “worth considering”.Opposing the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, the L-G through his counsel said that he has not tried to usurp any powers and wanted to ensure that the Delhi government shall adhere to provisions of the NFSA, 2013 while implementing the scheme even if it comes out with a separate scheme for ration delivery to the citizens.The submission was made during the hearing on a plea by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, a group of FPS owners, in which they have challenged the doorstep ration delivery scheme, and demanded that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority).The scheme has become a flashpoint between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government and the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, with the former saying that the plan violates the provisions of NFSA and will deprive migrants of foodgrains, and the latter pointing out that it will root out the ration mafia and ensure that all beneficiaries get their ration.Advocate Singh also read out a noting where the L-G had pointed out that no approval has been granted by the Centre to the scheme and it was advised again that the matter be kindly referred to the union government for approval in accordance to the NFSA.In response to this, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the scheme is not before the LG for approval, and it has already attained finality.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel Gautam Narayan said that he would want to advance some arguments to rebut the submissions made by the L-G.The court posted the matter for Wednesday when it would continue hearing arguments.In an affidavit before the high court, the Delhi government in November said that no one will be deprived of food grains even after the introduction of the door to door step ration scheme and the fair price shops will continue to exist.“Beneficiaries who opt for doorstep delivery but miss the scheduled delivery or wish to collect the packages SFAs on their own will be able to collect it from the circle level FPS set up by the DCCWS. Beneficiaries who do not opt for home delivery will be able to collect their dry ration from the existing FPS. Therefore, it is a misconception that the GNCTD is seeking to do away with FPS,” the city government said in the document filed on November 18.The state government said the petitioner association is entirely mischievous in its contentions in respect of implementation of the scheme. It also said that not a single beneficiary has questioned the mode and manner of implementation of the scheme, and an overwhelming majority of the target beneficiaries have opted to receive food grains at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-council-of-ministers-ignored-advice-on-ration-scheme-l-g-to-delhi-hc-101641324664627.html
05-01-2022||Other||Campaign to expose critics of Hindutva from Jan 11: Sant Samiti||Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti (a national committee of saints) will launch a drive to expose those criticising Hindus and Hindutva. Swami Jitendranand Saraswati, general secretary of the samiti said the drive will be launched in villages of Uttar Pradesh (UP) with sant sammelans at 13 places. These places include Kashi, Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Bithoor, Vrindavan, Shukratal, Brajghat, Garhmukteshwar, Kachla, Soro, Naimisharanya, Deoria, Orchha and Vindhyachal in UP. The first sant sammelan will be organised in Naimisharanya on January 11. Saraswati said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath will participate in at least five such meetings by saints as chief guest. These sammelans would be organised in association with Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Akhara Parishad and Vishwa Hindu Parishad.“We want to tell such politicians who have their own political commitments in doing such criticism to not attack Hindutva and Hindus for their politics. The sant community will not tolerate it and through these conferences and drive in villages, such pseudo socialists and Congress leaders who are continuously making unrestrained statements on Hindus and their traditions will be exposed,” he added. “In these meetings the saints will take a resolution to expose those criticising Hindu society and Hindutva in debates on various platforms. After the sammelans, saints will go to their respective areas and hold meetings with the villagers to expose the detractors of Hindus and Hindutva on various platforms,” he said. “The saints will also give a message to work for Ganga cleaning and cow protection. They will also apprise the people of the grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The grand temple that is coming up in Ayodhya will also be part of the discussion,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/campaign-to-expose-critics-of-hindutva-from-jan-11-sant-samiti-101641324604905.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||British Sikh Army officer first Indian-origin woman to trek solo to South Pole||London: Captain Harpreet Chandi, a 32-year-old Indian-origin British Sikh Army officer and physiotherapist, also known as Polar Preet, has created history by becoming the first woman of colour to complete a solo unsupported trek to the South Pole.Chandi announced her history-making feat on her live blog on Monday at the end of Day 40 after travelling 700 miles (1,127 kilometres) while pulling a pulk or sledge with all of her kit and battling temperatures of minus 50 degrees Celsius and wind speeds of around 60mph.“I made it to the South Pole where it’s snowing. Feeling so many emotions right now. I knew nothing about the polar world three years ago and it feels so surreal to finally be here. It was tough getting here and I want to thank everybody for their support,” she wrote.“This expedition was always about so much more than me. I want to encourage people to push their boundaries and to believe in themselves, and I want you to be able to do it without being labelled a rebel. I have been told no on many occasions and told to ‘just do the normal thing’, but we create our own normal,” Chandi said.She uploaded a live tracking map of her trek and also posted regular blogs of her journey to the snow-capped region.“Day 40 – Finished. Preet has just made history becoming the first woman of colour to complete a solo expedition in Antarctica,” reads the final entry of her blog.“You are capable of anything you want. No matter where you are from or where your start line is, everybody starts somewhere. I don’t want to just break the glass ceiling; I want to smash it into a million pieces,” she said.As part of a medical regiment in the northwest of England, Chandi’s primary role is to organise and validate training for medics in the Army as Clinical Training Officer.Currently based in London, she is completing her master’s degree in sports and exercise medicine, part-time, at Queen Mary’s University in London and had dragged around two large tyres over the past few months for her polar training as a substitute for the heavy sledge she has been dragging along in Antarctica.“It definitely feels colder in the last degree where I’m at higher altitude. I haven’t seen anyone here in the last degree and now I’m 15 nautical miles from the South Pole. I can’t believe I’m almost there,” read her entry from Sunday, a day before her milestone.She also used her time in the cold to think about wedding plans for when she returns to England, having been engaged to Army reservist fiancé David Jarman before setting off on her expedition.The couple are expected to be reunited in Chile when she returns from the South Pole later this month.“I read somewhere that when you ask people to be your bridesmaids it’s nice to do it in a special way, so all the way from Antarctica I would love nothing more than for you to be my bridesmaids. Sonia Chandi, Rachel Tucker-Norton, Kamal Dhamrait, Tig Bridge, Hannah Sawford (or Hannah Smith now) and Collette Davey,” Chandi wrote.“I love you all and would love you to be my bridesmaids. I think at least three hen do’s are required. That’s normal right? But even if it’s not normal that’s never been anything to stop me,” she added.Chandi says she has always been keen to push the human body to its limits and sees her latest mission as part of this wider research.As an “endurance athlete”, she has run marathons and ultra-marathons and, as an Army officer, completed large-scale exercises and deployments in Nepal, Kenya and most recently a six-month United Nations peacekeeping tour to South Sudan. “Anything ambitious can feel out of reach at the beginning but every bit of training I complete brings me closer to my goal. My training expeditions in Greenland and Norway have helped prepare me and my goal is now in reach,” she declared before setting off for the South Pole in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/british-sikh-army-officer-first-indian-origin-woman-to-trek-solo-to-south-pole-101641324425219.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP against women empowerment: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday targeted BJP president JP Nadda for allegedly mocking at its “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon” (I am a girl, I can fight) campaign signifying women empowerment and said the BJP chief’s move raised questions about his party’s stance on safety and security of women.All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, while speaking to media persons, said Nadda was not the first BJP leader to mock at the women empowerment and that his statement on the issue was unfortunate.“What problems the BJP has with women empowerment and why is the BJP mocking at women and girls?” asked Shrinate. She said Nadda was targeting the Congress campaign and alleged that he himself and his party did not favour empowerment of women.Shrinate said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was out to change such a mentality and has given a call for making women self-reliant, give them jobs, make them fearless, safe and secure. She said Priyanka had promised 40 percent reservation to women candidates in the 2022 UP assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-against-women-empowerment-congress-101641324364000.html
05-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Liquor shop owners protest curtailed business hours||Liquor shop owners in the city on Tuesday protested outside the excise office in Sector 34, demanding that they should be allowed to keep their shops open till 11pm instead of 5pm under the current Covid-19 guidelines.The Haryana government on January 1 announced several restrictions in five districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad, where liquor shops were asked to operate between 9am and 5pm, while bars, pubs and restaurants were asked to operate with 50% seating capacity. The members of the Allied Liquor Association met the deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) and handed over a memorandum requesting change of timings and to waive off the liquor licence fees. Subhash Bansal, general manager of Discovery Wines and a member of the association, said that 80% of liquor sales is achieved from 6pm to 11pm. “Due to the present timings, we will have to incur a heavy loss. Besides, we will find it difficult to submit the license fees which are paid in advance,” he said. Sujan Singh, another member, said, “It was illogical to give permission to bars/restaurants to open till 11pm and put restrictions only on us.” The protesters said that the government should also waive off their licence fees and just charge them 10% with the restrictions. Rohit Yadav, a shop owner, said that the liquor shops are the highest revenue generators for the state. “The new restrictions will lead to smuggling of liquor, and people involved in illegal trade of liquor will flourish. We are ready to follow all Covid-19 protocols, but please don’t ruin our business,” he said. There are 280 liquor shops across the city, most of which are situated on MG Road, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road, according to an official data. Anirudh Sharma, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said the department agreed that the timings should change and forwarded their memorandum to the headquarters in Panchkula. “People usually visit liquor shops post 6pm. The timings of these establishments should be considered till 11pm. Since liquor shops in Delhi are open till 8pm, people will buy from the national capital leading to the loss for Gurugram shops,” he said. Haryana deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of excise and taxation, said, “We have received their representation and are trying to help them in every possible way.” Chautala further said that the liquor shop owners should appeal before the deputy commissioner also who will send recommendations to the government.
05-01-2022||Delhi||Most Omicron patients asymptomatic, but fatigue, throat rash common: Doctors||Most patients infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Delhi are showing symptoms similar to the Delta variant but with milder intensity, doctors said on Tuesday. While a majority of these patients are asymptomatic, symptomatic patients are complaining of fatigue, throat rash and mild fever, they added. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid-19 hospital in Delhi, said that till Monday 138 Omicron patients had been admitted to the facility. Of them, 105 had already been discharged. He also said that a majority of them were asymptomatic, and the others showed mild symptoms. “Omicron patients are exhibiting mild symptoms for around three or four days. We have already discharged 105 patients,” Dr Kumar said. “Since all Omicron cases are being institutionally isolated at the moment, many patients complain of fatigue and tightness in the throat. In cases where patients complain of fever, it lasts for around two days. But it is too early to say that these are the only symptoms of Omicron. We will require more data to say for sure,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. Senior officials of Delhi government’s health department said that since Omicron is the dominant variant in the city currently, majority of the detected cases are testing positive for this variant. Health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that over the last few days, 81.28% Covid-19 cases detected in the national capital tested positive for the Omicron variant. “Until now, the symptoms of Omicron are mild and that is also the trend that we are seeing globally. Our appeal to the public is to not panic and get vaccinated. From yesterday (January 3), we started the vaccination drive for teenagers between 15 and 17 years. Please get your children also inoculated so that even if you catch the infection, its intensity is low,” said a senior Delhi government official. Delhi government data shows that on Tuesday, 531 hospital beds were occupied by patients, of whom 14 were on ventilator support, 168 showed moderate symptoms and 308 were either asymptomatic or showed mild symptoms. This figure also includes 41 suspected cases. 
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Amid Covid surge, UP schools up to Class 10 shut till January 14||LUCKNOW All government and private schools up to Class 10 will remain closed till Makar Sankranti (January 14) and the night curfew will be imposed from 10pm to 6am from Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh government announced on Tuesday, following a sharp surge in Covid cases. The vaccination of children in the 15 to18 age group would, however, continue during this period, officials said. The state government had on December 25 implemented night curfew from 11pm to 5am. UP reported 992 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, taking the active case count to 3,173 on Tuesday.“Public places like gyms, spas, cinema halls, banquet halls, restaurants etc should be operated at 50% capacity in districts where the minimum number of active cases exceeds 1,000. In marriage ceremonies and other events, not more than 100 people will be permitted in closed places at a time. The presence of people in excess of 50% of the total capacity of the ground should not be allowed in open space. Masks and sanitisers should be made mandatory,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath while reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting here.Adityanath directed officers to make Covid help desks functional with immediate effect in all government, semi-government, private institutions, companies, historical monuments, offices, religious places, hotels/restaurants and industrial units of the state. Entry to the premises will be not permitted without screening and sanitisation, he added. It has been made mandatory to bring a negative RT-PCR report (not older than 48 hours) for devotees visiting the Magh Mela in Prayagraj.“There is need to follow Covid protocol strictly. People should not panic or get distressed, alertness and caution is needed. They should be encouraged to wear masks, take vaccine and practice social distancing,” said the state government in a press statement. Genome sequencing for the identification of new Covid variants confirmed the Omicron variant in 23 people, it said. Experts believe that the new Covid variant is less harmful than the earlier ones. It is not a major threat to healthy people who have taken the vaccine cover, the state government said. In view of Covid surge, the state government also decided to conduct a minimum of three to four lakh sample tests daily. People without vaccination will be identified with door-to-door visits by health department teams and the list will be handed over to the district administration, said officials. The Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCC) set up in all the districts will be kept active 24×7. A panel of specialist doctors will be posted at these centres. Along with tele-consultation facility, ambulances will be in 24×7 active mode in all the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amid-covid-surge-up-schools-up-to-class-10-shut-till-january-14-101641324244628.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Reserve 40% of beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients: Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Tuesday directed all private hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital having a bed capacity of 50 or more, to reserve at least 40% of their total beds for Covid-19 patients.The order, released on Tuesday evening, said the decision was taken in view of Omicron variant of the coronavirus leading a surge in fresh infections.“...The keepers of all private hospitals and nursing homes having total bed capacity of 50 beds or more are directed to reserve at least 40% of their total bed capacity (40% of ward bed capacity and 40% of lCU bed capacity) for Covid patients,” the order said.Delhi has been witnessing an uptick in Covid infections over the last two weeks, with the number of cases jumping to 5,481 on Tuesday—positivity of 8.37%--from Monday’s 4,099 infections, which resulted in a positivity rate of 6.46%. On December 31, the positivity rate in the city was 2.44%.According to Delhi government’s covid dashboard, Delhi has a total of 21,701 Covid beds across the city. Of these, 1,313 were occupied as of Tuesday, with 20,388 still available. Of the total vacant beds, 7,945 beds with oxygen support and 1,321 ventilator beds were available.A senior official of the Delhi government’s health department said the city has entered the “community spread” stage and under the current circumstances even though the severity of infections are mild, all of the Capital’s resources will have to be made available for patient care.“The infections might be mild but this variant is still highly infectious and we will need to make provisions for as many beds as we can have to ensure that patients requiring hospital care do not suffer when the cases rise further,” the official said.Health experts reacted with caution to the latest order. Some said that reserving beds will help, considering the high transmission rate of Omicron, others said reserving beds in the same hospital where other patients were also being treated, will result in greater chances of the virus spreading to non-Covid patients.Dr Vikas Maurya, a pulmonologist at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, said, “The decision is not misdirected because Omicron cases are highly infectious and the way the cases are rising we will need maximum beds. Currently, all the ICU beds at our hospitals are full and even patients that are coming for non-Covid ailments are testing Covid positive. We will need maximum resources.”Dr JA Jayalal, former president of the Indian Medical Association, said reserving beds in all private hospitals will only lead to greater chances of non-Covid patients being infected with the virus.“What can be done is reserve some hospitals completely for Covid patients, because this variant is highly infectious and if there is intermixing of Covid and non-Covid patients, the possibility of transmission becomes higher. The focus at present should be on home isolation and home care,” Dr Jayalal said.
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Green Corridor project: LDA vice chairman gives presentation before CS||The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on Tuesday gave a presentation of the Green Corridor project before chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra and apprised him about progress of the project. Akshay Tripathi, vice chairman of the development authority, gave a presentation of three detailed project reports (DPRs) out of the four prepared. The LDA will execute the 21-km long project for which separate DPRs have been prepared for all its four phases. During the presentation, the LDA vice chairman apprised the chief secretary how the project would ease commuting from one end of the city to another. Tripathi also apprised the chief secretary about the land issue related with the project. These pieces of land are related with the Lucknow Municipal Corporation, irrigation department and “Nazul” (government land). “To kick-start the project, the chief secretary has also agreed to make available ₹25 crore from the state government and ₹25 crore will be provided by the development authority,” said the LDA vice chairman. “With this initial corpus of ₹50 crore, the development authority will soon start the project,” said Tripathi. The phase one of the project spans from IIM road to Hardinge Bridge. In the Green Corridor project, a four-lane road will be constructed on both sides of the embankment on the river Gomti. Secretary, LDA, is the nodal officer of the project for coordinating with all other departments. Additional district magistrate (administration) is the nodal officer for acquiring land for the project that will cut down travel time from one part of the city to another from an hour to 15 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/green-corridor-project-lda-vice-chairman-gives-presentation-before-cs-101641324004862.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Govt says weekend curfew, not lockdown, as Delhi logs 5.4k cases||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that the weekend curfew imposed in the Capital in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases should not be treated as a lockdown, and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided against sounding a “red alert” under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).Delhi reported 5,481 latest Covid infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the positivity rate to 8.37%, the highest in since May 17 when it was 8.41%, according to the government data. Fresh cases have also pushed the number of active cases in the city to 14,889, the highest since May 27 when it was 16,378.The Delhi government’s daily health bulletin said only 531 of the 9,042 dedicated Covid beds in the city were occupied, and these included some patients only “suspected” of having contracted the infection.Experts have in recent days called for the hospitalisation rate to be used to judge the severity of the outbreak since the variant is likely to lead to milder disease and curbs that are disproportionate to the threat could end up hurting more than the epidemic.DDMA on Tuesday held a review meeting of the ongoing curbs under the “yellow alert” of Grap in view of the steep growth in number of cases and the positivity rate. The agency added weekend curfew to the ongoing restrictions, but allowed 100% seating capacity in public transport in view of crowding which could have triggered faster transmission of the virus.Talking to reporters about the latest DDMA order, Jain said, “A weekend curfew was being imposed in view of rising Covid cases, and it should not be considered as a lockdown. The curfew has been imposed as not much activity happens in that two-day period, and there is no need to panic.”Currently, a night lockdown is in effect in Delhi between 10pm and 5am. The weekend curfew will begin at 10pm on Friday and end at 5am on Monday, according to the DDMA order.On December 28, the DDMA announced closure of schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms, and ordered markets and shopping malls to operate on an odd-even basis in view of the gatherings expected on New Year’s Eve.However, despite the high infections, the hospitalisations so far have stayed low with more than 20,000 beds for Covid patients being vacant as of Tuesday, according to the Delhi government’s Covid dashboard.On Monday, Jain said Omicron is now the dominant variant of Covid-19 in the capital, as many as 152 samples out of 187 sent for genome sequencing were found to be infected with the Omicron variant. “There are adequate number of hospital beds available in Delhi and there is no need to panic,” Jain said.Oxygen monitoringThe Delhi government on Tuesday announced to install 100 telemetry devices — instruments that tell the real-time stock in liquid medical oxygen tanks — across at least 53 government and private hospitals in the city.In a statement, the government said that while reviewing the supply of oxygen and keeping in mind the third wave of Covid-19, it was decided that telemetry devices in liquid medical oxygen tanks will be installed to monitor how much oxygen is available in which hospital, so that stocks can be replenished immediately.“During the last wave of Covid-19, it was seen that there was a sudden shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country and many hospitals sounded emergency when they started running out of medical oxygen. The government found it difficult to decide which hospital should be provided oxygen first and which hospital needed it the most,” the statement said.It added, “At that time, the process of allocation of oxygen was being controlled by the central government, due to which it became very difficult to arrange oxygen for all the states.”Liquid Medical Oxygen is high purity oxygen, used for medical treatment.“The telemetry device will help in transmitting the live information of the amount of oxygen present in each liquid medical oxygen tank to the war room of the Delhi government. This will help in finding out how much oxygen is left in which hospital so that oxygen can be delivered to that hospital in time,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-says-weekend-curfew-not-lockdown-as-delhi-logs-5-4k-cases-101641323831754.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Suspended Excise cop, aides arrested in Kydganj murder case||In a major breakthrough, Prayagraj police have arrested the suspended Excise department constable Vimlesh Pandey and his two accomplices accused of gunning down a man and injuring his brother and two others in the Kydganj area on Thursday night. A cash reward of ₹25,000 was declared on the arrest of the accused. The licensed firearm used in the crime has also been recovered from the accused, police said. According to reports, hailing from the Karchhana area, Vimlesh Pandey and his two aides Satish and Lali had a scuffle with brothers Vishal aka Rajan and Sandeep on December 30. After an argument, Vimlesh opened fire on them resulting in bullet injuries to the duo along with two other persons. Vishal later died at SRN hospital while undergoing treatment, police shared. A named FIR was lodged against Vimlesh and his aides but they were at large. Traders in the Kydganj area had even staged a protest and taken out a march demanding the early arrest of the accused. Many police teams including the crime branch were pressed into service to arrest the accused and a cash reward of ₹25000 each was declared on them. SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh said the three accused including Vimlesh have been arrested and are being questioned further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-suspended-excise-cop-aides-arrested-in-kydganj-murder-case-101641323704896.html
05-01-2022||Other||With 634 cases, active caseload crosses 2,000-mark in Gurugram||The upward trend of Covid-19 cases continued in Gurugram on Tuesday, with the district reporting 634 fresh cases taking the tally of active cases to 2,311, according to daily bulletin from the district health department. This is the first time since May 21 (623 cases) that Gurugram has crossed 600 daily cases in a single day. The active case tally was over 2,000 last on May 28 (2,199 active cases). On Tuesday, no new cases of Omicron variant were reported from the district, said Dr Jai Prakash, district Covid-19 surveillance officer. The district has reported 39 cases of Omicron variant so far with two active cases at present. Of the 2,311 active cases, 12 patients are hospitalised in the district and 2,299 are under home isolation, said the health officials. On Tuesday, the health department collected 7,027 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,324,054, shows the data. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 7,489 children aged between 15 and 18 years were vaccinated with the first dose in the district. A total of 6909 doses were administered at government sites and 580 at private vaccination sites, the officials said. Long queues for vaccination by parents of adolescents were noticed even on Tuesday outside government-run vaccination centres. At every vaccination centre, 100 doses are being given with 80 doses assigned for walk-in and 20 for online booking. Harshita Srivastava, a 17-year-old girl who got vaccinated at Civil Hospital Sector 10, said, “I had to wait for half an hour to get a dose of Covid vaccine. I got my registration done on the spot itself, and the vaccination process was smooth after the registration.” According to the health department, on Tuesday, 31,212 people (including 15-18 age group) received Covid-19 jabs, of which 18,382 took their first dose and 12,860 the second dose. With this, over 4.34 million doses have been administered in the district. On Wednesday, vaccination for teenagers will be conducted at 39 government health centres where 4,000 slots will be available and 56 government and private schools with 5,600 slots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-634-cases-active-caseload-crosses-2-000-mark-in-gurugram-101641323585406.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal tests Covid-positive: In isolation, symptoms mild||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced on Twitter that he has tested positive for Covid-19, and that he was isolating at home since he has mild symptoms.“I have tested positive for Covid. Mild symptoms. Have isolated myself at home. Those who came in touch wid (with) me in last few days, kindly isolate urself (yourself) and get urself tested,” Kejriwal posted at 8.11am.The AAP chief has undertaken several trips to poll-bound states Uttarakhand and Punjab to campaign for his party. On Monday, he addressed AAP’s ‘Nav Parivartan Yatra’ at Parade Ground in Dehradun. Amit Rawat, media coordinator for AAP in Uttarakhand, said after Kejriwal announced that he tested positive, nearly 20 state leaders who shared stage with him or met him during or before the rally have been isolating at home. “Col Ajay Kothiyal (retd) (AAP’s chief ministerial candidate) has got a Covid test done, and others are getting it too,” he said. Sanjay Bhatt, spokesperson of Uttarkhand AAP, said all leaders and party cadres who came into close contact with Kejriwal on Monday have been asked to get tested and isolate themselves. Suryakant Dhasmana, vice president of Uttarakhand Congress, slammed Kejriwal for being a part of the rally, and for not wearing a mask. “Despite coming from Delhi which is witnessing a spike in Covid cases, he (Kejriwal) didn’t wear a mask on the stage. That was highly irresponsible of a senior leader like him,” he said. Between December 30 and January 1, Kejriwal was in Chandigarh and Punjab. He led a “victory march” atop a crowded truck along with AAP’s Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann, state affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg, and party’s 14 newly elected councillors. The road show was joined by about 5,000 party supporters. The Delhi chief minister later held a closed-door meeting with the councillors. Kejriwal and Mann also held a “peace march” in Patiala, which was attended by a large number of party workers and leaders. Before the march, Kejriwal and others laid wreaths at the memorial of Mahatma Gandhi. The Delhi CM also paid obeisance at Kali Devi Temple and Gurdwara Dukhniwaran along with workers. Senior AAP leader Balbir Singh, who is also the AAP candidate from Patiala Rural, said they have appealed to people to follow Covid protocols but there was heavy rush and some of them may not have adhered to norms. “We always ask people to maintain social distancing and wear masks,” he said, adding that those who attended a party gathering on New Year’s Eve have been asked to get tested. In April last year, Kejriwal’s wife Sunita tested positive for Covid-19, after which the chief minister isolated himself.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infection on the back of the new coronavirus variant Omicron. Omicron is now the dominant variant in the capital, as 81% of the samples sent for genome sequencing found evidence of the heavily mutated virus, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told the state assembly on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-tests-covid-positive-in-isolation-symptoms-mild-101641323464658.html
05-01-2022||Bhopal||Congress leader sues Shivraj Chouhan for defamation, asks court to order FIR||JABALPUR/BHOPAL: Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha has filed a criminal defamation complaint in Jabalpur court against Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP state president VD Sharma and the state urban development minister Bhupendra Singh for their “incorrect statements” on the OBC reservation case in the Supreme Court.Chouhan and other BJP leaders blamed Tankha for the Supreme Court ruling last month that blocked Madhya Pradesh’s effort to hold panchayat elections in the state with reservation for other backward classes (OBC).Former advocate general Shashank Shekhar, who appeared for Vivek Tankha said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other BJP leaders, VD Sharma and Bhupendra Singh, “made objectionable statements” about Tankha which tarnished his image.The case has been filed in the Jabalpur district court demanding that a first information report be registered against the three persons under section 499 (defamation) of IPC, he said.Earlier on December 19, Tankha sent a legal notice to Chouhan and others seeking an apology over their attempt to belittle Tankha on and off social media by “propagating incorrect facts” of the court proceedings on the OBC reservation case.The top court stayed OBC quota in panchayat polls in Madhya Pradesh after Congress leader Manmohan Nagar, president of Bhopal Jila Panchayat, moved the SC, claiming that the state government violated constitutional provisions on reservation rotation and delimitation for Panchayat polls.Tankha represented Nagar in the top court.BJP leaders targeted Tankha and the Congress, saying that the top court verdict which they said, led to injustice against OBCs was delivered because the Congress went to the court in the first place.Madhya Pradesh BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said, “We will continue to work in the favour of different communities with exposing the real face of Congress leaders. They are free to do anything to save their image but now they have exposed themselves in front of common men.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-leader-sues-shivraj-chouhan-for-defamation-asks-court-to-order-fir-101641322869706.html
05-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai cases breach 10k-mark; 80% of Covid beds in city unoccupied||Mumbai: The Covid bed occupancy in Mumbai’s private and public hospitals stood at 20%, with at least 17,784 beds — or 80% — vacant even as the daily caseload in the city rose to 10,606 on Monday. Civic authorities said most admissions were on account of an “abundance of caution” to break the chain of infections, and were made up of Covid-positive patients with co-morbidities, who fell within the high-risk category but had having mild symptoms. “Hospital admissions are increasing but it is also because we are being abundantly cautious,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and incharge of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s response to the pandemic.“Our jumbo centres are not shying away from admitting people with the mild disease but who are in the high-risk category. This not only helps in breaking the chain of infection but also keep a check on the progression of the disease and fatalities,” Kakani said. The city has 22,205 Covid beds in both public healthcare facilities and private hospitals. Government facilities include tertiary hospitals like KEM hospital in Parel and BYL Nair hospital in Mumbai Central, as well as nine jumbo facilities spread across different wards of Mumbai. The total number includes beds that are attached to ventilators as well as those that oxygen support.The city also has the capacity to expand the number of beds by another 80,000 beds.Apart from this, Mumbai also has 227 Covid Care Centres (CCC) for Covid positive patients with extremely mild symptoms or who are asymptomatic but need to isolate themselves from their families on account of a lack of space in their homes. On Tuesday, there were 972 Covid patients in these facilities, up from 311 on December 20. To be sure, Covid bed occupancy has seen a jump since December 20, when it was 6.25% (the number of Covid beds at the time were 13,830). However, according to Dr Shashank Joshi,a member of the state’s Covid task force, only a small percentage of hospitalised persons are patients with serious underlying conditions who need close monitoring. At least 20% of the hospitalisations are of international travellers who tested positive for Covid and are awaiting their Omicron reports.At the beginning of December, the civic body issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on international travellers arriving from at-risk countries, including the UK, South Africa, Botswana among others, which included a strict seven-day institutional quarantine after an RT-PCR test to track the spread of the Omicron variant of concern (VOC).“The first category includes patients who take mandatory Covid tests before undergoing other medical procedures. As the circulation of the virus has increased, nearly 70% of such patients are testing positive and are hospitalised before they can undergo their medical procedures. The second category, which accounts for about 20% of admissions, includes international travellers awaiting their Omicron reports. The last category is of patients who are highly vulnerable with other serious underlying conditions and need to be in the hospitals for close observation. These account for only 10% admissions,” Joshi said. Currently, of the 4,491 hospitalised patients, 1,374 (30.59%) are on oxygen support; 507 (11.28%) are in ICU; 320 (7.12%) are on ventilators. BMC chief Iqbal Chahal said that only symptomatic patients are being hospitalised as per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research at the start of the pandemic. At jumbo centres, symptomatic patients are being admitted even if they have mild disease. “Many of these patients live in smaller houses and are directed to us by the ward war rooms. Some even walk-in directly because they are worried about spreading the infections to others in the family,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO jumbo facility in Goregaon. Experts warn that while the hospital bed occupancy is low, people must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by masking up and avoid crowds.“Each hospital will have to assess their facility in terms of how many admissions they can take, and be in touch with the ward war rooms constantly to avoid any kind of chaos,” said infectious disease experts Dr Om Srivastava. “On the other hand, people should also play their part in fighting this surge by avoiding crowds, wearing masks and following Covid appropriate behaviour.”More admissions in private hospitalsWhile the occupancy in public facilities is about 18%, private hospitals have a higher occupancy at nearly 30%. For instance, Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital had full occupancy in its 100-bed Covid ward and 22 bed ICU. “We have been getting a lot of patients with full-blown symptoms who are getting admitted mainly because of their underlying conditions,” said Dr V Ravishankar chief executive officer of Lilavati Hospital. He said that all the patients are fully vaccinated. “Patients who are deteriorating are those who have very bad oxygen saturation levels,” he said. Andheri’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital had an occupancy of 15 to 20 patients in the first week of December. The hospital began seeing a rise from December 20 and its occupancy was 50 on Tuesday. “The occupancy has been driven by two main categories of patients — those with concerning underlying issues like cancer, heart disease, lung ailments and those with persisting symptoms,” said Dr Santosh Shetty, chief executive officer of the hospital. While the recent round of BMC’s genome sequencing has revealed that 55% of the samples were of the Omicron variant, doctors said that Delta and Delta derivatives could also be driving some number of hospitalisations. The PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim has been carrying out the RT-PCR tests with the help of the kits that look for the S gene dropout, which is an indirect way to detect the Omicron variant before the sample is sent for genome sequencing for confirmation. Dr Joy Chakraborty, chief operating officer of the hospital said that about 35% of the samples have the S gene dropout indicating the presence of Omicron. “This tells us that Delta still has a role to play in all these hospitalisations,” he said. The hospital has 70% occupancy of the Covid beds. Dr Shashank Joshi said that patients with moderate disease, those in the high-risk category and those who have desaturating oxygen levels should be red-flagged for admissions. “There is definitely some panic due to the increasing numbers but unnecessary hospitalisations are very unlikely. In fact, most people want to avoid hospitals as much as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cases-breach-10k-mark-80-of-covid-beds-in-city-unoccupied-101641322867204.html
05-01-2022||Other||11 O2 plants, 50% more beds: Gurugram readies to fight Covid||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Gurugram, officials said that the health infrastructure in the district has been improved with the installation of at least 11 oxygen plants and more than 50% increase in Covid-19 beds. According to officials from the district administration, Gurugram at present has a capacity of producing 4,150 litres per minute (LPM) of oxygen daily as 11 oxygen plants were set up since the second wave of the pandemic. During the second wave in April-May last year, the daily oxygen requirement of Gurugram was about 60 metric tonnes (MT) and the district did not have any oxygen plants. It was dependent on neighbouring districts and states for its oxygen needs, the officials said. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “To ensure the supply of life-saving oxygen in the district, oxygen plants of 4,150 litres per minute (LPM) capacity have been installed at 11 different government hospitals and health centres in the district. We are well prepared to deal with rising Covid-19 cases and there is enough capacity to convert normal beds also to oxygen support.”The 11 health centres and government hospitals where these plants have been installed include Civil Hospital Sector 10, Subdivisional Hospital (SDH) Pataudi, SDH Sohna, ESIC Hospital Sector 9, ESIC Hospital Sector 3 Manesar, Polyclinic Sector 31, Community Health Centre (CHC) Ghanghola, CHC Bhangraula and CHC Farukhnagar. During the second wave in Gurugram, private hospitals grappled with a lack of liquid oxygen supply due to a sharp rise in demand -- from around 25 MT a day to almost 60 MT in a short span. The officials said that the bed capacity has also been increased in the district and almost doubled since the second wave. As per covidggn.com, district administration’s website for tracking details related to Covid-19, there were over 3,800 beds during the second wave. “We have 5,833 beds in total at present in both government and private hospitals. These include 3,759 oxygen beds, 400 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators, 997 ICU beds and rest are normal beds for treating Covid-19 positive patients. Besides, there are makeshift Covid care centres at Tau Devilal Stadium and Sector 67 (M3M medical facility) with 100 beds each. Also, several hotels in the district can be taken over for isolating patients if needed,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. In the district, the number of ambulances available with the health department has also been increased since the second wave. During the second wave, many residents had complained of overcharging by ambulance services due to shortage of such vehicles. At present, the Gurugram health department has 37 ambulances, as against 21 ambulances earlier, the officials said. “Apart from advanced life support ambulances, ambulances equipped with state-of-the-art facilities are also available with the health department. The district now has enough beds available with oxygen support. Around 350 cylinders of oxygen can be supplied daily from the plant at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram. Several private hospitals in Gurugram have also installed oxygen plants on their premises. Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director of Artemis Hospitals, said, “We have installed three oxygen plants to become self-sufficient in oxygen supply. Understanding the need for more beds and also to isolate the Covid patients, we have come up with a new tower.” Arpita Mukherjee, senior vice-president for operations at Max Hospital, Gurugram, said, “We have a new oxygen plant, eight bed portable unit outside the hospital to isolate Covid patients and adequate supplies across the hospital with respect to oxygen ports, ventilators, Bipaps and oxygen concentrators.” Experts said that it’s too early to say that the district has enough health infrastructure to deal with any possible third Civid-19 wave. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of department of community medicine and school of public health at PGIMER Chandigarh, said, “We have to wait for another one week to 10 days to see if the oxygen capacity that the district has built is enough or not, as hospitalisation numbers are still quite low. Similarly, for ambulances, the numbers have increased, but currently most patients are under home isolation. The third wave is very likely, but we have to see how it affects our country and whether there would be a need for oxygen, hospital beds or ambulances, as was the case during the second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-o2-plants-50-more-beds-gurugram-readies-to-fight-covid-101641322624529.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Justice Rekha Dixit to be first woman to head UP Public Service Tribunal||Justice Rekha Dixit, former judge of Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, was appointed chairperson of the State Public Service Tribunal, on Tuesday. Justice Dixit will be the first woman judge to head this tribunal. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the appointment after consultation with the chief justice of the Allahabad high court, Justice Rajesh Bindal. Justice Rekha Dixit retired from the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court in August 2021.She had decided the first case of maintenance in favour of a Muslim woman after the famous Shah Bano case under the Muslim Women’s Protection Act in 1998. She was also a special judge, CBI court, Lucknow. Justice Sudhir Kumar Saxena, the incumbent chairman of the State Public Service Tribunal, will complete his tenure on February 1 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/justice-rekha-dixit-to-be-first-woman-to-head-up-public-service-tribunal-101641322564697.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Over 40 Lucknow health workers test positive for Covid-19||Over 40 healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 48 hours in the state capital, including 33 from Medanta Hospital, three at PGI and seven at King George’s Medical University (KGMU).Random tests of over 100 staff at Medanta Hospital were conducted as per the directives of the state government. Dr Rakesh Kapoor, medical director, Medanta Lucknow, said, “The tests were conducted on Monday and reports arrived today. All the positive staff, including the doctor, have been sent into home isolation. We are keeping a close watch on the health of other staff members.”At the KGMU, a faculty member in the department of orthopaedics and another faculty member in preventive dentistry have tested positive while five resident doctors in the department of pathology, microbiology have also tested positive.“The positive cases are in home isolation and their health is being monitored. Screening and sampling of their contacts are being done, while precaution levels have been increased on campus,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU.“At the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), staff members have been tested as per the policy of the state government. Any staff member rejoining duties after an outstation visit, or any staff displaying Covid-19-like symptoms, is tested immediately along with his/her contacts,” said Professor Gaurav Agarwal, chief medical superintendent, SGPGIMS.He said, “We have not collected mass samples of our staff members but tested them whenever the need arises. Currently, the number of positive staff is in the low single digit. I don’t have an exact number with me but they are between 2 to 3. They are all in home isolation and are getting treated under the supervision of PGI experts.”Prof Kapoor said, “Currently, people should avoid partying and wear masks while coming out of the house. This type of spurt in cases is alarming. We advise people to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour strictly to avoid exposure to the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-40-lucknow-health-workers-test-positive-for-covid19-101641322084620.html
05-01-2022||Other||UPPSC Staff Nurse Recruitment-2021 results: UP govt hospitals, medical colleges get 3,014 nurses||The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) declared the results of Staff Nurse Recruitment-2021 on Tuesday, completing the recruitment process in a record five months.Amidst fears of a possible outbreak of the third wave of Coronavirus, 3,014 nurses have been cleared to join government-run hospitals, community health centres and medical colleges of the state as staff nurses by the commission.The result is available on UPPSC’s official website— https://uppsc.up.nic.in/, informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish.The Staff Nurse/Sister Grade-2 (Male and Female) was conducted by the UPPSC on behalf of the department of medical education and training, medical and health services and King George’s Medical University, Lucknow. For this, the commission had accepted online applications from eligible candidates against 4,743 vacant posts till August 16, 2021. For this, a total of 1,02,041 candidates had applied.Within a month-and-a-half, the commission had conducted the recruitment examination in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur and Meerut on October 3, 2021 in which 83,564 candidates had appeared. “Around 50 males and 1,627 females have been selected against 2,582 posts (50 males and 2,532 females) of medical and health services department, 90 males and 623 females against 1,235 posts (90 males and 1,145 females) of medical education and training department while against 926 posts (46 males and 880 females) of King George’s Medical University, 46 males and 578 female candidates have been declared selected,” informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish. Against a total of 4,743 posts, 3,014 candidates have been selected while 1,729 posts remain vacant due to non-availability of qualified candidates, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppsc-staff-nurse-recruitment-2021-results-up-govt-hospitals-medical-colleges-get-3-014-nurses-101641321484835.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi may see rain today, cleaner air this week: IMD||Delhi may witness rain on Wednesday and Saturday this week, with faster winds that are expected to blow away some pollutants and improve air quality in the city, the India Meteorological Department said on Tuesday. RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said peak rainfall activity is currently forecast for two days – Wednesday and Saturday -- with the latter expected to record wind speed of 30-40 km/hour. “Delhi is expected to see two back-to-back western disturbances (areas of ‘disturbed’ or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India), the first of which is already bringing rain and snowfall to parts of northern India from January 3-5, while the second will impact Delhi from January 6-9,” he said. “A yellow alert is currently in place for Wednesday and Saturday. Both days will see light rain, gusty winds and the maximum temperature will therefore drop to around 18 degrees Celsius,” Jenamani added.A yellow alert is generally issued by the IMD asking the general public to “be aware” of a weather situation developing in the next 24 to 48 hours. According to IMD’s weather bulletin, widespread rain, isolated hailstorm and low day time temperatures are also likely over northwest India at least for next seven days.The two consecutive active western disturbances (January 3-5, and January 6-9) are also likely to affect northwest and adjoining central India, it said. Fairly widespread moderate rainfall/snowfall is very likely over western Himalayan region during January 4 to 6. Scattered to moderate rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, north Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh during January 4 to 6, the bulletin said. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Punjab on January 5 and isolated thunderstorm activity accompanied with hailstorm is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on January 5, it added.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved slightly on Tuesday, but remained in the higher end of the very poor category, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 378 recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin. The Capital’s AQI reading was 387 (very poor) on Monday.According to a forecast by the Early Warning System, Delhi’s air quality is expected to improve to the “poor” category on Thursday, remaining in the same range for the next five days. The capital recorded a maximum temperature of 23.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday – four degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 8.5 degrees, one degree above the normal. Jenamani said under the influence of the western disturbance, the minimum temperature could rise to 11 degrees Celsius by Wednesday, however, the maximum temperature could hover around 18 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is then expected to remain over 10 degrees Celsius for the rest of the week until Sunday, making nights fairly warmer. “We will see a reversal now, making nights warmer and days to be harsh, with the maximum to remain below 20 degrees Celsius until Sunday,” Jenamani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-see-rain-today-cleaner-air-this-week-imd-101641321184638.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Teachers University Bill sails through assembly||The Delhi Assembly on Tuesday passed the Delhi Teachers University Bill, which seeks to set up a teachers’ training university. The campus of the Delhi Teachers University is coming up at Bakkarwala in east Delhi, and the government has said that it will enrol 5,000 students starting this year. The university will offer four-year integrated teacher education programmes such as BA-BEd, BSc-BEd among others.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, had introduced the Bill in the House on Monday. During a discussion on the Bill on Tuesday, Sisodia said that the university will set a new benchmark for teachers’ training in the country and enhance the quality of education. While taking a potshot at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sisodia said that the upcoming sports university in Meerut was being modelled on the same lines as the sports university in Delhi. “It is pleasant to see that the sports university in Meerut, where the foundation stone has been laid, is being developed exactly like the sports university of Delhi because till date neither Gujarat nor any other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-governed state has created any such model from where they could copy. Therefore, the UP government and the Prime Minister are copying the Kejriwal model,” said Sisodia. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, meanwhile, accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government of not opening any new colleges in the city. Bidhuri said that the AAP government was only announcing universities for publicity. “The government announced a sports university and even appointed a vice-chancellor, but nothing is known about it,” said Bidhuri. He said that no new college had been opened by the AAP government and an attempt was being made to “rob existing colleges” by giving them the “shape of a university”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-teachers-university-bill-sails-through-assembly-101641320825274.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||Twin towers proposed at ITO as Delhi govt’s new office address||The Delhi chief minister, his cabinet colleagues, and senior bureaucrats in the Delhi government may move into new offices in 30-35 storey twin towers proposed be constructed by 2025 at central Delhi’s ITO, not far from the current seat of the Delhi government at the Players’ Building in Indraprastha Estate, according to government documents and officials aware of the matter.One tower is proposed to come up at the Vikas Bhawan plot, and the other at the MSO and GST Building plot, on a total 53,603 square metres area at an estimated cost of ₹1,910 crore, the officials said. The buildings will have dedicated stilt and basement parking areas, including electrical charging points for vehicles, they added.Apart from offices for the chief minister and ministers, the twin towers will have offices for the chief secretary, additional chief secretary, principal secretaries, secretaries and their support staff. The towers will be green buildings and will have state-of-the-art infrastructure, auditoriums with capacity for 2,000, 1,000 and 500 people, seminar rooms and conference halls, libraries, crèche, community halls, canteen, cafeteria, food court, gym and landscaping, according to the tender document, a copy which HT has seen. “The Delhi government intends to construct an iconic twin building at ITO comprising 30 to 35 storeys on three plots of land i.e. Vikas Bhawan-1, MSO Building and GST Building, with one tower in Vikas Bhawan-1 and another tower in MSO and GST Building. The work involves architectural planning for the work of the new office building at ITO. The new office building is proposed to be constructed as per the detail and norms of Delhi government,” the tender document, floated by Public Works Department on Monday, said.The facilities will include Wi-Fi, CCTV cameras, access control, escalators, centralised air conditioning, audio/video systems for conference halls, meeting room, common areas, a sewage treatment plant and facilities for rainwater harvesting. The consultant has to plan maximum utilisation of permissible floor area ratio (FAR) according to Master Plan 2021.Currently, the chief minister, cabinet ministers, chief secretary and several top Delhi government officials function out of Players’ Building, popularly known as Delhi Secretariat. The Players’ Building was planned and built as a hotel to accommodate players for the 1982 Asian Games, but it was not ready on time. During Sheila Dikshit’s tenure as the chief minister [WHICH YEAR], the secretariat of the Delhi government was shifted to Players’ Building from Civil Lines to provide better facilities to ministers and officers.The existing Delhi Secretariat, however, does not have the required space to accommodate all the top officials of the Delhi government. Offices of the revenue commissioner, labour commissioner, GST commissioner, education secretary, transport commissioner, excise commissioner, secretary food and civil supplies, and several senior officers are located at different locations outside the Delhi Secretariat.“Due to their offices being located in different areas, officers end up wasting time in travel and traffic congestion whenever they are required to visit the Secretariat for meetings. Things are more difficult for officers holding charges of multiple departments. They are often required to visit different and often distant places for discharging their duties. If the offices are located in the same building or at least at the same location, officers will save time,” said a senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be named.A former chief secretary of Delhi, who asked not to be identified, said the integration of offices was necessary for increasing speed and efficiency.Currently, offices of food and civil supplies, excise department, minority commissioner, public grievance commission and others are located in Vikas Bhawan. The office of the PWD is located in the MSO Building and the department of trade and taxes functions from GST Building.A PWD official, requesting anonymity, said the consultant will have to prepare architectural and layout plans of the new office building in such a way that a minimum number of existing structures that house various offices of the Delhi government is demolished. “One or two-storey temporary porta-cabins and temporary structures will be added to the existing buildings in these places for accommodating offices that exist in the buildings being demolished,” the official said.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter.AK Jain, a former planning commissioner at DDA, said it was a good move to redevelop the government offices because many of them are in a dilapidated condition.“The new office buildings, however, will significantly increase traffic volume at ITO, which is already congested. The government should pay attention to developing a comprehensive urban design scheme according to MPD 2021. And they should take advantage of mixed land-use which permits 30% of the area to be used for residential activities so that traffic can be reduced,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/twin-towers-proposed-at-ito-as-delhi-govt-s-new-office-address-101641320644357.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Man held for assaulting family members, PCR personnel||The police on Tuesday arrested a man for assaulting police control room (PCR) motorcycle squad employees after they tried to deter him from assaulting his family members in village Bains. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baljinder Singh said he along with head constable Karam Singh were on patrolling duty. Meanwhile, they received information from police control room that Sewa Singh of village Bainsman is assaulting his family members in Bains. They reached the stop and deterred the accused, who opened attack and tore ASI’s uniform. The accused was reportedly under the influence of liquor.A case under Sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions shall be punished ) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sarabha Nagar Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-assaulting-family-members-pcr-personnel-101641319384160.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur case: Photos, videos, other evidence formed basis of SIT chargesheet||Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia used as many as 24 photographs and videos, 17 scientific, 171 documentary evidence as well as electronic evidence and statements of 208 witnesses to chargesheet junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and 13 others, said senior police and prosecution officials privy to the probe.The special investigators filed the 5,000-page chargesheet before the court of Lakhimpur Kheri chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Monday (January 3) naming Ashish Mishra as the main accused and citing witnesses’ statements to confirm his presence at the spot during the incident.Sharing further details, a senior official said the SIT included 24 photographs, CCTV footages and videos shoot of the incident by independent witnesses in the chargesheet to establish the sequence of events on the day of incident when four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by car of the minister’s son Ashish Mishra and others during a farm protest. A total of eight people were killed during the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. The official said 17 scientific evidence, including ballistic reports of three firearms as well as forensic reports of missed bullet shells and the charred vehicles recovered from the incident site, were also included in the chargesheet. He said the call detail reports as well as mobile locations of the main accused were also included as supportive evidence in the chargesheet.“In addition, the SIT had included the statements of 208 eyewitnesses and witnesses to prove presence of Ashish Mishra and others at the spot. Of which, the statements of over 90 witnesses have been recorded before judicial magistrate so that they could not retract from their version later,” he added. Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav said the initial complaint into the case only named Ashish Mishra and unknown persons. After subsequent investigation, the SIT chargesheeted 13 accused under sections 147(rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly), 307(attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 427(mischief causing damage), 34 (acts done with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and section 177 (wilfully disobeying directions) and B177 of the Motor Vehicles Act.Those in jail in connection with the incident include Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, who is a relative of a Lucknow-based businessman, his aide Nandan Singh Bisht, his private security guard Latif alias Kaale and driver Shekhar Bharti, who were said to be present in one of the three SUVs in Mishra’s cavalcade.Ashish Mishra’s relative Virendra Shukla’s name was added to the chargesheet under section 201 of the IPC (disappearance of evidence) and he was called to the court on January 10. Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three more people, including two BJP workers and Mishra’s driver, were killed.
05-01-2022||Pune||No-mask no-entry policy at public places; Rs1K fine for spitting... Covid norms tighten in Pune||PUNE On Tuesday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced that the district administration in Pune would strictly implement Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, as the city’s positivity rate has hit 18%. The administration also said that the state is likely to bring in more restrictions following a state review meet held on Tuesday. Pawar said, “Despite more than 100% of the eligible population in the district having got the first dose, only 74% in the district have taken their second shot and the rest despite completing the mandatory 84-day gap, have not yet taken the second dose. If people don’t come forward, we will be forced to take extreme measures. Fully vaccinated people even if infected showed only mild symptoms.” Pawar further added that those not wearing the mask would be penalised ₹500, while those spitting would be penalised ₹1,000. He further said, “We have done multiple appeals to citizens to get fully vaccinated, however, over 35% of the eligible population in the district is yet to get the second jab. However, now that people are still not coming forward we have to take extreme steps.” Pawar explained that those without complete vaccination would not be able to enter public places or restaurants, hotels and theatres. “There is no need for anyone to object to this now that we have given enough time to people to get themselves vaccinated. In addition to this those who are not fully vaccinated would not be co-operated with at government offices. We will follow a no-mask no-entry policy at public places. Experts even beleive that cotton masks or even a tw-ply mask would not be enough to stop the spread and that people should go for a three ply surgical mask,” he said. Pawar further added that as of now it is not important to know whether it is an Omicron variant or another variant as the number of cases are exploding and treatment should begin as necessary. The doubling rate of the city is noe almost at three days, added Pawar. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We have appealed to the centre that they must set a standard operating procedure for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across the country. Also, it is important to stock Molnupiravir which has been approved for the treatment of those with mild Covid-19 symptoms and the centre must provide us with enough stocks. We also appealed to the centreto bring down the cost of the anti Covid-19 monoclonal antibodies treatment which is very expensive as of now.” Pawar said, “As of now we have decided on the restrictions which could be taken at a local level. We have set up a meeting on Wednesday wherein we will take decisions for the state where if required, we will push for more restrictions at the state level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nomask-no-entry-policy-at-public-places-rs1k-fine-for-spitting-covid-norms-tighten-in-pune-101641317284635.html
05-01-2022||Lucknow||Previous regime in UP was worshipper of Kans: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday launched a veiled attack on Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, accusing him of not doing anything for Mathura and other religious places associated with Lord Krishna, and termed the previous regime in UP as “the worshipper of Kans.”He accused the previous government of creating a ‘Kans’ that resulted in the Jawahar Bagh incident in which 29 people were killed in June 2016 when police forcibly tried to evict squatters who were backed by Ram Vriksh Yadav.The CM hit out at the Samajwadi Party president, saying that Lord Krishna would be cursing him for unleashing riots during his rule, firing on Ram devotees by his party and asked him to tender an apology for it.“Lord Krishna might be questioning the opposition party leaders in dreams as to why they could not do for UP what BJP government is doing for the state,” said the CM while addressing a public gathering in Aligarh after inaugurating a 660 mw Harduaganj Thermal Power plant costing ₹7,000 crore“We used money collected as tax in development work, but the previous regime in the state used to get it stored. The money is now being dug out from walls by our government using bulldozers,” said Adityanath to justify the I-T raids on those allegedly having links with the Samajwadi Party.Adityanath’s comment came a day after Akhilesh Yadav claimed that Lord Krishna comes to his dreams every night to tell him that he would form the government in the upcoming assembly polls and establish “Ram Rajya” in UP.He said: “While I am inaugurating the power project here, some people are dreaming in Lucknow. Lord Krishna would be coming in their dreams, and tell them to shed tears over their failures. The work that they have not been able to do, the BJP government is doing it.”Adityanath claimed that the power corporation accomplished a major task by increasing production, which paved way for the electrification of 1,21,000 villages in UP. According to him, the previous government in UP used to enter into power purchase agreement at exorbitant prices, leading to hike in electricity charges for the consumers.Nearly 2,000 students were given smart phones and tablets by the CM at the venue in Aligarh’s Kasimpur where UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma was also present. Adityanath shared that the state government would soon make “digital access with good content” available for those who couldn’t afford operational cost of their devices.The CM also laid the foundation stone of UP’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) training centre in Saharanpur’s Deoband and launched different projects worth ₹200 crore, including fire stations in different districts across the poll-bound.Spread over 2,000 sq metres, the upcoming ATS training centre is expected to train 100 commandos who would maintain vigil in the communally sensitive western UP. The state government plans to set up similar centres across UP, including Meerut, Bahraich, Shravasti, and Gautam Buddh Nagar.The CM reiterated that his government had a “zero-tolerance policy” towards crime and corruption and the ATS training centre in Deoband would be a strong base for the security of western UP with deployment of 56 commandos who could dig out terrorists “the way Osama Bin Laden was hunted.”Taking pot shots at the SP chief, the CM said that farmers, artisans and youths had given recognition to Saharanpur, but Akhilesh Yadav didn’t visit the place while he had visited it more than a dozen times. “For me, there is no difference between Lucknow and Saharanpur,” he said.“The BJP is building expressways, airports, universities, medical colleges and is going tough on criminals. But this has given pain to the brother and sister in Delhi (Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi), Babua (Akhilesh Yadav) and Bua (Mayawati). They all were not seen during 22 months when the state faced corona crisis, but returned to the masses as elections drew closer,” alleged Adityanath.“Akhilesh Yadav feels hurt when we recover the poor’s money through raids, initiate action against the mafia, allow Kanwar Yatra and construct Ram Temple. We deliver what we promise,” he said and claimed that his government provided benefits of welfare schemes to all without discrimination and followed the objective of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabha Vishwas’.“There was phase of time in history when temples in Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura were insulted and hands of those who built structures were chopped off. But now this has changed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi showered flower petals and had food with those who were involved in the construction of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi,” said Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/previous-regime-in-up-was-worshipper-of-kans-yogi-101641312663664.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM’s Ferozepur rally: Security up amid farm union’s call for protest at venue||Over 7,000 security personnel from paramilitary forces, Punjab Police and Haryana Police have been deployed at the venue of the Prime Minister’s rally in Ferozepur amid the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC)’s call to its activists to gather at the site on Wednesday to oppose Narendra Modi’s visit.Modi will be visiting the border district of poll-bound Punjab on Wednesday to lay the foundation stones of projects worth ₹ 42,750 crore. The visit is also being projected as the launch of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s election campaign.KMSC general secretary Sarban Singh Pandher said the protest is aimed at opposing the BJP-led central government for adopting anti-farmer policies. He alleged that two large groups of KMSC activists were stopped by police from reaching the rally site.“We demand the immediate removal of Ajay Mishra from the Union cabinet for his role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. We will oppose Modi’s visit in a non-violent manner,” said Pandher.Official sources said heavy security arrangements have been made to secure the rally venue. A 10-kilometre radius around the venue, which is located about five kilometres from the city on the Ferozepur-Moga highway, has been sealed for security reasons. The paramilitary personnel have been given charge of the inner ring whereas police have been deployed around the venue. Security personnel have been asked to screen rally attendees to avoid any protest inside the rally event.Unions to burn Modi’s effigies across PunjabFarmers’ unions will also oppose Modi’s visit by burning his effigies at all district headquarters in Punjab.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said farmers will also assemble in various towns and burn the PM’s effigies to highlight their pending demands and protest against the Centre’s failure to deliver justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.“We seek action against Ajay Mishra. FIRs against farmers are still pending in Delhi and Haryana. There is no clarity on the committee on MSP that the government had promised to form,” said Ugrahan.Dr Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab, held a meeting with union members in Barnala on Tuesday. He said over 700 farmers died during the agitation against the three farm laws, but the PM deliberately delayed the decision to repeal these laws and farmers are angry with him over it.Meanwhile, BKU Ugrahan will end its protest against the state government by lifting the dharnas from front of 12 district administration headquarters on Wednesday. Among other demands, the union was seeking ₹3 lakh compensation, government job and debt waiver for family members of farmers and farm labourers who committed suicide. Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the Punjab government has given compensation in most cases, FIRs have been quashed in most districts and affected families got jobs in 180 cases. “The dharnas will end from Wednesday evening,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/modi-in-punjab-farmer-unions-to-burn-pm-s-effigies-101641304442065.html
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor: It’s BJP vs AAP as Congress opts out of race||With the Congress opting out of the January 8 Chandigarh mayoral election, the contest for the post will now be between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Also read: As Covid-19 spreads, Punjab imposes night curfew; schools, colleges shutThe AAP has fielded Anju Katyal and the BJP Sarabjit Kaur, both first-timers, as the post is reserved for a woman councillor in the new MC House’s first year.While both candidates filed their nomination papers on Tuesday, the last date to do so, the Congress, which had won only eight of the 35 MC seats, not only opted out of the race, but also announced that it will abstain from voting.In its debut MC election in Chandigarh, the AAP won 14 seats and the BJP strength was reduced to 12 seats from the 20 it had won in 2016.The BJP has fielded Dalip Sharma for the post of senior deputy mayor and Anup Gupta for the post of deputy mayor, while the AAP has fielded Prem Lata for the post of senior deputy mayor and Ram Chander Yadav for the post of deputy mayor. On the selection of candidates, AAP co-in-charge Pardeep Chhabra said, “All our candidates are capable and have qualities for the respective posts. Their names have been decided after reaching consensus.”Arun Sood, president, Chandigarh BJP, said, “Through our candidates, we have given representation to all sections of society. The mayoral candidate represents the semi-urban and village areas, the senior deputy mayor candidate represents the colonies and EWS areas, and the deputy mayor candidate the city’s sectors.”A senior party leader, requesting anonymity, said, “With an eye on the forthcoming Punjab elections, BJP had also decided to put up a Jat Sikh face for the mayor’s post.” Had no time to file nominations, will not vote: CongressMeanwhile, Congress city chief Subhash Chawla, who is currently in Jaipur, Rajasthan, with the party’s seven councillors, said, “There was no time for us to return to Chandigarh and file the nominations. We got to know about it only late at night. We had also finalised our candidates, but it was not possible to file nominations at such a short notice.”Chawla further said, “We will not participate in the mayoral elections and will not vote for any party.” The party councillors, though, may come to the House and then leave without casting their votes. As per a party insider, it is the first time that the Congress has failed to put up a candidate for the mayor’s post. Initially, the party had declared that it would fight for all three posts. Neck and neckIn the December 24 election, the Congress tally had gone up to eight from four in 2016. However, it lost its ward 10 councillor, Harpreet Kaur Babla, to the BJP after she and her husband, Devinder Singh Babla, joined the saffron fold on Sunday. Now, in the full House of 36, comprising one vote of the Chandigarh MP and 35 councillors, the BJP and the AAP have 14 votes each, the Congress is left with seven votes and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has one vote. With the Congress deciding not to participate in the elections, 29 is likely to be the total votes on polling day and the candidates securing the maximum votes will win. In the absence of an anti-defection law, the councillors are not bound to follow any party diktat for voting. Meanwhile, amid strong buzz that the SAD’s lone councillor may also skip voting in the election, a party leader said they will take a call in a couple of days. The party councillor, Hardeep Singh, will meet party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to decide on the issue. In case Hardeep also abstains, the election might see a tie with both the AAP and the BJP having 14 votes each. Then the candidates will be decided through a draw of lot.“The possibility of a tie is minimal, if the past history of the mayoral elections is considered. The parties have traditionally failed to keep their flocks together and this time too, the prospects of cross voting remain high. Already allegations of horse-trading have been flying high among all parties,” said a senior Congress leader, requesting anonymity.On the BJP’s strategy for the election, Sood said, “We will ask the 35 councillors to vote for development and stability, which only the BJP can provide.”AAP’s Chandigarh president Prem Garg said the party had sought cooperation from everyone, including the Congress and the BJP, to respect the public mandate and let an AAP mayor be elected.“However, we are not entering into any alliance or seat sharing with any party. Both these parties seem to have joined hands to defeat the AAP nominees through manipulation. But Chandigarh residents are aware citizens and understand such political gimmicks. AAP criticises any type of horse-trading or cross voting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayor-it-s-bjp-vs-aap-congress-opts-out-of-race-101641298372229.html
05-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Soldier fires on teacher for scolding his daughter||A 42-year-old woman was injured in Rajasthan’s Kaman on Monday after a bullet hit her as she was trying to protect her husband, a schoolteacher, when a soldier allegedly fired at him following an argument for having slapped his daughter.“Ram Kishan fired on Surendra Singh, but the bullet hit his wife, Rajbala. She had come to give tiffin to her husband [at the school when the firing incident happened],” said Kaman police station in-charge Daulat Ram.He added that a case has been lodged and efforts were on to arrest the accused.Police said that Kishan was angry with Singh for having scolded his 12-year-old daughter over incomplete homework at the Jai Bajarang Public School.Rajbala’s condition was stable and she is expected to be discharged from a hospital later on Tuesday, police said.Police said that Kishan rushed to his daughter’s school with his licensed gun after hearing about the scolding incident. After a heated exchange with Singh, he allegedly opened fire.
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal braces for heavy snowfall, traffic through Rohtang tunnel stopped||The meteorological department has forecast heavy to very heavy snowfall in the high-altitude regions of Himachal Pradesh. The higher reaches of Shimla, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba and Kinnaur districts experienced intermittent snow spells on Tuesday morning. Both the north and south portals of the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass got moderate snowfall. The District Disaster Management Authority has issued an advisory to all stakeholders of the tourism department to take precautions in the wake of the heavy snowfall warnings. “In accordance with the forecast issued by the weather department, we are not allowing any vehicles to go through Atal Tunnel. Only 4x4 vehicles will be allowed in case of emergency,” said Lahaul and Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma. Shimla, which got intermittent snowfall, recorded a maximum 7 degrees Celsius and minimum of 0 degree. Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti, registered a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius. “The average maximum temperature is two degrees above normal. A fresh western disturbance is seen,” said meteorological office director Surender Paul. Anticipating snowfall in the state capital, the district administration has deployed heavy machines to remove the snow from roads. “All arrangements have been put in place,” said Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi. The tourist towns of Kufri and Narkanda got snowfall, too. More than 200 roads closed due to snowThe moderate snowfall in the higher reaches also disrupted the vehicular traffic as more than 200 main and lateral roads were blocked across different high-altitude regions of the state. The National Highway 5 was blocked at Narkanda following a moderate spell of snow. Narkanda, which is 62 kilometres away from Shimla, received 1cm of snow. Shimla town, meanwhile, recorded 10mm rain. The tourist town of Manali that has been witnessing a heavy rush since Christmas experienced 2cm of snowfall while the maximum temperature there was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius. The higher hills in Shimla, Kullu, Chamba, Kinnaur, Mandi, and Lahaul and Spiti districts received moderate snowfall. Nahan, the district headquarters of Sirmaur, recorded the highest temperature of 15.2 degrees Celsius. The main state highway connecting Theog to Hatkoti was closed for traffic due to snowfall in Kharapathar. A Himachal Road Transport bus with 10 passengers also veered off a road at Chitkul. The district administration in Shimla, meanwhile, convened a meeting to review the arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-braces-for-heavy-snowfall-traffic-through-rohtang-tunnel-stopped-101641281195374.html
05-01-2022||Delhi||New excise policy curbed ₹3,500 crore theft, says Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ‘chakka jam’ protest against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s new excise policy in Delhi led to a war of words between the two parties on Monday. While the BJP claimed the new policy will make the capital “a city of liquor” shops, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the new policy has jolted the BJP as it has “deep ties with the liquor mafia”. Demanding the immediate roll back of the excise policy, the BJP blocked roads in several areas across the city. In the run-up to the municipal elections due to be held in April this year, the BJP is trying to corner the AAP on its excise policy, which came into effect in November last year. According to the policy, the Delhi government has quit the retail liquor business with nearly 600 government-run liquor vends operating across the national capital shutting shop. It aims at revolutionising the consumer experience with setting up swanky shops and rooting out the liquor mafia. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia hit out at the BJP for opposing the policy, saying that the party is opposing it because the new policy has “stopped the theft of ₹3,500 crore”. “The BJP has deep ties with the liquor mafia in Delhi. The BJP had made such a system that wherever there were no legal liquor shops, they used to operate illegal shops and run them through the mafia. The new excise policy of the Kejriwal government stopped revenue theft of over Rs3500 crores. Both BJP and the liquor mafia were immersed in this loot of ₹3500 crores. The BJP is surely feeling the pain because their theft has been plugged. The Kejriwal government is now using this revenue for public interest.” The Delhi BJP has been opposing the new policy since June last year, when it was notified by the Delhi government. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “All Delhi citizens, including women, are concerned as new liquor vends are being opened in residential areas close to people’s homes. While [chief minister Arvind] Kejriwal talks of prohibition in the poll-bound Punjab, he is hell-bent upon making Delhi a city of liquor shops. Kejriwal government is opening 850 new liquor shops. While Kejriwal has himself written in his book Swaraj that liquor shop can’t be opened in any area without local leaders or officials being bribed.” On Monday, several senior BJP leaders, including South Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri, and former East Delhi mayor Harshdeep Malhotra, took to the streets along with party workers to protest against the policy. Responding to Sisodia charge, Gupta said, “He (Sisodia) does not seem to have read Arvind Kejriwal’s book, Swaraj, in which the latter has talked about how the opening of a liquor shop results in corruption. Today, so many shops are being opened by the government. Shops have been opened in residential areas, near religious places, schools, etc.” He said that the BJP will continue to protest against the excise policy till it is withdrawn. Sisodia also slammed the BJP for vandalising public property. He said, “The BJP is upset with our ban on theft that it is troubling the public. DTC buses bought with people’s money are being vandalised, BJP workers are puncturing their tyres. This shows the anti-people mentality of BJP. I strongly condemn the hooliganism that the BJP created on the streets of Delhi today. Amid the ongoing pandemic, it is time to serve the public and not to harass the public and damage government property.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed Sisodia’s statement as irresponsible. “Nothing can be more irrelevant and irresponsible then Sisodia’s statement about BJP’s ties with liquor mafia. For the past 24 years, the BJP has been out of power in Delhi. BJP leaders had no powers to check or control liquor sale in Delhi be it from the 650 government vends or by illicit liquor sellers.He said that there has been a loot of Rs. 3500 crores per annum through liquor mafia. Obviously, mafia will pay those in government and hence for last eight years the AAP seems to have been receiving this money.” AAP MLA Dilip Pandey slammed the BJP for not supporting AAP government’s “progressive policy”. Political analyst Tanvir Aeijaz, professor of political science at Ramjas College, said, “The BJP has been trying to build a general opinion against the AAP by raising the issue of the excise policy. They are taking the moral high ground, but the real issues affecting people are different. It [civic polls] is about sanitation and basic civic services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-excise-policy-curbed-3-500-crore-theft-says-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101641232291810.html
